-- Irish Go Commando as Noonan Draws Line Under Crisis: Euro Credit
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-11-15T09:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/irish-go-commando-as-noonan-draws-line-under-crisis-euro-credit.html
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  says
Ireland won’t need any more aid after becoming the first of the
rescued euro members to exit a bailout program next month. The
country’s banks might yet test that optimism.  Ireland’s borrowing costs have declined to below those of
Spain and  Italy  as it recovers from the near-collapse of its
financial system. Noonan said yesterday he won’t seek a
precautionary credit line after three years of relying on the
67.5 billion-euro ($90.9 billion) emergency loan package. Yet
dangers remain, such as a derailment of the economic revival in
other parts of the world or mortgage defaults at home.  “There are risks associated with this approach, even if
they look remote for now,” said  Harvinder Sian , a fixed-income
strategist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in  London . “The
risks are renewed global growth pressures sapping confidence in
periphery nations and renewed concern about Irish banks.”  Ireland is regaining its economic sovereignty as debate
swirls in Greece and Portugal over the potential need for more
bailouts. By spurning a credit backstop European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said last week was useful to have, Noonan
and Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  are avoiding more strings attached
to aid such as fees and foreign oversight of budgets.  While it leaves Ireland at the mercy of bond investors who
shunned the country in 2010, the government says it has enough
cash to pay bills and can borrow at “historically low” rates.
Irish 10-year bonds yielded 3.5 percent today, down from 4.14
percent at the end of August and almost 14 percent in 2011.  No Underwear  The exit will be aided by improving “domestic and economic
conditions,” the  Finance Ministry  said in a statement
yesterday. As each month goes by and real estate price rises,
the chances of Irish banks needing more capital were lessening,
Noonan told reporters in Brussels.  Bond investors will be swayed by the country’s planned
spending cuts and tax increases that will help reduce the Irish
deficit, Natixis analysts Alan Lemangnen and Cyril Regnat wrote
in a note to clients afterwards.  Ireland is “to go commando on leaving the bailout,” the
Paris-based analysts wrote. “Although the strategy may seem
risky at a first glance, we think Ireland won’t be penalized
when coming back on the markets next year.”  Spread Narrows  The premium Ireland pays to borrow for a decade compared
with  Germany  is 1.79 percentage points, down from a high of 11.4
points in July 2011.  Portugal , which is trying to emulate
Ireland and end reliance on rescue loans in a matter of months,
pays a premium of 4.15 percentage points.  Ireland sought its bailout after the worst property market
crash in western  Europe  and its financial system buckled. The
housing recession “is finally showing signs of bottoming out”
after seven years, Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday.
This will limit the level of losses Irish banks face on
residential mortgages, the ratings company said.  At the end of June, 18.6 billion euros of private Irish
residential mortgages were in arrears of more than 90 days, with
8.7 billion euros of buy-to-let loans also behind in payments.  Moreover, banks are losing more than $1 billion a year on
market-tracker mortgages, loans handed out during the housing
boom that are tied to the ECB’s benchmark rate, Merrion Capital
estimates. The financial industry faces another round of stress
tests next year.  Noonan Wavers  Noonan had wavered on whether to seek the credit line from
the troika of bailout masters, the ECB, the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Commission.  After suggesting in September that he may look for a 10-billion euro backstop, he surprised some investors in October
when he said that one might not be necessary.  The reaction wasn’t all positive. It would be “foolhardy”
for Ireland to turn down such “insurance,”  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
chief economist  Willem Buiter  said in October.  A credit line could reassure investors that Ireland has a
source of emergency cash should another debt crisis hit Europe.
By not taking the insurance, Ireland also won’t be eligible for
the ECB’s Outright Monetary Transaction program, which would buy
sovereign bonds to cap borrowing costs.  That probably doesn’t matter, according to Conall Mac Coille, chief economist at Davy, the country’s biggest
securities firm. Most investors believe that Ireland has an
“implicit guarantee of European funding” no matter what
happens, he said in an interview.  Still, the decision leaves the Irish hoping that another
European crisis doesn’t flare up and cause investors to dump the
country’s bonds again, analysts said.  “They’ve given up on having a 12-month insurance policy
behind them,” said Ryan McGrath at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in
Dublin, who’d expected the government to seek a  credit line .
“Like any insurance policy, it will only come into play in the
event of an unanticipated shock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in Dublin at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  