-- Iron Mountain, Equinix Say IRS Resumes REIT Rulings
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-11-15T21:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/iron-mountain-equinix-say-irs-resumes-reit-rulings.html
Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM)  and  Equinix Inc. (EQIX) ,
two technology companies seeking to convert to real estate
investment trusts, rose after saying the U.S.  Internal Revenue
Service  is proceeding with evaluating their eligibility.  The IRS said yesterday that it will resume issuing rulings
on the definition of real estate for purposes of REIT
conversions, Iron Mountain said in a regulatory filing. The
agency is “actively resuming work” on Equinix’s request and
will respond in due course, that company said separately.  The IRS has been evaluating whether nontraditional real
estate businesses should qualify as REITs, which are subject to
lower taxes and pay higher dividends than other companies.
Equinix, which runs data centers and Iron Mountain, which rents
storage space and maintains paper and electronic records, have
tumbled since disclosing the review. Today’s stock jump suggests
that investors believe the conversions eventually will go
through, said  Robert Willens , a tax and accounting consultant.  “It seems unlikely, based on the wording of the 8-Ks, that
the IRS has changed its views on who qualifies for REIT status
and on what constitutes real estate assets,” Willens, president
of Robert Willens LLC in  New York , said in an e-mail. “The
stocks will really pop when and if the rulings sought are
actually issued.”  Boston-based Iron Mountain climbed 5.8 percent to $30.15,
after a 7.7 percent jump yesterday. Equinix rose 3.3 percent to
$167.61 today. The companies’  shares  have fallen 12 percent and
18 percent, respectively, since June 6, the day before the IRS
study was disclosed.  Completed Review  In a statement today, the IRS said it has completed its
review of REIT requests for assets other than land, buildings
and structures. The review was designed “to ensure a uniform
and consistent approach to addressing the definition of REIT
real property.”  The agency is “ready to resume ruling on these requests
consistent with existing law,” regulations and previously
published guidance, according to the statement. Federal law
prohibits the IRS from commenting publicly on individual
companies and taxpayers.  “Equinix continues to implement its plan to convert to a
REIT,” the  Redwood City , California-based company said in a
filing today. The company doesn’t expect the delay to date to
push back its plan to elect REIT status for the taxable year
beginning in 2015.  Iron Mountain said it is moving forward with other aspects
of its conversion plan to ensure readiness for REIT status for
the 2014 tax year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  