-- Iron Mountain, Equinix Say IRS Resumes REIT Reviews
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-11-15T14:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/iron-mountain-equinix-say-irs-resumes-reit-reviews.html
Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM)  and  Equinix Inc. (EQIX) ,
two technology companies seeking to convert to real estate
investment trusts, said the U.S. Internal Revenue Service is
proceeding with work on evaluating their eligibility.  The IRS said yesterday that it will resume issuing rulings
on the definition of real estate for purposes of REIT
conversions, Iron Mountain said in a regulatory filing. The
agency is “actively resuming work” on Equinix’s request and
will respond in due course, that company said separately.  The IRS has been evaluating whether nontraditional real
estate businesses should qualify as REITs, which are subject to
lower taxes and pay higher dividends than other companies.
Equinix, which run data centers and Iron Mountain, which rents
storage space and maintains paper and electronic records, have
tumbled since disclosing the agency’s review in June.  The companies said at the time that the IRS was unlikely to
provide a definitive response to their private-letter ruling
requests tied to the conversion until the study was completed.  “Equinix continues to implement its plan to convert to a
REIT,” the  Redwood City , California-based company said in a
filing today. “Currently, Equinix does not expect that the
delay to date in the PLR process will delay Equinix’s plan to
elect REIT status for the taxable year beginning Jan. 1, 2015.”  Shares of Boston-based Iron Mountain jumped 7.7 percent to
$28.49 yesterday, while Equinix rose 2.8 percent to $162.24.
They have tumbled 17 percent and 20 percent, respectively, since
June 6, the day before disclosing the IRS review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  