-- J&J Said to Announce $4 Billion Hip-Implant Pact Nov. 19
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-11-15T21:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/j-j-said-to-announce-4-billion-hip-implant-pact-nov-19.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  will formally
announce on Nov. 19 a settlement of more than $4 billion aimed
at resolving thousands of lawsuits over its recalled hip
implants, three people familiar with the matter said.  U.S. District Judge  David Katz  in Toledo, Ohio, will hear
the settlement’s terms presented by attorneys for artificial-hip
recipients and J&J, the world’s largest maker of medical
products, said the people, who requested anonymity because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Katz has scheduled an “open status conference” on that
day, according to the court records. Under the settlement, J&J
will pay an average of $300,000 or more to the more than 7,500
patients who had defective hips removed, the people said.  The pact also provides more money to hip recipients who
suffered “extreme injuries” from the device’s failure, or
endured long hospital stays after removal surgeries. Under the
accord’s terms, 94 percent of eligible claimants must sign up
for the settlement or J&J can withdraw from the deal, the people
said.  The company and its DePuy unit face a total of about 12,000
suits filed in federal and state courts in  Ohio ,  California , New
Jersey and  Illinois . Katz is coordinating federal litigation.
The accord doesn’t bar patients whose hip implants fail in the
future from seeking compensation, the people said.  The settlement covers the more than 7,500 patients who’ve
already had surgery to have DePuy hips removed. The remaining
claims were filed by patients who may be suffering pain from the
hip implants, but haven’t yet had revision surgeries.  Lorie Gawreluk, a spokeswoman for DePuy, declined to
comment.  Failure Rate  J&J recalled 93,000 ASR hip implants worldwide in August
2010, saying 12 percent failed within five years. Internal J&J
documents show 37 percent of ASR hips failed after 4.6 years.
Last year, the failure rate in  Australia  climbed to 44 percent
within seven years.  J&J had touted the metal-on-metal implants, first sold in
the U.S. in 2005, as a new design that would last 20 years and
offer greater range of motion.  As failures mounted, patients complained in lawsuits that
the metal-on-metal implant caused dislocations, pain and follow-up surgeries known as revisions. They claimed that debris from
the chromium and cobalt device caused tissue death and increased
metal ions in the bloodstream.  The consolidated federal case is In re DePuy Orthopedics
Inc., ASR Hip Implant Products Liability Litigation, 10-MD-2197,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Ohio (Toledo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey , at  dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  