-- Japan Cuts Emissions Goal in Setback for Climate Talks
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-21T00:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/japan-sets-new-emissions-target-in-setback-to-un-treaty-talks.html
(Corrects sixth paragraph in story originally published on
Nov. 15 to show Japan relied on nuclear power for almost a
quarter of its electricity before the March 2011 disaster.)  Japan, the world’s fifth-largest
producer of carbon dioxide, watered down its target to cut
greenhouse gas emissions in a move that critics say will set
back United Nations talks to tackle  climate change .  The new target reverses course from the goal set four years
ago by allowing a 3.1 percent increase in emissions from 1990
levels rather than seeking a 25 percent cut.  “As one of the world’s largest CO2 emitters, Japan has a
responsibility to help lead the world in reducing emissions,”
Kelly Dent, climate change spokeswoman at U.K. charity Oxfam,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Instead their actions may well
further erode trust in current negotiations, which must deliver
a global climate deal in 2015.”  Envoys from about 190 nations are gathering in Warsaw to
lay the groundwork for a treaty that would come into force in
2020 requiring all countries to limit  carbon emissions . Japan’s
new goal, approved by the Cabinet today, reflects its increased
reliance on  fossil fuel  after the idling of its nuclear fleet
because of the Fukushima disaster in 2011.  “The decision highlights the awkward compromises that many
countries are making between affordable, reliable and low carbon
energy,” Jonathan Grant, sustainability and climate change
director at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, said by e-mail. “But
the shift away from nuclear is towards natural gas rather than
coal or renewables, so the carbon intensity of Japan’s economy
is still around the average for industrialized economies: higher
than  Europe  but lower than America,  Australia  and  Canada .”  No Nuclear  Japan, which relied on nuclear power for more than a
quarter of its electricity before the earthquake and tsunami
that triggered meltdowns at the Fukushima plant, has kept its 50
operating reactors idle for safety checks. The new target was
made without taking into account atomic capacity and may be
revised as the country develops a clearer outline of its energy
mix and policies, including the possible restart of reactors.  “We don’t know yet what the operational status of nuclear
power will be in 2020,” Minister of the Environment Nobuteru Ishihara told reporters in Tokyo. “This is an ambitious target
we strive to achieve by putting in as much effort as possible
while we try to achieve economic growth.”  Japan  will cut emissions by 3.8 percent by 2020 compared
with 2005 levels, Ishihara said. Ministry data shows Japan’s
greenhouse-gas output increased 7 percent by 2005 compared with
1990, the baseline for the government’s previous commitment.  The old goal sought to reduce emissions 25 percent by 2020
from 1990 levels. The new target would represent a 3.1 percent
increase from 1990.  Chinese Dismay   Japan sought to lead global efforts to fight climate change
when it hosted the Kyoto talks in 1997, the only negotiations
that resulted in a treaty limiting emissions. Since then, Japan
has slipped from being the biggest economy after the U.S. to
third place, behind  China .  Su Wei , China’s lead climate negotiator at the UN talks in
Warsaw, expressed ‘‘dismay’’ prior to Ishihara’s announcement
after reports indicated Japan would scale back its ambitions.  China has surpassed the U.S. and Japan as the world’s
biggest emitter of  greenhouse gases  since the Kyoto agreement,
which didn’t include curbs on developing nations.  The EU and U.K. issued separate statements expressing
disappointment at Japan’s decision.  Island States  Japan’s shift in climate policy weighs on global efforts to
contain the temperature rise since industrialization to 2
degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), according to the
 Alliance of Small Island States .  “Developed countries have committed to taking the lead and
must do so,” the 44-nation bloc said in an e-mailed statement.
Japan’s decision “puts our populations at great risk.”  Japan also announced plans today to invest $110 billion
over five years from private and public sources to develop
environmental and energy technologies.  The country plans to provide about $16 billion in the next
three years to help  developing countries  address climate change
and to launch a satellite to monitor emissions in  Asia .  Japan seeks to double in three years the number of
countries with which it has a bilateral arrangement to offset
its emissions in exchange for clean-energy technology, according
to documents released at a briefing in Tokyo.  Eight  countries,
including Indonesia and Mongolia, have signed up.  The strategies drew criticism from environmental groups,
including FoE Japan, a member of Friends of the Earth
International.  “Japan can’t just ask developing countries to limit their
emissions so long as the country increases its own,” it said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  