-- Jos. A. Bank Seeks New Targets as Men’s Wearhouse Bid Lapses
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-11-15T21:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/jos-a-bank-abandons-2-3-billion-men-s-wearhouse-offer-plan-1-.html
Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. (JOSB)  Chairman
Robert Wildrick said he’s evaluating new takeover targets for
the century-old retailer of men’s apparel, after abandoning a
proposed $2.3 billion cash bid for  Men’s Wearhouse Inc. (MW)   A Nov. 14 deadline set by the suitor passed without Men’s
Wearhouse engaging in discussions, Jos. A. Bank said today in a
statement. While Wildrick said a deal with Men’s Wearhouse still
makes sense, he said Jos. A. Bank will move on to other
strategic acquisitions.  “The main thing we’re looking for is something similar to
what we’re doing.” Wildrick said in a telephone interview
today. “Men’s Wearhouse was at the top of our list of strategic
alternatives, now we have to look at the other things on our
list.”  He declined to name other potential targets.  While the expiring deadline means Jos. A. Bank’s original
offer won’t be accepted, the fight over the future of Houston-based Men’s Wearhouse hasn’t ended. Men’s Wearhouse’s largest
investor, Eminence Capital LLC, said it will seek a special
meeting of shareholders. Eminence, a New York-based hedge fund
which earlier this month disclosed a 9.8 percent stake in Men’s
Wearhouse, had pushed the retailer to pursue its rival’s
overtures.  “We are disappointed that Men’s Wearhouse has so far
failed to engage in merger discussions with Jos. A. Bank,”
Eminence Chief Executive Officer Ricky Sandler said in a
statement. “Our special-meeting initiative will give
shareholders the tools to hold the board accountable for its
failed leadership.”  Too Low  Men’s Wearhouse in October rejected the $48-a-share
proposal, saying the bid from the Hampstead, Maryland-based
company undervalued the retailer and wasn’t in the best interest
of investors. Jos. A. Bank’s offer came at a moment of turmoil
for Men’s Wearhouse, which cut its profit  forecast  in September
and removed founderGeorge Zimmer as executive chairman over
strategy disagreements in June.  Men’s Wearhouse  stock  rose 1.1 percent to $46.63 at the
close in New York. Jos. A. Bank gained 0.8 percent to $50.72.  Ken Dennard, a Men’s Wearhouse spokesman who works for
Dennard-Lascar Associates LLC, didn’t immediately respond to
voice mail and e-mail requests for comment.  Men’s Wearhouse Chief Executive Officer Doug Ewert said in
a Nov. 4 statement that the retailer’s own strategic plan would
create more value than the offer from Jos. A. Bank. The board
declined Jos. A. Bank’s request for access to nonpublic
information for limited due diligence. Jos. A. Bank said in an
Oct. 31 letter it would explore other strategic options if Men’s
Wearhouse didn’t engage in discussions.  Reckless, Misinformed  Eminence said in a letter to the Men’s Wearhouse board last
week that while it agreed that Jos. A. Bank’s offer price was
too low, the company’s other reasons for rejecting the bid were
“disingenuous at best and reckless and misinformed at worst.”  Men’s Wearhouse last month adopted a shareholder rights
plan after rejecting the offer. The plan, which expires Sept.
30, 2014, allows investors to acquire Men’s Wearhouse stock at a
discounted price when someone buys 10 percent or more of the
company’s common shares in a transaction not approved by the
board. If the buyer is a passive institutional investor, the
trigger is a 15 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  