-- JPMorgan Sets Tentative $4.5 Billion Accord for Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-11-16T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/jpmorgan-reaches-4-5-billion-mortgage-bond-deal-with-investors.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , enmeshed in
legal battles with regulators, U.S. agencies and clients, agreed
with 21 institutional investors to pay $4.5 billion to resolve
claims the bank sold faulty mortgage securities.  The preliminary deal covers 330 mortgage bond trusts issued
between 2005 and 2008, JPMorgan said in a statement yesterday.
The accord still needs approval from trustees overseeing those
securities and may be subject to court review, JPMorgan said.  The agreement adds to the litany of litigation expenses
absorbed by JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank . Last month, the
company agreed to pay $5.1 billion for claims that the lender
misrepresented mortgage bonds sold to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac . Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has warned that more
legal disputes lay ahead, and the bank has disclosed at least
eight Department of Justice investigations.  “With every one of these that gets settled, we are
theoretically closer to the end,” said  Nancy Bush , a bank
analyst who founded NAB Research LLC in New Jersey. “But the
offset is that every one of these settlements seems to beget yet
another lawsuit from somebody else. I’m losing track of them, we
need a scorecard.”  The agreement would pay for repurchase demands and
servicing claims on mortgage bonds issued by JPMorgan and Bear
Stearns Cos., which the bank purchased in 2008. It doesn’t
include securities issued by Washington Mutual Inc., the failed
lender whose assets were  bought by JPMorgan  later that year.  Law Firm  The investor group is led by the  law firm  Gibbs & Bruns
LLP, and includes asset-management units of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management Co.  “We are very pleased that our clients’ steadfast work has
again borne fruit, in the form of a binding offer from JPMorgan
to pay $4.5 billion in cash and improve mortgage servicing,”
 Kathy Patrick , the law firm’s partner handling the case, said in
an e-mail.  Gibbs and Bruns is the law firm that helped negotiate an
$8.5 billion settlement with  Bank of America Corp.  and bond
investors in 2011 that’s awaiting judicial approval. American
International Group Inc. opposes that settlement, arguing it
covers just a fraction of investor losses on the securities. It
has urged a  New York  state judge to reject the deal.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  plans to evaluate the
proposed JPMorgan settlement with other trustees included in the
offer, according to an e-mail from Kevin Heine, a spokesman for
the New York-based custody bank. Representatives for U.S.
Bancorp, Deutsche Bank AG and Wilmington Trust Co., some of the
other trustees, declined to comment or didn’t immediately
respond to inquiries after regular business hours.  Reserve Coverage  “This settlement is another important step in JPMorgan’s
efforts to resolve legacy-related RMBS matters,” the New York-based company said in the statement, using the acronym for
residential mortgage-backed securities.  The bank has enough reserves to cover the settlement as
well as any other remaining mortgage bond litigation, according
to the statement. JPMorgan’s quarterly regulatory filing showed
the bank may need as much as $5.7 billion more to cover
“reasonably possible” legal losses beyond current reserves,
even after it added $9.2 billion in pretax cash to its
litigation funds in the third quarter.  Lenders have been beset by demands for refunds and
compensation from investors, customers and regulators who say
the banks used sloppy underwriting to create mortgages during
the housing boom that preceded the 2008 financial crisis.  Missing documents, flawed appraisals and failures to check
the income of borrowers led to a surge in defaults and
foreclosures, and the fallout has cost the six biggest U.S. home
lenders more than $103 billion in legal bills and related costs,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan has said the  U.S. Department of Justice  is
conducting at least eight separate investigations into the
bank’s activities, ranging from mortgage bond sales and
recruitment in  Asia  to its relationship with Ponzi scheme
operator  Bernard Madoff .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  