-- Julius Baer Reports Drop in Margin Amid Merrill Transfer
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-11-15T17:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/julius-baer-says-client-assets-rise-amid-merrill-transfer.html
Julius Baer  Group Ltd.,
Switzerland’s third-largest wealth manager, said its gross
margin declined as it absorbed Merrill Lynch businesses it
agreed to acquire from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  last year.  The margin, which reflects how much the bank makes in
revenue on managed client assets, dropped to 97 basis points at
the end of October from 102 basis points in the first half,
Zurich-based Julius Baer said in an e-mailed statement today. A
basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.  “The stand-alone Julius Baer business is performing
reasonably well but this is a reminder that business may be
disrupted during the transition phase,” said  Andrew Stimpson ,
an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in  London , who has an
underperform rating on the shares. “The gross margin at the
Merrill units is particularly disappointing.”  Julius Baer  dropped  1.6 percent to 41.84 Swiss francs in
Zurich, paring this year’s advance to 29 percent. That compares
with a 16 percent gain in the Bloomberg Europe 500 Banks and
Financial Services Index this year.  The bank is targeting 57 billion francs ($62 billion) to 72
billion francs of Merrill Lynch assets after it agreed last year
to buy non-U.S. wealth businesses from  Bank of America . Assets
may be reported as units are acquired or transfered and before
the the lender moves the deposits to one or more of its seven
booking centers in  Europe ,  Asia  and the Caribbean.  ‘On Track’  Assets under management advanced to 249 billion francs at
the end of October from 218 billion francs at the end of June,
Julius Baer said, adding that the integration is “on track.”  The transaction has resulted in about 48 billion francs of
reported assets, with 29 billion francs booked as of Oct. 31.
About 5 billion francs of assets were added since October.  Julius Baer said in July it absorbed 47 billion francs of
assets by adding Merrill Lynch units in the U.K., Spain and
 Israel  to businesses such as in Switzerland and Monaco. It also
incorporated units in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore , absorbed a
brokerage arm in  Panama  and plans to add offices in  Bahrain ,
Lebanon and the United Arab Emirates before the end of 2013.  More than 1,000 Merrill employees have joined Julius Baer
as part of the integration, including 317 relationship managers,
who liaisons between clients and the bank.  “The initial phase of transferring businesses is largely
completed and now the hard work starts to improve the revenue
margin and make cost savings,” said  Tim Dawson , a Geneva-based
analyst at Helvea SA who has a hold rating on the stock.  Margin Decline  The margin at Merrill Lynch units slumped to 76 basis
points at the end of October, compared with 93 basis points on
reported assets in the first half, amid “temporary
disruptions” resulting from the transfer process, Julius Baer
said. Merrill Lynch customers pay fees on transactions,
prompting revenue declines when they trade less.  “Since the end of June 2013, client activity moderated
significantly,” Julius Baer said.  While the contribution from the Merrill Lynch businesses to
the firm’s adjusted net income is expected to be “slightly
negative” in the second half, Julius Baer reiterated its plans
to improve profitability. The bank has said it will cut more
than 1,000 jobs at the combined entities as it seeks to boost
earnings from the transaction by 2015. The Merrill Lynch non-U.S. units recorded a pretax loss in 2011.  Net new money at Julius Baer’s stand-alone business,
established in 1890, increased in the four months through
October, bringing annualized  net inflows  to the “lower end” of
its 4 percent to 6 percent target range, it said. While the
onshore business in  Germany  had net inflows, some cross-border
customers withdrew money to settle unpaid taxes.  The growth in assets under management was also driven by a
positive market performance between June and October, Julius
Baer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  