-- Kazakh Central Banker Vows to Cut World’s Worst NPL Ratio to 10%
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-11-15T15:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/kazakh-central-banker-vows-to-cut-world-s-worst-npl-ratio-to-10-.html
Kazakhstan ’s new central bank chief
said his “main task” will be to cut the share of bad loans to
one-third its current level during the next one to two years.  The regulator and banks “are pretending that everything is
fine,” Kairat Kelimbetov, appointed last month, told reporters
in Almaty today. “I believe everything is very bad.”  Kazakhstan, a “world champion” in the concentration of
non-performing loans, must cut its ratio to less than 10 percent
by proposing legislative and tax measures to ease writedowns,
said Kelimbetov, a former deputy premier who led the
nationalization of failing lenders in 2009 as the chief of the
country’s sovereign wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna.  A collapse of property prices four years ago saddled Kazakh
banks with billions of dollars in delinquent loans, triggering
defaults and forcing the government to take over Alliance Bank,
Temirbank and BTA Bank. Kazakhstan had the world’s highest share
of non-performing loans in 2012 at 31.7 percent, leading the
rankings for a second year, World Bank  data  show.  Loans overdue by more than 90 days at the country’s 38
banks reached 3.8 trillion tenge ($24.5 billion) as of Oct. 1,
or 29.6 percent of the total, led by twice-defaulted BTA with
1.7 trillion tenge, central bank data show.  The regulator plans to ask the government to extend tax
breaks to facilitate writedowns of delinquent debt, amend laws
including rules on individual bankruptcy filings and make other
changes to relieve banks buckling under soured loans, Kelimbetov
said.  Credit Clogged  “Lenders don’t issue new loans as their loan portfolios
are very bad and they don’t want to make them worse,” he said,
adding that good borrowers are already stretched with credit
repayments.  While the regulator had required that commercial lenders
decrease the share of non-performing loans to 20 percent by the
end of this year and 15 percent next year, none of the country’s
banks are in compliance with the rules, according to Kelimbetov.  In addition to non-performing loans, the three key
challenges that have been left unresolved in Kazakhstan and must
be overcome in the next 24 months include the fast pace of
 consumer lending  and the implementation of Basel III capital
requirements, he said.  Kazakhstan must “rapidly” adopt bankruptcy-protection
rules modeled after the U.S., where filings made under Chapter
11 enable borrowers quickly to write down debt and restructure
businesses, Kelimbetov said.  Bringing the share of non-performing loans to 10 percent in
two years will be “quite realistic at some banks,” Grigori Marchenko, Kelimbetov’s predecessor at the helm of the central
bank, said today in Almaty.  “If the economy grows at a fast pace, property prices rise
and several other positive events happen, that’s possible,”
Marchenko said. “If those positive events don’t take place,
that will be very difficult.”  -- Editors: Paul Abelsky, Torrey Clark  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  