-- Kenya Opens Investigation Into Doping Violations by Athletes
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-11-15T13:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/kenya-opens-investigation-into-doping-violations-by-athletes.html
Kenya  opened an investigation into
reports athletes in the East African nation used performance
enhancing drugs after the World Anti-Doping Agency voiced
similar concerns, Sports Secretary Hassan Wario Arero said.  A 12-member panel will investigate the prevalence of doping
in sports and identify athletes taking banned drugs and the
people who help them, Arero said, according to a notice today in
the Kenya Gazette published in the capital, Nairobi.  “Following media reports on allegations that some Kenyan
athletes may be engaged in doping, and following concerns of the
World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) on the same matter” the
committee was appointed on Nov. 4 and must present its findings
in 60 days, Arero said, according to the statement.  Kenya, famous for its  runners , has produced 24 gold
medalists in middle- and long-distance competitions since the
Tokyo Olympics in 1964, a year after its independence from
Britain, according to the Olympic’s website. David Rudisha
represented Kenya at the London Olympics last year, setting a
 world record  in the 800-meter race. Kenyan Wilson Kipsang
clocked a world record at the Berlin Marathon Sept. 29, while
Geoffrey Mutai and Priscah Jeptoo won the men’s and women’s
races, respectively, at the  New York  City Marathon on Nov. 3.  Since January last year, Kenya has suspended 17 athletes
for using drugs to improve their performance, up from two people
in 2010 and 2011 combined, the British Broadcasting Corp.
reported on Oct. 30.  Isaiah Kiplagat, chairman of  Athletics Kenya , which is a
member of the International Association of Athletics
Federations, was traveling and unavailable to comment, according
to an employee at his Nairobi office who asked not to be
identified in line with policy.  Kipchoge Keino, a two-time Olympic gold medalist in running
events and now head of the Kenyan Olympic Committee, did not
answer a call to his mobile phone seeking comment.  The government panel will recommend changes to laws
regulating the use of drugs in sports and suggest actions to
take against people found responsible for the abuse, Arero said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  