-- Nasdaq Wins Stock Listing for AMR-US Airways After Merger
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-11-15T18:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/nasdaq-wins-stock-listing-for-amr-us-airways-after-merger.html
The company created when  American
Airlines (AAMRQ)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  merge will list its shares on
the  Nasdaq  Stock Market, a victory for the exchange operator
after losing  Twitter Inc. (TWTR) ’s initial public offering.  American Airlines  Group Inc. will trade under the AAL
ticker symbol, according to a statement today. American parent
AMR Corp. and  US Airways  settled a U.S. antitrust lawsuit this
week that sought to block the tie-up, clearing a judge to rule
Nov. 25 on AMR’s bankruptcy exit.  Securing the listing for the new American is a boost for
Nasdaq following its unsuccessful bid to land Twitter, the
biggest technology initial public offering since Facebook Inc.
last year. Twitter, which picked the  New York  Stock Exchange,
rose 73 percent on its first day of trading on Nov. 7.  “While Nasdaq has historically had a reputation for being
a tech-centric exchange, it has done a great job of attracting
other industries and is simply a better fit for the new company
and the direction we want to go,” Ed Stewart, a US Airways
spokesman with Fleishman Hillard Inc., said today.  American and US Airways said they expect to complete their
merger in December. AMR bankruptcy creditors will control 72
percent of shares in the merged airline, while existing US
Airways holders will own 28 percent. The company will retain
AMR’s Fort Worth, Texas, headquarters.  Biggest Airline  The new American will be the world’s biggest airline by
passenger traffic, passing United Continental Holdings Inc. It
will join  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  as the only major U.S. airlines
listed by the Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. market.  US Airways, based in Tempe, Arizona, is now listed on the
NYSE, as are Delta Air Lines Inc., United and Southwest Airlines
Co. -- four of the five biggest U.S. carriers. Nasdaq has the
corporate listings of Spirit Airlines Inc., Allegiant Travel Co.
and Republic Airways Holdings Inc. AMR shares are trading over
the counter.  “To have a legacy carrier list with us continues to
define, for us, the fact that we’re on the right path in terms
of building out our business and supporting our companies,” Bob McCooey, senior vice president in Nasdaq’s corporate client
group, said in a phone interview.  The Twitter victory for the NYSE, which is now owned by
IntercontinentalExchange Group Inc., highlighted how it has
gained ground on Nasdaq’s dominance among tech companies. Nasdaq
has responded with several victories on its rival’s turf,
stealing Kraft Foods Inc. and Texas Instruments Inc. from the
NYSE during the past two years.  Nasdaq has been “aggressively courting” non-tech
companies, said  Patrick Healy , the  Chevy Chase , Maryland-based
chief executive officer of Issuer Advisory Group LLC, which
helps corporations decide where to list.  Winning the combined American-US Airways “would be a huge
win for Nasdaq,” he said before today’s announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  