-- Neuberger Berman Boosts Assets in East Asia, Plans More Hiring
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2013-11-15T02:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/neuberger-berman-boosts-assets-in-east-asia-plans-more-hiring.html
Neuberger Berman  Group LLC, the
money manager that was part of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
until that firm failed, has more than doubled its assets in East
 Asia  since March 2010 and plans to add staff in the region.  Assets from Japanese and South Korean clients grew to $6.2
billion as of September from $2.3 billion in March 2010,
according to Chief Executive Officer George Walker. The New
York-based firm currently has about 30 employees in Japan and
 South Korea  and plans to expand that number by more than 10
percent over the next 12 months, he said.  Japanese investors have poured funds into higher-yielding
assets amid Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies to end 15 years
of deflation and spark growth that drove the  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  to the highest in more than five years. The start of the
Nippon Individual Savings Account program next year allowing
people to buy 1 million yen ($9,995) of risk assets exempt from
capital gain taxes annually for five years, may also prompt
individuals to invest, Walker said.  “We had good success in the Japanese retail business,”
Walker, 44, said in a telephone interview from the firm’s Tokyo
office yesterday. “The NISA reforms will do a good job of
continuing to enable Japanese individuals to transfer wealth
from low-yielding deposit accounts into more prudent long-term
saving vehicles.”  Pension Mandate  Among the accomplishments in Japan, Neuberger Berman got
its first mandate from a public pension fund, Walker said,
declining to provide further details, because the information is
private. In other parts of Asia, the  money manager  saw its
strongest growth in Singapore and Taiwan. It also grew its
business in  Shanghai ,  Hong Kong  and  Melbourne , he said.  Assets under management in Asia, excluding Japan and South
Korea, increased to $4.8 billion as of September from $100
million in March 2010, according to the firm. The number of
clients in Japan and South Korea increased to 122 from about 80
in the three-and-a-half years while elsewhere in Asia it has 60
clients, up from about 10 in the same period, it said.  Neuberger Berman had $227 billion of assets under
management at the end of September, according to its  website , of
which $112 billion are invested in equities, $97 billion in
fixed income and $18 billion in alternative assets like private
equity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  