-- New Cholesterol Drugs Face Doctors Seeking Heart Results
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/new-cholesterol-drugs-face-doctors-seeking-heart-results.html
A new class of cholesterol-lowering
medicines from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  may struggle to meet
sales projections, as latest treatment guidelines suggest
doctors should prescribe only drugs proven to help the heart.  Called PCSK9 inhibitors, the experimental drugs have drawn
the interest of doctors and investors as the first treatments
designed to cut LDL cholesterol, a risk for heart attack and
stroke, by targeting a key gene. Studies have shown the
medicines can slash LDL by half, and analysts have projected
annual sales of $2 billion for the medicines by 2018.  Though U.S. regulators say they can approve the drugs based
on that cholesterol-fighting power, new treatment guidelines may
steer doctors away from the therapies until they are vetted in
large trials testing for outcomes such as preventing heart
attack, death and stroke. Amgen, one of the companies farthest
along in development with its PCSK9 inhibitor, will release one-year data at the meeting of the  American Heart Association  that
begins tomorrow in Dallas.  “The days of being able to do short-term studies showing
you changed lab results and getting a blockbuster drug are
over,” said  Harlan Krumholz , a cardiologist at  Yale University 
in  New Haven , Connecticut. “We have too much proof that you
can’t depend on them. For the general population, these drugs
shouldn’t be approved until they are proven to lower risk.”  The new cholesterol guidelines from the  American College of
Cardiology  and the heart association were released Nov. 12. They
recommend only statin drugs such as Pfizer’s Lipitor and
AstraZeneca Plc’s Crestor because studies involving more than
190,000 patients conclusively prove their benefit. Rivals that
work differently, including Merck & Co.’s Zetia and Vytorin,
haven’t been shown to reduce the risk of heart complications and
weren’t backed by the doctors’ groups for routine use.  PCSK9 Developers  Roche Holding AG , Merck, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc. and
Eli Lilly & Co., and  Sanofi (SAN)  and  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) 
have PCSK9 inhibitors under development, vying for a piece of
the cholesterol market valued at $34 billion, according to IMS
Health Inc., a research firm.  Though some doctors insist on a stricter approach, the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  will review the drugs for their
overall safety and ability to improve a variety of measures,
including bad cholesterol,  blood pressure  and inflammation, said
Eric Colman, deputy director of the division of metabolism and
endocrinology products. And while the approach will speed the
arrival of the medicines to the market, they won’t lessen the
need for outcomes trials, which can involve more than 20,000
patients and cost in excess of $500 million, to persuade doctors
to prescribe the drugs.  Statin Intolerant  The medicines are being developed for people who can’t
tolerate statins or who don’t get their cholesterol under
control with older medicines, a group that encompasses about 12
million in the U.S. There were over 249 million prescriptions
written for statins and cholesterol-lowering drugs in the U.S.
last year, according to IMS Health.  Still, the broader results will be needed before the drugs
are widely used, even if they are approved first for a limited
number of patients, top researchers said.  Mark Schoenebaum , an
analyst with International Strategy & Investment Group LLC, said
use of the drugs may be slow until the outcomes results are
available in late 2017 or early 2018.  “These are very novel agents, they’re very exciting
agents,” said Paul Ridker, a lead investigator of Pfizer’s
trial and director of the Center for Cardiovascular Disease
Prevention at Brigham & Women’s Hospital. “But they’re also
injectable drugs, monoclonal antibodies, and they’re likely to
be expensive.”  Unknown Effects  “We don’t have any data about long-term side effects or
event rates,” Ridker, a professor at  Harvard Medical School ,
said in a telephone interview. “I think we’d want those kind of
data even if the FDA allowed use.”  As monoclonal antibodies, PCSK9 inhibitors are proteins
grown in living cells that are injected into the body to target
an enzyme produced by the PCSK9 gene. The enzyme prevents liver
cells from processing LDL and clearing it from the body.  Regeneron and Amgen have said they’ll have final-stage
results next year showing whether the drugs reduce cholesterol
to levels beyond what patients can achieve on statins. Pfizer’s
cholesterol-lowering trial, meanwhile, won’t have results until
2015 or 2016, said  Tony Butler , an analyst with Barclays Plc, in
an Oct. 29 investment note. The competing cardiovascular
outcomes trials are slated to finish around the same time, two
to three years later.  Even as the FDA says it’s sticking with the traditional
approach to approving cholesterol medications, eyes will be on
the results of a trial called Improve-It with Merck’s Vytorin.
If the drug’s cholesterol lowering ability fails to translate
into longer life and fewer heart attacks, those findings will
have the potential to change the equation for the new PCSK9
drugs, the FDA’s Colman said.  “It’s not like there will be a stampede to these drugs,”
said  Ira Loss , an analyst at Washington Analysis who tracks the
FDA. “It will be for doctors whose patients haven’t succeeded
on statins, or drugs like Zetia or Vytorin.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  