-- NFL Sees Strong China Growth as Joe Montana Rallies Asian Fans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-15T07:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/nfl-sees-strong-china-growth-as-joe-montana-rallies-asian-fans.html
The National Football League is
experiencing “strong growth” in  China  and may stage an
exhibition game in the Asian nation as the fan base grows,
according to the head of its Chinese operations.  The number of fans has doubled in the past three years to
more than 9 million, including 3 million who have a team they
watch regularly, Richard Young, managing director of NFL China,
said in an interview in  Shanghai  yesterday.  An exhibition game in China “would be the first step, and
it’s very possible if we’re growing the way we’re growing,”
Young said. “Our fan base growth is on track.”  Interest in American football is growing through the
development of flag-football teams at 36 universities, online
streaming of games through  Sina.com (SINA)  as well as promotional
visits by former players, he said.  Hall of Fame quarterback Joe  Montana , who visited Shanghai
with Young yesterday, said American football would probably
become more popular if there were more Chinese-American athletes
like Jeremy Lin, who has galvanized interest in the National
Basketball Association through his play with the Houston
Rockets.  “If a Chinese player can come to the NFL, that would help
the process move faster but I don’t think it’s a necessity,”
Montana said in an interview from Shanghai. “Once they
understand the game, they will love it like any other sport.”  China may follow the example of Britain, which has moved
from one exhibition game a year to hosting two sold-out regular-season games, Young said. The New England Patriots, New Orleans
Saints and Denver Broncos are among the teams that have played
in  London .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  