-- Nigeria Undersea Cable Operator Plans $25 Million Data Center
-- B y   Y i n k a   I b u k u n
-- 2013-11-15T13:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/nigeria-undersea-cable-operator-plans-25-million-data-center.html
     Nov. 15 (Bloomberg)-- MainOne Cable Co Ltd., which operates
an undersea cable connecting West Africa to Europe, plans to
open a $25 million  data center  in Nigeria by June as
connectivity improves and more business gets done online.  The center will provide reliable Internet access and host
information for clients such as banks, phone companies,
government bodies, and a growing number of dot-com businesses,
MainOne Chief Executive Officer Funke Opeke said near the
center’s construction site on the outskirts of Lagos, Nigeria’s
commercial capital.  “We’re moving away from just being the submarine cable
provider to being a full service connectivity provider,” Opeke
said. “As you move data and connectivity, people need places to
host that data, so the data center business is a natural
evolution for service providers globally.”  International bandwidth brought by undersea cables to
Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer, has increased about 26
times to more than 9,000 gigabits per second (9 terabits) over
the past four years. Nigeria plans to use that bandwidth to grow
its broadband penetration to 20 percent of the population by
2018 from 4 percent now, according to its National Broadband
Plan 2013-2018.  South Africa  and Kenya have similar broadband
policies that aim to attract investment to increase Internet
access as more Africans conduct their business online.  MainOne signed a $100 million loan facility with  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , First Bank of Nigeria Plc,  Skye Bank Plc (SKYEBANK)  and FCMB
Group Plc to expand its network and refinance debt,  Standard
Chartered  said in an e-mailed statement on Oct. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yinka Ibukun in Lagos at 
 yibukun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  