-- Nokia’s Suri Says Sprint Win Shows U.S. Strategy Working
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-11-15T12:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/nokia-s-suri-says-sprint-win-shows-u-s-strategy-working.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , focusing on wireless
equipment after the sale of its mobile-phone business, is aiming
to accelerate market-share increases in the U.S., its networks
chief said.  A contract last month from Sprint Corp., the third-largest
U.S. carrier, shows Nokia’s strategy in the country is gaining
traction, Rajeev Suri said in an interview. Nokia Solutions and
Networks, the unit that will generate more than 90 percent of
Nokia’s revenue after the disposal of the handset unit to
Microsoft Corp., still trails Ericsson AB and Alcatel-Lucent SA
in the world’s largest mobile-equipment market.  “It takes a long time to win in the U.S. -- now we have  T-Mobile (TMUS) , we have  U.S. Cellular (USM)  and now  Sprint (S) , so we are
definitely making progress,” Suri, 46, said this week at NSN’s
headquarters in Espoo,  Finland . “A year ago we couldn’t
anticipate that we would have gotten this break with Sprint.”  The U.S. is a crucial market for wireless-equipment makers,
where carriers’ spending on building and servicing faster
networks surpasses that of operators in regions such as Europe,
Suri said. North America was the only region where NSN increased
sales last quarter as it avoided less profitable deals
elsewhere.  NSN, whose customers include the biggest wireless carriers
such as Vodafone Group Plc, sells antennas and base stations
that transmit calls and allow mobile-phone and tablet users to
surf the Internet.  SoftBank Boost  Suri said last year he would focus on the U.S., where
Chinese rivals face a political roadblock and booming data use
pushes carriers to invest in networks. When long-time Japanese
customer SoftBank Corp. bought Sprint in July for $21.6 billion,
Suri used that relationship to give Nokia a chance at the
upcoming fourth-generation network upgrade.  As part of Sprint’s plan to spend $8 billion this year and
next on capital expenses like network upgrades, Sprint selected
 Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , Samsung Electronics Co. and NSN to supply and
manage the buildout. NSN displaced Ericsson, the bigger maker of
mobile-network equipment, as one of Sprint’s vendor partners for
the fourth-generation network upgrade.  While NSN’s revenue fell 26 percent last quarter, partly
because of pulling out of less lucrative contracts, North
America sales rose 5 percent to 299 million euros ($403
million). Ericsson’s  revenue  grew 3 percent in the region to
14.5 billion kronor ($2.17 billion) and Alcatel-Lucent’s revenue
rose 14 percent to 1.66 billion euros.  New Nokia  Shares of Nokia have doubled this year, partly helped by
improving prospects of the network division. The shares rose 0.6
percent to 5.95 euros at 2:28 p.m. in Helsinki, giving the
company a market value of 22 billion euros.  Nokia agreed to sell its mobile-devices unit to Microsoft
after struggling to regain relevance in smartphones following
Apple Inc.’s iPhone introduction in 2007. Once the world’s
largest smartphone maker with a market share topping 50 percent,
Nokia now ranks outside the top five with about 3 percent share.  The company is set to receive 5.44 billion euros of cash
from Microsoft, and may decide to use that to strengthen its
network business. Nokia is considering a tie-up with Alcatel-Lucent’s wireless-equipment unit, a person familiar with the
plan said in September.  Alcatel-Lucent is cutting 10,000 jobs to accelerate a cost-cut plan, and is planning to sell 1 billion euros worth of
assets by 2015.  CEO Sought  Suri declined to comment on a potential combination with
Alcatel-Lucent. Weaker competitors are losing market share,
leading to natural consolidation in the industry, he said.  “Market forces determine the outcome over time,” he said.
“Market consolidation is happening all the time.”  The three biggest makers of radio equipment for wireless
carriers, including NSN, control 78 percent of the market, Suri
said. That figure is likely to grow, he said.  Nokia said in September it’s considering its strategy in a
life after mobile phones and is looking for a new chief
executive officer to help lead the slimmer company into the
future.  With NSN set to be the core of Nokia’s business, Suri is a
contender for the top job, said  Mikko Ervasti , an analyst at
Evli Bank in Helsinki. Suri has shown reorganization skills by
cutting more than 20,000 jobs at NSN and bringing the business
back to profit. Suri declined to comment on Nokia’s CEO search.  “With NSN making up such a large portion of Nokia’s
business it would only make sense for Suri to be a strong
candidate for the top job,” Ervasti said. “Suri helped oversee
the massive turnaround at NSN and would be a solid pick for
Nokia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  