-- Obama Tells Insurers Consumers Must Understand Options Under Law
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-11-15T21:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/obama-tells-insurers-consumers-must-understand-options-under-law.html
President  Barack Obama  told
executives with insurers including Cigna Corp.,  Humana Inc. (HUM)  and
Blue Cross Blue Shield that he wants to work with them to make
sure consumers understand their choices amid a rocky start for
his health-care law.  “What we’re going to be doing is brainstorming on how do
we make sure that everybody understands what the options are,”
Obama said as he met with the executives in the Roosevelt Room
of the White House.  Obama invited the group to the meeting a day after he
announced that the administration was altering regulations to
permit insurance companies to extend existing policies for an
additional year, even though they don’t meet requirements of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  The Republican-led U.S. House earlier passed legislation
that lets insurers sell for another year health policies that
don’t meet the requirements of the law, a measure that Obama has
threatened to veto if it reaches his desk.  Obama acted under pressure from both parties as
cancellation notices went out to hundreds of thousands of
Americans who buy their insurance on the individual market and
as the federal website for selecting policies has been hobbled
by technical flaws.  The White House didn’t release a list of insurance company
representatives invited. Mark Bertolini, chief executive
officer,  Aetna Inc. (AET) ; Bruce Broussard, CEO of Humana; and David Cordani, chief executive officer of Cigna, were among the
executives who were confirmed for the meeting. They were joined
by  Karen Ignagni , president and chief executive officer of
America’s Health Insurance Plans, an industry group.  Ignagni warned yesterday that the one-year grace period for
existing policies may cause premiums to rise and may not be
widely available, depending on decisions of state insurance
commissioners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  