-- Obama Gets Feinstein Support to Avoid New Iran Sanctions
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-11-15T19:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/obama-gets-feinstein-support-to-avoid-new-iran-sanctions.html
President  Barack Obama  received
support from the chairman of the U.S. Senate intelligence
committee in his efforts to dissuade lawmakers from imposing
further sanctions on Iran amid international negotiations.  New sanctions at this time “would not lead to a better
deal,” Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat, said
today in a statement. “It would lead to no deal at all.”  “I am baffled by the insistence of some senators to
undermine” the talks between world powers and Iran, she said.  Feinstein’s comments were a departure from criticism by
Republicans and some Democrats in Congress as well as objections
by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to a potential deal
between world powers and  Iran  in talks, which are scheduled to
resume in Geneva next week. Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry have asked Congress to pause in acting on legislation that
would add to sanctions.  Obama argued yesterday for offering Iran “modest” relief
on sanctions in exchange for progress on nuclear talks and urged
Congress to hold off on more economic penalties.  “We can dial those sanctions right back up” if Iran
doesn’t live up to an agreement, Obama said at a White House
news conference. “If we’re serious about pursuing diplomacy,
then there’s no need for us to add new sanctions on top of the
sanctions that are already very effective and that brought them
to the table in the first place.”  Advocates of further sanctions, such as Republican Senator
Mark Kirk, say the impending deal isn’t tough enough on Iran’s
nuclear program while providing what sanctions advocates
estimate may be $20 billion in benefits for the Islamic Republic
by easing some sanctions. Israeli Strategic Affairs Minister
Yuval Steinitz earlier this week put the value of the envisioned
sanctions relief at as much as $40 billion before later saying
it might be half that.  Exaggerated Figures  Critics are citing wildly exaggerated figures while core
oil and financial sanctions would remain in place, two
administration officials said today, asking not to be identified
because the negotiations are confidential. Oil sanctions alone
are costing Iran $5 billion a month in revenue, according to one
official.  The envisioned deal would begin to roll back Iran’s nuclear
capabilities while negotiations on a more comprehensive deal
continue over the next six months, the second official said. The
next round of talks, being held below the foreign ministers’
level, is planned for November 20-22 in Geneva, the official
said.  The potential deal faces opposition by Israel, with
officials lobbying Congress and Netanyahu posting messages on
Twitter calling the accord being negotiated a “dream deal” for
Iran.  Letter to Obama  “Rather than forfeiting our diplomatic leverage, we should
increase it by intensifying sanctions until Iran suspends its
nuclear and ballistic missile programs,” Kirk of Illinois said
in a letter today to Obama. It also was signed by Republican
Senators Marco Rubio of  Florida , John Cornyn of Texas and Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire.  Kerry said last week that negotiators in Geneva were close
to an agreement that would grant Iran limited sanctions relief
in return for curtailing key nuclear activities. The goal is a
first-step accord that would keep Iran from getting closer to a
nuclear weapons capability during subsequent talks toward a
comprehensive agreement to guarantee that Iran’s activities are
exclusively peaceful.  Nuclear Monitors  In Vienna, UN nuclear monitors reported yesterday that Iran
has stopped installing machinery to boost production capability
at its uranium-enrichment facility even as the stockpile of its
most sensitive nuclear material grew to a record. The Persian
Gulf nation also slowed construction of a heavy-water reactor at
Arak, according to inspectors from the International Atomic
Energy Agency.  Iran hasn’t given a reason for the slowdown, which
diplomats interpreted as a positive signal from the government.
The unilateral action could be reversed.  Netanyahu has advocated further increasing sanctions
pressure on Iran until it agrees to irreversibly give up its
uranium enrichment operations, which could be used to produce
fuel for nuclear weapons if the nation were to break out of
international monitoring.  Israel  also wants construction
terminated on a reactor at Arak, which could provide plutonium,
an alternative route to a weapon.  Military Alternative  Obama said yesterday that attempting to resolve the Iranian
nuclear issues through negotiations is better than the
alternative of military action.  “No matter how good our military is, military options are
always messy, are always difficult, always have unintended
consequences,” Obama said.  Sanctions have reduced Iran’s oil revenue to “about $40
billion to $45 billion” a year, from as much as $120 billion a
year, Kerry said yesterday on  MSNBC . In addition, that money is
frozen in banks under banking sanctions, he said. Iran was the
sixth-largest oil producer in OPEC last month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  West  Texas  Intermediate crude headed for a sixth weekly
decline, the longest stretch of losses in 15 years, as rising
U.S. supplies countered speculation that the Federal Reserve
will maintain stimulus of the economy.  The administration has been briefing U.S. lawmakers in the
attempt to get them to hold off on additional sanctions. Some
members of Congress and Netanyahu said that last week’s talks in
Geneva gave Iran the promise of relief without forcing an end to
Iran’s uranium enrichment.  ‘Modest Relief’  “We would provide very modest relief” at the margins of
sanctions while leaving in place core sanctions on oil, banking
and finance, Obama said. That approach allows the U.S. “to test
how serious are they,” while if Iran isn’t serious “we will
have lost nothing.”  “Let’s see if this short-term, Phase One deal can be
completed to our satisfaction” that Iran is not advancing its
program, he said. “We can buy some additional months” in terms
of Iranian breakout capacity.  Representative Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the No. 2 House
Democrat, said he would have “no problem” holding off on a
sanctions bill until after the next round of Geneva talks. He
stopped short of saying what he favors after that.  “The Iranians need to know that Congress is very
determined to move on sanctions unless, in the very near term,
there’s very substantial, credible progress,” Hoyer said after
a briefing yesterday with administration officials.  Iran is negotiating with a group known as the P5+1, made up
of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council -- the
U.S., U.K.,  France ,  Russia  and  China  -- plus  Germany .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Geneva at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  