-- Lockheed Job Cuts Echo Through Industry as Budget Falls
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-11-15T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/lockheed-job-cuts-echo-through-industry-as-budget-falls.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the biggest
contractor with the U.S. government, has led the way in what may
become a roster of companies shedding employees under pressure
from reductions in Pentagon spending.  Lockheed said yesterday it would cut 4,000 jobs in four of
its five business segments. Chief Executive Officer Marillyn Hewson cited “government budget cuts and an increasingly
complex global security landscape” in a statement.  “You will see a contraction among large and medium-sized
and possibly small defense contractors,” said Robert Nichols,
who leads the government contracts practice group in Washington
at Covington & Burling LLP. “I assume this is not the last
headline to this effect regarding defense industry layoffs.”  The Defense Department faces budget reductions of about
$500 billion over a decade under the automatic cuts called
sequestration, including about $52 billion in the current fiscal
year. That’s in addition to more than $400 billion in cuts over
10 years already included in the law that led to sequestration.  “They’ve been on a gravy train for a decade,” said  Robert Levinson , an analyst with Bloomberg Government, referring to
contractors such as Lockheed during an era of escalating  defense
outlays  during the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan . “Now they’re
living in a different world, and they’re adjusting just like any
company would.”  Lockheed rose less than 1 percent to $138.29 in trading in
 New York  yesterday and has soared 50 percent this year, compared
with the 26 percent increase in the benchmark Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  While some of the biggest U.S. defense contractors have
been reducing their job rolls gradually in recent years,
Lockheed’s move dwarfs announcements by others this year in
sheer numbers.  BAE Cuts  The U.S. unit of London-based  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  said last
month that production of ground vehicles would cease at a Sealy,
Texas, plant by mid-2014, eliminating about 325 jobs. It also
said in September it would close a Fayette,  Pennsylvania ,
facility where 78 employees and 35 contractors performed work
tied to Army combat vehicles, said Kristin Gossel, a
spokeswoman.  Natel Engineering Co., an electronics manufacturing company
based in Chatsworth,  California , has cut 30 of its 300 workers.  Lockheed’s reductions spare only its Aeronautics business
segment, which accounts for 30 percent of the company’s sales
and includes the F-35 jet, the Pentagon’s costliest weapons
program at a projected $391.2 billion.  Among those affected are 600 workers at an information
systems facility in Goodyear,  Arizona , that Lockheed said it
plans to close by early 2015. The site’s programs, which include
development of radar technology, are expected to be shifted to
Denver and  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania, according to the company.  Hitting Home  Romina Khananisho, a spokeswoman for the city of Goodyear,
called Lockheed’s action devastating. Lockheed is one of the
community’s largest and best-paying employers, she said. The
town of almost 70,000 residents is about 20 miles (32
kilometers) southwest of downtown Phoenix.  “Sequestration is starting to hit home,” Khananisho said.
“The federal government’s inability to come together is really
affecting everyday residents.”  Defense spending , once sacrosanct for its role in national
security and its political appeal as a job creator, has
increasingly become a target for lawmakers looking for ways to
reduce the federal deficit without raising taxes or shredding
the safety net for poorer Americans.  “It’s become hostage to the greater political struggle in
Washington,” said Roger Zakheim, former general counsel for the
House Armed Services Committee who is also now at the Covington
firm. “Until you resolve the bigger questions, the mechanism
will continue to have defense be the bill-payer.”  Anticipatory Cuts  Companies with multi-year contracts that are coming to an
end are cutting overhead and employees in anticipation of future
sending reductions, said  Yair Reiner , an analyst with
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York.  “Changes in the federal  budget  trickle down to contractors
over an extended period of time,” Reiner said. “More than half
of the revenue Lockheed Martin generates was allocated two and
three years prior. When the cuts arrive, the company is already
properly sized.”  Pentagon officials have managed so far to protect major
weapons systems from deep cuts under sequestration, including by
locking in some contracts for the F-35 before the automatic
reductions took effect in March.  The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter accounts for about 15 percent
of Lockheed’s revenue, said William Loomis, Baltimore-based
managing director at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “Aeronautics will be touched in the future,” Loomis said
of that business segment.  Maintaining Profits  For now, the biggest U.S. defense contractors have squeezed
expenses to maintain profits even as sales fell.  While Lockheed reported last month that sales declined 4.4
percent to $11.3 billion in the third quarter, it said profit
from continuing operations rose 16 percent from a year earlier
and it raised its full-year earnings forecast.  Since 2008, Lockheed said, it has trimmed capital expenses
and cut its workforce to 116,000 employees from 146,000.  “The government work is going to the low-price bidder,”
said Brian Ruttenbur, an analyst with CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “If your costs are out of whack, you’re
going to wind up laying people off down the road anyhow.”  Contractors of varying size have urged Congress to come up
with alternatives to sequestration. This week, the Aerospace
Industries Association, a trade group based in Arlington,
 Virginia , arranged for representatives of smaller suppliers to
lobby at the Capitol for Congress to pass a spending bill that
would end the automatic cuts.  “The effects of sequestration are already affecting the
supply chain,” Thomas McKee, a vice president of Natel
Engineering, said in an interview during the lobbying trip. “We
need Congress to do its job. Give us the certainty we need.”  Natel has cut 10 percent of its workforce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  