-- Mol Advances as Earnings Herald Expansion Plans: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-11-15T10:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/mol-advances-as-earnings-herald-expansion-plans-budapest-mover.html
Mol Nyrt. rose after a smaller-than-expected loss in the third quarter and lower debt helped
 Hungary ’s largest refiner signal the potential for acquisitions.  The shares climbed as much as 1.9 percent and traded 0.8
percent higher at 14,585 forint by 9:54 a.m. in Budapest, paring
its drop this year to 18 percent. The benchmark BUX stock  index ,
in which Mol has a 30 percent weighting, added 0.5 percent,
extending its gain in 2013 to 4 percent.  Mol posted a loss of 30 billion forint ($135 million) in
three months through September compared with a mean estimate of
57 billion forint in a Bloomberg survey, according to a
 statement  today. With Mol’s net  gearing , or debt-to-equity
ratio, slipping to 21 percent from 25 percent a year earlier,
the “strong” balance sheet will offer opportunities for
“potential inorganic steps,” Chief Executive Officer  Zsolt
Hernadi  said in the statement.  “Mol’s earnings beat expectations on every level,”  Akos Kuti , a Budapest-based analyst at broker Equilor Befektetesi
Zrt., wrote in an e-mailed report. It “is continuously saving
up for acquisitions, which may substantially alter the
assessment of the company,” he said. Kuti has a share price
target of 15,050 forint.  Mol’s average daily  output  of oil and gas slid 10 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, after selling a stake
in a field in  Russia  and as the Syrian conflict continued and
matured fields declined elsewhere, the company said.  The shares dropped 2.9 percent on Nov. 11 after the board
of directors decided to start preparations for the sale of Mol’s
stake in  INA Industrija Nafte dd  amid a dispute with the
Croatian government, the other owner of the unit. The Adriatic
country, which has alleged Mol runs INA as a subsidiary rather
than an independent company, won’t buy back the Hungarian
company’s 49.1 percent stake in the oil refiner, Finance
Minister Slavko Linic said in an interview yesterday.  The INA dispute will probably be the biggest influence on
the stock until Mol makes the acquisitions signaled by
management, Equilor’s Kuti said. “The acquisition opportunities
may serve as the next catalyst.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  