-- Holder Urges Congress to Re-Enact Undetectable-Gun Ban
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2013-11-15T19:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/holder-urges-congress-to-re-enact-undetectable-gun-ban.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
urged Congress to renew a federal ban on guns that can’t be
spotted by metal detectors, scheduled to expire next month.  “This is a very worrisome threat to  law enforcement  and to
people who fly every day,” Holder said in a statement released
by the  Justice Department  today. “We can’t have guns legally in
circulation that are not detectable by metal detectors.”  The Undetectable Firearms Act, which was first enacted in
1988 and expires Dec. 9, requires that guns contain a metal
component that can be picked up by a metal detector. Plastic
guns can be manufactured with 3-D printing technology, according
to the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,  Firearms  and
Explosives.  If the law isn’t renewed, “plastic guns could go
undetected by metal detectors and could be smuggled into a
variety of places,” Holder said in the statement.  “Whatever people’s feelings are about gun-safety
legislation, this is something we should all agree needs to be
reauthorized,” Holder said.  Legislation to extend the law for 10 years has been
introduced in the Senate by  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat, and
in the House by Representative Steve Israel, a  New York 
Democrat. Neither measure has been approved by a committee.  Other gun legislation hasn’t advanced in the current
Congress split between the Republican-controlled House and
majority-Democratic Senate.  The Senate in April lacked the votes to advance a measure
to expand background checks for most firearm purchases. The bill
was proposed after the shooting deaths of 20 children and six
adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown,  Connecticut ,
in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  