-- London’s Canary Wharf to Get Tallest U.K. Residential Tower
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-11-15T13:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/london-s-canary-wharf-to-get-tallest-u-k-residential-skyscraper.html
A  London  developer plans to build
the tallest residential tower in the U.K. on a site in the
city’s Canary Wharf area.  Ryan Corporation U.K. Ltd. paid 100 million pounds ($160
million) for the site of the proposed skyscraper, the closely
held company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The 242-meter (794-foot) high tower would be the tallest in London’s
second-largest financial district and the apartments would have
a total value of more than 1 billion pounds when it opens in
2018.  Luxury homes in central London have been the best-performing part of the U.K. property market since at least 2009.
Prime residences in the U.K. capital have risen more than 60
percent from their low that year, according to broker Knight
Frank LLP.  “Londoners are used to office buildings going up and
coming down every 20 years or so,” Richard Berridge, chief
operating officer of Ryan Corporation, said in the statement.
“This doesn’t happen with residential towers” as they need to
be “more enduring,” he said.  Ryan has planning permission for a mixed-use development on
the site of about an acre, according to the statement. Ryan will
apply to the local government for permission to build the
residential tower, named Herstmere, at West India Dock Quay.  Tallest Residences  Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG) ’s tower at One St. George Wharf
is currently the U.K.’s tallest residential tower at 181 meters,
according to Knight Frank. While apartments in London’s Shard
skyscraper are higher, the building consists mainly of offices,
a hotel and restaurants.  More than 250 million pounds had been spent on land for
homes in Canary Wharf and the surrounding area known as London’s
Docklands this year, and an additional 2 billion pounds must be
invested to pay for the planned projects, Chicago-based broker
Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. said in an Oct. 8 report.  Oxley Holdings Ltd., a Singapore- based property developer,
plans to build 3,400 homes at the Royal Docks after agreeing to
buy a 40-acre site from Ballymore Properties Holdings Ltd. for
200 million pounds on Nov. 1.  U.K. house prices slipped in September from a record level
in August. They were 3.8 percent higher than a year earlier, the
fastest annual growth rate since 2010, according to data from
the Office for National Statistics released Nov. 12. The
increase was led by London, where home values jumped 9.4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  