-- Hong Kong Property Still in Danger of Overheating, HKMA Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-11-15T03:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/hong-kong-property-still-in-danger-of-overheating-hkma-says.html
Hong Kong’s  property market  is still
in danger of overheating and a rise in interest rates would
“indisputably” affect the city,  Norman Chan , chief executive
of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said today.  The outlook for Hong Kong’s  property market  was uncertain
and it wasn’t clear whether it had entered a downward cycle,
Chan said at a legislative briefing.  Emerging markets  would face
the risk of capital outflow,  currency depreciation  and a decline
of asset prices once the U.S. Federal Reserve starts tapering
stimulus, he said.  “If interest rates rise because of the exit of the U.S.
Fed, Hong Kong will indisputably be impacted, particularly
because the Hong Kong property market still shows sign of
overheating,” Chan said. “I’ve mentioned that  household debt 
is still at a high level, accounting for about 61 percent of
GDP.”  An influx of wealthy buyers from mainland China,  mortgage
rates  close to record lows and a financial-services sector that
has thrived thanks to fundraising by Chinese companies helped
Hong Kong home prices more than double since the beginning of
2009. The government in February brought in its strictest
measures yet, including doubling stamp-duty taxes for all
properties over HK$2 million.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks nine developers
in Hong Kong,  rose  1.5 percent, the most in two weeks, as of
11:33 a.m.  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., the biggest developer in
Hong Kong by market value, gained 1.3 percent.  Relaxing Curbs  An overheated property market is the biggest concern to the
city’s economy, Chan said. A “basket of factors,” including
property supply, real estate prices and borrowers’ purchasing
power, are needed to decide if the property market has entered a
downward cycle, he said.  “If a downward cycle is formed, we will consider to
gradually relax the tightening measures,” he said.  The HKMA, the city’s de-facto central bank, has introduced
six rounds of measures since 2009 to stem home-price gains. They
have included raising the minimum down payment required for home
purchases over HK$10 million for owner occupiers to as much as
60 percent from 30 percent, and to 50 percent for those from
HK$7 million to HK$10 million.  The city’s  interest rates  track those in the U.S. because
of the local currency’s peg to the  U.S. dollar .  Prices for large-size apartments fell 2.2 percent from
February, while small-to-medium size homes rose 2.4 percent in
the same period, Chan said.  Hong Kong’s government won’t cut back property curbs until
there’s a “steady supply” of new housing, Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  