-- Hong Kong’s Partial Re-Auction of 3G Spectrum Angers Incumbents
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-11-15T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/hong-kong-to-auction-3g-spectrum-as-china-mobile-shows-interest.html
Hong Kong’s plan to auction parts of
the third-generation mobile-phone spectrum when current licenses
expire has angered existing operators, who say it will lead to
higher prices and worse service.  The government will auction a third of the spectrum,
Communications Authority Chairman Ambrose Ho said at a briefing
yesterday. The auction may clear the way for  China Mobile Ltd. (941) 
to compete with  HKT Ltd.,  CSL Ltd. (CSL) ,  Hutchison
Telecommunications Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (215)  and  SmarTone
Telecommunications Holdings Ltd. (315) , whose licenses expire in 2016.
The auction is expected to take place in the fourth quarter of
2014, the government said in a  statement .  Existing operators will get priority to retain the rights
to the rest of the airwaves, Ho said.  Mobile data usage per subscriber  surged 4.3 times  in the
two years through June in Hong Kong as smartphones drove demand.
The government decision will allow China Mobile, the world’s
biggest phone company by users, to expand services in the city
and force existing providers to revamp operations.  “This could increase costs for the carriers by hundreds of
millions of Hong Kong dollars,” Victor Yip, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd., said by phone before the announcement.
“Operators facing such a dramatic increase in costs will try to
pass on the cost directly or indirectly to customers.”  Telecommunication services generated HK$57.3 billion ($7.4
billion) of revenue in Hong Kong in 2010, according to the
latest figures on the  website  of the Office of the
Communications Authority.  A partial re-allocation of the spectrum struck the best
balance between ensuring efficient use of airwaves and the need
for customer service continuity, the Communications Authority
said. Any degradation in service quality could be “effectively
mitigated” the authority said in an e-mailed statement.  China Mobile  “The government is doing the public a disservice by opting
for a solution that degrades service quality to all mobile users
and, due to the high spectrum fees, essentially creates a new
and regressive tax on consumers,” Alex Arena, group managing
director of HKT, said in an e-mailed response. The right option
would have been for incumbents to be given right of first
refusal for their existing spectrum, he said.  CSL is “concerned” that the decision may disrupt services
and increase operational costs, Chief Executive Officer Phil Mottram said in a press release. SmarTone said in a press
release that it is “disappointed” and that the decision is
against the public interest.  “The unreasonable arrangements that have been adopted
suggest that they have simply gone their own way and ignored
public views, as well as the voice of the telecoms industry,”
Hutchison Telecom said in an e-mailed statement. The government
had presented “no credible evidence” of any benefits from its
decision, the carrier said.  ‘Precious Resource’  Rainie Lei, a spokeswoman for China Mobile, didn’t answer a
phone call and e-mail yesterday.  China Mobile  has said  the government should hold an auction
for the spectrum so the market can set a fair price for a
“precious public resource.”  The city of 7.2 million people had 16.7 million mobile
service subscribers as of June, a penetration rate more than
double the global average,  according  to data from the
International Telecommunication Union.  A revamp of the spectrum would cause service degradation
and increase costs, according to a Sept. 5 statement by the four
current operators.  “Auctions will actually create investment uncertainty for
incumbents rather than promoting investment,” the American
Chamber of Commerce said in a  submission  to the government dated
March 27. “Further impacts to reduced investment will delay the
development of new services.”  Re-auctioning parts of the spectrum “will stimulate
further competition in the mobile market,” the government said
in a December 2012 consultation document. It is “more superior
in enhancing spectral efficiency, encouraging investment and the
introduction of innovative services.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  