-- House Passes Bill to Let People Keep Health Plans in 2014
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-11-15T19:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/house-passes-bill-to-let-people-keep-health-plans-in-2014.html
The Republican-led U.S. House passed
legislation that lets insurers sell for another year health
policies that don’t meet the requirements of the Affordable Care
Act.  Today’s 261-157 vote, with the backing of 39 Democrats,
follows by a day President  Barack Obama ’s proposal of a one-year
reprieve for Americans whose health policies have been canceled.
Obama’s announcement sought to limit what could have been more
Democratic votes for the Republican bill.  White House press secretary Jay Carney today said Obama
would veto the measure from Michigan Republican  Fred Upton ,
saying it would permit insurers to “sell substandard policies
to new customers.” House Democratic leaders said the bill is
the Republicans’ 46th attempt to curtail Obama’s signature law.  “Working families across America were counting on the
president to keep his promise,” Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a
Virginia Republican, said today on the House floor before the
vote. “Now, they are counting on us to ease some of the pain
that his health-care law has brought them.”  More Democrats than anticipated ignored their leaders and
voted for the measure. Democratic Representative  Steve Cohen  of
 Tennessee  yesterday predicted at most 20 to 25 colleagues would
defect, after Obama proposed an administrative fix to let
insurers sell health policies for an additional year.  39 Democrats  Of the 39 Democrats voting for the bill today, 19 weren’t
members of the House when the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act became law in 2010, according to House records.  Democrats voting for the measure included Representatives
Ron Barber and Kyrsten Sinema of  Arizona , Ami Bera of
California, Tammy Duckworth of  Illinois , Patrick Murphy of
 Florida  and Pete Gallego of  Texas .  “My own view is that you do the right thing and the rest
takes care of itself,” Gallego said in an interview.
Republicans have targeted Gallego for defeat. “I wouldn’t have
done it if I didn’t think it was the right thing to do,” he
said.  The Republican bill won’t advance in the Democratic-led
Senate. Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  has to decide
whether to allow a vote on a proposal by Senator  Mary Landrieu ,
a Louisiana Democrat facing re-election in 2014.  Premiums Current  Landrieu’s measure would let individuals keep their
policies as long as they’re current on premium payments. The
bill would require insurance companies to continue offering
indefinitely all existing plans with an explanation as to how
their policy doesn’t meet the minimum coverage standards under
the law.  Upton’s measure would let insurers sell the plans that
don’t meet the health law’s minimum standards to new enrollees
through the end of 2014.  Senate votes on Landrieu’s bill aren’t imminent. A top
Democratic aide said scheduling them now would only guarantee
public attention on flaws in the health law and intraparty
feuding over whether and how to fix them.  Obama’s acceptance of responsibility for the law’s troubled
rollout and his step to blunt policy cancellations fell short of
quelling the political crisis engulfing him and his party tied
to the increasingly unpopular law.  Some Democrats running for re-election in 2014,
particularly those in the Senate, are continuing to push for
changes in the law.  House Democrats today offered a more limited version of
Landrieu’s proposal in a procedural move that didn’t succeed. It
would have allowed a one-year continuation of policies that
don’t meet the health law’s standards only for enrollees who
currently have such plans.  “If you repeal the ACA, we won’t be silenced,”
Representative Rob Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat, said on the
floor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  