-- Mozambique Donors May Delay Aid Pending Tuna Bond Clarification
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-11-15T13:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/mozambique-donors-may-delay-aid-pending-tuna-bond-clarification.html
Mozambique risks delays in payments
because of questions by donor countries over an $850 million
 bond issue  that will be used to fund fishing vessels and patrol
boats, according to advisory company Teneo Intelligence.  The government’s decision to underwrite the bond “has
generated countless questions and threats” from donors, known
as the G19, to delay budget aid, Anne Fruhauf, an analyst for
New York-based Teneo, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Donors are concerned direct budget support will end up funding
a guarantee for a very murky deal.”  Mozambique set up Empresa Mocambicana de Atum SA, or
Mozambican Tuna Co., known as Ematum, in August. Credit Suisse
Group AG and VTB Capital Plc financed its tuna boats, then
packaged the debt into notes for overseas investors. The fleet
also includes anti-piracy patrol boats, according to the French
Foreign Trade Ministry.  The country’s  main donors , known as the Program Aid
Partners, are the  World Bank , the  African Development Bank , the
European Union, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the U.K.  The partners want to have further talks about Ematum “to
get all the relevant information” in response to their
concerns, Roberto Vellano, Italian ambassador and president of
the donor group, said yesterday at a meeting in the capital,
Maputo.  “Donors are unlikely to cancel all the outstanding $175
million in aid disbursements for 2013, but some budget support
will likely be withheld in the fourth quarter,” Fruhauf said.  Seeking Clarity  Mozambique is trying to confirm the details of the
commercial and non-commercial aspects of the issue, Planning and
Development Minister Aiuba Cuereneia said in an interview,
without giving details.  “Key concerns are the company’s unclear mandate, a lack of
feasibility studies, and unclear procurement spending,” which
includes patrol boats and possibly military hardware, Fruhauf
said.  “Drastic aid cutbacks would be a worst-case outcome. Most
donors, including the U.K., are heavily vested in  Mozambique  and
are increasingly keen to leverage their development support for
commercial ends in what is one of the world’s fastest-growing
economies,” she said. “But the chances of longer-term
cutbacks, especially in direct budget support, have certainly
increased thanks to Ematum.”  Mozambique is the site of the world’s largest discovery of
natural gas in the past decade and is developing infrastructure
to increase its output of coal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  