-- Pandora Gains as Stock Sale by Biggest Owners Relieves Pressure
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-11-15T11:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/pandora-gains-as-stock-sale-by-biggest-owners-relieves-pressure.html
Pandora A/S (PNDORA) , the Danish maker of
charm bracelets, rose in Copenhagen after the company’s main
shareholders sold about 40 percent of their combined holdings,
removing a cause of downward pressure on the stock.  The  shares  gained as much as 2.8 percent to 261.7 Danish
kroner and traded up 1.7 percent at 12:56 p.m.  Private-equity fund Axcel and members of the jeweler’s
founding Enevoldsen family agreed to sell 20 million shares in
an offering to institutional investors, Pandora said in a
statement today. The investors, whose holdings in the company
were pooled under Prometheus Invest ApS until September, owned
about 49.8 million shares prior to the stock placement.  The shares are being sold at a price of 245 kroner apiece,
according to people familiar with the offering.  “Many investors have been standing on the sidelines just
waiting for the placement, now the placement is over so they buy
into the shares,” Jesper Christensen, an analyst at Alm. Brands
Markets, said by phone.  Axcel and the family have a window of four weeks after each
quarterly results statement in which they are able to sell
shares. Pandora reported three-month earnings this week. The
investors last sold in May when they dumped 13 million shares.  The latest sale is equivalent to about 15 percent of
Pandora’s share capital, which would cut the collective stake of
Axcel and the family to about 23 percent. Axcel bought a
controlling 59.3 percent stake in Pandora in 2008 and began
reducing its holding in a 2010  initial public offering .  Pandora, which suffered a collapse in demand two years ago,
has seen its stock more than double this year, helped by strong
sales of new products. The jeweler this week said net income for
the three months ended Sept. 30 climbed to 612 million kroner
($110 million), a 61 percent increase compared with the same
period a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  