-- Paulson Raises Merger Bets by Adding to Vodafone Stake
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-11-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/paulson-raises-merger-bets-by-adding-to-vodafone-stake.html
Paulson & Co., the $18 billion
hedge-fund firm run by billionaire John Paulson, increased its
stake in  Vodafone (VOD)  Group Plc in a bet the phone company may be a
takeover target.  Paulson & Co., which is based in New York, added 17 million
American depositary receipts of Vodafone last quarter, bringing
its holding to 20 million ADRs valued at $703.6 million as of
Sept. 30, according to a regulatory filing yesterday. The firm
also raised its stake in  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , adding 2.76 million
shares and bringing the total value of its holding to $504.7
million.  AT&T Inc. executives are laying the groundwork internally
for a potential takeover of Vodafone next year, mapping out a
strategy for a complex deal with Europe’s largest mobile
carrier, people familiar with the situation said this month.
Paulson has made money this year from takeovers of MetroPCS and
Sprint Corp. after correctly predicting consolidation in the
industry. He said last month he considers Vodafone a takeover
candidate.  “We believe a stand-alone Vodafone could be an attractive
potential acquisition target and offers the opportunity for
further upside through a simple rerating or takeover premium,”
Paulson & Co. wrote in a third-quarter report to investors.  While Vodafone, based in Newbury,  England , and  AT&T (T)  haven’t
entered formal negotiations, the largest U.S. phone company is
intensifying work on which Vodafone assets it would retain after
a deal and who could buy others, the people said, declining to
be identified discussing private deliberations. AT&T, which
remains interested in U.K. carrier EE as an alternative target,
is also formulating a strategy for Vodafone’s operations in
Europe, where mobile broadband adoption has lagged the U.S., the
people said.  FedEx Stake  Paulson became a 2.3 percent stakeholder in T-Mobile US
when the mobile-phone company merged with MetroPCS in May. He
raised his stake to 2.7 percent at the end of the third quarter.
He said in July that the company is a likely takeover target for
Dish Network Corp. or Sprint Corp.  Paulson’s firm joined activist investor Daniel Loeb and
billionaire  George Soros  in buying shares of  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  in the
third quarter. The firm bought 646,800 shares of the operator of
the world’s largest cargo airline.  Loeb, who has pushed for change at companies including Sony
Corp., said earlier this week his Third Point LLC took a stake
in FedEx, which is in the midst of a $1.7 billion restructuring
program to lower costs and boost earnings with steps such as
cutting air capacity to Asia, retiring older planes and offering
employee buyouts.  Joining Jana  Paulson & Co. bought 5.6 million shares, valued at $248.7
million, of  Mallinckrodt Plc (MNK) , joining Jana Partners LLC in
buying a new stake in the former pharmaceutical business of
Covidien Plc that spun off to become a stand-alone company in
June. Jana, in a letter to investors earlier this month, said
the company has two drugs that are in “very late stages” of
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s approval process. It
didn’t say whether it will push for changes at the company.  The firm bought 4 million shares of  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) 
valued at $446.4 million, making it the biggest new purchase in
the third quarter. Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes has
focused Time Warner’s growth strategy on its TV business, which
accounts for more than 70 percent of operating income. After
spinning off AOL Inc. and Time Warner Cable Inc. in recent
years, he’s now offloading the magazine publisher Time Inc.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s
end to list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible
bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much
cash the firms hold.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co. with
WalekPeppercomm, declined to comment on the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  