-- Pennsylvania Gay Marriage Law Challenge Can Go Forward
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-11-15T20:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/pennsylvania-gay-marriage-lawsuit-can-go-forward-judge-says-1-.html
Pennsylvania must go to trial to
defend its ban on same-sex marriage, a federal judge ruled,
rejecting the state’s argument that the court lacks authority to
hear the case.  U.S. District Judge John E. Jones in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, today denied the state’s request to dismiss the
case based on a single-sentence 1972 U.S.  Supreme Court  order
letting stand a  Minnesota  court ruling that upheld the state’s
prohibition on gay marriage.  “The jurisprudence of equal protection and substantive due
process has undergone what can only be characterized as a sea
change since 1972,” Jones wrote. The Supreme Court “no longer
views constitutional challenges based on sex or sexual identity
classifications as unsubstantial.”  Jones’s ruling puts the lawsuit on course for a nonjury
trial. He has asked lawyers in the case to be ready to discuss a
date at a Nov. 22 conference.  The U.S. Supreme Court in June struck down the part of the
Defense of Marriage Act limiting federal recognition of marriage
to unions between one man and one woman. The court on the same
day let stand the legalizing of same-sex marriage in  California .  Gay marriage has since become legal in Minnesota, Rhode
Island,  New Jersey  and  Hawaii , bringing the number of states
that recognize it to 15 plus the  District of Columbia . The
Illinois Legislature passed a pro-gay marriage law that Governor
 Pat Quinn  said he’ll sign next week.  Legal Marriages  Pennsylvania laws define marriage as between a man and a
woman and deny recognition by the state of same-sex unions
legally created elsewhere. The plaintiffs in the case before
Jones say the statutes violate U.S. constitutional guarantees of
equal protection and due process under the law.  State Attorney General Kathleen Kane, a Democrat, declined
to defend the state against the suit, filed by the  American
Civil Liberties Union .  Lawyers for Republican Governor Tom Corbett and other
officials moved for dismissal in September.  Attorneys William Lamb and Joel Frank of the  West Chester ,
Pennsylvania, law firm Lamb McErlane PC represent the state with
Corbett’s Office of the General Counsel. Frank didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone message seeking comment on
the court’s decision.  Pennsylvania ’s government “has an obligation to defend the
laws of the commonwealth,” and to cite relevant precedent, said
Joshua Maus, a spokesman for General Counsel James D. Schultz.  Exploring Options  “We’re obviously disappointed” with the ruling, Maus
said. The state is exploring its options, he said.  Jay Pagni, a spokesman for Corbett, also didn’t reply to a
phone message.  “We are delighted that our clients will have their day in
court,” said Mark Aronchick, whose Philadelphia-based law firm
Hangley, Aronchick, Segal, Pudlin & Schiller is co-counsel with
the ACLU in the case. “These couples are married in every sense
of the word, except one: under Pennsylvania law.”  The case is Whitewood v. Wolf, 13-cv-1861, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  