-- Philippine Typhoon Survivor Aid Slowed by Devastation
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o ,   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-11-16T14:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/philippine-typhoon-survivor-aid-slowed-by-devastation.html
The Philippine government began to
expand the reach of relief efforts as survivors of Typhoon
Haiyan complain that little aid has reached the hardest-hit
areas a week after the disaster.  More than 6 kilometers (3.7 miles) of roads have been
cleared near Tacloban city, which bore the brunt of the storm,
and the line of supply vehicles entering Matnog port, a major
staging area, was reduced to 2 kilometers, officials said today.
The government is planning to start building housing in Tacloban
to help some of the more than 208,000 displaced there.  “We hope this eases the victims’ anxiety and lets them
know that help will reach them,” Local Government Secretary Mar
Roxas said, according to a transcript released by President
 Benigno Aquino ’s office. “We are loosening up our supply routes
to speed up the delivery of aid,” he said.  The typhoon killed at least 4,460 people, making it one of
the deadliest in Philippine history, according to the United
Nations. The storm has left almost 3.1 million displaced, the
government estimates. Delays in distributing aid may undermine
the authority of Aquino, who presides over an economy that has
matched  China ’s pace as the fastest growing in the region for
two quarters.  The typhoon slammed into the region with gale-force winds
and storm surges on Nov. 8, flattening towns and washing away
roads. Large swaths of territory still have no running water or
electricity. Even with foreign relief supplies pouring in, aid
efforts are being hampered by gridlock on roads, in ports and at
the Tacloban airport and airstrips in Cebu, a main staging
ground for the relief operation.  Airports Jammed  The number of trucks delivering aid to affected areas is
“barely enough” even as roads have been cleared of debris,
Luiza Carvalho, Humanitarian and Resident Coordinator of the UN
in the  Philippines  said in an e-mail. “There are still
logistical difficulties to overcome,’’ she said.  Large crowds still throng the airport at Tacloban as
incoming military flights bring in teams of aid workers who fan
out into affected areas. Ferries are transporting trucks from
Cebu to distribute supplies as work continues to clear roads
blocked by debris.  Charity Villas, 30, who lives in Tacloban, said so many
survivors were still trying to get out of the airport that she
traveled three hours in a van with her one-year-old daughter to
reach Ormoc, where she was able to board a plane to Cebu.  “To be honest with you, I had to do things that I wasn’t
supposed to do. I had to be part of the looters for her to get
some milk,” Villas said. “I had to dig through the destroyed
pharmacy just to loot and look for a paracetamol, those basic
medicines, and I feel so bad that I have not received any
assistance from the government. We’ve been waiting and it’s
already more than a week.”  Alternate Routes  Relief operations remain a challenge as the government and
the military struggled to clear aid logjams, Aquino’s
spokeswoman Abigail Valte said in a radio address today.  “We are exploring other routes for distribution,” Valte
said. “Delivery is a continuing challenge.”  Aquino plans to make his second visit to the area
devastated by the storm tomorrow and dozens more army trucks
were on the way to the region, the military said today in an e-mailed statement.  “There are more people every day,” said Liam Pido, 18, a
student who left on an Australian military aircraft along with
16 others in his extended family. “Uncountable. Can’t be
counted.”  Foreign Aid  It’s taking two days or longer for trucks from  Manila  to
arrive to the hard-hit areas of the central Philippines,
including Tacloban, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima, who is
overseeing aid preparations in Manila, said today. Each truck
carries 2,500 relief packs. Aquino targets 1.1 million packs
prepared in the Manila hub every week to provide for 275,000
families.  “We have supplies already, our challenge is trucking,”
Purisima said.  Foreign governments have been increasing their pledges as
the scope of the destruction becomes more clear. The U.K.
committed an additional 30 million pounds ($48 million) to the
relief effort today, bringing its total pledge to 50 million
pounds.  The Philippines had received 5.4 billion pesos ($124
million) in international assistance as of noon yesterday, Raul
Hernandez, a Foreign Affairs spokesman, said in an e-mail. The
UN said it has so far received $104 million of $301 million in
aid that’s been pledged.  Aircraft Carriers  Doctors from Medecins Sans Frontieres began  treating 
patients in some locations in the central Philippines, the group
said in a statement yesterday on its website. Apart from
treating the injured, the group is handling a growing number of
people suffering from pneumonia and diarrhea, the group said in
the statement.  The USS  George Washington , an aircraft carrier with more
than 5,000 personnel and more than 80 aircraft, has arrived in
the Philippines and is ferrying aid into hard-hit areas. A U.K.
C-17 transport plane with supplies arrived this afternoon, with
the HMS Illustrious, another aircraft carrier, due to arrive on
Nov. 25. The USNS Mercy, a hospital ship based in  San Diego , is
on standby to travel to the Philippines, should the government
request more help.  An Australian team treating survivors at Tacloban airport
was setting up a deployable 50-bed field hospital able to treat
4,000 people.  Rice Distribution  “It has been slow from the perspective of the people who
have been patiently, frustratedly waiting for the support that
they so desperately need, but the pace of activity of our
colleagues on the ground has been phenomenal,” John Ging, an
official at the  United Nations  Office for the Coordination of
 Humanitarian Affairs , told reporters yesterday in  New York .  The World Food Program has distributed rice rations to
170,000 people over the past week and is delivering high-energy
biscuits to people in Leyte province, according to an e-mailed
statement.  About 320 metric tons of rice are being delivered to
Tacloban to feed more than 106,000 families, the WFP said. A
shipment of 2,000 metric tons of food and other relief items was
scheduled to leave Cebu for Tacloban later, according to the
statement.  Water Supplies  About 20 percent of Tacloban’s water supply has been
restored after the U.S. and Philippines military provided fuel
to restart some generators, Unicef director of emergency
programs Ted Chaiban said yesterday.  The storm left 12,501 people injured and 1,186 missing,
with more than 9.8 million people affected, of whom 3.06 million
were displaced, according to the National Disaster Risk
Reduction and Management Council’s 6 p.m. bulletin. Damage to
infrastructure and farm output is now estimated at 10.3 billion
pesos, the government said in the bulletin.  About 5 million children were affected by the storm and
require immediate support, Unicef’s Chaiban told reporters in
New York yesterday.  Philippine economic growth this quarter may slow to a range
of 4.1 percent to 5.9 percent as a result of the storm, Economic
Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said in a mobile-phone
message Nov. 14.  The government is preparing a reconstruction plan which
includes a proposal to boost infrastructure spending to 3.5
percent of gross domestic product in 2014, from an earlier plan
of 3 percent, Balisacan separately told reporters in Manila
yesterday. Rebuilding will be “very, very costly,” he said.  The benchmark Manila  stock index  rose 0.3 percent
yesterday, with the peso slipping 0.2 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  to 43.66.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Cebu at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Cebu at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  