-- Power Companies Sink Most in Philippines as Storm Damages Plants
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-11-15T06:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/power-companies-sink-most-in-philippines-as-storm-damages-plants.html
First Gen Corp. (FGEN)  and its unit  Energy
Development  Corp. fell the most in the Philippine benchmark
stock index this week after Typhoon Haiyan damaged  power plants 
and wrecked transmission lines.  First Gen has dropped  11 percent this week, heading for
its biggest loss since June 2009. The stock declined 1.4 percent
to 14.16 pesos at 2:05 p.m. in  Manila  today, poised for its
lowest close in almost 18 months. Energy Development, the
largest Philippine generator of geothermal power, slid 10
percent this week, the most since February 2012. The  Philippine
Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  has risen 0.3 percent.  The storm damaged Energy Development’s four major plants in
its Leyte geothermal production field, the company said in a
statement on Nov. 11. The field accounts for 56 percent of the
company’s overall generating capacity, according to its web
site. The National Grid Corp. of the  Philippines  will need six
weeks to restore transmission lines damaged by Haiyan,
 BusinessMirror  reported today.  Energy Development “potentially lost a source of income,”
said Rico Gomez, head of the trust trading division at Manila-based Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. “Most people will wait”
to see the damage repaired before they consider buying the
shares, he said.  Energy Development contributed $758.81 million to First
Gen’s $1.40 billion revenue from power generation in 2012,
according to company data compiled by Bloomberg. Calls to First
Gen President Giles Puno’s office were unanswered. Energy
Development will have a clearer picture of the damage next week,
said Erudito Recio, investor relations manager.  Storm Destruction  Leyte province bore the brunt of the storm, which slammed
into the central Philippines on Nov. 8. At least 4,460 people
were killed and 243,600 houses destroyed, according to the
 United Nations . Much of the damage was concentrated in and
around Tacloban city, the capital of the province, while roads
have been washed away or blocked by debris.  Cooling towers at Energy Development’s Malitbog, Tongonan
and Mahanagdong power plants sustained damage, while the Upper
Mahiao power plant may be restored “quickly,” according to the
company’s statement.  The four plants have a 650.9 megawatt combined capacity,
accounting for 93 percent of the Leyte field’s installed
generating capacity. The field contributed 7.58 billion pesos
($173 million) in sales in the first half, or 56 percent of the
company’s 13.43 billion peso sales in the six-month period,
according to the company’s  web site .  Transmission Lines  Haiyan destroyed 248 electricity towers and 318 poles,
while seven substations were damaged as of Nov. 12, the
BusinessMirror said.  “Even if the damage is minor and Energy Development gets
the facility on-line, it can’t deliver electricity if the
transmission wires aren’t restored,” said George Ching, analyst
at COL Financial Group Inc. in Manila.  Aboitiz Power Corp. (AP) , the nation’s largest power generator
by market value, is little changed this week. The company hasn’t
reported any damage to its plants.  First Gen has lost 38 percent in the past 12 months, making
it the second-worst performer on the Philippine Stock Exchange
Index, which rallied 18 percent. The company said last yesterday
third-quarter profit fell 28 percent.  First Gen, directly and through subsidiaries, owns about
half of Energy Development, which has slumped 24 percent in the
same period. The company suspended in March its 110-megawatt
Bacman power plant in Albay province, weeks after it was
restarted following more than a year of repairs. Its net income
declined 20 percent in the third quarter.  The storm damage spurred Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. to
reduce its stake in Energy Development.  “Our holdings were small to begin with but we reduced it a
bit because of the uncertainty on revenue brought about by the
typhoon,” said Allan Yu, chief investment officer at
Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co., the third-largest Philippine
 money manager . “The company has had a string of bad luck.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  