-- Toronto Mayor’s ‘Disturbing’ Actions Spurs Premier to Act
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   T h o r p e   a n d   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-11-15T15:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/province-hints-at-action-amid-unraveling-of-toronto-mayor.html
Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne
indicated she’s willing to help Toronto out of its municipal
quagmire as councilors prepared new measures to curb Mayor Rob Ford’s power after he admitted to taking drugs and excessive
drinking.  Wynne said the province, which governs municipalities,
would consider intervening if asked by Toronto city council, as
the things she’s hearing about Ford are “truly disturbing.”  “If council were to clearly indicate that they lack the
ability to function as a result of this matter, the province
would respond to a request from council to be provided new
tools,” Wynne told reporters yesterday.  Possible action by the province comes after Ford, 44,
admitted he smoked  crack cocaine , bought illegal drugs, and
drove after drinking. Former staff members and others also
allege in interviews with police that he guzzled vodka in his
car, may have snorted cocaine and brought suspected prostitutes
to his office, according to court documents released on Nov. 13.  Ford yesterday denied he snorted cocaine at a restaurant
and said he “never had a prostitute” at city hall. None of the
allegations in the document have been proven in court and police
have said there isn’t enough evidence to warrant charges against
the mayor. He has steadfastly refused to step down.  Two Motions  Council began a meeting today to try to limit Ford’s powers
by voting on two motions at city hall. One would remove Ford’s
power to appoint the heads of committees and the deputy mayor
for the rest of his term. If the  motion , tabled by Councilor
John Filion, passes, committees would appoint their own heads
and council would appoint the deputy mayor. Ford’s four-year
term ends in a year.  Council may also vote on whether to take emergency
management powers from Ford and pass them on to Deputy Mayor
Norm Kelly.  Business at city hall has stalled amid raucous meetings
broadcast around the world, while Ford’s antics have been
lampooned on U.S. talk shows like the Tonight Show with  Jay
Leno . Saturday Night Live comedian  Seth Meyers  said on a U.S.
talk show yesterday he was hoping Ford was still a story so he
could provide him with material for this weekend.  “Every day he lowers the bar, and this is another one of
those days,” Councilor Denzil Minnan-Wong, a former Ford
supporter, said to reporters yesterday. “I’m very sad for the
city and I’m exceedingly angry at the mayor. The mayor has got
to go.”  Intervention Offer  Councilor Giorgio Mammoliti offered yesterday to organize
an intervention to get Ford treatment.  “I have individuals that I know personally that will come
down and they will take him immediately for a 30-day or a 90-day
program,” Mammoliti said yesterday at city hall. “They will
come today, but he has to say that he needs help. If he doesn’t
admit that he needs help, then he’s lost me.”  Wynne said any actions the province would take would have
to be passed unanimously by the provincial legislature because
the “last thing this terrible situation needs is an overlay of
partisan politics.” Wynne, whose Liberal party holds a minority
in the legislature, didn’t specify what tools could be offered.  “The word ’tool’ was used because it is vague,”  John
Mascarin , a municipal lawyer and partner with Toronto firm Aird
& Berlis LLP, said in an e-mail. “I don’t think the province
has really thought of how it may force Ford out.”  Election Call  The province has a few options, Mascarin said. These
include introducing legislation to directly end the current
mayoral term and call an election, or to amend municipal laws to
give city council itself the power to determine when the mayor’s
term ends and an election is to be held.  The province could also strip Ford’s mayoral powers as
defined by the City of Toronto Act, including his role as chief
executive officer of the city and leader of city council,
Mascarin said.  Ford began his day yesterday denying he had prostitutes in
his office or snorted cocaine at a restaurant and said he would
pursue legal action against the former employees and waiter who
made the statements to police.  Ford said one of the women named in the police documents
who came back to his office after a St. Patrick’s Day party last
year wasn’t a prostitute.  “She’s a friend, and it makes me sick how people are
saying this,” Ford told reporters outside his office. “I’ve
never had a prostitute here.”  ‘Tremendous Stress’  He also denied saying he wanted to have oral sex with a
staff member, who no longer works in his office.  “I would never do that, I’m happily married.” Ford said.
“I’ve got more than enough to eat at home.”  Reporters present reacted with gasps to that statement and
the mayor’s use of a slang term for a woman’s genitals. Ford
later apologized for those remarks.  “For the past six months, I have been under tremendous,
tremendous stress,” Ford said, with his wife Renata nearby.
“The revelations yesterday of cocaine, escorts and prostitution
has pushed me over the line and I used unforgivable language.”  The mayor said he’s receiving “support from a team of
health-care professionals.”  “I am taking accountability,” he said, without
elaborating.  Earlier, Ford said he may have driven a car after drinking.  “I might have had some drinks and driven, which is
absolutely wrong,” he told reporters. “I’m not perfect, maybe
you are, but I’m not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe in Toronto at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  