-- Puerto Rico’s GO Bonds May Be Reduced to Junk by Fitch
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/puerto-rico-s-go-bonds-may-be-reduced-to-junk-by-fitch.html
Puerto Rico’s general-obligation
debt, graded one step above junk level, may be cut by  Fitch
Ratings  if the island commonwealth’s access to credit markets
continues to be limited.  Fitch will decide by the end of June whether to lower its
score on Puerto Rico bonds to noninvestment grade, Karen Krop, a
New York-based analyst, said in a report yesterday.  “Continued lack of reasonable external market access would
be considered a material reduction in financial flexibility and
cause for a downgrade,” Krop said in the report.  The island’s debt is held by more than three quarters of
mutual funds that invest in municipal bonds, according to
Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago , and a rating cut may lead many
funds to sell some of those holdings. All three major rating
companies grade the securities one step above junk, with a
negative outlook. The commonwealth’s bonds have  lost  almost 16
percent this year, the most since at least 1999.  Puerto Rico  bonds have been trading below investment-grade
levels this year. A general-obligation security maturing in July
2041 traded yesterday with an average yield of about 7.9
percent, or 3.7 percentage points above an index of benchmark
debt with similar maturities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The yield reached almost 9.3 percent on Sept. 11, the highest
level since the bonds were sold in March 2012.  Financing Needs  The territory has $1.46 billion of debt payments and
financing needs for fiscal 2014, which ends in June, according
to Fitch. While its Government Development Bank can provide
liquidity, “doing so would leave the commonwealth with reduced
remaining flexibility,” Krop said in the report.  Officials plan to sell as much as $1.2 billion of sales-tax
revenue bonds by Dec. 31, although they have sufficient
liquidity to hold off through June, David Chafey, the
 development bank ’s chairman, has said.  “Several rating agencies have recognized the significant
steps we have taken to address the country’s fiscal issues in
the long term, including the implementation of a pension reform,
unprecedented measures to strengthen our public corporations,
and decisive actions to reduce the deficit,” Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, said in a statement about the Fitch report.
“We believe in our plans and will continue to work focused and
determined until we  achieve our goal.”  Jose Pagan, interim president of the development bank, said
in a statement that “our administration continues its focus on
creating sustainable economic growth through  job creation ,
making ongoing progress towards our goal of a structural budget
balance by fiscal 2016, and strengthening our credit profile,
 market access  and liquidity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 