-- Treasuries Gains as Yellen Supports Bond-Buying Stimulus Plans
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-11-15T22:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/treasuries-set-for-weekly-advance-as-yellen-boosts-stimulus-bets.html
Treasuries rose for the first week
this month as Federal Reserve Chairman-nominee  Janet Yellen  said
she backs the central bank’s unprecedented stimulus program as
long as the economy is sluggish, boosting demand for the debt.  Benchmark 10-year note yields rose today even as reports
showed a measure of New York regional manufacturing unexpectedly
fell this month and U.S. industrial production declined 0.1
percent in October versus forecasts for a 0.2 percent gain.
Yellen told Congress at a confirmation hearing yesterday that
she will ensure monetary stimulus isn’t removed too soon.  “Yellen laid it out yesterday -- what she said was
extremely dovish,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury
trading in New York at Bank of  Nova Scotia , one of 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “You can forget about tapering
in December, regardless of the data.”  The benchmark 10-year yield rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.70 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.75 percent note
due November 2023 fell 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face value,
to 100 13/32.  The yield rose as much as four basis points today and has
declined as much as six basis points  this week , the biggest
since drop since the week ending Oct. 25.  Annual Loss  Treasury trading  volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , dropped to $203.7
billion, below the 2013 average of $314.3 billion. It fell to a
2013 low of $147.8 billion on Aug. 9. The high was $662.3
billion on May 22.  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Merrill Lynch
MOVE Index was at 62.18, after touching 61.95 yesterday, the
lowest level since Oct. 31. The 2013 average is 71.8.  Treasuries due in 10 years and longer have lost 10 percent
this year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
 Indexes. (BUSY10)  Those maturing between one- and three years  returned 
0.4 percent, the indexes show.  The 10-year term premium was at 0.24 percent, based on a
valuation model used by the Fed that is calculated by using
interest-rate expectations, economic growth and inflation. The
gauge touched 0.13 percent on Oct. 29, the most expensive level
since June. It has averaged negative 0.03 percent this year,
indicating the securities were overvalued. The security is
considered at fair value at a term premium level between 0.25 to
0.75 percent.  Term Premium  The term premium has risen even as projections for federal
funds rate increases have been pushed out, Brett Rose, an
interest-rate strategist at Citigroup Inc., in  New York , wrote
in a note to clients. A rising term premium may limit the effect
of the Fed cutting back on its asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing, Rose wrote.  “While past shifts in QE expectations were highly
correlated with shifts in Fed funds expectations, we see signs
that expectations on these two different policies are becoming
more disentangled,” Rose wrote. “We anticipate that term
premium can rise further as expectations of QE draws closer.”  Traders project an 86.5 percent chance the Fed will keep
its benchmark rate at current levels by December 2014, compared
with a 72.7 percent odds a month earlier, according to fed funds
futures data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed policy makers have pledged  interest rates  will stay at
almost zero while unemployment remains above 6.5 percent. The
jobless rate was at 7.3 percent last month, the Labor Department
said Nov. 8.  Yellen View  “It’s important not to remove support, especially when the
recovery is fragile and the tools available to monetary policy,
should the economy falter, are limited given that short-term
interest rates are at zero,” Yellen said in  Washington .  Analysts have cut their year-end forecasts for 10-year
yields to 2.73 percent, down from a projection of as much as
2.85 percent last month, according to the weighted average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasuries and  mortgage-backed
securities  each month to keep downward pressure on borrowing
costs. Officials will decide to pare purchases to $70 billion a
month at their March 18-19 meeting, according to the median of
economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey on Nov. 8.  The Fed purchased $917 million of Treasuries maturing
between February 2025 and February 2031 today.  Policy Debate  “From a risk-reward perspective, they can certainly afford
to keep policy very loose,” said  Andrew Wilson , head of fixed
income at Goldman Sachs Asset Management in  London , speaking on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua .
“Nevertheless we do expect to see 10-year yields moving higher
through the course of next year. We’re in that normalization
phase of monetary policy and as a result of that we’re going to
see long yields certainly move higher.”  Ten-year yields may climb as much as 100 basis points in
the next year, Wilson said.  The Fed Bank of New York’s general economic  index  fell to
negative 2.21 this month from 1.5 in October. The forecast was
for a rise to 5, according to a Bloomberg News survey before the
report. Positive readings signal expansion in New York, northern
 New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  “It was extremely weak,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S.
economist in New York at primary dealer Royal Bank of Canada’s
 RBC Capital Markets . “The inclination for yields is higher. We
are on our way higher. The question is the speed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  