-- Renewable Fuels Quota to Be Cut in U.S. EPA Change
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-11-15T21:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/renewable-fuels-quota-to-be-cut-in-u-s-epa-change.html
The Obama administration proposed a
cut in the amount of renewable fuels that refiners must blend
with gasoline next year, bowing to oil industry complaints that
the targets contained in 2007 legislation were too high.  In a draft rule released today, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency said it would require between 15 billion to
15.52 billion gallons of renewable fuels such as corn ethanol
and biodiesel in 2014. That compares with 18.15 billion gallons
set in the legislation, making it the first time the legal
mandate would be cut.  This “acknowledges a drastic change in the U.S. energy
outlook since the renewable fuels mandate was put in place,”
Jason Bordoff, the head of the Center on Global Energy Policy at
 Columbia University  and former White House official under
President  Barack Obama , said in a statement. It “marks a
notable shift in the administration’s biofuel policy.”  The proposal, which was applauded by refiners and panned by
corn growers and ethanol makers, would lower costs for refiners
such as  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  that must blend the fuel into
gasoline.  ADM Down  Valero rose 16 cents to $43 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange trading, while  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , which
processes corn and other agricultural products, dropped $1.44 to
$40.56, its biggest decline since Aug. 26. Prices of soybeans,
used to make biodiesel, fell the most in six weeks, and corn
futures dropped 1.4 percent to $4.305 a bushel in Chicago.  Refiners, fast-food restaurants, motorboat makers and
chicken farmers have all pushed the EPA to scale back the
ethanol mandate, saying it risks ruining engines by forcing more
ethanol to be blended into gasoline and is acting to push up
demand for corn. Gasoline demand is falling, and so rising
requirements for renewable fuels are ramping up the percentage
of those fuels in the total mix, putting the amount of ethanol
required near the 10 percent refiners label the “blend wall”
that can damage engines.  “While the agency took a step in the right direction, more
must be done to ensure Americans have the choice of ethanol-free
gasoline,” said  Jack Gerard , the chief executive of the
 American Petroleum Institute , the Washington-based group that
represents companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  “They are
getting close to making sure they don’t breach us through the
blend wall.”  Volume Requirements  Within the range of values it provided, the EPA listed
specific volume requirements it was proposing: 15.21 billion
gallons for renewable fuel generally and 2.2 billion for
advanced biofuels. A final rule is due in the first quarter of
2014, after refiners and ethanol makers weigh in.  The agency also proposed a range for the mandate for
biodiesel and cellulosic products, such as those made from corn
stalks or woody waste, of 2 billion gallons to 2.5 billion
gallons. That’s below the 3.75 billion gallon target spelled out
in the legislation, and is in line with the 2.21 billion gallons
from an August draft that was leaked.  Big Oil  “The proposed reduction from EPA is troubling, as it not
only cuts grain ethanol use below the levels set by Congress, it
cuts them to a level below the 13.8 billion that was met in
2013,” said Jeff Lautt, the chief executive of ethanol maker
Poet LLC. “Under this rule, American drivers and American
farmers lose and Big Oil wins.”  EPA officials say they are listening to those concerns and
have pledged to preserve a market for what are dubbed “next
generation fuels.” In presenting a range, the agency would
allow outside groups to comment over the next two months prior
to a final EPA decision.  Advanced biofuel, such as biodiesel and Brazilian ethanol,
is part of a larger program for renewable fuels that is anchored
by corn-based ethanol. Corn growers and the ethanol industry are
pushing for an increase in the 13 billion-gallon quota called
for in the leaked August plan, which is below the 14.4 billion
gallons in the law. The EPA has the ability to adjust the quotas
in response to market pressures.  Ethanol Fell  In its rule today, the agency stuck to that estimate,
saying it forecasts that 12.95 billion to 13.09 billion gallons
of ethanol could be consumed in the U.S. in 2014, assuming as
much as 300 million gallons in sales of fuel that is 85 percent
ethanol to flex-fuel vehicles.  Denatured ethanol for December delivery fell 0.1 cent to
$1.777 a gallon on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. Futures traded as
high as $1.815 before the EPA’s announcement. Prices have
dropped 21 percent this year.  Corn-based ethanol Renewable Identification Numbers, which
are certificates used to track compliance with the mandate,
plunged 18 percent to 18 cents, the lowest since Jan. 24, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Advanced RINs, which cover biodiesel
and Brazilian sugarcane-based ethanol slumped 15 percent to 22
cents.  Refiners, which have waged a battle against the corn
ethanol mandate, haven’t fought so hard against biodiesel, as it
doesn’t present the same constraints as ethanol.  Fuel with more than 10 percent ethanol can cause engine
materials to break down and damage emission-control systems,
according to research from the oil-industry group. Supporters of
ethanol say newer cars can run on fuels with 15 percent ethanol,
and many flex-fuel vehicles can use the E85 blend.  “Part of our challenge is, the oil industry has done a
pretty good job of making it harder to access higher blends and
making it harder to take advantage of all the flexible fuel
vehicles that are on the road today,” Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  