-- Rinehart Bidders Said to Submit Offers for A$7 Billion Financing
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-11-15T06:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/rinehart-bidders-said-to-submit-offers-for-a-7-billion-financing.html
Australia’s four largest banks are
expected to bid to join the A$7 billion ($6.5 billion) financing
of  Gina Rinehart ’s Roy Hill mine development by today’s
deadline, four people familiar with the matter said.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia , National Australia Bank Ltd. and  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  are among lenders expected to submit bids today,
the people said, asking not to be identified because the details
are private. Some of them are expected to commit at least A$400
million to be eligible for future business related to the iron
ore  project , three of the people said. The debt is expected to
have an average maturity of between 10 and 11 years, with a
seven-year repayment period after the project has been built,
those people said.  Roy Hill doesn’t respond to “unauthorised and/or incorrect
speculation from unnamed sources,” Darryl Hockey, a Perth-based
spokesman for Roy Hill, said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. “The debt financing is progressing well and
feedback remains positive,” he said.  Rinehart,  Asia ’s richest woman, is negotiating with banks
encouraged by a 24 percent rally in iron ore prices from this
year’s May low fueled by renewed Chinese demand, even as
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a 29 percent slide in
the steel-making mineral over the next four years.  Formally Received  Between 16 and 20 banks are expected to submit offers to
participate in the project, three of the people familiar with
the matter said. After the bids are formally received today, the
company is expected to take a number of weeks to harmonize a set
of terms and conditions for the lenders, according to three of
the people.  Stephen Ries, a spokesman for ANZ, Bryan Fitzgerald, a
spokesman for CBA, Fiona Macrae, a spokeswoman for NAB and Emma
Rumble, a spokeswoman for Westpac, all declined to comment.  Roy Hill is seeking part of the financing from  export
credit agencies , including  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation ,  Export-Import Bank of Korea , Nippon Export &
Investment Insurance, Export-Import Bank of the  United States 
and  Korea  Trade Insurance Corp., the company said last December.
The board of U.S. Ex-Im yesterday gave preliminary approval for
$694 million in financing for the project, according to an e-mailed statement from the lender.  The split between bank debt and export credit finance is
yet to be finalized, three of the people familiar with the
matter said. Roy Hill is seeking about A$4 billion from the
agencies and around A$3 billion from banks, a separate person
familiar with the matter said in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  