-- Ringgit Gains Most in Three Weeks as Growth Seen Accelerating
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-11-15T01:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/ringgit-gains-most-in-three-weeks-as-growth-seen-accelerating.html
Malaysia’s ringgit climbed the most
in almost three weeks before reports forecast to show the
nation’s economic growth accelerated and the current-account
surplus widened.  Government bonds  were little changed.  Gross domestic product  increased 4.7 percent in the third
quarter from 4.3 percent in the previous three months, according
to the median estimate of 17 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  before official data due at 6 p.m. local time. The ringgit
rose for a second day after Federal Reserve chairman nominee
 Janet Yellen  said yesterday she would maintain the record
stimulus that has stoked global asset gains and suppressed
borrowing costs until the  U.S. economy  is stronger.  “Risk appetite for Asian currencies is improving because
Yellen’s statement sends a strong signal that tapering will be
on the back burner for a while,” said Yeah Kim Leng, chief
economist at RAM Holdings Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The ringgit’s
strength will be further supported by the improvement in
domestic economic data.”  The currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 3.1951 per dollar
as of 9:14 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, the steepest increase since
Oct. 28, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It dropped 0.5
percent for the week.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.73 percent. The gauge
declined 31 basis points this week.  Malaysia’s current-account surplus  widened  to 10.7 billion
ringgit ($3.3 billion) in the third quarter from 2.6 billion
ringgit in the preceding three months, according to the median
forecast of analysts polled by Bloomberg News before data due at
6 p.m. local time today.  The yield on the 3.48 percent bonds due March 2023 was
little changed at 3.89 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate rose 17 basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  