-- Rodgers Moves NFL Gambling Lines as Giants Favored Over Packers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/rodgers-moves-nfl-gambling-lines-as-giants-favored-over-packers.html
The New York Giants aren’t only hot,
they’ve got good timing: avoiding a player this week some Las
Vegas oddsmakers consider the most valuable in the National
Football League when it comes to setting point spreads.  With quarterback Aaron Rodgers sidelined by a fractured
collarbone, the Green Bay Packers are listed at  Nevada  and
online sportsbooks as five- to 5 1/2-point underdogs against the
Giants in East Rutherford, New Jersey, for the Nov. 17 game.  Fellow All-Pro quarterbacks Peyton Manning, Tom Brady and
Drew Brees are worth at least seven points when setting a
spread, oddsmaker Johnny Avello at the Wynn Las Vegas said, and
Manning’s presence has his Denver Broncos eight-point picks at
home over the unbeaten Kansas City Chiefs this week. Rodgers’s
injury probably is worth more than 10 points, Avello said, with
the Packers using third-stringer Scott Tolzien against the
Giants, who have won three straight after an 0-6 start.  “If there’s someone coming in to at least sustain some
kind of movement with the offense, then the top quarterbacks
might be worth seven or eight,” Avello said in a telephone
interview. “With the Packers, it’s worse for them now because
they’re going into third-string territory. And second string
wasn’t good to begin with.”  Had Rodgers been playing a week ago, the Packers would have
been about a 10-point favorite against the Philadelphia Eagles,
said Jimmy Vaccaro, oddsmaker for the South Point Hotel and
Casino in Las Vegas. Following Rodgers’s injury during a Nov. 4
loss to  Chicago , the Packers initially were listed as a two-point favorite against the Eagles. By kickoff, Philadelphia was
a 1 1/2-point favorite.  Spread Swing  “You saw an 11 1/2-point switch from what the number
should have been,” Vaccaro said.  The Eagles scored a 27-13 victory and the Packers lost
backup quarterback Seneca Wallace to a groin injury after one
offensive series. Following a 5-2 start behind Rodgers, the
NFL’s 2011 MVP, Green Bay is now 5-4 and their starting
quarterback was a member of the practice squad two weeks ago.  “It’s all based on the replacement,” said Jay Kornegay,
executive director of the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. “If you
go from Rodgers to Wallace, we thought that was about an 8 1/2-point difference in the line.”  The dropoff from Rodgers to Tolzien, who went undrafted in
2011 after preceding Russell Wilson at the University of
 Wisconsin , changes the point spread by at least 10 points.  “We’re not taking anyone lightly,” said Giants safety
Antrel Rolle, adding that he hadn’t heard of Tolzien before last
week. “I think he runs their system pretty effectively.”  If the Broncos were forced to replace Manning -- a four-time NFL MVP -- with Brock Osweiler, it would result in about a
nine-point swing in the spread, Kornegay said.  Manning’s Ankle  The Broncos (8-1) are favored against the 9-0 Chiefs even
after Manning injured an ankle in a Week 10 win against the San
Diego Chargers that forced him to miss some practice time this
week. Manning said he’ll start against the Chiefs, though he may
not be fully healthy.  “I don’t know if it’s an age-bracket thing or what, but
I’ve made a lot of adjustments in these past two years,” the
37-year-old Manning told reporters this week. “It’s just a
point and time in my career.”  While the Broncos have the chance to take first place in
the American Football Conference West division, the Giants can
take another step toward the top of the National Football
Conference East, the only division lacking a team with a winning
record.  Since the current playoff format was instituted in 1990,
four teams have recovered to make the playoffs after 3-6 starts,
most recently the Washington Redskins in the NFC East a year
ago.  Without Rodgers at quarterback, the Giants’ odds -- for
both this week and the playoffs -- have gotten better.  “You’re getting the Green Bay Packers in name, but not in
substance without Rodgers,” Vaccaro said. “Coming from 0-6 to
now -- as crazy as it sounds -- having a chance to win the
division, there’s a little more kick in the pants for the
Giants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  