-- Ronaldo Gives Portugal World Cup Soccer Playoff Win Over Sweden
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-11-16T00:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/ronaldo-leads-portugal-past-sweden-in-world-cup-soccer-playoffs.html
Cristiano Ronaldo’s goal with eight
minutes remaining gave Portugal a 1-0 win over  Sweden  to open
their playoff for a berth in soccer’s 2014  World Cup .  Ronaldo’s header gave Portugal the lead going into the
second game in Solna, Sweden, on Nov. 19. Ukraine defeated 1998
champion France 2-0, Greece beat  Romania  3-1, and Iceland and
 Croatia  drew 0-0 in last night’s other European matches.  Romania, Croatia and France will also host their return
matches Nov. 19, with the winners of the home-and-away series
securing the final European places in the 32-team field in
Brazil. Twenty-one nations already have qualified, with the
remaining 11 spots decided by international playoffs.  The first of five World Cup places from Africa will be
filled today as Nigeria takes a 2-1 lead into its second game
with Ethiopia and Ivory Coast holds a 3-1 lead over Senegal.  Portugal  and Sweden produced very few chances at the
Estadio da Luz in Lisbon before Ronaldo dived to head Miguel Veloso’s cross past Andreas Isaksson. Ronaldo also hit the
crossbar with a header in the 87th minute.  Second-half goals from Roman Zozulya and Andriy Yarmolenko
gave Ukraine the win over France in Kiev. Zuzulya scored in the
61st minute and Yarmolenko clinched the victory with eight
minutes remaining on a penalty kick.  Both teams had players sent off in stoppage time. France’s
Laurent Koscielny was shown a red card for a tussle with
Ukraine’s Olexandr Kucher, who received his second yellow card
moments later.  Greece Wins  Kostas Mitroglou scored twice to lead  Greece  past Romania
in  Athens .  Mitroglou opened the scoring in the 14th minute and Bogdan
Stancu made it 1-1 five minutes later. Dimitris Salpingidis put
Greece back in front in the 21st minute and Mitroglou scored
again midway through the second half to make it 3-1.  Iceland, playing most of the second half with 10 men, kept
alive its bid to become the smallest nation to qualify for the
World Cup by hanging on to draw with Croatia in Reykjavik.
Olafur Skulason received a red card in the 50th minute after
taking down Ivan Perisic just outside the penalty area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  