-- Rupiah Leads Asian Currency Losses as Fed Tapering Seen in March
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-11-15T04:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/rupiah-leads-asian-currency-losses-as-fed-tapering-seen-in-march.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah led losses in
Asian currencies this week as signs of improvement in the U.S.
economy boosted bets the Federal Reserve will trim stimulus, a
policy that’s driven demand for emerging-market assets.  The rupiah fell for a third week as overseas investors
pulled a combined $1.4 billion from stocks in Indonesia, the
 Philippines , South Korea,  Taiwan  and  Thailand , exchange data
show. A deadly typhoon that hit the Philippines on Nov. 8
spurred the biggest five-day drop in the peso since August,
while political unrest in Thailand weighed on the baht. Reports
from the U.S. this month showed economic growth and employment
beat economists’ estimates.  “The U.S. economy seems to be recovering,” said  Tsutomu
Soma , manager of the fixed-income business unit at Rakuten
Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . “On the other hand, there was the
typhoon in the Philippines and political concern in Thailand,
which weighed on sentiment. All in all, the momentum is for a
stronger dollar and weaker regional currencies.”  Indonesia’s currency dropped 1.6 percent this week to
11,590 per dollar as of 11:23 a.m. in Jakarta and reached 11,675
on Nov. 13, the lowest level since Sept. 30, according to prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  India ’s rupee fell 1
percent to 63.12 per dollar, the peso weakened 0.9 percent to
43.585 and  Malaysia ’s ringgit slipped 0.6 percent to 3.1993.  Fed Stimulus  Janet Yellen, the nominee for chairman of the Federal
Reserve to replace Ben S. Bernanke when his term expires,
stressed this week that the U.S. economy still needs the
stimulus program to ensure a sustainable recovery. The Fed will
delay any cut to its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases until
March, according to the median estimate of 32 economists in a
Bloomberg survey conducted Nov. 8.  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly picked up in October, while
American employers added 204,000 to payrolls, a figure that
topped the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists and followed a 163,000 increase in September, reports
showed. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index  dropped  0.3 percent this
week, its first five-day loss since Oct. 25.  “Asian currencies are reacting to the payrolls data,”
said Sean Yokota, head of Asia strategy at Skandinaviska
Enskilda Banken AB in  Singapore . “Yellen tapered the tapering
fears.”  Elsewhere in Asia, the Thai baht lost 0.5 percent this week
to 31.62 against the greenback, South Korea’s won retreated 0.3
percent to 1,067.55 and Taiwan’s dollar dropped 0.2 percent to
NT$29.573.  China ’s  yuan  was little changed at 6.0902 and
 Vietnam ’s dong was steady at 21,105.  Thai Unrest  The rupiah recovered some losses this week after central
bank data showed the current-account deficit narrowed to 3.8
percent of gross domestic product last quarter, from a record
4.4 percent in the period through June. Bank Indonesia raised
its  reference rate  by 25 basis points to 7.5 percent on Nov. 12,
an unexpected move that lifted the benchmark to the highest
level in more than four years.  The baht reached a two-month low of 31.705 per dollar on
Nov. 11 as overseas investors cut holdings of the nation’s
assets on concern political protests against a government
amnesty bill will slow economic growth. Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra has struggled to contain the unrest as people rallied
in opposition to legislation that would provide amnesty for
political offenses in the years after a 2006 coup, including her
brother Thaksin, the country’s former leader.  “The protests have lasted quite some time already and that
encouraged fund outflows, weighing on the baht and Thai
assets,” said Soma of Rakuten Securities. “We’ve seen a
recovery in the U.S., and it’s better to put money there rather
than in a country which has political risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  