-- Sally Lloyd, Early Female Trader With Smith Barney, Dies at 64
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-11-15T18:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/sally-lloyd-early-female-trader-with-smith-barney-dies-at-64.html
Sally Lloyd, an early woman on Wall
Street who worked as an equity sales trader and rose to managing
director at  Smith Barney , has died. She was 64.  She died on Nov. 11, according to a death notice in the  New
York  Times. The cause was cancer. She lived in  New York City ,
Bridgehampton, New York, and Vero Beach,  Florida .  The daughter and granddaughter of banking executives, Lloyd
pursued a Wall Street career of her own after an upbringing that
included being presented at the 1966 Debutante Cotillion in
Morristown,  New Jersey .  As a secretary in Smith Barney’s institutional sales
research department, she applied for a job on the sales-trading
desk in the early 1970s, a time when “there were minimal ladies
in that end of the business,” recalled Jacques Theriot, who ran
equity sales trading at the time and chose Lloyd from the pool
of 10 to 12 young applicants.  “She developed into a first-rate sales trader handling
responsibility of execution for a variety of small and major
investing accounts,” Theriot said today in an interview from
his home in  South Carolina .  He said Lloyd was the primary trader for the state of
Florida’s account, backup for Citicorp’s account, and shared
responsibility with him for T. Rowe Price Group Inc. They sat
next to each other on the sales desk.  Theriot estimated that Lloyd became one of about 25 female
managing directors at Smith Barney, out of about 250 people with
that title.  ‘Man’s Business’  “She was really one of the best operatives and sales
traders, in my opinion, one of the better on the street,
certainly at Smith Barney,” he said. “She got to a senior
level of responsibility and account coverage, and was great with
young gals coming in to what had certainly been a man’s
business.”  Smith Barney was long one of  Wall Street ’s leading
brokerage houses, known among other things for its television
advertisements featuring actor John Houseman intoning the
slogan, “They make money the old-fashioned way. They earn it.”
It became part of Travelers Group Inc., then  Citigroup (C)  Inc. and
is now part of  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Sally Baker Hill was one of four children of Serge Jerome
Hill and the former Priscilla Baker.  Her father was an executive and then a consultant at First
National City Bank, which became Citibank, a predecessor of
Citigroup. Her maternal grandfather, John Stewart Baker, was
president and chairman of the executive committee of Chase
Manhattan Bank, now part of JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to
her 1976 wedding  announcement  in the Times.  Lloyd graduated from Miss Porter’s School in Farmington,
 Connecticut , and from Bennett College.  She joined Smith Barney in 1968, became managing director
in 1986 and retired in 1994, according to the death  notice .  Survivors include her husband of 37 years, Charles Ewing
Green Lloyd Jr.; three children, Jennifer Lloyd Dance, Ewing
McAllister Lloyd and Stewart Lathrop Lloyd; two brothers, Serge
Jerome Hill Jr. and Robert Foote Hill; and a sister, Priscilla
Hill Alexandre, according to the death notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  