-- Scene Last Night: Wintour’s Book Leads Guide to Goings-On
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-11-15T16:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/scene-last-night-wintour-s-book-leads-guide-to-goings-on.html
You hear a lot going to parties
every night. Here are a few things I can actually repeat:  What fashionistas are reading: “Double Down,” said Anna Wintour at the CFDA/Vogue Fashion Fund dinner. “So far it’s
gripping.” Wintour chose the account of the 2012 presidential
election because “I was involved in the campaign and it sounded
like a must-read.”  CFDA President Stephen Kolb said he’s reading “The Zombie
Survival Guide” by Max Brooks. Designer Vera Wang: a book “so
out of my comfort zone,” by Arthur Bahr, a professor at MIT,
titled “Fragments and Assemblages: Forming Compilations of
Medieval  London .” Designer Irene Neuwirth: “The Interestings”
by Meg Wolitzer, which reminds her of “St. Elmo’s Fire.”  What preservationists are singing: Gossip columnist Liz
Smith did “Willkommen” from “Cabaret” before Joel Grey sang
it himself, leaving Peter Duchin dumbstruck at the piano. The
New York Landmarks Conservancy gala at the Plaza also offered
sing-alongs to “Happy Days Are Here Again,” in honor of
President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the folks who built the FDR
Four Freedoms Park in his honor, and the “I Love New York”
theme composed by Steve Karmen in 1977 to revitalize the city.  Whither people are escaping: Hedge-fund manager Mark Kingdon and his wife, private-equity adviser Anla Cheng, are
headed to Miami over Thanksgiving, and to  Morocco  for Christmas,
he said at the Museum of Chinese in America gala.  What financiers are reading: “Rocketman: Astronaut Pete
Conrad’s Incredible Ride to the Moon and Beyond,” said Blair Effron of Centerview Partners LLC at the New Visions for Public
Schools benefit.  Alex Navab at the Wilson Center for International Scholars
benefit said, “The Alchemists -- not the one everyone knows,
the one about the three central bankers, Bernanke, Trichet and
Mervyn King.”  How spouses are rhapsodizing: Writer Chris Henchy said his
wife, Brooke Shields, was “not born, but erected, in 1965” in
his tribute to her as a “Living Landmark” at the Landmarks
Conservancy gala.  He added: “I will always ask for permission before
touching her facade.” The couple worked with the conservancy to
renovate their 1864 brownstone in the city.  How ensembles are fashioned: Robert Grossman, chief
executive officer of the NYU Langone Medical Center, wore a Tom Ford tie in the university’s purple to the NYU Langone
Musculoskeletal Ball, and said he’d buy one for the center’s
chairman, Ken Langone, who showed up in a yellow tie.  Jewelry and handbag designer  Kara Ross , for the party
opening her Upper East Side boutique, wore Elizabeth and James
to greet Cindy Weber Cleary, fashion director of InStyle
magazine, which regularly features her designs.  What drinks are stirring: Bronson van Wyck put a spicy
Margarita served in a short and skinny glass into my hands at
the party for his pop-up store with interior designer Celerie
Kemble, the Holiday Workshop. The drink is made with Arrowhead
Farms Spitfire Margarita Mix, available at the store along with
beautiful ornaments made in  Poland ,  Austria  and  Belgium . Van
Wyck will decorate your tree for $17,500 and up, with a portion
of proceeds going to the  East Harlem School .  What Bergdorf Goodman is hiding: Curtains are meant to keep
under wraps the making of the store’s famous holiday windows,
but last night one was exposed for about five minutes as window
designer David Hoey stood outside, directing two people inside.  A large piece of quartz was placed at the front of the
window and several fake pastries and cakes were rotated or moved
around. Then an icicle hanging from a wall of pink flowers was
adjusted in what looks to be a sweet-tooth’s fantasy. The
windows go public on Nov. 19.  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina and  Philip Boroff  on
U.S. art auctions and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  