-- Schaeuble Says Germany Won’t Face Sanctions on Trade Surplus
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-11-15T19:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/schaeuble-says-germany-won-t-face-sanctions-on-trade-surplus.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said  Europe ’s biggest economy doesn’t face sanctions
for exceeding European  trade surplus  limits and underlined his
determination to balance the  federal budget  from 2015.  Germany’s current-account surplus has exceeded the bloc’s 6
percent threshold every year since 2007 and may put upward
pressure on the euro, possibly hampering the recovery of
struggling euro-area nations, according to the European
Commission.  “The in-depth review will show that all is quite well
because we have a surplus and it was said back then when the
regulation was decided that surpluses are naturally very
different from deficits,” Schaeuble told reporters after a two-day meeting of EU finance ministers in Brussels. “We don’t face
sanctions because of surpluses, that’s clearly agreed.”  Germany is among a group of 16 countries facing in-depth
probes into their economic imbalances, the EU said. France,
Spain and Italy, which are battling to narrow budget deficits,
will face a second year of review after the commission warned
them last April to adjust their economic policies.  The commission called on Germany and other countries with
trade surpluses, such as  the Netherlands, to boost investment
and possibly reduce savings rates. The  U.S. Treasury   blamed 
German surpluses for draining European and global growth while
the  International Monetary Fund  reprimanded Germany for its
imbalances, urging Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to curtail the trade
surplus to an “appropriate rate.”  Germany’s acting government is sticking to its goal of
balancing the federal budget in so-called structural terms --
adjusted for one-time factors and economic swings -- and
eliminating the shortfall altogether from 2015.  No Progress  While the German budget meets EU debt and deficit rules,
Merkel’s government has made “no progress” in addressing the
structural part of fiscal recommendations the EU issued earlier
this year, the commission said today in a statement.  “As soon as a new federal government takes office,
national authorities are encouraged to submit an updated draft
budgetary plan.”  “The fact that we couldn’t implement much of the
commission’s recommendations has to do with the fact that the
legislative period had come to a end then because we had
elections in  Germany ,” Schaeuble said. “The remark that we
haven’t changed much since June is correct, but it can be
explained with a reference to the German calendar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  