-- Shale Revolution Spreads With Record Wells Outside U.S.: Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-11-15T14:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/shale-revolution-spreads-with-record-wells-outside-u-s-energy.html
The hydraulic fracturing of shale in
search of oil and gas has hardly started outside the U.S., but
that’s changing.  A record 400 shale wells may be drilled beyond U.S. borders
in 2014, with most in China and  Russia , according to energy
consultants Wood Mackenzie Ltd. While that’s a fraction of the
thousands of shale wells drilled in the U.S., the number of rigs
used onshore in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region has increased
10 percent over the past year, data compiled by oil services
company Baker Hughes Inc. show. Most of those rigs are meant for
shale, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Nov. 18 issue.  “It’s likely there will be a revolution,” Maria van der Hoeven, executive director at the Paris-based International
Energy Agency, said in an interview in London. “But not
everywhere at the same time. And you just can’t copy the U.S.
experience.”  Fracking in the U.K. will start next year, after the
government lifted an 18-month moratorium imposed when a drilling
company found it had accidentally caused earthquakes. Two
utilities --  Centrica Plc (CNA)  of Britain and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA of France -
- have bought stakes in the country’s drilling licenses to help
bankroll the drillers and win a cut of any profit.  “History repeats itself, yes, but nothing is ever the
same,” said  Christof Ruehl , chief economist at  BP Plc (BP/)  in
London. “There’s going to be developments outside the U.S. and
North America which will be big and important, no doubt. But it
will take some time.”  Shale Boom  The shale boom has moved the U.S. closer to energy
independence, added jobs, helped revive manufacturing, and
lowered gas bills. Yet the conditions that fostered the U.S.’s
success don’t exist in Europe and Asia. In some countries
landowners don’t own the oil and gas in the ground: the state
retains all mineral rights. Or a country may levy much heavier
taxes than the U.S. on oil and gas profits.  Once they start fracking, though, countries such as  China ,
Argentina, and Russia could experience new oil and gas booms.  China has the largest shale gas reserves, estimated at
1,115 trillion cubic feet, followed by Argentina at 802 trillion
cubic feet. In shale oil, Russia tops the list with about 75
billion barrels, according to a report by the U.S. Energy
Information Administration. Australia, Poland, and Algeria all
have big potential.  Argentina may be the first to capitalize on its shale
resources with production expected as early as 2015, according
to research by BCG, the Boston Consulting Group.  Oil Players  Fracking outside the U.S. is likely to be good for the big
oil players.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  teamed up with China National
Petroleum Corp. this year to explore in Sichuan, the province
that accounts for 40 percent of China’s shale reserves.  Hess
Corp. (HES)  is exploring with CNPC in the western Xinjiang region. YPF
SA, the Argentine oil company, has joined with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  to tap deposits in the south American country’s
vast Vaca Muerta formation.  “Within three to five years, there should be exponential
growth in drilling as there was in the U.S.,”  Edward Morse ,
head of commodities research at Citigroup Inc., said in an
interview. “The big problem isn’t replicating the geology, it’s
replicating the critical ingredients that got the American shale
revolution going.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  