-- Slovenian Premier Survives Budget Vote as EU Backs Spending Plan
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-11-15T11:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/slovenian-premier-survives-budget-vote-as-eu-backs-spending-plan.html
Slovenian Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek survived a confidence vote tied to a 2014 budget that
the European Union said is on track to deliver targets aimed at
averting the bailout.  Lawmakers in the capital, Ljubljana, voted 50-31 today to
endorse the government’s spending plan for 2014 and 2015.
Slovenia has taken ‘effective’’ action on its fiscal deficit
this year and needs to “rigorously” implement the 2014 plan,
the European Commission, the EU’s executive,  said  today in its
first-ever evaluation of national budgets.  Slovenia, a euro-region member since 2007, is seeking to
avoid resorting to a bailout to prop up its banking industry
that has 8 billion euros ($10.8 billion) of bad loans, or more
than a fifth of economic output. The country has delayed a bank
rescue plan, which Fitch Ratings estimates will cost almost four
times as much as the government has set aside.  “I have promised to do everything to solve our problems by
ourselves,” Bratusek said in a statement on the government’s
website today after the vote. Bratusek said she was “very
optimistic” on the assessment of the draft budget and the
measures to correct the excessive deficit from the commission
before its report.  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 declined 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage point from
yesterday to 6.086 percent at 10:07 a.m. in Ljubljana, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yesterday, the yield dropped the
most in five months, data showed.  Bank Fix  Slovenia has set aside 1.2 billion euros for the bank
rescue, while Fitch estimates the cost will be 4.6 billion
euros. The government delayed a capital injection and the
planned shift of failing loans to a bad bank after the EU
demanded and external audit of the lenders.  The original plan to start swapping bad loans in exchange
for government-guaranteed bonds was set for June. The transfers
will start after the results of an asset quality review and bank
stress test are published next month.  The budget plan for both years “appears broadly
plausible” while risks to  growth  and domestic demand in
particular “are related to the financing conditions for the
overall economy, which in turn hinge upon the speed of the
ongoing deleveraging process and the implementation of the
needed bold structural reforms,” the commission said in its
report today.  Bratusek’s government plans to narrow the budget shortfall
to 2.9 percent of gross domestic product next year, according to
the statement on its website. Finance Minister Uros Cufer has
said the gap will be 3.3 percent in 2014 as measured by EU
standards, excluding the bank rescue cost.  Including the cost of the bank rescue, the deficit will
widen to 7.1 percent of gross domestic product next year from an
estimated 5.8 percent in 2013 and 3.8 percent at the end of last
year, the commission said Nov. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  