-- Slovenia Sells 1.5 Billion Euros in Bonds Before Bank Fix
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-11-15T15:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/slovenia-sells-1-5-billion-euros-in-bonds-before-bank-fix.html
Slovenia sold 1.5 billion euros ($2
billion) of bonds in a private placement, skirting scrutiny on
the open market before stress tests reveal how much it must pay
to bail out the mostly state-owned banking system.  The Adriatic euro member sold the three-year notes at 465
basis points, or 4.65 percentage points, above similar maturity
German bunds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lead
manager was  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Slovenia decided to do it privately “because it could be
conducted more quickly and efficiently, and without the need to
explain the as-yet unexplainable, such as the cost of fixing the
banking system,”  Richard Segal , head of international credit
strategy at Jefferies Group Inc. in London, said in an e-mail
today. “If in a public deal they could not borrow for longer
than three years, that could have been a bad sign.”  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s government pushed through
a 2014-2015 budget today. It’s struggling to reassure investors
who are demanding more in return for credit after two recessions
in four years drove bad debt in state-run banks to an amount
equal to more than a fifth of annual economic output.  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 declined 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, from
yesterday to 5.91 percent at 4:28 p.m. in Ljubljana, the lowest
level on a closing basis since May 30, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. spokeswoman Elizabeth Seymour declined
to comment on the deal. The  Finance Ministry  in Ljubljana
confirmed the details of the transaction in an e-mailed
statement today.  Test Results  The cabinet is awaiting the results of asset quality and
stress tests due next month.  Fitch Ratings  says fixing the banks
will cost 4.6 billion euros, almost four times the 1.2 billion
euros the government has set aside. Biggest lender Nova
Ljubljanska Banka said two days ago it alone will transfer 2
billion euros to a bad bank starting next month.  Today’s deal “is a definite positive, though they clearly
had to pay up to get it away,” Peter Attard Montalto, an
economist at Nomura Plc in London, said in an e-mail. “It tides
them over in the fourth quarter, though clearly that depends on
how big the recap need is. Unfortunately it probably lessens the
urgency for structural reforms, privatizations and the budget
implementation.”  If results show the amount earmarked for bank aid isn’t
enough, Slovenia has to decide whether to get additional funding
on the  capital market  or ask the EU for help, central bank
Governor Bostjan Jazbec said today, according to the Austrian
Press Agency.  On Track  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm in
Brussels, said today Slovenia is on track to deliver targets
aimed at avoiding a bailout. The country has taken “effective”
action on its fiscal deficit this year and needs
to“rigorously” implement the 2014 plan, the commission said in
its first-ever evaluation of national budgets.  Slovenia’s next big debt obligation is a 1.5 billion euro
bond that will mature on April 2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It last sold a combined $3.5 billion of debt on the
U.S. market in May, its first offering this year. The government
sold $2.5 billion of 10-year dollar notes to yield 6 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It also issued $1
billion in five-year bonds to yield 4.95 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in  London  at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  