-- South Africa Under Fire for Revisions to Trade Data
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-11-15T12:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/south-africa-under-fire-for-revisions-to-trade-data.html
South Africa ’s tax office is under
fire from analysts from Citigroup Inc. to ETM Analytics after
making unexpected data revisions that resulted in a halving of
the  trade deficit  this year.  The South African Revenue Service said yesterday it’s
adjusting trade numbers from 2010 to include exports and imports
from four neighboring countries that share a customs union with
South Africa. The shortfall in the first nine months of the year
was lowered to 64.5 billion rand ($6.3 billion) from 126.4
billion rand.  Investors have dumped South African assets this year,
sending the rand down 17 percent against the dollar, as the
government battles to contain twin deficits on its trade and
fiscal balances. The rand is listed by New York-based  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  as one of the “fragile five” currencies along with
those from  India ,  Indonesia ,  Turkey  and  Brazil  because of their
reliance on foreign capital inflows.  “The timing is a bit suspect,” Jana le Roux, an economist
at ETM Analytics in Johannesburg, said by phone. “The finance
minister has been talking down the notion that South Africa is
part of the fragile five countries and with these more favorable
trade numbers, they might say South Africa is not as fragile as
the markets generally perceive it to be.”  Adrian Lackay, a spokesman for the Pretoria-based tax
agency, said by phone today that “there is no other motive or
purpose other than a statistical data one.” The changes were
made to improve the accuracy of the figures, he said.  Rand Gains  The revisions, which were announced in an e-mailed
statement after 7 p.m. local time yesterday, caused the rand to
gain 1 percent against the dollar to a two-week high of 10.1776.
The currency fell 0.3 percent to 10.2193 as of 12:11 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  “Maybe the politicians are trying to make South Africa
look a bit better than it actually is,” Christie Viljoen, an
economist at NKC Independent Economists, said by phone from
Paarl, outside  Cape Town . “More complete data is always
welcome, but the motives behind this and the process is not
quite the standard we expect from SARS.”  The revisions come less than a month after Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  announced changes to the reporting of government
fiscal data, which cut the  budget deficit  for the year through
March 2013 to 4.2 percent of gross domestic product from a
previously published figure of 5.1 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  said on its website yesterday that
revisions to its current-account data will be less significant
than those made by the revenue agency as it already includes
estimates for trade with Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia and
Swaziland. The  current account  has had a deficit for more than a
decade, with the National Treasury estimating a shortfall of 6.5
percent of gross domestic product this year.  Avoiding Volatility  The deficit of 6.5 percent of GDP recorded in the second
quarter may be closer to 5.3 percent after the revisions,
Michael Kafe, an economist at Morgan Stanley in Johannesburg,
said in an e-mailed note to clients yesterday. The central bank
is due to publish the data in its Quarterly Bulletin on Dec. 3.  The large revisions to the trade data should have
necessitated better communication from the revenue agency, said
Gina Schoeman, an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg.
While the agency may have wanted to avoid volatility in the rand
by publishing the data in after-hours trading on local financial
markets, there is still uncertainty over how the adjustments
will affect other economic data, she said.  “Everyone is scurrying around to make sure that their
calculations are correct and what the impact might be on the
current account in the Quarterly Bulletin, and all that means is
that the currency will remain volatile,” Schoeman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  