-- Steag Starts Coal-Fired Power Plant in Germany
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-11-15T15:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/steag-starts-germany-s-first-coal-fired-power-plant-in-8-years.html
Steag GmbH started  Germany ’s first
new power plant fueled by hard coal in eight years, allowing the
generator and energy trader to take advantage of near record-low
coal prices that have widened profit margins.  The 725-megawatt Walsum-10 plant, located near Dortmund in
the western part of the country, began electricity output today,
the Essen-based company said in an e-mailed statement. It will
probably start commercial operations later in the year after
“optimization works and testing,” it said.  The plant is the first new hard-coal-fired generator in
 Europe ’s biggest power market since 2005. It marks the start of
Germany’s biggest new-build program for hard coal stations since
its liberalization in 1998. Ten new hard-coal power stations, or
7,985 megawatts, are scheduled to start producing electricity in
the next two years, according to information from German grid
regulator Bundesnetzagentur and operators.  “Coal prices recently fell to their lowest price for over
four years in October and carbon prices are half what they were
two years ago, making coal-burn extremely attractive to
generators in terms of profitability,” Gary Hornby, energy
markets analyst at Inenco Group Ltd., said by e-mail today.  The price for coal used in thermal plants for delivery to
Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Antwerp next year, dropped to a record
low of $80.25 a metric ton on Oct. 14, according to broker data
compiled by Bloomberg. The contract traded at $81.60 at 2:51
p.m. London time, broker data show.  Widest Gap  Generating electricity by burning coal currently makes a
profit of 9.16 euros a megawatt hour, compared with a loss of
19.31 euros a megawatt hour from gas, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg based on next-year German power prices. This is the
widest gap between the two fuels for at least four years,
 according to data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Gas power plants coming off line must be replaced with
baseload generation, coal seems the logical solution,” said
Hornby.  The 10 new units will boost German hard coal generation
capacity by 33 percent to 32,432 megawatts from 24,447 megawatts
as of Oct. 16, regulator data show.  Walsum-10 will probably operate 5,000 to 6,000 hours per
year, Juergen Froehlich, a Steag spokesman, said Oct. 30 by e-mail.  Steag has sold 57 percent of the plant’s output to EVN AG,
a utility based in Vienna, while EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg
AG is buying 35 percent under a long-term contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  