-- Syria Chemical Arms to Be Removed by February
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-11-15T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/syria-chemical-arms-to-be-removed-by-february.html
Syria ’s chemical weapons arsenal
will be removed from the country by February under a plan
approved today by United Nations-authorized inspectors.  The “most critical” chemicals will be taken out of Syria
by the end of this year, and all others except isopropanol by
Feb. 5, the   Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical
Weapons , based in The Hague, said on its website. “Sequenced
destruction” will start on Dec. 15, “priority weapons” will
be destroyed by the end of March and the whole arsenal by the
end of June, it said.  The OPCW didn’t say where the weapons will be destroyed.
Earlier today, the government of Albania delivered a setback to
the plan, rejecting a U.S. request to host facilities for the
operation.  Syria agreed to surrender its weapons of mass destruction
following a Russian-U.S. pact in September that was subsequently
endorsed by the United Nations  Security Council . That
forestalled President  Barack Obama ’s plan to use armed force to
punish Assad’s government for its alleged use of sarin gas near
Damascus in August. Syrian opposition groups, who have been
fighting to unseat Assad for 2 1/2 years, say the attack killed
more than 1,400 people.  The OPCW said its inspectors have already been able to
verify the destruction of more than 60 percent of Syria’s
declared unfilled munitions.  The chemicals will have to be removed from a war zone,
something the inspectors have not tried before. In addition, no
country has publicly agreed to take the materials for
destruction.  Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama today refused to allow the
destruction of the weapons in his country following days of
protests in the capital, Tirana, the  BBC  reported. France and
 Belgium  have been named as possible locations, it said.  Norway  this week agreed to provide a merchant ship and an
escorting warship to transport the material, the Foreign
Ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  