-- U.K. Alzheimer’s Charity to Fund Drug Discovery Institute
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-11-15T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/u-k-alzheimer-s-charity-to-fund-drug-discovery-institute.html
Alzheimer’s Research U.K., the
country’s leading dementia research charity, will fund a new
drug discovery institute to address a gap in treatments it says
the pharmaceutical industry has failed to fill.  The charity will ask universities in the U.K. to apply to
host the institute, which will aim to develop new treatments for
Alzheimer’s, it said in a statement today.  Alzheimer’s Research
U.K.  will fund the institute with a 2 million-pound ($3.2
million) grant per year for at least five years, spokeswoman
Kirsty Marais said by phone.  The pharmaceutical industry has so far failed to
successfully develop remedies to slow or treat the disease
itself, with current medicines only targeting symptoms. That
difficulty has spurred drugmakers to collaborate with academic
institutions such as the University of Oxford, which has
identified Alzheimer’s as a priority for its Target Discovery
Institute, inaugurated earlier this year.  “This innovative idea will bring together the best of both
academic and industry expertise to drug discovery, an approach
which has already shown benefits in tackling cancer,” said
Alison Goate, a professor of genetics in psychiatry at
 Washington University  in  St. Louis . “Now is the ideal time for
a similar approach to be made in neurogenerative diseases.”  At least 35.6 million people have  dementia , and the numbers
are projected to almost double every 20 years, according to the
 World Health Organization . Dementia care costs about $600
billion a year worldwide and may rise to $1.1 trillion by 2030,
according to  Alzheimer’s Disease International .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  