-- Pound Rises as Weale Says Economic Recovery Faster Than Forecast
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-11-15T16:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/u-k-pound-heads-for-weekly-advance-after-boe-inflation-report.html
The pound strengthened, extending a
second weekly advance against the dollar, after Bank of England
policy maker Martin Weale said the U.K. economy may recover
faster than officials predict.  Sterling rose to a two-week high versus the greenback as
investors awaited the publication of the Bank of England’s
minutes of its November meeting next week after signaling
interest rates may increase sooner than it previously forecast.
The U.K. currency climbed to a four-year high against the yen
for a second day after Governor Mark Carney said two days ago
that Britain has “one of the strongest recoveries in the
advanced world.” U.K. government bonds were little changed.  “We have seen such a strong move in the pound this week,”
said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “The strength is justified by the improvement
in the economic performance and I think over the medium term, it
can continue.”  The pound climbed 0.3 percent to $1.6106 at 4:29 p.m.
London time after reaching $1.6135, the highest level since Oct.
29. It has increased 0.6 percent this week. Sterling climbed 0.1
percent to 83.69 pence per euro. The U.K. currency advanced 0.5
percent to 161.49 yen after reaching 161.65, the strongest since
August 2009.  “To the extent that there is a return to normality, it
would not be surprising if the economy grew faster than we have
forecast,” Weale said in  London . Headwinds to the economy have
eased and problems in the euro area “have seemed more
manageable,” while confidence among Britons has improved, he
said.  Rate Threshold  The central bank said in its quarterly Inflation Report
released on Nov. 13 the  jobless rate  is more likely than not to
fall to the 7 percent threshold that will lead it to consider
raising borrowing costs in the third quarter of 2015. Policy
makers previously predicted that would only happen in the second
quarter of 2016. The unemployment rate fell to 7.6 percent in
the third quarter, the lowest since 2009.  “The U.K. quarterly Inflation Report essentially confirmed
that the Bank of England now expects unemployment to fall faster
as the economic recovery continues,” Neil Staines, London-based
head of trading at ECU Group Plc, a currency manager that
oversees almost $1 billion, wrote in a note to clients. “In an
environment of low inflation, rising growth and rising
employment, U.K. assets should remain attractive.”  BOE Minutes  The Bank of England will publish the minutes of its Nov. 7
policy meeting on Nov. 20. At that gathering, the central bank
kept its key rate at a record-low 0.5 percent and maintained its
asset-purchase  target  at 375 billion pounds.  The minutes are “likely to highlight the favorable
economic backdrop,” said  Jonathan Loynes , chief European
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “They might shed
a bit more light on any differences of views between committee
members.”  The pound strengthened 5.5 percent in the past six months,
the best performer of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 4.3
percent, while the dollar dropped 0.8 percent.  Bank of England policy maker David Miles said interest
rates should only be increased when other tools have been
exhausted.  Speaking at a conference hosted by the Federal Reserve Bank
of  Dallas  yesterday, Miles said the problem with using monetary
policy to stabilize the housing market would be “acute” if the
property market was overheating while the wider economy wasn’t
and inflation was low.  ‘Blunt Instrument’  “Variations in interest rates that central banks can
control are rather a blunt instrument,” he said. “Indeed the
impact on assets other than houses, and the effects on borrowing
and spending unrelated to housing, may well be far greater than
the impact on housing.”  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield was at 2.75 percent,
having declined two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, this
week. The price of the 2.25 percent bond maturing in September
2023 was 95.755.  The Debt Management Office plans to sell 3.75 billion
pounds of 10-year gilts on Nov. 19 and 4.75 billion pounds of
securities due in 2019 on Nov. 21.  Gilts lost 3 percent this year through yesterday, according
to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds dropped 1.1
percent and U.S. Treasuries declined 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  