-- U.K. Stocks Rise Second Day Before U.S. Industry Report
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-11-15T11:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/u-k-stocks-rise-second-day-before-u-s-industry-report.html
U.K. stocks  advanced for a second
day, trimming a weekly loss, as investors awaited a report on
U.S. industrial production.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  rose at least 1
percent each, tracking gains in European oil-and-gas stocks.
Talvivaara Mining Co. tumbled 42 percent as the nickel miner
said it will apply for corporate reorganization and file for
bankruptcy if that fails.  The FTSE 100 Index gained 28.76 points, or 0.4 percent, to
6,694.89 at 10:57 a.m. in London. The benchmark has slipped 0.2
percent this week as the  Bank of England  said unemployment may
reach its threshold to consider interest-rate increases sooner
than forecast. The broader  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  also added 0.4
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index was little changed.  “Stocks are being helped by the direction of the global
economy and by the resilience of policy makers,” said John Haynes, head of research at Investec Wealth & Investment in
 London . “There’s no way policy makers will taper stimulus
measures too fast. If they do so, it will be because of a strong
recovery. The U.K. and the U.S. have led the recovery, so they
may lag the next phase of market appreciation.”  In the U.S., a Federal Reserve report at 9:15 a.m. in
Washington may show industrial production grew at a slower pace
in October amid a partial government shutdown that lasted 16
days. Another release at 8:30 a.m. local time may show
 manufacturing  in the  New York  region expanded at a faster pace
in November from a month earlier.  BG, Tullow  Shell, Europe’s biggest oil company, gained 1.6 percent to
2,084.5 pence. Tullow Oil, the U.K. driller focused on  Africa 
and  Latin America , advanced 1.2 percent to 896 pence. Oil and
gas stocks were among the  best-performing industry groups  in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, the regional benchmark.  Capital & Counties Properties Plc (CAPC)  gained 1.7 percent to
329.7 pence after obtaining formal planning consent for the
redevelopment of the Earls Court Exhibition Centre in London.  Talvivaara plummeted 42 percent to 3.55 pence, its biggest
drop and lowest price since its London listing in 2007. The
Finnish company and its subsidiary Talvivaara Sotkamo Ltd. will
each apply for corporate reorganization after failing to secure
funds for a voluntary restructuring, according to a statement.
Talvivaara said it will file for bankruptcy if the new plan also
fails.  Talvivaara withdrew its 2013 output forecast in July and
posted a bigger-than-estimated third-quarter loss as nickel
prices dropped and the company struggled to ramp up production
because of excess water in its open-pit mine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  