-- U.S. Stocks Rally for 6th Week as Yellen Fuels Fed Bets
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-11-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/u-s-stocks-rally-for-6th-week-as-yellen-fuels-fed-bets.html
U.S.  stocks  rose for the sixth
straight week, sending benchmark indexes to all-time highs,
after Janet Yellen signaled she will continue Federal Reserve
stimulus efforts as the central bank’s chairman.  Macy’s Inc. jumped 11 percent for the week, leading a rally
among retailers, as better-than-estimated earnings boosted
optimism about the holiday shopping season. PulteGroup Inc. and
D.R. Horton Inc. climbed more than 7.4 percent as homebuilders
advanced. Exxon Mobil Corp. gained 2.7 percent as  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. disclosed a stake. Cisco
Systems Inc. tumbled 8.4 percent after forecasting its first
quarterly sales decline in four years.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.6 percent to
1,798.18 over the five days, extending the index’s longest
weekly advance since February. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
added 199.92 points, or 1.3 percent, to 15,961.70. Both gauges
reached records on each of the last three days of the week.  “Janet Yellen induced euphoria for the market,” Kristina Hooper, a U.S. investment strategist at Allianz Global Investors
in New York, said in a phone interview. The firm oversees $436
billion. “We certainly have seen more excitement about the
stock market than we’ve seen in a long time.”  Equities rallied as Yellen, nominated to be the next
chairman of the Fed, said the economy and labor market are
performing “far short of their potential” and must improve
before the central bank can begin reducing monetary stimulus.  Yellen Commitment  The remarks show Yellen is committed to the Fed’s strategy
of attempting to boost the economy and lower 7.3 percent
unemployment, more than four years after the U.S. began to
recover from the longest and deepest recession since the Great
Depression.  Economic data during the five days showed more Americans
than forecast filed applications for unemployment benefits
during the week ended Nov. 9, while factory production picked up
in October. A separate report showed manufacturing in the New
York area unexpectedly contracted this month.  Fed policy makers will probably scale back the pace of $85
billion in monthly bond buying at their March 18-19 meeting,
according to the median of 32 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists on Nov. 8. Fed Bank of Atlanta President Dennis
Lockhart said reducing bond purchases “ought to be on the table
at upcoming meetings” by the Federal Open Market Committee,
scheduled Dec. 17-18.  Central bank support has helped propel the S&P 500 higher
by 166 percent from its March 2009 low. The gauge has rallied 26
percent so far in 2013, heading for its best year in a decade,
and is  trading  at 16.3 times projected earnings, above the five-year average of 14 times profit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Maximum Cash  Bargains are hard to find nowadays, according to Sandy Villere III, a New Orleans-based fund manager at Villere & Co.
The firm’s $1.1 billion Villere Balanced Fund, which beat 99
percent of its peers over the past five years, is holding a
maximum 15 percent in cash, he said.  “We’re finding many companies that are now getting a
little bit over-extended, so we’re selling,” Villere said in an
interview. His firm oversees $2.8 billion. “We can’t find good
opportunities to buy.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
measures future market swings implied by S&P 500 options,
slipped 5.5 percent for the week to 12.19, a three-month low.
The gauge has retreated 32 percent this year.  Consumer-discretionary companies had the largest advance
among groups in the S&P 500, climbing 2.5 percent, as all 10
industries increased. Health-care and consumer-staples shares
added more than 1.6 percent. Utilities and telephone stocks had
the worst performance, each with a 0.8 percent gain.  Holiday Demand  Macy’s jumped 11 percent to a record $51.09. The second-largest U.S. department-store company posted fiscal third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as better local
selections boosted sales, signaling stronger demand headed into
the holidays.  Of the 463 S&P 500 companies that have announced earnings
so far, 75 percent  topped  analysts’ income forecasts while 54
percent beat revenue estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Profits for the gauge increased 4.9 percent in the third quarter
and will gain 5.8 percent in the final three months of the year,
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  J.C. Penney (JCP)  Co. surged 9.7 percent to $9.03. Jana Partners
LLC, the $7 billion hedge-fund firm run by  Barry Rosenstein ,
took a stake in the struggling retailer last quarter, according
to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Gilford
Securities analyst Bernard Sosnick said J.C. Penney likely
achieved sales goals and “perhaps more” for Veterans Day
weekend.  Homebuilders Rally  An S&P index of  homebuilders  rose 5 percent as all 11
members advanced. D.R. Horton rallied 8 percent to $19.59. The
largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue reported a higher quarterly
profit as it increased prices amid a nationwide housing
recovery. PulteGroup rose 7.4 percent to $18.10.  Exxon, the world’s biggest oil company by market value,
advanced 2.7 percent to $95.27. Berkshire Hathaway reported a
stake valued at about $3.7 billion as of Sept. 30. Exxon has
advanced 10 percent this year, trailing the S&P 500’s gain.  FedEx (FDX)  Corp. climbed 4.6 percent to $138.65. Billionaire
investors  George Soros  and John Paulson joined Daniel Loeb in
taking stakes last quarter in the operator of the world’s
largest cargo airline. Soros Fund Management LLC owned a $173
million stake and Paulson & Co. held $73.8 million in the shares
at the end of the third quarter. Loeb’s Third Point LLC acquired
a stake valued at $228.2 million.  Office Depot  Office Depot Inc. climbed 9.7 percent to $5.53. Bank of
America Corp. raised its rating on the stock to buy from
underperform, citing potential cost savings following its merger
with OfficeMax Inc. and the appointment of Roland Smith as chief
executive officer.  Twitter Inc. added 5.6 percent to $43.98 in its second week
of trading. Shares of the unprofitable microblogging service
have soared 69 percent since being priced at $26 on Nov. 6 amid
speculation profits will surge as the company expands in markets
like mobile advertising.  Cisco (CSCO)  tumbled 8.4 percent, the most since May 2012, to
$21.54. The world’s largest maker of computer-networking
equipment gave quarterly profit and sales forecasts that missed
analysts’ estimates on sluggish emerging-market demand and weak
corporate spending.  The outlook dragged down other technology shares. Hewlett-Packard Co. lost 2.8 percent to $25.21 while Xilinx Inc. and
Jabil Circuit Inc. retreated at least 2.2 percent.  Kohl’s (KSS)  Corp. slid 5.4 percent to $53.95. The retailer
reported third-quarter earnings that missed analyst estimates
and trimmed its full-year outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  