-- UBS Stargazing Signals Back-to-Back Bond Losses: Credit Markets
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-11-15T15:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/ubs-stargazing-signals-back-to-back-bond-losses-credit-markets.html
Wall Street is starting to signal
that 2014 will look a lot like 2013 for U.S. corporate bond
investors, setting the stage for the first back-to-back annual
losses for investment-grade securities on record.  The debt, on pace to lose 1.9 percent this year as
investors reject record low yields in favor of stocks, will drop
an additional 0.9 percent in 2014, UBS AG analysts led by
Matthew Mish said this week. That followed Citigroup Inc.’s
forecast last month for a 1.1 percent decline through next year.  An unwinding of the Federal Reserve’s unprecedented
stimulus as the economy improves is threatening future gains for
investors who have reaped average annual returns of 11.7 percent
from the start of 2009 through last year on the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index. Even as Treasuries rallied
yesterday with Janet Yellen committing to further bond buying,
the nominee for Fed chairman said the program won’t continue
indefinitely.  “This is a coupon-clipping asset class, and because you’re
starting from a low yield, there’s not a lot of cushion”
against a rise in benchmark rates, Mish said yesterday in a
telephone interview from New York. “We’re heavily dependent on
the interest-rate outlook, for better or worse, which is going
to be driven by the Fed and other central banks.”  ‘Challenging Year’  Dollar-denominated speculative-grade bonds will return 2.1
percent next year, the UBS analysts wrote, less than a third of
the annualized 7 percent this year through yesterday on the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index.  Leveraged loans are a bright spot in what UBS is expecting
will be a “challenging year” as demand grows for floating-rate
securities that can help guard against the effects of rising
rates, the analysts wrote in a Nov. 13 report. Loans in the U.S.
may return 6.5 percent, according to the report, compared with
an annualized 5.16 percent in 2013 on the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA
Leveraged Loan Total Returns Index.  “You won’t have the negative implications of rising rates
hit that asset class,” said Mish of UBS, Switzerland’s largest
bank. “Many of the higher-quality, lower-yielding asset classes
are just not attractive on an outright basis.”  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. fell, with the Markit
CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreasing 0.6 basis point to a mid-price of 71 basis points as
of 10:27 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose from the lowest level in a year,
climbing 0.3 basis point to 10.81 basis points. The gauge widens
when investors seek the perceived safety of government
securities and narrows when they favor assets such as corporate
debt.  Bonds of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 4.8 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Lehman Failure  Dollar-denominated investment-grade bonds have never failed
to deliver positive total returns for two consecutive years in
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data that dates back to
1974.  The biggest decline on record on the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index was a 6.8 percent drop in
2008, when the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. caused a
seizure across global credit markets.  The extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated
investment-grade debt rather than government debentures was 139
basis points as of yesterday, down from this year’s high of 165
basis points on June 25 on the  Bloomberg U.S. Corporate Bond
Index. (BUSC)   While investors are demanding less relative yield to own
the debt, the contraction hasn’t made up for a surge in
 benchmark rates . The risk that corporate borrowing costs will
rise along with climbing Treasury yields will continue to
threaten the company debt’s performance, according to  Thomas Chow  of Delaware Investments.  Citigroup Forecast  The yield on  10-year Treasuries (USGG10YR)  has jumped almost 1
percentage point this year to 2.71 percent today as investors
wager on when the Fed will begin to curtail $85 billion in
monthly purchases of mortgage bonds and Treasuries.  Yields on the Bloomberg investment-grade bond  index  have
climbed to 3.17 percent from a record-low 2.54 percent in May.  “Any positives that we get from spread compression due to
positive fundamentals of the credits themselves, as well as
strong technical demand, can be more than offset by interest-rate moves,” Chow, who helps oversee about $135 billion from
Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview.  Citigroup forecasted a 0.7 percent decline for junk bonds
through 2014, along with its estimate for losses on investment
grade, according to an Oct. 24 report edited by Jeremy Hale, the
New York-based bank’s head of macro strategy.  ‘High Risk’  The third-largest underwriter this year of U.S. corporates
projected an 11.2 percent return for the S&P 500 stock index,
which has already gained 28 percent this year including
reinvested dividends.  “A lot of people are concerned about rising rates,” said
Marc Gross, a New York-based money manager at RS Investments.
“That’s why leveraged loans and floating-rate notes are so
favored and that’s why people are rotating into equities.”  Economists predict policy makers will pare the monthly pace
of bond buying to $70 billion at their March 18-19 meeting,
according to the median of 32 economist estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey on Nov. 8.  Yellen, who is seeking to replace current Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke after his term ends Jan. 31, told the Senate Banking
Committee yesterday that the benefits of the bond-buying program
still outweigh the costs.  “There’s a high risk” for bond investors, said William Larkin, a portfolio manager at Cabot Money Management in Salem,
 Massachusetts . “The longer they go, the greater chance they
cause an accident, and you don’t want to be sitting in long-term
bonds or medium-term bonds when that happens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  