-- Ultra Electronics Drops After Cutting Outlook on U.S. Slowdown
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-15T09:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/ultra-electronics-drops-after-cutting-outlook-on-u-s-slowdown.html
Ultra Electronics Holdings Plc (ULE)  fell
the most in more than two years after the maker of submarine-hunting equipment cut its full-year sales forecast on delayed
government contracts.  The stock fell as much as 7.3 percent, the biggest intraday
drop since August 2011, after the Greenford, England-based
company said it’s “encountering a number of headwinds” that
will depress sales to slightly below 2012 levels. The company
last year had sales of 760.8 million pounds ($1.2 billion).  Ultra joins Cobham Plc and Meggitt Plc among European
aerospace and defense companies reducing their earnings outlooks
in recent weeks. The defense industry has been hit by a slowdown
in U.S. military spending and delays in securing some foreign
deals.  “In the U.S. government-funded market, the unexpected
shutdown in October further impacted the federal procurement
process, delaying expected orders, approvals and payments,”
Ultra said in the statement. “Many of the contracts awarded
continue to be funded on an incremental basis.”  The stock was down 5.8 percent at 1,786 pence at 9:27 a.m.
in  London , paring the advance to 7.3 percent this year.  Delays have also affected activity on an Oman contract,
Ultra said. Overall, “performance will be broadly in line with
expectations for 2013,” it said.  The new outlook “reflects the challenging market
conditions in the U.S.” and the Oman issue, Chris Dyett, a
London-based analyst at Investec, said in a note cutting the
recommendation on the stock to add from buy.  Ultra, which has made numerous acquisitions in recent
years, continues to look for deals and has “substantial
headroom associated with its current banking facilities,” the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  