-- Uralkali Owner Said to Seek Sale Accord as Soon as Next Week
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I r i n a   R e z n i k
-- 2013-11-15T15:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/uralkali-owners-said-to-see-sale-accord-as-early-as-next-week.html
Billionaire Suleiman Kerimov and his
business partners in OAO Uralkali may reach an agreement to sell
their joint 33 percent stake as soon as next week, according to
four people with knowledge of their discussions.  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Onexim Group is the front-runner to take control of the world’s largest potash maker and
may later bring in partners, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the talks are private. The stock extended
 gains  to 5 percent in Moscow today after the news, raising the
stake’s value to about $5.2 billion.  A sale may defuse a dispute between  Russia  and Belarus
sparked by Uralkali’s July withdrawal from a partnership that
marketed 40 percent of global exports. The falling-out and
Uralkali’s plan to boost output roiled the $20 billion market
for the soil nutrient. Belarus has called for a change in the
company’s ownership before a reconciliation is possible.  “The sooner Kerimov sells, the better for Uralkali, as the
company needs some certainty for its future,” Elena Sakhnova,
an analyst at VTB Capital, said by phone today.  Kerimov and billionaire partners Filaret Galchev and
Anatoly Skurov began receiving offers from potential buyers
after Belarus arrested Uralkali Chief Executive Officer
Vladislav Baumgertner in Minsk on Aug. 26. That was a month
after the Russian potash producer abandoned the joint venture
with Belarus. The CEO was moved from a KGB prison to a rented
apartment in Minsk on Sept. 26, and his arrest was extended for
an additional two months on Oct. 28.  Binding Accord  Discussions with other possible bidders will continue until
a binding sale agreement is signed, the people said. If not set
next week, the accord will probably be reached by the end of the
month, they said.  Should the deal be completed, Onexim may seek partners and
has had contact with OAO Uralchem owner Dmitry Mazepin about it,
two of the people said.  Anton Averin, a spokesman for Kerimov’s Nafta Moskva,
declined to comment by phone, as did Andrey Belyak, an Onexim
spokesman, and Alan Basiev, a Uralchem spokesman.  The new owner will have a 38 percent stake in Uralkali
after the company fulfills its promise to cancel about 12.4
percent of stock held as treasury.  Uralkali shares rose 7.1 percent to $27.59 as of 3:15 p.m.
in  London , and closed at 175.15 rubles in Moscow.  Other bidders for the stake include Vladimir Kogan, a
billionaire ally of Russia’s President  Vladimir Putin ; OAO
Russneft owner  Mikhail Gutseriev  and billionaire Vladimir
Evtushenkov; property investor Alexey Khotin, people said last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Reznik in Moscow at 
 ireznik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  