-- Viking Buys BofA Stake as Tepper’s Appaloosa Reduces Holding
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-11-15T00:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/viking-buys-bofa-stake-as-tepper-s-appaloosa-reduces-holding.html
Viking Global Investors LP, the
hedge fund run by O. Andreas Halvorsen, took a new stake in  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  worth almost $620 million at the end of
September as expense cuts allowed the lender to boost profits.  Viking acquired 44.9 million shares of the bank in the
third quarter and Moore Capital Management LP, run by
billionaire Louis Moore Bacon, took a new position of 4.3
million shares, according to regulatory filings this week.  David Tepper ’s Appaloosa Management LP cut 4.1 million shares, leaving
it with 2.2 million shares of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America valued at almost $31 million, a filing shows.  Investors are buying into Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s pledge that the “lion’s share” of costs tied to
disputed mortgages are done after spending more than $50 billion
on  litigation , settlements and refunds. The bank will trim $8
billion in annual operating costs by the end of 2014 and $10
billion from troubled loans a year later, Moynihan has said.  Bank of America rose more than 7 percent since the end of
September through today to $14.80, making it the 11th-best
performer in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  over the span. It’s
the second-largest bank in the U.S. ranked by assets after
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Viking wasn’t alone.  Theleme Partners LLP  and Steadfast
Capital Management LP bought more than 11.1 million shares in
the third quarter combined.  Moore Capital ’s stake was purchased
after the firm sold a previously held position in the second
quarter, filings show.  D.E. Shaw & Co., the $30 billion hedge fund based in New
York, bought almost 8.5 million Bank of America shares in in the
third quarter, bringing its total holding to 11.5 million shares
worth about $159 million at the end of September, according to
filings.  New Adage  Adage Capital Management LP, the Boston-based firm run by
former endowment managers at  Harvard University , bought almost
2.3 million Bank of America shares, bringing its stake to 16.7
million shares worth about $230 million, the filings show.  Bank of America’s total expenses during the quarter slid
6.6 percent from a year earlier to $16.4 billion because of
lower costs in the division servicing troubled loans, staff
reductions and litigation costs that fell by 31 percent to $1.1
billion. The bank reported $2.5 billion in third-quarter profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  