-- Western Australia Faces New Senate Election After Ballots Lost
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-11-15T06:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/western-australia-faces-new-senate-election-after-ballots-lost.html
The Australian  Electoral Commission 
asked the nation’s highest court to nullify the election of six
senators from Western Australia after more than 1,300 ballot
papers went missing.  The move may trigger a new vote in the state, meaning the
final make-up of the 76-member upper house that sits from July
1, 2014 won’t be known for months.  The Senate has the power to block and amend legislation and
its composition is crucial to Prime Minister  Tony Abbott ’s
efforts to repeal a carbon-price mechanism and mining profits
tax and raise the debt ceiling by 67 percent to A$500 billion
($467 billion). While Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition has a
majority in the lower house, he doesn’t control the upper house
where the balance of power is currently held by the Greens and
looks set to shift to small, center-right parties next year.  Under an initial tally of votes in Western Australia, the
Liberals won three seats, Labor two and the Palmer United Party
one. A recount that was ordered due to the closeness of the
result saw Labor and Palmer United both losing a seat, and the
Greens and the Australian Sports Party gaining spots.  Election officials revealed during the second count that
1,370 votes were missing, prompting an inquiry and threats of a
legal challenge by some parties.  Clive Palmer , the mining magnate whose Palmer United Party
has two confirmed Senate seats, said last month he will form a
voting block in the upper house with the Australian Motoring
Enthusiast Party’s sole Senator.  The case is Between The  Australian Electoral Commission  and
David Johnston. C17/2013.  High Court  of Australia (Canberra).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  