-- WikiLeaks, Kraft, Rolex, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-11-15T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/wikileaks-kraft-rolex-google-intellectual-property.html
Access to cheaper drugs in other
countries may be limited by a provision sought by the U.S. in a
Pacific trade deal, according to patent specialists who reviewed
a document exposed by the WikiLeaks anti-secrecy group.  The proposal would boost patent protections for brand-name
medicines in some participating countries and curtail access to
low-cost generic drugs, the specialists said after reading a 94-page document WikiLeaks said is a draft of the intellectual-property chapter of the Trans-Pacific Partnership being
negotiated by 12 nations, including the U.S. and Japan.  Patent safeguards give pharmaceutical makers such as  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  and  Merck & Co. (MRK)  the right to block competition from generic
drugs for a set period to protect their research investments.
U.S. negotiators are trying to balance preserving those barriers
against the desire to make drugs more affordable and accessible
in  developing countries .  “Pharmaceutical companies are extremely important for  job
creation  in the United States but we also have more important
issues sometimes,” Robert Stoll, a former commissioner of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, said in an interview. “This
is something that needs to be more transparent.”  Protecting the patents of drugmakers including  AbbVie Inc., (ABBV) 
which was spun off from  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  in January, and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  as part of the accord has drawn criticism
from groups such as Doctors Without Borders and advocates of
providing cheaper drugs to treat HIV and AIDS.  The trade agreement, covering an area with $28 trillion in
economic output, would be the largest accord in U.S. history,
though it may be eclipsed by a separate pact that President
 Barack Obama ’s administration is negotiating with the European
Union. Other nations drafting the partnership are Australia,
Brunei, Canada, Chile, Malaysia, Mexico,  New Zealand , Peru,
Singapore and Vietnam.  U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman  has said
negotiators are seeking a deal by year’s end. “We’re now in the
endgame,” he said Nov. 13 at a conference in Washington.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Kraft Wins Appeals Court Ruling Upholding Cracker Barrel Bar  Kraft Foods Group Inc. (KRFT) , the maker of Cracker Barrel-brand
cheeses, won a U.S. appeals court ruling provisionally keeping
products sold by the Cracker Barrel Old Country Store Inc.
restaurant chain off grocers’ shelves.  “Familiarity is likely to have made the name Cracker
Barrel salient to grocery shoppers, and so any product bearing
that name might be attributed to Kraft, even if close scrutiny
of the label would suggest that the product might well have a
different origin,” the Chicago-based three-judge appeals panel
said yesterday.  Upholding a preliminary injunction issued this year by a
lower court, the appellate judges said Kraft could be injured if
consumers were dissatisfied with the restaurant chain’s
products.  Kraft, based in Northfield, Illinois, has made Cracker
Barrel-brand cheese since 1954 and has derived more than $100
million in revenue from it, according to its website.  It sued the Lebanon, Tennessee-based  Cracker Barrel (CBRL) 
restaurant company for trademark infringement this year after
learning of its plan to sell packaged ham and other branded
products in grocery stores. The restaurant chain has more than
600 locations in 42 states, according to  its website .  “The likelihood of confusion seems substantial and the
risk to Kraft of the loss of valuable goodwill and control
therefore palpable,” the panel said, upholding U.S. District
Judge Robert Gettleman’s July 1 order.  Gettleman also required Kraft to post a $5 million bond in
case Cracker Barrel turns out to have been wrongfully blocked
from selling its products.  The media relations department for Cracker Barrel Old
Country Stores didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on yesterday’s decision. Kraft’s media relations
dept didn’t immediately respond to a phone message seeking
comment.  The case is Kraft Food Group Brands LLC v.  Cracker Barrel 
Old Country Store Inc., 13-2559,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  Rolex Receives $8.5 Million Settlement in Trademark Suit  Rolex Group’s Rolex Watch U.S.A. unit received an $8.5
million settlement in a trademark lawsuit against an Internet
retailer, according to a court filing.  The Swiss watch manufacturer sued Melrose Jewelers of Los
Angeles for trademark infringement in federal court in Los
Angeles in July 2012. Melrose, which did business on the
Internet at Melrose.com, was accused of selling counterfeit
Rolex watches and using non-Rolex elements within altered Rolex
watches.  Melrose generated $10 million in revenue in 2011, according
to a statement last year.  The parties entered into a consent agreement in which
Melrose is permanently barred from advertising or selling any
genuine or non-genuine Rolex watches. The company also agreed to
surrender its Melrose.com domain name to Rolex, as well as other
domain names that contain “Melrose.”  Additionally, Melrose was to deliver to Rolex’s counsel all
Rolex watch heads in its possession or control.  The case is Rolex Watch U.S.A. Inc. v. Agarwal, 12-cv-06400, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Wins Dismissal of Lawsuit Over Digital Books Project  Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  project to digitally copy millions of books
for online searches doesn’t violate copyright law, a federal
judge ruled, dismissing an eight-year-old lawsuit against the
largest search-engine company.  Google Books provides a public benefit and is a fair use of
copyrighted material, Judge  Denny Chin  in Manhattan ruled
yesterday. The project, which has scanned more than 20 million
books so far, doesn’t harm authors or inventors of original
works, Chin said.  “Google Books provides significant public benefits,” Chin
wrote. “It advances the progress of the arts and sciences,
while maintaining respectful consideration for the rights of
authors and other creative individuals, and without adversely
impacting the rights of copyright holders.”  Chin’s decision comes more than two years after he rejected
a proposed $125 million settlement in the case filed by the
Authors Guild, which represents writers. The group sued in 2005
alleging that Google, owner of the world’s most popular search
engine, infringed copyrights by scanning and indexing books
without writers’ permission.  Paul Aiken, the Authors Guild’s executive director, said in
a statement that the ruling is a “fundamental challenge” to
copyrights and that his group plans to appeal.  “Google made unauthorized digital editions of nearly all
of the world’s valuable copyright-protected literature and
profits from displaying those works,” Aiken said. “In our
view, such mass digitization and exploitation far exceeds the
bounds of the fair use defense.”  If upheld on appeal, the decision may help Google retain
its leadership in Internet searching, which has allowed it to
become the world’s largest online advertiser. Google has more
than 70 percent of the ad revenue tied to online searches in the
U.S., according to researcher EMarketer Inc.  The case is Authors Guild v. Google, 1:05-cv-08136, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Sanofi Seeks Trade Secret Designation for OTC Nasacort Label  Sanofi (SAN)  SA’s Sanofi-Aventis unit, maker of Ambien and
Plavix, sued the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, claiming the
label information on one of its over-the-counter drugs is a
trade secret.  The Bridgewater, New Jersey-based pharmaceutical company
said in its court filing that its over-the-counter version of
the Nasacort Allergy 24HR nasal spray was approved by the FDA
and is expected to come to market in 2014. According to the
company  website , the over-the-counter version will be the
original full prescription strength.  The company is claiming that its labeling and packaging
materials for Nasacort are a trade secret and filed the suit in
federal court in Washington seeking an order barring the FDA
from releasing that information until it begins selling the
over-the-counter version.  Under FDA regulations, labeling for generic versions of the
product much match the labeling for the Sanofi product,
according to court papers.  Sanofi said that providing the information to generics
manufacturers will “give them advance knowledge of the labeling
they must match,” enabling them to get their competing products
on the market sooner.  Release of the labeling information would also enable
generics manufacturers to prepare advertising and promotional
materials before the Sanofi product enters the market, the
company said in its pleadings. Such disclosure “would cause
substantial competitive harm” to the drugmaker, Sanofi said.  The FDA has informed Sanofi that it has received four
requests under the Freedom of Information Act for the approved
labeling for over-the-counter Nasacort. Sanofi claims that the
labeling and packing information falls under an exception to the
Freedom of Information Act and the Trade Secrets Act.  The FDA sent Sanofi a letter Nov. 1 rejecting its request
for confidentiality, the company said.  The case is Sanofi-Aventus U.S. LLC v. Food and Drug
Administration, 13-cv-01753, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  Trade-Related Intellectual Property  China Intellectual Property Rules Lack Transparency, Locke Says  China must strengthen commercial rule of law to protect
 intellectual-property  rights because current safeguards lack
transparency or consistency, U.S. Ambassador Gary Locke said.  Damages awarded in intellectual property cases aren’t
sufficient to compensate for losses or deter pirates, Locke told
a conference sponsored by his office yesterday.  “There is still a long road ahead before right holders in
China can feel confident that their IPR will be both fully
protected under the law and effectively enforced,” Locke told
the 2013 U.S. Ambassador’s Intellectual Property Rights Round-table. At the same, time, he said China’s enforcement regimes
are “clearly moving in the right direction.”  China has pledged to strengthen actions against piracy and
ensure that the country’s state-owned enterprises use only legal
software. More than three-quarters of the software used in the
nation comes from counterfeit copies, according to a report last
year from the Business Software Alliance.  Asked about Locke’s remarks at a briefing in Beijing
yesterday, Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said China has
made “great efforts” to protect intellectual property and
wants to work with the U.S. to push for greater IP protection.  “We hope that the U.S. can be more objective and fair in
understanding this,” Qin said. “We hope that relevant
countries can strengthen dialogue and not keep applying pressure
and blame.”  Sales of illegal software in China were valued at $9
billion in 2011, compared with a legal market of less than $3
billion, for a piracy rate of 77 percent, the Washington D.C.-
based alliance said in its report in May 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  