-- Twitter Traders Get New Tool as U.S. Contracts Start: Options
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-11-15T08:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/twitter-traders-get-new-tool-as-u-s-contracts-start-options.html
Short sellers are making their
presence felt in  Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  and now speculators with a bearish
view will have  options  to trade, starting today.  Puts to sell Twitter shares will be available on U.S.
options exchanges along with calls to buy in weekly and monthly
maturities. About 5 percent of the newly public shares have
already been lent out, the first step in a short sale, according
to data compiled by London-based Markit. That compares with an
average of 2.4 percent for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Shares of Twitter, the unprofitable microblogging service,
have  soared  72 percent since being priced at $26 on Nov. 6 amid
speculation profits will surge as the company expands in markets
like mobile advertising. The options give traders a way to hedge
against future declines or bet on gains in the stock price.  “A new issue will be more volatile than some established
companies, especially in this area,” Alan Salzbank, who helps
oversee about $620 million in options and stocks as a managing
partner at Gargoyle Asset Management LLC in Englewood,  New
Jersey , said in a phone interview yesterday. “I’m sure there is
going to be a lot of demand” for Twitter options, he said.  Twitter options will have a strike price between $35 and
$50, according to a  statement  from CBOE Holdings Inc. The
position limit is 25,000 contracts, said the operator of the
 Chicago Board Options Exchange , the largest venue among the
nation’s 12 equity-derivatives markets.  Equity Derivatives  Equity derivatives on social media and Internet companies
are among the most popular with investors looking to speculate
on their growth potential.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  options had an open
interest of 4.9 million as of Nov. 13, the second-highest among
U.S.-traded companies after Bank of America Corp., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Twitter, based in  San Francisco , draws more than 70 percent
of  revenue  from mobile advertising, compared with about half for
Facebook. The company, which lost $64.6 million in the third
quarter, won’t make a profit until at least 2015, according to
the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
LinkedIn Corp. and Facebook were both profitable at the time of
their IPOs.  Investors are piling money into Internet and social media
shares. Almost $727 million has  flowed  into the First Trust Dow
Jones Internet  Index (VIX)  Fund, the most for any year since it was
created in 2006. About $77 million has been  added  to the  Global
X Social Media Index ETF (SOCL) , which tracks companies including
Google Inc. and Zynga Inc., in the past two months, the most
since the fund was created in 2011.  Nasdaq 100  The confidence is echoed in the options trading, helping
reduce the cost of protecting against losses in technology
shares. Puts with an exercise price 10 percent below the
PowerShares QQQ Trust  cost  5.6 points more than calls betting on
a 10 percent gain, according to three-month data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price relationship known as skew for the
exchange-traded fund tracking the Nasdaq 100 Index reached 5.29
on Oct. 21, the lowest level since May 2010.  While Twitter has more of its shares  sold short  than the
average company, the figure may be high because of market makers
borrowing shares after the IPO, according to Alex Brog, a
director at Markit, a provider of financial information
services. Those bets wouldn’t be considered bearish wagers by
investors.  Short Selling  “As we saw with Facebook and LinkedIn, some Internet
stocks have seen heavy demand to borrow by short sellers
immediately after float,” Brog said via e-mail yesterday.
“Having said that, both of them now see very low short interest
and borrow costs.”  Gabriel Stricker , a spokesman for Twitter, did not respond
to an e-mailed request for comment.  The cost to borrow Twitter stock is as much as 15 percent
of the share price on an annualized basis, Markit data show.
That compares with 0.3 percent for Facebook and 0.9 percent for
LinkedIn. Short sellers borrow shares and sell them, hoping to
profit from a decline in the stock’s price.  In  Europe , nine of the 10 most-actively traded structured
products tied to Twitter since its IPO were so-called put
warrants, whose buyers profit if the shares drop below a pre-defined level, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Bank Vontobel
Europe AG issued the put warrant with the greatest volume since
the IPO, a security that will reward investors if Twitter’s
shares are below $28 in June.  ’Happy Level’  Twitter’s implied volatility, a key gauge of the cost of
options, may be high because there’s limited data on the stock
needed to determine how to price the securities, according to
Brian Overby of TradeKing LLC in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . He
said that the bid-ask spread, or the difference in prices for
traders to buy and sell contracts, will also initially be wide
for the new contracts.  “The market hasn’t had a lot of time as far as price
discovery on the stock,” Overby, an options analyst for the
brokerage firm, said in a phone interview on Nov. 13. “The
market makers are trying to find that happy level for where the
implied volatility should be, which is difficult because the
stock hasn’t traded a lot and the options obviously haven’t
traded.”  Facebook’s  implied volatility  was 61.5 on average for the
first two weeks of trading, according to data on one-month
contracts with an exercise price closest to the stock compiled
by Bloomberg. The measure has since fallen to 40.5.  For LinkedIn, the professional-networking site which went
public in May 2011, implied volatility has fallen to 36.8. That
compares with 74 during the initial two weeks.  Stock Volatility  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index  slipped
1.2 percent to 12.37 yesterday, a three-month low. The VIX
measures investor expectations for market swings over the next
30 days using a formula that incorporates the implied volatility
for the  S&P 500 . Its European counterpart, the VStoxx Index,
dropped 2.1 percent to 15.57 at 9:23 a.m. in  Frankfurt  today.  More than 365,000 Facebook contracts changed hands on the
first day of options trading in May 2012, the most among the
biggest initial public offerings in the last decade, as the
social-networking site produced the worst five-day return among
the largest U.S. deals in 10 years.  “This depth of options trading in the social media and
Internet names suggests that Twitter will also be an active
name,” Jim Strugger, managing director and derivatives
strategist at MKM Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an
interview. “Perhaps with Facebook’s post-IPO swoon in mind,
large Twitter holders may take advantage of the options listing
to hedge their underlying positions. Based on trading volumes in
the TWTR peer group, speculators will likely be close behind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  