-- Won Poised for Second Weekly Loss on Fed Taper Bets; Bonds Slip
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-11-15T01:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/won-poised-for-second-weekly-loss-on-fed-taper-bets-bonds-slip.html
South Korea’s won was set for a
second weekly drop after foreign funds pulled money from local
stocks in preparation for an eventual paring of Federal Reserve
stimulus.  Government bonds  declined.  The U.S. central bank will cut its asset purchases to $70
billion a month in March from the current $85 billion, according
to a Nov. 8 Bloomberg survey of economists.  Janet Yellen , at a
Senate hearing for her nomination to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as
Fed chairman, signaled she will keep the record monetary
stimulus that has stoked emerging-market inflows until the
economy strengthens. Overseas investors sold a net $264 million
of South Korean stocks this week through yesterday, exchange
data show.  “Yellen’s dovish comments were already expected and
markets reacted to the fact that the U.S. may start paring the
stimulus earlier than other developed countries,” said Han Sung Min, a currency trader at Busan Bank in Seoul. “It’s a matter
of time for the dollar to strengthen globally.”  The won fell 0.2 percent this week and was steady today at
1,067.52 per dollar as of 10:14 a.m. in  Seoul , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
climbed 46 basis points since Nov. 8 and fell 13 basis points
today to 6.67 percent.  Interest Rates  The Bank of Korea will begin to raise  interest rates  in the
second half of 2014 as the nation is better placed than other
developing nations to benefit from global macro developments,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts including Themistoklis Fiotakis wrote in a research note yesterday. Going forward,
there is less scope for won appreciation and more room for the
Kospi index of stocks to rise, they added.  Yellen’s comments to Congress seem to confirm her existing
stance on tapering,  Bank of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo said
today. The monetary authority held its benchmark rate at 2.5
percent yesterday.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2016 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
2.92 percent this week, according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.
The rate fell one basis point today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  