-- WPP Says It Isn’t Preparing Bid to Take Over Interpublic Group
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-11-15T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/wpp-says-it-isn-t-preparing-bid-to-take-over-interpublic-group.html
WPP Plc (WPP)  denied a U.K. newspaper’s
report that the world’s largest advertising company may be
preparing a $25 per share cash bid for  Interpublic Group of
Cos. , the second-biggest U.S. ad company.  “WPP strongly refutes today’s story in the  Daily Mail 
about an approach to Interpublic,” Richard Oldworth, a
spokesman for WPP, said in a telephone interview. The Daily Mail
cited market rumors for its report.  Since Publicis Groupe SA and Omnicom Group Inc. said in
July they plan to merge, unseating WPP as the largest
advertising network, questions have focused on how WPP -- which
has held the top spot since the 2008 acquisition of Taylor
Nelson Sofres Plc -- will respond as the industry consolidates.
WPP has said it’s focused on small and mid-sized purchases in
 emerging markets  and digital, and will spend as much as 400
million pounds ($642 million) this year to add digital-ad assets
and operations in countries including Turkey, Brazil and  China .  “I guess some analysts who’ve got big client bull
positions in IPG or Havas would like us to see the headline of
WPP buys IPG or WPP buys Havas, unlikely to happen,” WPP Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Sorrell  said in September. “What is
more likely to happen is that we focus as we’ve done post the
POG announcement on small, medium-sized acquisitions,”
referring to the future name Publicis Omnicom Group.  WPP shares rose 1.2 percent to 1,358 pence as of 9:58 a.m.
London trading, valuing the company at 18.3 billion pounds.  WPP outperformed rivals in organic growth for the third
quarter, with a 5 percent gain compared with 4.1 percent for New
York-based Omnicom and 3.5 percent for Paris-based Publicis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  