-- WTI Falls Sixth Week in Longest Losing Streak Since 1998
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-11-15T20:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/wti-set-for-longest-run-of-weekly-losses-since-1998.html
West  Texas  Intermediate crude capped
a sixth weekly decline, the longest stretch of losses in 15
years, as rising U.S. supplies countered speculation that the
 Federal Reserve  will maintain stimulus of the economy.  Futures fell 0.8 percent this week, poised for the longest
streak since December 1998. U.S.  crude stockpiles  climbed for an
eighth week as  output expanded  to the highest level since
January 1989, data yesterday from the Energy Information
Administration showed. WTI rebounded earlier after  Janet Yellen ,
the nominee for Fed chairman, said yesterday the central bank
shouldn’t end its asset-purchase program too soon.  “We are looking at swollen supplies here as production
continues to rise, which has put a lot of downward pressure on
WTI,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “As long as the Fed
appears to be continuing its stimulus ad infinitum, WTI isn’t
going to fall below $90.”  WTI for December delivery advanced 8 cents to settle at
$93.84 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures are
up 2.2 percent this year. The volume of all futures traded was
29 percent below the 100-day average at 2:46 p.m.  Brent for January settlement rose 22 cents to end the
session at $108.50 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The December contract expired yesterday after
rising 1.3 percent to $108.54. Volume was 17 percent lower than
the 100-day average.  The European benchmark crude was at a $14.01 premium to WTI
for the same month, compared with $14.78 yesterday, the highest
based on closing prices since March. The spread was $6.04 on
Sept. 30.  ‘Runaway Train’  “The Brent premium could easily continue to grow because
of the North American supply picture,” said Bob Yawger,
director of the futures division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
in  New York . “I would hate to stand in front of a runaway
train, which is what the WTI-Brent spread is right now.”  Crude inventories surged 2.64 million barrels to 388.1
million last week, according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm. Crude output rose 123,000 barrels a day to 7.98
million, the report showed. Horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, have unlocked supplies in shale
formations in  North Dakota , Texas and other states.  Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for WTI
contracts and the nation’s largest oil-storage facility, climbed
by 1.69 million barrels to 38.2 million, in the seven days ended
Nov. 8. Stockpiles at the hub have climbed five weeks, the
longest stretch of gains since January.  Cushing Gains  “Cushing supplies rose about 1.7 million barrels in
yesterday’s report and have gained 5.6 million barrels since
Oct. 4, which are huge numbers for the delivery point,” Yawger
said. “There can be short-term rallies but WTI will have a hard
time getting though $95 after the big gains at Cushing.”  WTI may advance next week on signs the Fed will maintain
stimulus, according to a separate Bloomberg survey. Nine of 23
analysts and traders, or 39 percent, forecast futures will rise
through Nov. 22. Eight respondents projected little change and
six said prices will decrease.  Yellen said she’s committed to promoting a strong economic
recovery. Her testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in
 Washington  yesterday signaled she may maintain the strategies of
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , whose term ends on Jan. 31.  Data today showed manufacturing in the New York region
unexpectedly contracted in November. A separate report showed
total industrial production in the U.S. fell 0.1 percent in
October as output at mines and utilities declined. Factory
output rose more than forecast.  Geneva Talks  Brent front-month futures rose 3.2 percent this week after
a meeting between  Iran  and six world powers concluded last
weekend in Geneva without coming to an agreement on the nation’s
nuclear program, tempering projections of a resolution to the
dispute that has cut Iranian oil exports. The talks with the
five permanent members of the UN Security Council and  Germany 
will resume Nov. 20 in the Swiss city.  The European benchmark grade is more sensitive to potential
changes in Middle East output than WTI because Europe depends
more on the region’s production.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday at a White House news
conference that he supports giving Iran “modest” relief on
sanctions in exchange for progress on nuclear talks and urged
Congress to hold off on imposing more economic penalties.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
January was 17.9 percent, down from 18.4 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 375,827
contracts as of 2:49 p.m. It totaled 894,849 contracts
yesterday, the most since July 11 and 55 percent above the
three-month average. Open interest was 1.7 million contracts,
the lowest level since March 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  