-- Yellen Sees Chance Fed Could Cut Rate It Pays Banks on Reserves
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2013-11-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/yellen-sees-chance-fed-could-cut-rate-it-pays-banks-on-reserves.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  left open the possibility that the central bank could
reduce the  interest rate  it pays on bank reserves as a way of
aiding the economy.  “It is something we could consider going forward,” Yellen
told the Senate Banking Committee yesterday in a hearing on her
nomination to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as Fed chairman. “It
certainly is a possibility.”  A cut in the 0.25 percent rate would help reinforce the
Fed’s message that it intends to keep monetary policy easy even
as it starts to reduce its asset purchases, said  Carl Lantz ,
head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit Suisse
Group AG. A coupling of the moves -- which could come in the
first quarter of 2014 -- would help contain upward pressure on
bond yields resulting from a pullback in quantitative easing, he
said.  “The Fed could sugarcoat tapering by cutting” the rate it
pays on excess reserves, Lantz said. Excess reserves are money
that banks hold at the Fed above that required to cover some of
their liabilities.  The central bank’s policy-making  Federal Open Market
Committee  has considered lowering the rate at various points,
only to decide against it out of concern that it could damage
the money markets by pushing rates to zero or lower and drying
up trading. Yellen made that point again yesterday.  A reduction “is something that the FOMC has discussed and
the board has considered on past occasions,” Yellen told the
lawmakers. “We’ve worried that if we were to lower that rate to
close to zero, we would begin to impair money-market function.”  Rate Floor  The Fed’s introduction in September of a new tool for
managing money-market rates probably mitigates some of that
concern, said Kenneth Silliman, head of U.S. short-term rates
trading at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in  New
York . The tool would help the Fed put a floor under money-market
rates, even if it cuts the rate on reserves.  The new instrument allows banks, broker-dealers, money-market funds and some government-sponsored enterprises to lend
the Fed cash overnight at a fixed rate in exchange for borrowing
Treasuries in so-called reverse repurchase transactions. The
tool -- called the fixed-rate, full-allotment overnight reverse
repo facility -- began at a rate of 0.01 percent. It has since
been increased to 0.04 percent.  Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota  backed a cut in the rate the central bank pays on
excess reserves in a speech on Nov. 12. Such a step would
provide “more monetary stimulus to the economy,” he told
business leaders in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota .  Encouraging Lending  Former Fed Vice Chairman  Alan Blinder  has been a vocal
advocate of cutting the rate on reserves to zero as a way to
encourage banks to lend money to households and companies rather
than keeping it at the central bank. Now a professor at
 Princeton University  in  New Jersey , Blinder welcomed yesterday’s
remarks by Yellen.  “It was far from a ringing endorsement, but the next chair
of the Fed at least left the door open -- a crack,” he said in
an e-mail. “She’s both smart and open-minded. Maybe this idea
will get a rethink at the Fed. I certainly hope so.”  Banks’ reserves have mushroomed as the Fed purchased
securities from them in its bid to lower long-term interest
rates. Banks currently have more than $2 trillion in extra cash
at the Fed, according to data from the central bank.  Bond Purchases  The Fed is buying $85 billion worth of bonds per month and
has said it will hold short-term rates near zero at least as
long as unemployment is above 6.5 percent and the forecast for
inflation is below 2.5 percent. The jobless  rate  in October was
7.3 percent, while inflation in September was at a year-over-year rate of 0.9 percent.  Some economists voiced doubts that the Fed will reduce the
rate it pays on reserves. It won’t “come back into play as an
option for Fed policy,”  Michael Feroli , a former Fed researcher
who is now chief U.S. economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York, said in an e-mail to clients yesterday.  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, said such a move would do
little to promote a faster recovery of the economy because the
rate is already so low.  Silliman said, though, that a cut would help narrow the
spread between money-market rates and what the Fed pays banks on
reserves. The effective rate on federal funds traded between
banks was 0.08 percent on Nov. 13.  In a Nov. 8 report to clients, Lantz estimated that the Fed
has paid “excess interest” of $5.1 billion to the banking
system since December 2008 as a result of the spread between the
rates in the market and what it’s been paying out.  “With a move to new Fed chairperson, there’s scope to
bring back on the table” a reserve-rate cut, he said in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  