-- Yu’E Bao Draws Chinese Investors as They Seek to Beat Inflation
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-11-15T06:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/yu-e-bao-draws-chinese-investors-as-they-seek-to-beat-inflation.html
Yu’E Bao, an investment product
offered through Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s third-party payment
affiliate Alipay.com Co., has attracted more than 100 billion
 yuan  ($16.4 billion) as Chinese investors seek returns that beat
inflation.  Users of Yu’E Bao, created by Beijing-based Tian Hong Asset
Management Co., jumped 12 times to 30 million by Nov. 14 from
the end of June. The scale of the product jumped almost 18 times
to 100 billion yuan from 5.7 billion yuan, Tian Hong said in an
e-mail.  Alibaba Group, China’s largest e-commerce business, is
pushing into finance as households trapped between savings that
lag behind inflation and risky investments seek alternatives
with better returns, said Wang Weidong, an analyst at Shanghai-based Internet consultant IResearch. Chinese consumer prices
rose 3.2 percent in October, an eight-month high.  “The investment returns are pretty high compared with
other products,” Wang said. “Also, users who already have a
habit of using Alipay will be less hesitant to use it due to the
convenience, and have an existing trust of the brand.”  Alipay began offering Yu’E Bao, which translates to
“leftover treasure,” in June. Alipay users can put their money
into the product, which invests in funds. There’s no minimum
amount, and customers can withdraw their cash anytime.  Zhejiang Alibaba E-commerce Co., the parent of Alipay,
announced in October it would pay 1.18 billion yuan to buy
control of Tian Hong to ensure the safety of investments in Yu’E
Bao, Lucy Peng, chief executive officer of Alibaba Small & Micro
Financial Services Group, said at the time.  Alipay Structure  Alipay will also offer new fund products from third
parties, Peng said, declining to identify them.  Alibaba Small & Micro Financial Services Group is being
restructured, and its shareholder information will be disclosed
“soon,” Peng said. She said the group is registered in  China 
using the name Zhejiang Alibaba E-commerce Co. and declined to
elaborate.  The financial group plans to offer a 60 percent stake to
strategic investors, according to a statement on its Sina Weibo
official account.  Alibaba Small & Micro Financial Services Group contained
two loan companies as of July, as well as Alipay, which has more
than 800 million registered accounts.  Alibaba’s financial arm also offers a cloud computing
service, known as Ju Baopen, to finance companies. It works with
five banks and has signed cooperation deals with another 20,
said Yuan Leiming, a general manager at Alibaba Small & Micro
Financial Services Group, during an conference in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  