-- Zulily Surges After Raising $253 Million in Mom-Site IPO
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-11-15T21:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-15/zulily-surges-after-raising-253-million-in-mommy-website-ipo.html
Zulily Inc. (ZU) , which runs a shopping
website targeted at moms, jumped 71 percent after raising $253
million in its U.S. initial public offering, pricing the shares
above an increased range.  The shares rose $15.70 to $37.70 at the close in New York.
The e-commerce company and some stockholders sold 11.5 million
shares for  $22 apiece , after offering them for $18 to $20 each.
Zulily is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol ZU.  “We had hoped we’d see a great market response as I spent
the past two weeks talking to investors and the story was
resonating,” Darrell Cavens, chief executive officer and co-founder of Zulily, said by phone from the Nasdaq. “But this is
far in excess of my expectations.”  Investors have shown mixed appetite for consumer Internet
stocks over the past week.  Twitter Inc. (TWTR) , the microblogging web
service with 230 million monthly active users, surged 73 percent
in its Nov. 7 debut, while textbook-rental site  Chegg Inc. (CHGG) 
slumped 23 percent in its first day of trading Nov. 13. Unlike
those two, Seattle-based Zulily recently turned a profit.  Zulily operates daily flash sales with 4,500 products from
children’s and women’s apparel to kitchen accessories, according
to its prospectus. Sales more than doubled to $439 million in
the first nine months of the year from the same period a year
earlier, the filing shows. The company may use the proceeds to
buy complementary businesses or technologies, as well as for
general corporate purchases.  Zulily, led by co-foundersCavens and Mark Vadon, is backed
by venture-capital firms Andreessen Horowitz, Maveron LLC and
August Capital. Cavens will continue to hold more than 20
percent of the voting power following the IPO, the prospectus
shows, while Vadon, the chairman, will have more than 30
percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America Corp. and
Citigroup Inc. managed Zulily’s IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  