-- Clinton Presses Egypt on Democracy
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-14T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/clinton-arrives-in-egypt-to-push-transition-to-democracy.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
is urging the Muslim Brotherhood and the Egyptian military to
end their standoff by engaging in talks and to continue the
country’s transition to democracy.  “It will take dialogue and compromise among all
stakeholders and parties to achieve these goals and avoid
confrontations that could derail progress toward democracy,”
Clinton said yesterday in Cairo during an appearance with
Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr.  Thousands of protesters filled the streets near Cairo’s
presidential palace and Clinton’s hotel, giving her a glimpse of
the explosive politics in the Arab world’s most populous nation.
One placard said, “Go to hell, Hillary.” Another, reflecting
anti-Brotherhood sentiment, said “You like the Islamists,
Hillary? Take them with you.”  Clinton met yesterday with newly elected Egyptian President
Mohamed Mursi, who was the candidate of the Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party. She is scheduled to sit down today
with Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, head of the powerful
military council. Clinton said she looked forward to working on
the military’s return to a “purely national security role” and
the “full transition to civilian rule.”  The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, known as SCAF,
stripped the presidency of much of its power in the days after
Mursi’s election last month and then dissolved parliament
following a court ruling. The moves heightened tensions and
threw into question the fate of the country’s fledgling
democracy.  Clinton praised the military for “representing” the
Egyptian people during their relatively peaceful revolution last
year and compared it with the Syrian regime’s violent response
to demands for democracy.  ‘Warp Speed’  In meetings yesterday with Mursi and Amr, Clinton also
discussed the economy and regional security. She was meeting
Mursi for the first time, sitting down to chat in a small room
in the presidential palace.  As they began, she told him that things change at “warp
speed.” He said in English that “we are very, very keen to
meet you and happy that you are here.”  Although Mursi has said he would seek the release of Omar Abdel Rahman, the Egyptian-born militant convicted in the U.S.
plotting to bomb several  New York  City landmarks, he didn’t
raise the case yesterday, Clinton said.  Clinton repeatedly stressed that Egypt’s future lies in the
hands of the Egyptians.  “I have come to Cairo to reaffirm the strong support of
the  United States  for the Egyptian people and their democratic
transition,” she said. “As you move forward, we will be there
with support. Your choices will decide the future of this
country.”  Building Ties  Clinton felt the need to start building ties to Egypt’s new
leaders early, according to a State Department official who
wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  Clinton didn’t come to Cairo with prescriptions or
proposals for Egypt’s political crisis, the official said.
Instead, she will try to help develop a dialogue that the U.S.
believes is crucial to defusing tensions. When it comes to the
political situation, the official said, Clinton is largely in
the country to listen.  Yet Clinton indirectly made clear to  Egypt ’s leaders what’s
at stake if the democratic transition doesn’t go well. She
outlined millions of dollars in economic assistance the U.S. is
set to provide Egypt and the Obama administration’s plans to
support the country’s pursuit of loans from groups such as the
 International Monetary Fund .  Power Struggle  Egypt’s highest appeals court yesterday refused to re-
examine last month’s ruling that the law governing voting, which
produced an Islamist-controlled parliament, was
unconstitutional. The ruling military council used the decision
to dissolve parliament, then re-established martial law and
consolidated power at the expense of the president’s
authorities.  The power struggle threatens to deepen divisions in a
country trying to recover from the unrest that followed last
year’s uprising against  Hosni Mubarak .  The larger goal of Clinton’s visit is to establish ties
with Mursi and other new stakeholders, the official said. She
will underscore for them the importance the U.S. places on its
relationship with Egypt and the role it plays in regional
security.  In her meeting with Mursi, Clinton asked for details on how
they plan to proceed with the transition to democracy, according
to the State Department official, who added that she plans to
ask Tantawi the same question today.  Stating Principles  Where she provided advice, Clinton didn’t focus on specific
elements so much as on principles that the U.S. thinks should
guide the process, the official said. That advice included the
need to ensure all stakeholders, including minority groups and
women, have a role in Egypt’s transition, the official said.  In Clinton’s public remarks with Amr, she laid out a few of
those principles. “Democracy is about more than holding
elections and respecting the results, although that is
essential,” Clinton said. “It takes an elected government that
is empowered to govern, democratic institutions that protect the
rights of all Egyptians all the time, no matter who wins an
election in any particular year, an independent judiciary and a
vibrant civil society.”  She also called for “an inclusive and transparent process
to draft a new constitution that upholds universal rights and
the rule of law, a constitution for all Egyptians.”  Clinton will underscore the need for an inclusive democracy
by using part of her 36-hour visit to Cairo and Alexandria, the
country’s economic hub, to meet with women, social activists and
Christians.  Aid Measures  To highlight U.S. determination to help Egypt’s economy
recover, Clinton laid out details of a $1 billion package
announced last year by President  Barack Obama . The money will be
used for short-term funding and for a debt swap that will back
job-creation efforts, the official said.  Clinton will visit a technology incubator funded by a U.S.-
Egypt partnership. She’ll discuss a U.S.-Egypt Enterprise Fund,
capitalized at $60 million in its first year, that will invest
in small- and medium-sized businesses to create jobs.  She also announced $250 million in loan guarantees for
small businesses and the visit a U.S. business delegation will
make in September to examine investment opportunities.  She underscored the value of Egypt’s peace treaty with
 Israel  by reminding Mursi that, in the last 30 years, a
generation of Egyptians have grown up without conflict, the
State Department official said. And Clinton said that America’s
and Egypt’s shared interests in non-proliferation, counter-
terrorism, promoting peace and regional integration, outnumber
their differences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Cairo at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  