-- Teixeira Drives in 5 on 2 Home Runs in Yankees Win Over Angels
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-14T05:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/teixeira-hits-2-homers-drives-in-5-in-yankees-win-over-angels.html
Mark Teixeira  knocked in five runs
on two homers as the New York Yankees rallied in the eighth
inning to defeat the Los Angeles Angels 6-5 in a Major League
Baseball contest.  The Yankees (53-33) hold the best record in the majors,
one-half game better than the American League West-leading Texas
Rangers (53-34) who defeated the Seattle Mariners 3-2 last
night. The Angels (48-39) are five games behind the Rangers in
the four-team AL West.  “It’s a good way to start the second half,” said Yankee
catcher  Russell Martin  who drove in the winning run. “Get a
‘W,’ and I’m starting to feel a bit better about myself, that’s
never a bad thing.”  Teixeira hit a two-run homer in the third inning last night
to put the Yankees ahead 2-1 after Erick Aybar gave the Angels a
1-0 lead with his solo homer run at Yankee Stadium.  Mark Trumbo’s 23rd home run of the season sent home  Albert Pujols  and Kendrys Morales in the seventh and Mike Trout scored
on Pujols’s ground-rule double in the top of the eighth as the
Angels took a 5-2 lead.  Teixeira scored  Derek Jeter  and  Curtis Granderson  and tied
the game at 5-5 with his second homer and Martin drove in his
game-winner.  “Down three runs with their bullpen, not a lot of teams
come back,” Teixeira told reporters. “That’s a good sign for
us.”  Jeter scored his 1,817th career run in the third inning to
surpass Carl Yastrzemski for sole position of the 16th place on
baseball’s all-time runs scored list.  Chad Qualls (1-0) pitched a perfect two-thirds inning for
the win and  Rafael Soriano  got his 21st save, giving up one hit
and striking out one in the final inning.  Scott Downs (1-1) allowed four runs on two hits in two-
thirds inning for the loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  