-- Euro Down to Weakest Level in 2 Years on Economic Outlook
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-14T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/euro-slides-to-weakest-level-in-two-years-on-economic-outlook.html
The euro dropped to the lowest
weekly level versus the dollar in more than two years as
investors sought safety amid concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
turmoil is worsening.  The yen rose for a third week against the greenback, the
longest winning stretch in almost a year. The euro pared its
loss versus the dollar yesterday amid speculation global central
banks will take further action to sustain faltering economic
growth. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will testify to
Congress next week about the U.S. outlook.  “For the majority of the week the theme was largely risk-
off,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in  Washington  at the
currency brokerage Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “There were questions and doubts
about the timely implementation of any plan to help arrest the
debt crisis.”  The euro declined 0.3 percent $1.2249 yesterday in  New
York , from $1.2291 on July 6 and the lowest on a weekly basis
since June 11, 2010. The shared currency dropped 0.9 percent to
96.98 yen. The Japanese currency appreciated 0.6 percent to
79.18 per dollar, completing its longest stretch of five-day
gains since the four weeks ended July 29, 2010.  Futures traders added to bets the euro will fall against
the dollar, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed.
The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those
on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 165,705 on July 10,
compared with net shorts of 146,177 a week earlier. It reached a
record of 214,418 June 8.  Finance Ministers  The euro slid this week even as European officials laid the
groundwork for possible purchases of Italy’s bonds and fast-
tracked aid for troubled Spanish banks to help stem the debt
crisis. Finance ministers at a two day meeting in Brussels that
ended July 10 worked out a way for the euro bailout funds to
intervene in bond markets and said the first 30 billion euros
($37 billion) flowing to Spanish banks this month.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., said the shared currency is destined for failure
and must be reworked if it is to remain alive.  “It can’t survive with the present rules,” Buffett said
yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With  Betty Liu ” in an interview from the Allen & Co.  media conference in
 Sun Valley ,  Idaho . “That’s what they’re learning. The question
is, can 17 countries get together in a way to essentially re-do
something?”  ECB Policy  The  European Central Bank  is prepared to ease monetary
policy, including cutting its deposit rate further, if Europe’s
debt crisis worsens, according to a Medley Global Advisors
report obtained yesterday by Bloomberg News.  Slowing growth in  China  fueled bets policy makers will
boost stimulus there. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said after the nation
announced its second interest-rate cut in a month last week that
the government will intensify fine-tuning of policies in
response to downside risks to economic growth.  Bernanke is scheduled to deliver his semiannual report on
the economy and monetary policy to the Senate Banking Committee
on July 17. He will testify on the report to the House Financial
Services Committee the next day.  Higher Yield  The euro dropped against the majority of its 16 most-traded
peers and reached record lows against the Australian and
Canadian dollars as investors sold the shared currency to invest
in higher-yielding assets. Benchmark interest rates in Australia
and Canada are 3.5 percent and 1 percent, compared with 0.75
percent in the  euro zone .  “The euro is now the main funding currency, and everyone
wants to be short euro,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York. “The
dollar is no longer the main funding currency.” A short
position is a bet a currency will weaken.  Implied volatility on three-month options for Group-of-
Seven currencies fell to 9.2 percent, the lowest since May 4,
according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . The average over
the past year is 11.5 percent. Lower volatility makes
investments in currencies of nations with higher benchmark rates
more attractive because the risk in such trades is that market
moves will erase profits.  Japan’s currency rose versus the dollar as the  extra yield 
investors receive for investing in U.S. Treasury two-year debt
versus comparable Japanese  government bonds  fell to the lowest
in five months, limiting dollar-denominated assets’ appeal. The
yield spread was 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point.  Best Performance  The yen gained 6.1 percent over the past three months, the
best performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
rose 3.5 percent, while the euro was the biggest loser, dropping
3.7 percent.  The dollar’s losses were limited after minutes of the Fed’s
June meeting released on July 11 disappointed speculators who
had bet policy makers would signal a need for more monetary
stimulus. Only two participants said additional bond purchases,
a move that may debase the currency, were appropriate.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trade
partners, touched a two-year high of 83.829 on July 12. The
gauge was little changed for the week at 83.349.  Sterling advanced against most of its major counterparts
this week as investors bet an attempt to ease U.K. credit
conditions will help spur Britain’s economy.  Lending Program  The pound reached its strongest since November 2008 versus
Europe’s shared currency after the  Bank of England  released
details yesterday of a new lending program it said may boost
credit to companies and households by at least 80 billion pounds
($124 billion). Sterling touched 78.57 pence to the euro and
ended the week at 78.65 pence, up 0.9 percent.  Australia’s dollar reached a record A$1.1935 against the
euro July 11 amid speculation that China, the nation’s biggest
trade partner, will move to boost growth. The Aussie ended the
week at A$1.1979 per euro, up 0.4 percent. It gained 0.1 percent
to $1.0226 for the week and fell 0.5 percent to 80.97 yen.  The  Mexican peso  climbed against all of its most-traded
peers, and the Canadian dollar gained versus most, as crude oil
rose. The commodity is Canada’s biggest export and Mexico’s
second-biggest. Crude for August delivery increased 3.2 percent
to $87.11 a barrel in New York.  The peso gained 0.8 percent to 13.2904 per dollar. It
touched 13.2404 on July 10, the strongest since May 8.  The Canadian dollar strengthened 0.5 percent to C$1.0141 to
its U.S. counterpart. It climbed to C$1.2378 per euro yesterday,
a record, and ended the week at C$1.2422, up 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  