-- Fed Draws Lawmaker Scrutiny After Release of Libor Papers
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-07-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/fed-draws-lawmaker-scrutiny-after-release-of-libor-papers.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
is drawing more scrutiny from lawmakers critical of its record
as a bank supervisor after releasing documents showing it was
aware  Barclays Plc (BARC)  underreported London interbank offered rates
in 2008.  The New York Fed knew “some banks” were potentially
understating submissions for Libor as early as 2007, according
to a statement posted on its website yesterday. A Barclays
employee told a New York Fed staff member in April 2008 that the
U.K.’s second-largest lender was underreporting its rate to
avoid a “stigma,” the Fed bank said.  In June 2008, then-New York Fed President  Timothy F. Geithner  sent a memo to Bank of  England  Governor  Mervyn King 
recommending changes to the way rates are calculated on Libor,
the global benchmark for $360 trillion of securities. Barclays
was fined a record 290 million pounds ($452 million) last month
and Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  resigned. At least a
dozen banks are being investigated.  Representative  Brad Miller , a North Carolina Democrat who
sits on the House Financial Services Committee that oversees the
Fed, said the documents suggest the U.S. and U.K. regulators
didn’t act forcefully enough after learning of the interest-rate
rigging.  “They said ‘You shouldn’t be doing that,’ but it doesn’t
appear that they acted in a decisive way to put an end to it,
and certainly not to hold accountable to sanction the people who
had manipulated Libor,” Miller said in an interview yesterday.
“I’d like to know, if they had this knowledge, what did they do
with the knowledge.”  Identified Problems  “As is clear from the work culminating in the report to
Mr. King of the  Bank of England , the New York Fed helped
to identify problems related to Libor and press the relevant
authorities in the U.K. to reform this London-based rate,” the
New York Fed said in the statement yesterday. Andrea Priest, a
spokeswoman for the New York Fed, declined to comment further.  Geithner, who is now  Treasury secretary , sent the memo to
King after the two discussed Libor at a meeting of central
bankers in Basel, Switzerland, the previous month. Among his six
suggestions was one to “establish and publish best practices
for calculating and reporting rates, including procedures
designed to prevent accidental or deliberate misreporting.”  The proposals were passed along to the British Bankers’
Association by King and  Paul Tucker , at the time markets
director of the U.K. central bank, according to correspondence
released by the Bank of England.  ‘Due Credit’  “It is good that the New York Fed suggested reforms to
Libor, and they deserve due credit,” said  Sheila Bair , former
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. “But the fact
remains, they will need to explain why they did not look more
thoroughly into concerns about misconduct by Libor submitters,
misconduct which was routine.”  Geithner and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will be
questioned about Libor at regularly scheduled Congressional
hearings this month. Geithner was succeeded by William C. Dudley
at the New York Fed in January 2009.  “They are going to have a very difficult audience” on
 Capitol Hill , said Karen Shaw Petrou, a managing partner at
Federal Financial Analytics, a  Washington  research firm. “It’s
going to be ‘What did you know, when did you know it, and why
didn’t you do anything about it?’”  Libor is calculated from a daily survey carried out for the
British Bankers’ Association, in which the world’s biggest
lenders are asked the rate they’re charged to borrow over a
variety of short-term maturities in currencies including
dollars, euros and yen. Banks are accused of low-balling
submissions for the benchmark during the financial crisis.  British Rate  “This rate is a British rate,” said  Jaret Seiberg , a
senior policy analyst with Guggenheim Securities LLC in
Washington. “There are limits to what the U.S. could force the
British bankers to do, but more importantly the structural
problems of the Libor rules were coming down at the very time
the U.S. was teetering into a major financial debacle, so I
think it’s understandable if issues raised in ’07 didn’t get
followed up in ’08.”  The New York Fed released the documents in response to a
request from Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican
who serves on the House Financial Services Committee, for
transcripts of communications with Barclays relating to setting
Libor from August 2007 to November 2009.  “We’ll continue looking into this matter to determine who
was involved in this practice and whether it could have been
prevented by regulators,” Neugebauer said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Wall Street  Concern among lawmakers that the Fed is too close to  Wall
Street  was rekindled in May after JPMorgan Chase & Co. announced
a trading loss on May 10 that Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said yesterday may swell to $7.5 billion. Dimon also
serves as a director of the New York Fed. Three senators,
including Vermont Independent  Bernie Sanders , introduced
legislation in May that would remove bankers from the boards of
regional Fed banks.  Americans’ confidence in U.S. banks fell to a record low of
21 percent in June, with the percentage saying they have “a
great deal” or “quite a lot” of faith in the financial
institutions about half that in June 2007, according to a Gallup
poll conducted June 7-10.  The Fed isn’t the only regulator that suspected Libor might
be rigged. The U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
said yesterday it became aware of potential problems with the
Libor rate-setting process in 2007 and “reached out to British
authorities at the time,” according to an agency spokesman.  “We met with the  British Bankers Association  and the FSA,
which already had work under way on the integrity of the Libor
rate-setting process,” Bob Garsson, a spokesman for the OCC,
said in a telephone interview yesterday, referring to the U.K.
Financial Services Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  