-- Greeks Favor Renegotiation of Loan Even at Risk of Euro Exit
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-07-14T17:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/greeks-favor-renegotiation-of-bailout-even-at-risk-of-euro-exit.html
Almost three-quarters of Greeks want
Antonis Samaras’s coalition government to insist on a
renegotiation of the terms of the country’s international loan
agreement, an MRB poll showed.  Of 1,011 people surveyed, 74 percent said the coalition
should insist on discussing the terms, even if such talks lead
to the prospect of  Greece  leaving the euro area, according to
the poll in the Sunday edition of the Athens-based  Real News 
newspaper and pre-released today.  That compared with 15.5 percent who said the government
should accept the current terms of Greece’s bailout without any
talks, according to the poll.  Samaras, the leader of the New Democracy party, formed a
coalition government with the socialist Pasok party and
Democratic Left after an election on June 17. The vote followed
an inconclusive May 6 election that underlined concern Greece
might have to abandon the euro.  Of those surveyed, 61 percent said it’s unlikely that the
government will be able to renegotiate changes to the loan
agreement that are favorable for Greece and its people, while 34
percent said Greece’s international lenders will agree to talks
to change some terms of the deal, the poll showed. Almost 60
percent said Greece will not leave the euro area, compared with
37 percent who think a Greek exit is likely.  New Democracy  Seventy-five percent said the coalition government won’t,
or is unlikely to, complete its four-year term in office while
one in two interviewees said the administration will last for a
maximum of one year, according to the poll.  New Democracy  would again emerge as the largest party if
elections were held on July 22, with 23.5 percent of intended
votes. The anti-bailout Syriza party would come second with 21.7
percent of votes and Pasok third with 10.1 percent, according to
the poll.  While Democratic Left would place sixth with 5.1 percent of
the vote, its chief Fotis Kouvelis is the most popular party
leader, with 37.7 percent saying they have a positive view of
him, while Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras was placed second with
26.1 percent and Antonis Samaras third with 24.7 percent.  The poll was conducted between July 10 and July 12. No
margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  