-- Mississippi Abortion Law Cleared to Take Effect Minus Penalties
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/mississippi-abortion-law-can-take-effect-u-s-judge-rules-1-.html
A Mississippi law that puts new
requirements on physicians who perform abortions may take effect
for now, a judge said, denying a request by the state’s only
abortion clinic to extend a temporary halt on the measure.  U.S. District Judge Daniel Jordan III in Jackson said in a
ruling yesterday that Mississippi can’t seek criminal and civil
penalties against Jackson Women’s Health Organization, the
clinic, during the administrative process for meeting the new
requirements. With that condition, there is no risk of
irreparable harm with the law in place, the judge said.  The Mississippi lawsuit is backed by lawyers for the Center
for Reproductive Rights, which together with the  American Civil
Liberties Union  also represents a group of physicians in Arizona
who sued July 12 to block an Arizona law that makes performing
an abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy a misdemeanor punishable
by as long as six months’ incarceration.  “Today’s decision has ensured, for the time being, that
anti-choice politicians in Mississippi cannot relegate the women
of their state to a second class of citizens that can be denied
their constitutional rights with the stroke of a legislator’s
pen,” Nancy Northup, president and chief executive officer of
the Center for Reproductive Rights, said in a statement.  Single Women  A survey released July 10 by  Quinnipiac University  showed
that single women favor President  Barack Obama  over presumed
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  by a 2-1 ratio. Single voters are
more focused on issues such as gay rights and reproductive
rights, according to  Peter Brown , the assistant director of the
university polling institute.  Obama, a Democrat, voiced his support for gay marriage in
May and favors abortion rights. Romney, a former governor of
 Massachusetts , said he believes marriage should be between a man
and a woman and on July 10 reiterated his opposition to abortion
during a campaign stop in  Grand Junction ,  Colorado .  The Mississippi law, which was to take effect July 1,
requires physicians associated with an abortion facility to have
admitting privileges at a local hospital and be certified or
eligible in obstetrics and gynecology. The two doctors at the
Jackson facility who perform most of the abortions don’t meet
the new requirements yet and are in the process of doing so.  The  Arizona  statute, which is scheduled to go into effect
in about three weeks, is the most extreme ban in the nation, the
ACLU said. It would force a physician to wait until a woman’s
high-risk pregnancy deteriorates so far that her life is at risk
or that she faces major medical damage, according to the ACLU.  Arizona Obstetricians  The lawsuit in Phoenix federal court was brought by three
Arizona obstetricians and gynecologists who asked for a judge to
rule that the ban violates their patients’ right to due process
of law and to bar its enforcement.  “Arizonans expect their attorney general to vigorously
defend the state’s laws,” Arizona Attorney General Tom Horne
said in a July 12 statement in response to the lawsuit. “As
attorney general, I am committed to doing that, and this law
will be no exception.”  A call yesterday for comment on the  Mississippi  ruling to
the office of Liz Sharlot, a spokeswoman for the Mississippi
Health Department, wasn’t answered after regular business hours.  The Mississippi case is Jackson Women’s Health Organization
v. Currier, 12-00436, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Mississippi (Jackson). The Arizona case is Isaacson v. Horne,
12-01501, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 