-- Kingfisher Scraps 40 Flights as Workers Protest Wage Non-Payment
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-07-14T11:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/kingfisher-scraps-40-flights-as-workers-protest-wage-non-payment.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  canceled
about 40 flights after some employees refused to work as they
haven’t been paid, prompting Indian billionaire Chairman  Vijay Mallya  to say they may hamper efforts to revive the carrier.  “Damaging the future of Kingfisher in the public eyes is
not going to produce cash,” Mallya said in a letter to
employees posted on the company’s website today. “This only
makes my recapitalization efforts more difficult by causing
concern and apprehension among our potential investors.”  More than 75 percent of employees received their salaries
on the “committed” date of July 13, Kingfisher said in a
statement today. The company said it has assured staff the rest
will get paid on July 16. The airline is operating 20 planes
after reducing services to about 120 a day, compared with 66
aircraft and about 340 daily flights in March 2011.  Kingfisher’s market share in April dropped to the  lowest 
among  India ’s six airline operators from second in October as it
ended a discount service and grounded planes following more than
10 quarters of losses.  Kingfisher may post a loss of as much as 14 billion rupees
($254 million) this fiscal year and needs about $1 billion of
funds, CAPA Centre for Aviation, an industry consultant, said in
May. The airline has pledged its brand, office furniture and
other assets against 64.2 billion rupees of  debt , Junior Finance
Minister Namo Narain Meena said in parliament in New Delhi on
Dec. 9.  “We worked hard to gain the trust and confidence of our
guests,” Mallya said. “Today, by forcibly canceling several
flights we have lost most of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ; 