-- Obama Takes His Campaign to Republican Cantor’s Turf
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-07-15T16:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/obama-takes-his-campaign-to-republican-cantor-s-turf.html
President  Barack Obama  took his
campaign to Republican lawmaker  Eric Cantor ’s home turf, the
second day in a row he sought support in  Virginia , a once
solidly Republican state that he won four years ago.  Obama, a Democrat, continued attacking the economic
policies of Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  and congressional
Republicans, saying they favor the rich, while he seeks to
extend Bush-era tax cuts only for those families with an
adjusted gross income of less than $250,000 and military
families.  “We can’t afford to go back to top-down economics,” Obama
said yesterday in Glen Allen, a Republican-leaning suburb of
Richmond in the district represented by House Majority Leader
Cantor. While Obama lost Cantor’s district in 2008, he won the
Henrico County suburbs surrounding Richmond by 679 votes of
116,000 cast.  Republican economic policy boils down to “tax cuts for the
wealthy, roll back regulation. That’s their plan,” said Obama,
who began speaking in a driving rain without an umbrella. By the
end of his twenty-minute speech, his shirt was soaked through
and audience members were dripping wet.  “What’s holding us back is a stalemate in  Washington ”
between Democratic and Republican views, the president said.
“This election is about breaking that stalemate.”  Attack on Romney  Obama’s campaign released a new television ad yesterday
that focused on Romney’s time in private equity, accusing him of
“outsourcing” jobs and stashing his money in offshore
accounts. The ad, set to Romney singing the song “America the
Beautiful,” is scheduled to air in nine battleground states.  The message is intended to highlight the president’s
differences with Romney, co-founder of the Boston-based Bain
Capital LLC. Obama says Republicans favor the wealthy and Romney
profited from the loss of jobs in the U.S. to overseas
competitors during his time at Bain.  “I don’t want a pioneer in outsourcing,” Obama said. “I
want some in-sourcing.”  The new ad followed Romney’s appearances on broadcast and
cable news shows July 13 saying that Obama campaign attacks on
him are “disgusting and demeaning.”  About 89 percent of the 41,671 campaign ads that the Obama
campaign ran in the 14-day period ended July 9 carried an anti-
Romney message, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG,
which tracks advertising on local broadcast and national cable
and network stations.  Obama’s Fault  Obama, even as his campaign promoted its own negative ad,
complained yesterday in Centreville, Virginia, about the tone of
political advertising attacking him, saying it amounts to a
single message that “the economy isn’t where it needs to be and
it’s all Obama’s fault.”  Yesterday afternoon, and in a fresh -- and dry -- white
shirt, Obama spoke at Centreville High School in Fairfax County,
which has become more Democratic in recent elections because of
shifts in demographics, including an influx of Hispanic voters.
Obama won the 11th congressional district, which also includes
Prince William County, in 2008 with 57 percent of the vote.  While Obama took Virginia by 6 percentage points against
Republican  John McCain  in 2008, both campaigns are forecasting a
close contest this year. Obama held a 3 percentage point lead
over Romney in an average of six polls taken since mid-May, as
compiled by the website Real Clear Politics.  “If we win Virginia then we will win the election,” Obama
said in an interview yesterday with WAVY-TV in Glen Allen.  Virginia’s Economy  Virginia’s unemployment rate was 5.6 percent in May, down
from a high of 7.3 percent in January 2010. By comparison, the
rate nationally was 8.2 percent and hit 10 percent in October
2009.  Still, Virginia was among four electoral battleground
states that showed declining economic health in the first three
months of the year, according to the  Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States . The index is based on the performance of
local-company shares, tax collections,  home prices , mortgage
delinquencies, job growth and personal income.  Obama said Virginia-based defense jobs will be safe if
congressional action is taken to prevent automatic cuts to the
 defense budget , which would take effect in January.  “The military has gone up enormously since 2001, and
rightfully so,” Obama told WAVY-TV. “As long as the defense
sequester doesn’t go through we will continue to have a strong
military, stable military presence and operations here in
Virginia.”  Announced Candidacy  Obama has been to Virginia 16 times since announcing his
run for re-election in April 2011, and Romney has visited seven
times since announcing his candidacy in June 2011.  Dustin Cable, a Charlottesville-based demographer for the
Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service, said the key to
Virginia is going to be to energize white, college-educated
voters in northern Virginia because that’s where most of the
state’s population is concentrated.  “Romney is sure using the economy as a persuasive tool, he
could actually get some of these white northern Virginia voters
that Obama won last time,” Cable said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  is  Glen Allen , Virginia at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  