-- Obama Makes Populist Pitch to Hold Swing Voters in Virginia
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-07-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/obama-makes-populist-pitch-to-hold-swing-voters-in-virginia.html
President  Barack Obama  is trying to
hold the once-solidly Republican state of Virginia by appealing
to middle-income voters who he says Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  would sacrifice to help the wealthiest Americans.  Romney and congressional Republicans want to “keep tax
cuts for millionaires and billionaires and folks like me who
don’t need it,” Obama said in Hampton, Virginia, yesterday.
“Michelle and I, our lives will not be better,  Warren Buffett ’s
life is not going to be better if he gets that additional  tax
cut .”  Obama, without a teleprompter and relying only occasionally
on notes, delivered the populist message on the first of two
days he’s spending in the battleground state. He focused on his
push to extend the Bush-era tax cuts for those families with an
adjusted gross income of less than $250,000 and on military
families.  Obama campaigned through the state’s so-called golden
crescent: the  Washington  suburbs of northern Virginia south
through Richmond and Hampton Roads, where most of the population
is concentrated.  “If you believe that the recipe for economic growth is to
give the 2 percent additional tax breaks, then by all means you
should send those folks to Washington,” he said. “But that’s
not what I believe, that’s not why I’m in office.”  Highlighting Differences  The message is intended to highlight his differences on
economic policy with Romney, co-founder of the Boston-based
private-equity firm  Bain Capital  LLC. Obama has accused
Republicans of pursuing “top-down economics” that favor the
wealthy and Romney of profiting from the loss of jobs in the
U.S. to overseas competitors during his time at Bain.  Obama hit Romney on his private-equity work after questions
were raised about when Romney left the firm.  Bain said Romney remained its sole stockholder and
continued to be listed as the sole stockholder and in various
executive positions in Securities and Exchange Commission
filings even after leaving in 1999 to run the Winter Olympics.
The company statement was released July 12 after a Boston Globe
report about the SEC documents.  The timing has become an issue because Romney’s campaign
responded to reports of Bain-owned companies laying off
employees by saying the former Massachusetts governor wasn’t
responsible for actions after his departure.  Answering Questions  Obama, in an interview yesterday with Washington television
station WJLA, said Romney “attested to the SEC multiple times”
that he was at the head of Bain.  “Most Americans figure if you are the chairman, CEO and
president of a company that you are responsible for what that
company does,” Obama said. “That’s probably a question that
he’s going to have to answer, and I think that’s a legitimate
part of the campaign.”  Romney, in interviews with the three major broadcast
networks and cable channels CNN and Fox News, repeated that he
had “no role” in Bain’s operations after leaving to run the
Olympics accused Obama of trying to divert attention from the
state of the  U.S. economy .  “I left any responsibility whatsoever, any effort, any
involvement whatsoever in the management of Bain Capital after
February of 1999,” Romney said on ABC. He also said Obama’s
campaign should apologize for a statement made by deputy
campaign manager  Stephanie Cutter  suggesting Romney may have
broken the law if he put incorrect information in the  SEC
filing .  Apology Demand  “The president needs to take control of these people,”
Romney said. “He sure as heck ought to say that he’s sorry for
the kinds of attacks that are coming from his team.”  Dave “Mudcat” Saunders, a longtime Virginia political
strategist who is working on Democrat Wayne Powell’s House race
against Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Republican, said the
president’s populist message is working.  “Obama should stick with Bain Capital attacks,” he said.
“Everybody in small-town Virginia feels like they’ve been taken
advantage of.”  Obama was the first Democratic presidential candidate to
win Virginia since  Lyndon Johnson  did it in 1964, and capturing
the state’s 13 Electoral College votes in November is part of
the victory map for both Obama and Romney.  Targeting Virginia  While Obama took the state by 6 percentage points against
Republican  John McCain  in 2008, both campaigns are forecasting a
close contest this year. Obama held a 3 percentage point lead
over Romney in an average of six polls taken since mid-May, as
compiled by the website Real Clear Politics.  Virginia’s unemployment rate was 5.6 percent in May, down
from a high of 7.3 percent in January 2010. By comparison, the
rate nationally was 8.2 percent and hit 10 percent in October
2009.  Still, Virginia was among four electoral battleground
states that showed declining economic health in the first three
months of the year, according to the  Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States . The index is based on the performance of
local-company shares, tax collections,  home prices , mortgage
delinquencies, job growth and personal income.  Obama has been to Virginia 15 times since announcing his
run for re-election in April 2011, and Romney has visited six
times since announcing his candidacy in June 2011.  Energizing Voters  “When we win Virginia we’re going to have won the
election,” Obama told the overflow crowd at Green Run High
School in  Virginia Beach , where he went yesterday after meeting
with the spouses of service members at a local café.  Dustin Cable, a Charlottesville-based demographer for the
Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service, said, the key to
Virginia is going to be to energize white, college-educated
voters in northern Virginia because that’s where most of the
state’s population is concentrated.  The president is doing that today, heading to Chantilly and
Centreville, a Washington suburb that Obama won 72 percent to
McCain’s 27 percent in 2008. He’ll also go to Richmond and  Glen
Allen , outside of Richmond. He beat McCain 79 percent to 20
percent in Richmond city.  “Romney is sure using the economy as a persuasive tool, 
he could actually get some of these white northern  Virginia  
voters that Obama won last time,” Cable said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Roanoke, Virginia at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  