-- Ohio Files Motion to Lead JPMorgan ‘Whale’ Fraud Suit
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-07-14T18:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/ohio-files-motion-seeking-to-lead-jpmorgan-whale-fraud-suit.html
Ohio  Attorney General Mike DeWine
filed a motion seeking to lead a proposed class-action lawsuit
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  involving the activities of a U.K.
trader known as the “London Whale.”  Ohio pension funds lost more than $27.5 million due to the
alleged fraud, DeWine’s office said today in a  statement .
Spokesman Dan Tierney, speaking in a telephone interview, said
the state is seeking lead plantiff status in the case because of
“the size of the losses.”  Yesterday, JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said its chief investment office has had $5.8 billion in
losses on the trades so far, and that figure may climb by $1.7
billion in a worst-case scenario. One trader, Bruno Iksil,
amassed positions in  credit derivatives  so big and market-moving
he became known as the London Whale.  Ohio said its pension fund managers were given “false and
misleading information” that hid the true nature of the bank’s
trades. The suit was filed on behalf of the Ohio Public Employee
Retirement System, the School Employees Retirement System of
Ohio and the State Teachers Retirement System of Ohio.  JPMorgan spokesman  Joe Evangelisti  declined to comment when
reached via e-mail by Bloomberg News today.  Class-action status allows plaintiffs more leverage in
negotiations with defendant banks. Lead plaintiffs direct the
litigation on behalf of the class, determining strategy while
usually reaping the largest share of any verdict or settlement.  Four Class Actions  Ohio is seeking to lead a class action initiated by
Louisiana, Tierney said, one of four class actions that have
been filed.  Public pension funds in Oregon and Arkansas as well as a
Swedish national pension fund are seeking to join the Louisiana
lawsuit, the Ohio statement said.  In June, JPMorgan was sued by the Louisiana Municipal
Police Employees Retirement System for alleged securities fraud
tied to a trading loss of at least $2 billion. The state claimed
the biggest  U.S. bank  and top officials misled investors about
its risk management and financial condition from February 2010
to May 2012.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 12-cv-4729, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  