-- France’s Hollande Says Peugeot Job Cuts Are Not Acceptable
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-07-14T14:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/hollande-says-state-can-t-be-indifferent-to-peugeot-job-cuts.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s decision to
close a factory and cut an additional 8,000 jobs is
unacceptable, President  Francois Hollande  said, pledging to lean
on  Europe ’s second-biggest carmaker to renegotiate the plan.  Peugeot said two days ago that it will cut a total of
14,000 jobs and shut an auto plant in  France  for the first time
in two decades to stem widening operating losses.  “The plan in the current state is not acceptable,”
Hollande said today on national television.  Hollande was elected in May, promising to prevent a
“parade of firings” after the election. Peugeot’s shares
plunged 7.7 percent yesterday on concern that the government may
amend Peugeot’s decision to reduce costs and trim production
capacity, but there isn’t much wiggle room to do so, said
 Antonio Barroso , an analyst at Eurasia Group in  London .  “The range of options is limited,” Barroso said. “The
Peugeot crisis is a powerful reminder of one of the most
important problems facing France, which is lack of
competitiveness.”  Hollande said he will consider incentives to spur sales of
environmentally friendly cars and study the possibility of
providing credit for vehicle purchases, though he won’t adopt
cash incentives like President Nicolas Sarkozy’s administration
did to counter a recession in 2009.  With  jobless claims  at a 12-year high and the  unemployment
rate  at 10 percent, Hollande said that generating jobs is his
top priority. Besides Peugeot, companies including  Air France-
KLM Group (AF) , Carrefour and drugmaker Sanofi are mulling staff
reductions in the face of stalling economic growth.  Shared Effort  “It’s true we have a competitiveness problem,” Hollande
said today. “There is an effort to be made but it needs to be
shared fairly.”  The government wants to avoid cutting salaries but is
considering shifting some social charges currently paid by
employers to the CSG levy, which is paid on all forms of income
including wages, pensions and capital gains. Raising the CSG is
“one option among others,” he said.  The economic situation is already costing the Socialist
president politically. Support for Hollande has dropped 7 points
in the past month to 56 percent, according to an Ifop poll
published July 11. The survey of 1,005 voters has a margin of
error of about 3 percentage points.  “Peugeot is an emblematic case that will leave its mark on
people,” said Jerome Fourquet, a pollster at Ifop in Paris.
“The political stakes are huge.”  Losing Cash  Peugeot,  Renault SA (RNO)  and  Fiat SpA (F)  have posted the biggest
sales declines this year in Europe, where Peugeot now expects
the car market to contract 8 percent. Moody’s Investors Service
in March was the last of the three main credit-reporting
companies to cut Peugeot’s debt rating to junk. The French
carmaker has been consuming about 200 million euros ($245
million) in cash monthly since the middle of last year.  The state can’t be “indifferent” to Peugeot’s troubles,
Hollande said. “The government will name an expert who will
report by the end of the month to determine the reality of the
situation of Peugeot.”  The company will stop production at its 39-year-old factory
in Aulnay, on the outskirts of Paris, in 2014 and focus the
building of small cars at a nearby plant in Poissy, it has said.
The Paris-based automaker will also lower production at a plant
in Rennes to slash operational costs.  Peugeot, which announced 6,000 job cuts last year, delayed
the announcement by several months as Hollande and Sarkozy, his
predecessor, campaigned to win France’s presidential election.  “There was a lie,” Hollande said. “This plan wasn’t
announced even though it was already in the pipeline. It was
delayed until after the election.”  Peugeot’s Aulnay plant could continue to exist as an
industrial site, Hollande said. Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  is considering the government’s options and will
outline a plan on July 25, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net 
 Andrew Roberts  at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  