-- Peregrine’s Wasendorf Started Solo in Basement, Admits to Fraud
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/peregrine-s-wasendorf-started-solo-in-basement-admits-to-fraud.html
Russell Wasendorf Sr. started
Peregrine Financial Group Inc. as a one-man firm in the basement
of his home and eventually grew the  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based
futures brokerage to include 241 employees.  Now Wasendorf, 64, is in custody, charged on July 11 by
U.S. prosecutors with making false statements to federal
regulators. He confessed to a 20-year fraud in a signed
statement linked to his suicide attempt, according to a federal
complaint unsealed yesterday.  Wasendorf, a onetime trader, started hosting seminars for
commodity firms in 1972. He launched Wasendorf & Son Inc. in
1980 and renamed it Peregrine in 1990.  Along the way, he used his authority as sole shareholder to
control access to the company’s bank statements and forged
documents using inkjet printers and online that even deceived
regulators, he said in the confession.  He adopted a “my way or the highway” attitude to make
Peregrine grow.  “Everyone knew I was the guy in charge,” he said in the
statement the FBI said was found with his suicide note on July 9
in his silver Chevrolet Cavalier. “If anyone questioned my
authority I would simply point out that I was the sole
shareholder,”  ‘Blunt Authority’  “With careful concealment and blunt authority I was able
to hide my fraud from others” at the firm, he’s quoted saying
in the statement. He even dictated to representatives of U.S.
Bancorp, where he kept customer money, to “interface” only
with him, Wasendorf said in his statement.  As his fraud advanced, Wasendorf opened an Italian
restaurant after moving the brokerage from  Chicago  to Cedar
Falls in 2009. He took a group of restaurant employees to  Italy 
for a week, staying at luxury hotels and visiting local
wineries, built a “green” building adjacent to the Beaver
Hills Country Club, and donated money to local hospitals to care
for children with rare diseases.  He sat on the board, chaired by billionaire Lee Bass, of
the unrelated Peregrine wild bird conservation organization and
the president committees of the  University of Iowa  and the
 University of Northern Iowa , according to his and other
websites. He gave Northern  Iowa ’s athletics department $2
million.  ‘Difficult Decision’  “I had no access to additional capital and I was forced
into a difficult decision,” he wrote in his confession, using a
computer at home, according to prosecutors. “Should I go out of
business or cheat? I guess my ego was too big to admit
failure.”  Peregrine is liquidating in bankruptcy after the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission sued, claiming that more
than $200 million of client money was misappropriated. While in
the hospital, Wasendorf told the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
his fraud had cost clients more than $100 million, according to
an FBI agent’s affidavit.  The restaurant on Main Street,  myVerona , which offers
braised rabbit cacciatore and crispy calamari fritti, posted a
sign this week stating it was “closed until further notice.”
 Peregrine Charities , donor since 2004 of more than $1.5 million
to hospitals, canceled a 2012 triathlon on July 10 owing to “a
suicide attempt yesterday morning and subsequent investigations
into the corporate sponsor of the charities,” according to its
website.  The bankruptcy petition lists more than $500 million in
assets and more than $100 million in liabilities. The brokerage
estimates it has more than 10,000 creditors, according to the
filing. Peregrine had 241 employees, of which 56 were retained
to help liquidate, a bankruptcy trustee said yesterday.  ‘False Statements’  “Wasendorf made false statements to the United States
Commodity Futures Trading Commission regarding the value of
customer segregated funds held by Wasendorf’s company, Peregrine
Financial Group, Inc.,” from 2010 to July 2012, U.S. Attorney
Stephanie Rose in  Cedar Rapids  said yesterday in a statement
announcing the charges.  Wasendorf tried to asphyxiate himself by funneling tailpipe
exhaust into his car outside the firm’s Cedar Falls office
building, authorities said.  “I have committed fraud. For this I feel constant and
intense guilt,” Wasendorf said in the confession, which he
confirmed he had written, according to an affidavit by FBI agent
William F. Langdon filed on July 11.  “Through a scheme of using false bank statements I have
been able to embezzle millions of dollars from customer accounts
at Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,” Wasendorf wrote, according
to the statement. “The forgeries started nearly 20 years ago
and have gone undetected until now.”  Company Office  Wasendorf left a copy of that statement for his son in the
company office before trying to kill himself.  Starting with the Firstar Bank, which became  U.S. Bank , and
the Harris Bank, he began forging the company’s bank statements,
“the very core of PFG,” the futures brokerage, he said. He
also made forgeries of official letters and correspondence from
the bank, along with trade confirmation statements. He used
Photo Shop, Excel, scanners, laser and inkjet printers to
produce “convincing forgeries” of almost every bank document.  After closing the Harris Bank account, he “only had to
falsify” one set of statements, he said, according to the
document the FBI identified as his confession.  Sole Access  The key to his 20-year fraud was maintaining sole access to
the company’s accounts at U.S. Bank, he said. The statements
were always delivered to him directly when they arrived by mail;
within a few hours he had made counterfeit statements and gave
the forgeries to his accounting department.  “No one else ever saw an actual U.S. Bank statement,” he
wrote in the confession.  He was the only one with online access to PFG’s account,
and instructed the bank’s representatives to “interface” only
with him. He would establish such “rules and procedures as each
new situation arose,” he said.  Forged statements and account confirmation forms contain
“purported” signatures of authorized U.S. Bank representatives
that were sent to regulators, according to the affidavit. A post
office box, which he opened in 2006 after presenting his
driver’s license and a car registration renewal form, has U.S.
Bank Fund LLC as a recipient of mail. That helped him trick
regulators into thinking they were dealing with U.S. Bancorp, a
person with direct knowledge of the inquiry said.  Wasendorf’s Son  Wasendorf’s son, referred to in the affidavit as Russ Jr.,
first examined a forged Peregrine bank statement on July 9,
obtaining it from Peregrine’s accounting department on the day
of his father’s suicide attempt, he told law enforcement
officers.  Financial statements based on a forged bank statement
showing Peregrine’s customer accounts at U.S. Bank with a
balance of $221.8 million as of Dec. 31 was sent to regulators
including the CFTC, according to the affidavit. The account
actually held only $6.3 million, according to the FBI.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).
The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-27488,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).
The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  