-- Easing Prices Bypass India as RBI Lacks Tetangco Scope
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2012-07-16T07:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/philippines-has-scope-to-ease-monetary-policy-tetangco-says.html
Moderating inflation pressure across
most of  Asia  offers central banks scope to cut  interest rates 
further in coming months, with Philippine Governor  Amando Tetangco  saying there is room for monetary easing.  The  Asian Development Bank  lowered its inflation forecast
for the region last week to 4.4 percent this year from a 4.6
percent pace forecast in April.  China  this month reported the
smallest price gains in more than two years.  India  today reported  inflation  unexpectedly eased while
remaining above 7 percent, suggesting the central bank may be
constrained even as counterparts ease.  South Korea  and China
surprised markets with a reduction in interest rates this month.  Emerging-market policy makers “have by far the greatest
room to counteract economic weakness,” JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts led by  Jan Loeys , chief market strategist in  New York ,
wrote in a July 13 note. They can “boost spending through
monetary stimulus, fiscal stimulus, or simply by providing more
clarity about their future actions,” they said.  Emerging-market policy rates remain a percentage point
above emerging-market inflation and have plenty of room to come
down in nominal terms, the analysts wrote.  Price gains are easing across most emerging markets, helped
by a decline in food and commodity prices. Inflation in China,
Asia’s biggest economy, slowed to 2.2 percent in June from a
year earlier and producer prices dropped for a fourth month.  The ADB also cut its 2012 growth forecast for Asian
economies excluding Japan to 6.6 percent from 6.9 percent,
citing the impact of Europe’s debt crisis and slower expansion
in China and India.  Moderating Inflation  In India, a weaker rupee,  government spending  and rising
food prices are helping maintain inflation risks. The benchmark
wholesale-price index rose 7.25 percent from a year earlier,
after climbing 7.55 percent in May, the commerce ministry said
in a statement in New Delhi today.  The rupee, which has slumped 19 percent against the dollar
in the past 12 months, strengthened 0.4 percent to 54.9450 per
dollar as of 12:40 p.m. in Mumbai. Asian stocks climbed, with
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index advancing 0.3 percent.  Elsewhere in Asia, the Philippines said overseas
remittances rose at a slower pace in May from a year earlier.
The European Union’s statistics office may say inflation in the
17-nation euro area in June was unchanged from a previous
estimate of 2.4 percent, while a survey forecasts  Switzerland 
will report industrial production fell in the first quarter from
the previous three months.  Europe, U.S.  In the U.S., the Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York may say
its general economic index rose to 4 this month, while the
Commerce Department is forecast to report retail sales climbed
for the first time in three months, surveys showed.
Moderating Inflation  The fastest inflation among the biggest  emerging markets 
prompted the  Reserve Bank of India  to unexpectedly leave
interest rates unchanged on June 18 even after the economy
expanded at the slowest pace since 2003.  “We expect the growth risks eventually to dominate the
RBI’s thinking and lead to greater monetary easing in the coming
months,” Barclays Plc economists led by Singapore-based Nigel Chalk wrote in a July 13 note. “However, given the complex
domestic politics, the timing of any policy loosening is
difficult to predict, especially given the RBI’s recent
hawkishness.”  Wen’s Fine-Tuning  The People’s Bank of China unexpectedly announced a
reduction in benchmark lending and deposit rates on July 5, the
second cut in a month, while the  Bank of Korea  lowered its
benchmark repurchase rate last week for the first time in more
than three years.  China’s economy  grew at the slowest pace in three years in
the second quarter, data released July 13 showed, and Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said yesterday the government will intensify fine-
tuning policies as the momentum for a recovery has yet to be
established.  Fiscal stimulus may be more appropriate for the region than
monetary easing, which risks spurring asset and price pressures,
 Frederic Neumann , Hong Kong-based co-head of Asian economic
research at HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote in a note today.  “Exports are about to drop off sharply, at least judging
from various lead indicators,” Neumann said. “To avoid sudden
weakness feeding on itself, measures are needed to bridge the
lull in growth. Asia’s most appropriate answer to the current
slump in growth, therefore, lies in comprehensive fiscal
measures, not in making money cheaper still.”  Policy Space  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Tetangco said more
easing may be possible as inflation in the Philippines moderates.  “The stance of monetary policy remains appropriate but
things can change -- a possible easing cannot be ruled out,” he
said in an interview in  Manila  on July 13. “While we have
sources of resilience, we also have policy space on the monetary
and fiscal sides to do more if necessary.”  Price pressures have cooled even as the $225 billion
economy  expanded 6.4 percent  in the first quarter from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in Southeast Asia based on a basket of
17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg. Consumer-price
gains slowed to 2.8 percent last month from a year earlier.  “One is never out of danger on inflation, but at this
point in time risks are on the downside,” Tetangco said. “The
growth of the economy is not at the level that would lead to a
breach of the inflation target.”  Philippine Inflation  Inflation will be in the lower half of his 3 percent to 5
percent target, said Tetangco, adding his forecast applies to
2012 and 2013. Economic expansion in the second quarter probably
remained healthy, he said, without providing an estimate. The
data are due to be released next month.  The central bank cut the rate it pays lenders for overnight
deposits twice earlier this year, by a combined 0.5 percentage
point to 4 percent, before leaving it unchanged in April and
June.  The next policy rate review is on July 26.  Central banks in emerging markets “have become more dovish
over the past one or two months and we do expect some monetary
loosening,”  Sebastien Barbe , Paris-based head of emerging
markets research and strategy at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a
July 12 note. “They may refrain from lowering rates quickly in
the short term, just in case the global economic momentum re-
accelerates at the end of the year, making the global backdrop
more prone to generate inflation pressure.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  