-- Treasuries Surge on Refuge Demand as Auctions Set Records
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-07-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/treasuries-surge-on-refuge-demand-as-auctions-set-records.html
Treasury yields fell close to all-
time lows as an almost insatiable desire for the safest assets
amid signs global growth is stalling helped the U.S. draw record
rates at 10- and 30-year debt auctions.  U.S. government debt  rallied for a third consecutive week
as Europe’s economy slipped toward its second recession in three
years amid a worsening debt crisis, lower-than-forecast growth
in  China  and the Federal Reserve disappointing some traders
looking for a hint of more stimulus. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will present his semi-annual report on the outlook for
the economy and monetary policy to Congress on July 18.  “Debt sales were strong even though yields were not far
off their record lows, which underscores the fear in investor
sentiment,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.9
billion as chief investment officer at United Nations Federal
Credit Union in New York. “The flight-to-quality demand is
still high given the economic slowing in the U.S. and around the
world, and the fact that we are no closer to a European
resolution.”  The yield on the  30-year bond  fell nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, on the week to 2.57 percent in  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched a
record low of 2.5089 percent on June 1.  The benchmark 10-year note yield declined six basis points
to 1.49 percent. It touched its lowest, 1.4387 percent, also on
June 1.  Debt Auctions  Bonds of other highly rated nations including  Germany , the
U.K.,  Japan  and  Australia  also rallied on concern central banks
need to take more action to sustain faltering global growth.  The long bonds were sold on July 12 at a yield of 2.580
percent, down from the previous mark of 2.72 percent at a June
14 sale. The 10-year note auction the day before drew a yield of
1.459 percent, compared with the previous low of 1.622 percent
set last month.  The note auction attracted record-high demand from a group
of investors that include pension funds and insurance companies.  “The theme for the week was the strength of the auction
despite record low yields -- demand was very strong, and there
remains very strong safe-haven buying in the markets,” said
Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government- and
agency-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors. “Any dips should
be quickly purchased unless something changes overseas in
 Europe . Buying dips in Treasuries is still the profitable
trade.”  Direct Bidders  Investors outside of the Fed’s primary dealer network that
place their bids at Treasury auctions directly with the
government, known as direct bidders, have purchased $32 billion
of the $153 billion 10-year notes and $15.1 billion of the $97
billion 30-year bonds sold at Treasury auctions so far this
year, government data show.  Direct purchases of 10-year notes have almost tripled
compared with this point last year, and have increased 43
percent for the long bond. Direct bidders bought  a record  45.4
percent of the Treasury’s $21 billion offering of 10-year notes
on July 11, or $9.5 billion. They bought 20.1 percent, or $2.6
billion, of the government’s $13 billion sale of 30-year bonds  During the first six months of 2012, primary-dealer trading
of U.S. government securities maturing in six years or longer
averaged $173.3 billion per week, a 14 percent increase over the
comparable period in 2007, according to Fed data. Issuance of
10-year notes and 30-year bonds totaled $216 billion in the
first half of this year, compared with $56 billion in the
comparable period in 2007.  ‘Yield, Safety’  “Investors are still hungry for yield, safety and
liquidity in this risk-off environment,” said Aaron Kohli, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, which as
a primary dealer is required to bid at auctions. “Even though
yields are incredibly low, it’s better than taking a loss in
risky assets, and the liquidity is worth paying for.”  Thirty-year bonds have returned 8.5 percent this year,
compared with 5.2 percent for 10-year notes and 0.1 percent for
two-year debt, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  The term premium, a model created by the Fed that includes
expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation, showed
Treasuries are the almost most expensive ever. The gauge fell to
a record negative 0.9617 percent on July 10. It was negative
0.9326 percent yesterday.  Recession ‘Possibility’  Volatility fell to 63.3 basis points, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index. It dropped to a five-year
low of 56.7 basis points on May 7, and has averaged 76 basis
points this year, touching a 2012 high of 95.4 basis points on
June 15. It reached a record high of 264.6 basis points in
October 2008 as the financial crisis intensified. The index
measures price swings based on options.  Treasury 10-year note yields will fall to 1.35 percent by
the end of the year, according to Credit Suisse Group AG, a
primary dealer.  “The risk-appetite rally has stalled,” Credit Suisse
researchers wrote in a note yesterday. “The market now must
consider the real possibility of recession before the Fed even
gets around to executing an exit strategy.”  The  European Central Bank  is prepared to ease monetary
policy, including cutting its deposit rate further, if the
region’s financial crisis worsens, according to a Medley Global
Advisors report obtained by Bloomberg News.  Operation Twist  The Fed announced on June 20 it would extend its Operation
Twist program, which is replacing $667 billion of shorter-term
securities in its holdings with longer-term bonds to keep
borrowing costs down.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing from 2008 to 2011 to
support the economy. Minutes from the Fed’s June policy meeting
failed to signal more stimulus measures to spur economic growth.  Consumer prices were unchanged last month, after falling
0.3 percent in May, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before the report on July 17.  “There’s a lot of concerns out there, and global growth is
diminishing,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist
in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of 21 primary dealers
that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “The expectations of
central banks helping out, doing something” to stimulate
activity, are growing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  