-- Saudi Security Forces Hurt by Gunmen in Oil-Rich Province
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-07-16T05:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/saudi-security-forces-hurt-by-gunmen-in-oil-rich-province.html
(Corrects name of village in first paragraph in story
originally published July 14.)  Four Saudi security personnel were
injured in an attack by masked gunmen while on patrol in Saihat
in the oil-rich  Eastern Province , the  Saudi Press Agency 
reported, citing an Interior Ministry spokesman.  Gunmen also fired at a police station in Awwamiya and threw
a Molotov cocktail while riding motorcycles, the Riyadh-based
news service said today, citing Major General Mansour al-Turki.
One of the assailants was killed in the attack on the station
and three others escaped, it said.  While Sunni-majority Saudi Arabia largely avoided the
unrest that spread across the Arab world last year, minority
Shiite protesters have clashed with security forces in Awwamiya,
al-Qatif and other eastern towns. In February, Saudi Arabia
accused “a number of elements” of trying to provoke violence
by firing on security forces in Awwamiya.  “A new cycle of Shiite protests against the Saudi regime
and its policing tactics is developing in the Eastern Province
of  Saudi Arabia ,” Crispin Hawes, director for the  Middle East 
and North Africa at Eurasia Group in  London , wrote in an e-
mailed note yesterday. “The immediate implications for state
stability and crude oil production are limited, but the
repercussions for the stability of the province in the longer-
term are potentially significant.”  Oil pipelines run near the village to  Ras Tanura , the
country’s largest refinery, about 20 kilometers (12 miles) away.
Awwamiya is close to the al-Qatif oil field, which produces as
much as 500,000 barrels a day. Saudi Arabia is the world’s
biggest oil exporter.  Cleric Arrested  The attacks came about five days after Saudi security
forces arrested dissident Shiite cleric Nimr al-Nimr in Awwamiya
earlier this month, the Saudi Press Agency reported on July 8.
Two Shiite men were killed after his arrest though there were no
security confrontations, the  Interior Ministry  said said in a
statement sent by mobile-phone text message on July 9.  Videos posted on Youtube and Al-Jazeera showed
demonstrators in the streets al-Qatif and Awwamiya after the
arrest of al-Nimr. The authenticity of the videos couldn’t be
verified by Bloomberg News. The Interior Ministry said a
“limited number of people have assembled” in Awwamiya.  “The current demonstrations are more severe and appear to
be more coordinated than previous incidents,” Hawes said.  The U.S. State Department noted in a human-rights report on
Saudi Arabia published in 2009 that Shiites in the kingdom face
“significant political, economic, legal, social and religious
discrimination condoned by the government.”  Behind Riots  U.S. citizens living in or considering travel to al-Qatif
and Awwamiya should exercise caution and be aware of the
potential for protests that can result in violence, the American
Embassy in  Riyadh  said in an e-mailed statement July 9. There is
a potential for further demonstrations, the embassy said.  Awwamiya, a village north of al-Qatif on the  Persian Gulf ,
was the scene of much larger demonstrations in 2009 after police
sought to arrest al-Nimr, who had said in a sermon that Saudi
Shiites may be able to seek a state of their own in the future.
Al-Nimr has been one of the people behind riots in Awwamiya, the
Interior Ministry said after his arrest.  Saudi Arabia has accused Shiite-led Iran of interfering in
the affairs of Arab countries in the Persian Gulf, home to
three-fifths of the world’s oil reserves.  Iran  denies this and
accuses Sunni rulers in  Bahrain  and Saudi Arabia of
discriminating against Shiites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  