-- Senate Democrats Split From Obama on Taxing Dividends
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/senate-democrats-split-from-obama-on-taxing-dividends.html
Senate Democrats  are seeking to set
the top tax rate on dividends at 23.8 percent, almost 20
percentage points lower than the proposal offered by President
 Barack Obama  in his budget.  That detail, along with a top estate tax rate of 45 percent
and a one-year patch to prevent the alternative minimum tax from
affecting millions more families, are part of the written
version of Senate Democrats’ attempt to extend expiring income
tax cuts for one year. The core of the proposal would extend the
George W. Bush-era cuts through 2013 for 98 percent of
households while letting them expire on income above $200,000
for individuals and above $250,000 for married couples.  A Senate Democratic aide, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, confirmed the details. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said last week that the Senate will
vote before the August recess.  Obama has made his push for a tax-cut extension for all but
the highest-income families a central theme in his presidential
campaign last week. He has been asking Congress to send him the
plan for his signature as soon as possible.  “Let’s skip the unnecessary drama, the needless delays and
all the partisan posturing and let’s just do the right thing for
the people who sent us here to serve,” Democrat Obama said in
his weekly radio and internet address.  Aside from the lack of bipartisan support preventing
action, until now there hasn’t been a version of Obama’s plan in
legislative form.  Counting Votes  When asked about his ability to get a majority of the
Senate to support Obama’s plan, Reid expressed confidence.  “One of the things I’m pretty good at around here is
counting votes, so I don’t think anybody has to worry about
that,” he said July 12.  Democrats control 53 votes in the 100-seat Senate, and
Republicans oppose the Democrats’ plan because it doesn’t extend
all of the expiring tax cuts. High-income taxpayers, they note,
often pay taxes on their business income on their individual
returns.  Two members of Reid’s caucus,  Jim Webb , a Virginia
Democrat, and  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut Independent who
caucuses with Democrats, have said publicly they will oppose the
measure, meaning nearly all of the rest of the chamber’s
Democrats would have to support the bill if it is to garner a
majority vote.  Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat who is in a tough
re-election race this year, will support the bill, Tester’s
spokeswoman, Andrea Helling, said in an e-mail. Missouri Senator
 Claire McCaskill , another Democrat in a difficult race this
year, has said she supports Obama’s tax plan.  Raising Taxes  “Raising taxes on job creators during a jobs shortage
makes about as much sense as cutting off the water supply during
a drought,” Senator  Rob Portman  of  Ohio  said in the weekly
Republican address.  If Congress doesn’t act, tax rates on ordinary income,
 capital gains , dividends and estates would all increase in 2013.
The potential changes are part of the $607 billion so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases that
the  Congressional Budget Office  has warned could push the
country into a recession.  The proposed bill would set the basic top rate at 20
percent for both capital gains and dividends. The 2010 health
care law included an additional 3.8 percent tax, yielding the
23.8 percent rate. In his 2013 budget, Obama called for taxing
dividends as ordinary income, subjecting them to a top rate of
39.6 percent and the 3.8 percent surcharge for a 43.4 percent
total.  Obama’s previous budgets had included the 20 percent rate
on dividends.  Estate Tax  On the estate tax, the Democratic proposal would set a $3.5
million per-person exemption and a 45 percent top rate, the same
proposal Obama had made in his budget. That’s less generous to
estates and heirs than the current rules, which have a $5.12
million exemption and a 35 percent top rate.  In 2010, Obama signed a law that extended the income tax
cuts and set the estate tax at the current levels.  The change back to the estate tax rules that had been in
effect in 2009 would increase the number of taxable estate tax
returns to at least  7,000 from 4,000  in 2013, according to the
 Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan research group in  Washington .  The alternative minimum tax is a parallel tax system that
was originally designed to prevent high-income taxpayers from
using legal deductions and credits to eliminate their tax
liability. The exemption in that system isn’t indexed for
inflation. If Congress does nothing, the AMT would affect 31.2
million households in 2012, up from 4.3 million in 2011.  The Democrats’ bill would limit the AMT’s reach for the
2012 tax year. It wouldn’t affect the 2013 tax year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  