-- Aiding Italy on Borrowing Costs Isn’t Justified, Weidmann Says
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-07-14T13:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/spain-needs-reform-beyond-banks-weidmann-tells-boersen-zeitung.html
Italy’s borrowing costs don’t
justify asking the euro area’s rescue fund for help, Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann said.  “Of course I can understand why a country would want to
lower its refinancing costs,” Weidmann said in an interview
with Boersen-Zeitung e-mailed to Bloomberg News by the German
central bank he heads. “But because of the last-resort aspect
of financial aid in the currency union, that alone can’t be a
justification for granting it.”  “If Italy stays the course on reforms, it’s on a good
path,” Weidmann told the German  newspaper . Asked whether the
euro area’s third-largest economy needs to tap the planned
European Stability Mechanism, he said, “No, I don’t see Italy
in that situation.”  The European Central Bank Governing Council member’s
comments indicate German reluctance to allow the government-run
bailout funds to buy Italian bonds to insulate that country from
the debt crisis. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  has sought a
“debt shield” against spillover from the crisis at Spain’s
banks, which are getting as much as 100 billion euros ($122
billion) in rescue loans.  The European bailout for Spanish banks would be more
effective if aid conditions extended to the country’s economy,
Weidmann said. He cited high unemployment and problems in
Spain’s regions as signaling a “considerable need” for further
action, according to the interview.  Beyond Banks  “If investors saw that the conditions for the aid program
go beyond the banking sector, that would have a positive effect
on the  bond market ,” Weidmann said, referring to Spain. The
Spanish government’s recent policy changes indicate that it
understands the need for broad reform, he said.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  outlined 65 billion
euros in social-welfare cuts and sales-tax increases on July 11
in a bid to retain financing and prevent a meltdown of the
fourth-biggest euro economy. The measures are Rajoy’s fourth
austerity package in seven months in office.  While setting up a European bank supervisor would be
“helpful,” any “banking union” must avoid pooling risk by
shifting the result of wrong economic and financial policies to
banks’ balance sheets, Weidmann told Boersen-Zeitung.  “We should never underestimate the complexity and the
risks of such an undertaking,” he said.  Loans to Spain  Loans to Spain will go via the government’s FROB bank-
restructuring agency and the aim is to convert them into direct
injections once the setup of a single European bank supervisor
makes that feasible, Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said on July 10.  On  Greece , Weidmann said stretching the timeline for the
country’s economic overhaul under the conditions of its two
bailouts “won’t increase the political acceptance” of the
austerity measures. Ireland and  Portugal  have achieved
“remarkable progress” while receiving rescue funding, he said.  With the debt crisis in its third year, Weidmann said he is
concerned that the ECB can’t meet expectations to stem the
turmoil “because the underlying problems can’t be solved with
ever more liquidity.” Sovereign-bond buying by the ECB
“weakens the incentives for solid budget policies,” he said.  The worsening of the euro area’s economic outlook and
decline in  oil prices  justify the July 5 interest-rate cut by
the ECB, Weidmann was cited as saying in a separate interview in
the Dutch newspaper Het Financieele Dagblad today.  June Summit  European government leaders caused damage by leaving room
for interpretation in the outcome of their last summit in June,
giving the impression the meeting was about only shared
liability for banks, the Amsterdam-based newspaper quoted him as
saying.  Euro-area nations “should discuss giving up sovereignty
with the same openness as the question of how to resolve the
debt problem collectively,” he told the newspaper.  Weidmann backed giving the German constitutional court “a
bit more time” than usual to consider the validity of lawsuits
aimed at blocking German participation in the European Stability
Mechanism, the euro region’s permanent rescue fund that was
originally scheduled to start up on July 9.  Quick German ratification of the ESM “can’t create lasting
calm in the markets” on its own and the temporary European
Financial Stability Facility has the capacity to aid  Spain  and
Cyprus, Weidmann told Boersen-Zeitung.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  