-- Stiglitz Slams Wealthy 1%, Moyo Foresees War: Top Business Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/stiglitz-slams-wealthy-1-moyo-foresees-war-top-business-books.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  portrays the U.S. government as the billionaire’s best
friend, while former banker Dambisa Moyo presents a dark look at
China’s “commodity crusade” in two of the best business books
so far this year.  Here’s a list of recommended titles.  “Are You Smart Enough to Work at Google?” by  William Poundstone  (Little, Brown). A guide to brain-bending interview
questions asked at Google and other innovative companies. “You
are shrunk to the height of a nickel and thrown into a
blender,” one begins. What do you do in the 60 seconds before
the blades begin whirring?  “The Art of the Sale” by Philip Delves Broughton (Penguin
Press/Portfolio). The journalist who brought us “Ahead of the
Curve,” a chronicle of how he earned an MBA at Harvard Business
School, uncovers the dark arts of sales -- a discipline absent
from the HBS curriculum.  “Demystifying the Chinese Economy” by Justin Yifu Lin
(Cambridge). A patriotic yet pragmatic look at how China notched
up average annual growth of 9.9 percent for three decades.  “A Disposition to Be Rich” by Geoffrey C. Ward (Knopf).
Ferdinand Ward, the Bernie Madoff of the Gilded Age, comes to
life in this elegant and perversely fascinating biography of the
swindler who ruined  Ulysses S. Grant .  “End This Depression Now!” by  Paul Krugman  (Norton). The
Princeton economist makes his case for more government spending
and less austerity. You can almost hear his teeth gnash as he
takes on the “Austerians.”  “Engines of Change” by  Paul Ingrassia  (Simon & Schuster).
Ingrassia, who shared a 1993 Pulitzer Prize for writing on
management turmoil at General Motors Corp., presents a quirky
history of American culture as seen through 15 cars.  “Exile on Wall Street” by Mike Mayo (Wiley). Mayo, an
old-school bank analyst, chronicles his battle to change the
status quo on Wall Street.  “Finance and the Good Society” by Robert J. Shiller
(Princeton). The influential Yale University economist argues
that finance, for all its manifest failings of late, remains a
force for good in society.  “Financial Turmoil in Europe and the United States” by
 George Soros  (PublicAffairs). This is a compilation of op-ed
articles that the billionaire investor wrote as the euro crisis
boiled up. As a retread, it displays Soros’s knack for assessing
market linkages and psychology on the fly.  “Getting It Wrong” by William A. Barnett (MIT). Poor
monetary data were a root cause of the financial crisis, argues
Barnett, a University of Kansas economist and former Federal
Reserve Board staffer.  “The (Honest) Truth About Dishonesty” by  Dan Ariely 
(Harper/HarperCollins). We like to think of ourselves as honest.
Yet experiments show that we all cheat, says the behavioral
economist.  “The Hour Between Dog and Wolf” by  John Coates  (Fourth
Estate/ Penguin Press). During his 12 years at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Merrill Lynch & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG, Coates
began to wonder whether testosterone and other hormones were
impairing the judgment of traders -- and fueling bubbles and
busts. So he retrained as a neuroscientist and conducted tests
on trading floors. He synthesizes his findings in this highly
speculative and absorbing book.  “The Idea Factory” by Jon Gertner (Penguin Press). A rich
history of Bell Labs, a hothouse of 20th-century innovation.  “Luck” by  Ed Smith  (Bloomsbury). Serendipity molds
everything from sports to politics and finance, argues the
former cricketer.  “The New Geography of Jobs” by Enrico Moretti (Houghton
Mifflin Harcourt). A persuasive look at why some U.S. cities
have prospered in recent decades while others have declined.  “Paper Promises” by  Philip Coggan  (Allen Lane/
PublicAffairs). Our Ponzi scheme “is running out of suckers,"
the Economist’s Buttonwood columnist argues in this look at
how West’s debt crisis may overturn the global economic order.  “The Power of Habit” by Charles Duhigg (Heinemann/Random
House). Dipping into neurological case studies, Duhigg explores
how our brains form habits and how we can change them. Examples
range from murderous sleepwalkers to Goldman Sachs.  “The Price of Inequality” by  Joseph E. Stiglitz  ( Allen
Lane /Norton). Economic growth and democracy suffer when the top
1 percent of Americans earns a fifth of the country’s income and
controls more than a third of its wealth, the Nobel Prize-
winning economist says.  “What Money Can’t Buy” by Michael Sandel (Allen
Lane/Farrar, Straus and Giroux). The Harvard University
professor who wrote “Justice” explores the moral limits of
markets in civil society, from baseball to death bonds.  “White House Burning” by  Simon Johnson  and  James Kwak 
(Pantheon). A survey of how the U.S. government, ignoring
 Alexander Hamilton ’s precepts, piled up more than $15 trillion
in debt.  “Winner Take All” by Dambisa Moyo (Allen Lane/Basic).
China has embarked on a “commodity crusade,” becoming the
preeminent buyer of resources ranging from metals to foodstuffs,
says the former Goldman Sachs banker. The result may be
“famine, conflict and worse” for everyone else in the decades
to come.  “Why Nations Fail” by  Daron Acemoglu  and  James Robinson 
(Crown/Profile). Why do some nations prosper while others remain
mired in poverty? The answer lies in politics, the two
economists argue in this compelling and readable study.  (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 