-- Sudan, South Sudan Presidents Hold One-on-One Meeting
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-07-14T21:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/sudan-south-sudan-presidents-hold-one-on-one-meeting-1-.html
Sudan ’s President Umar al-Bashir and
 South Sudan ’s President  Salva Kiir  held talks after African
leaders called on them to resolve issues stemming from the split
of the two nations about a year ago.  The two leaders met today on the sidelines of an African
Union summit in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, as they
sought a “comprehensive agreement on all issues,” said  Pagan Amum , South Sudan’s chief negotiator in the peace talks.  “They are talking about peace,” Amum said in an interview
in the city today.  Sudan and South Sudan’s presidents told African leaders
they are committed to resolving disputes over issues including
oil fees and borders before an Aug. 2 deadline, Haile Menkerios,
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon’s special envoy, said in an
earlier interview.  “The two presidents reconfirmed they are ready to comply
with the African Union’s Peace and Security Council road map and
security council resolution,” he said following a meeting of
the organ. “I would hope to believe that the two, consistent
with what they’ve declared, will meet their commitments.”  Since the south’s secession a year ago, African Union-
mediated talks between the two countries have failed to yield an
agreement on oil and other issues, including the rights of
citizens of both countries on either side of the border and the
status of the disputed territory of Abyei and other contested
border regions.  Brink of War  The countries came to the brink of war in April after the
talks collapsed. Sudanese fighter jets launched air strikes
inside South Sudanese territory, while the Southern army
occupied and then withdrew from Heglig, a contested area that
accounts for half of Sudan’s oil output.  South Sudan shut down its 350,000 barrels a day of oil
production after it accused Bashir’s government of stealing $815
million worth of crude. Sudan said it was confiscated to pay
unpaid transportation fees.  On May 2, the UN Security Council expressed its intention
to impose sanctions if the countries failed to resolve disputes
within three months.  “I think that would be left for PSC and UNSC to decide at
that time, but so far they’ve been making progress,” Menkerios
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  