-- Syria Forces Said to Kill 52 Civilians in Latest Violence
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-07-14T21:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/syria-forces-said-to-kill-22-civilians-in-latest-violence.html
Syrian security forces were blamed
for the deaths of dozens people as clashes persisted three days
after what has been called one of the bloodiest massacres in the
country’s 17-month conflict.  Syrian forces killed 52 civilians, the Syrian Network for
Human Rights said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Five
people, including a pregnant woman, died during government
shelling of the central city of Homs, the Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights said in a separate statement. At least five
soldiers died in the fighting there, according to the U.K.-based
group.  The international community has failed to put an end to the
conflict, which the opposition says has left more than 17,000
Syrians dead. International pressure on President Bashar al- Assad’s government must continue, French President  Francois Hollande  said yesterday in a televised interview.  The UN Security Council will vote July 18 in  New York  on a
Western-drafted resolution threatening Assad with measures such
as sanctions. The three-month mandate for the UN’s Syrian
mission expires July 20.  Syrian forces in tanks surrounded the village of Tremseh,
in Hama province, on July 12 and bombed the area before entering
and killing civilians, Abdulbaset Sieda, president of the
opposition Syrian National Council, said on CNN’s “Fareed
Zakaria GPS,” according to a transcript of the interview
scheduled for broadcast today.  Message of Terror  “The objective behind this massacre is to send a message
of terror to the citizens and push the country toward a civil
war between factions,” Sieda said.  The opposition group said as many as 305 people were killed
in the assault on the Sunni Muslim village, some as they tried
to flee the town. The Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights 
estimates more than 150 people died when government forces
stormed the village.  “Dozens were summarily executed,” the group said. “Some
were killed by knives, blunt objects. Some of those killed were
from neighboring villages.” The state-run  Syrian Arab News
Agency , citing an unidentified military official, said the
deaths were the result of a clash between security forces and
“terrorist” groups after local residents called for help.  A UN peacekeeping team arrived in Tremseh July 13 after
learning there was a cease-fire. UN observers reported that the
attack appeared to target specific groups, mainly army defectors
and activists.  Pools of Blood  The UN Supervision Mission in Syria said the observers
found pools of blood and splattered blood in several homes, as
well as a burned school and damaged homes. It couldn’t determine
the number of casualties, and plans to return to the village
today.  The UN mission said in a statement it is “deeply concerned
about the escalating level of violence in  Syria  and calls on the
government to cease the use of heavy weapons on population
centers and on the parties to put down their weapons and choose
the path of non-violence for the welfare of the Syrian people
who have suffered enough.”  Efforts to resolve the Syrian conflict have put the U.S.
and its European allies at odds with  Russia . The Western nations
signaled they won’t support an extension of a UN observer
mission in Syria unless real pressure is put on Assad. Their
draft proposes a 45-day extension. Russia proposed July 10 an
alternative resolution that would extend the monitors’ stay for
90 days.  Turkey’s Warning  Turkey ’s prime minister warned Syria’s leaders that the
Syrian people will “make them pay” for killings by government
forces, the  Associated Press  reported.  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
described the violence as “the footsteps of a regime that is on
its way out,” AP said.  Sieda said that his group met with Russian officials for
more than three hours.  “We found that the Russian point of view is still the
same,” he said. “We hope they change their position because
things cannot continue as they are right now in Syria.”  He said that Western nations, including the  United States ,
should work through the  Security Council . If that doesn’t
succeed, he said, the U.S. and other countries “can move
outside the scope of the Security Council,” without providing
further details.  A call to the mobile phone of Interior Minister Mohammad
Ibrahim al-Shaar to seek comment on yesterday’s reported
incidents wasn’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  