-- U.S. Olympians Won’t Wear ‘Made in USA’ Uniforms Until 2014
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-14/u-s-olympians-won-t-wear-made-in-usa-uniforms-until-2014.html
U.S. Olympians won’t be sporting
uniforms “made in America” until the 2014  Winter Games .  The U.S. Olympic Committee came under fire from members of
Congress for commissioning uniforms that were manufactured in
China. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said the outfits should
be put in a pile and burned.  Scott Blackmun, chief executive officer of the U.S. Olympic
Committee, said yesterday it was too late to have new uniforms
made for the opening and closing ceremonies for the Summer Games
in London, which begin July 27.  “With athletes having already arrived in London, and the
apparel distribution process beginning this weekend, we are
unfortunately not able to make a change for London,” Blackmun
said in an e-mailed statement.  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) , maker of the Summer Games’ outfits,
said it would ensure that the uniforms are made in the U.S. for
the 2014 Winter Games.  “ Ralph Lauren  promises to lead the conversation within our
industry and our government to address the issue to increase
manufacturing in the United States,” the New York-based company
said in a statement. “We have committed to producing the
opening and closing ceremony Team USA uniforms in the United
States that will be worn for the 2014  Olympic Games .”  Shortly after Reid was made aware of the Chinese-made
uniforms, he said, “If they have to wear nothing but singlets
that say ’USA’ on it painted by hand, that’s what they should
do.”  Ohio Democrat  Sherrod Brown  wrote, in a letter to the USOC,
“Our athletes -- and the apparel they wear -- should represent
America. We know how to make things in America, which is why
it’s such an embarrassment that Chinese factories were used to
manufacture Team USA’s uniforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  