-- T-Mobile USA Said to Be Target of Trujillo Buyout Attempt
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-08-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/t-mobile-usa-said-to-be-target-of-trujillo-buyout-attempt.html
Former telecommunications executive
 Sol Trujillo  is trying to drum up interest in a buyout of
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA unit and has so far been
unsuccessful in pitching a deal to private-equity firms
including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  KKR & Co., (KKR)  according to people
with knowledge of the matter.  The former head of phone companies U.S. West
Communications, Orange SA and Australia’s  Telstra Corp. (TLS)  has
approached the firms about bidding for all or part of T-Mobile
USA, the country’s fourth-largest wireless carrier, said the
people, who asked not to be identified as the talks are private.  The private-equity firms that have held preliminary
discussions with Trujillo have reacted with skepticism to the
proposal due to its size and cost of financing, the people said.
The unit may now be worth $30 billion, with its mobile-phone
frequencies the most valuable element, said Atlantic Equities
analyst Christopher Watts.  T-Mobile USA  has closed call centers and cut jobs to reduce
costs after a $39 billion sale to  AT&T Inc. (T)  failed last year
because regulators opposed the combination. Deutsche Telekom,
based in Bonn, is seeking to reduce its exposure to the U.S. as
it lags behind  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T in winning clients in
the largest mobile market.  ‘Cheap Financing’  Trujillo has also sought private-equity interest in a
takeover of No. 3 operator  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , one person said.  Sprint Nextel yesterday rose 2.5 percent to $4.92 in  New
York  trading. Deutsche Telekom ended Frankfurt trading little
changed at 9.20 euros.  “Financing is cheap right now. But even though it’s
possible, it doesn’t mean that such a deal is going to happen,”
said  Tom Taulli , a Newport Beach, California-based consultant
for mergers and acquisitions. “We’ve not seen many $10 billion-
plus leveraged buyouts anywhere.”  Reached by telephone, Trujillo declined to comment.
Representatives of Deutsche Telekom, Sprint, KKR and Blackstone
declined to comment.  Deutsche Telekom remains open to a whole or partial sale of
its U.S. division and would use the money to invest in its
European assets, which include mobile businesses in Germany, the
U.K. and the Netherlands, according to a person familiar with
the matter. A sale to private-equity investors hasn’t been
discussed by Deutsche Telekom’s board, the person said.  The German company earlier this year discussed a
combination of its U.S. business with  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS) , people familiar with those talks said in May.  Data Demand  Wireless operators in North America and Europe are
struggling to find new sources of growth as the popularity of
smartphones reaches a plateau and network costs rise to meet
demand for mobile video and music.  With U.S. carriers struggling to accommodate surging data
use in big cities, most potential buyers “would find T-Mobile’s
spectrum far more compelling than its customer base,” said
Atlantic Equities’ Watts.  Trujillo, 60, has run telecommunications businesses on
three continents, getting his start at AT&T Corp., then known as
Ma Bell, before its 1984 breakup. He eventually became chief
executive officer of U.S. West, one of the seven Bell operating
companies, and later ran French mobile operator Orange for a
year.  After Orange’s takeover by  France Telecom SA (FTE) , Trujillo in
2005 became the CEO of Melbourne-based carrier Telstra, from
which he resigned in 2009 after a tenure marked by clashes with
the Australian government over telecommunications regulation.  Regulatory Concerns  A stand-alone deal to buy T-Mobile might face fewer
obstacles from regulators than the AT&T acquisition. U.S.
competition authorities were concerned that combining T-Mobile
with AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier, would
reduce competition.  AT&T CEO  Randall Stephenson  and Deutsche Telekom CEO Rene Obermann ultimately agreed the costs of continuing to fight for
the deal were too high after the U.S. Justice Department sued to
stop the combination, a person familiar with the matter said at
the time. The company also faced possible opposition from the
Federal Communications Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  