-- Ablyazov Associate Jailed in Cyprus for Contempt in BTA Case
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-08-10T13:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/ablyazov-associate-jailed-in-cyprus-for-contempt-in-bta-case.html
A British man accused of helping
former BTA Bank Chairman  Mukhtar Ablyazov  steal $290 million
from the lender was sentenced by a court in Cyprus to two months
in prison for failing to comply with search warrants.  Paul Kythreotis, who lives in Cyprus, was jailed for
contempt of court in a case BTA filed to uncover more evidence
of Ablyazov’s alleged fraud, the bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. BTA was the biggest lender in  Kazakhstan  before
it defaulted on $12 billion of debt in 2009.  Kythreotis, who helped manage some of Ablyazov’s offshore
companies, is the first of the ex-chairman’s former business
associates to be jailed since BTA accused him in U.K. lawsuits
of siphoning billions of dollars from the bank. Ablyazov, who
moved to  London , is on the run after being sentenced in February
by a U.K. court to 22 months in prison for lying under oath.  “We have pursued these committal actions to break the
networks through which Mr. Ablyazov and his associates can
improperly hide and disperse assets,” Pavel Prosyankin, BTA’s
managing director overseeing the asset recovery process, said in
the statement.  Kythreotis’s lawyer, Riccos Erotokritou, didn’t immediately
return a call or e-mail seeking comment. Kythreotis has said he
wasn’t aware of fraud and that he had to lie because of threats
from other defendants.  Kythreotis was sentenced in October in a related case in
Britain to 21 months in prison for lying in testimony and
failing to turn over documents related to the alleged fraud. He
didn’t attend the hearing and wasn’t in the U.K.  The U.K. Court of Appeal upheld Kythreotis’s sentence last
year, saying he admitted his earlier evidence was false and that
he had an “enormous” e-mail archive that he hadn’t disclosed.  The U.K. case is JSC  BTA Bank (BTAS)  v. Solodchenko, A3/2010/2730,
Court of Appeal (London)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  