-- Absolute Fuels Owner Indicted on Fuel-Credit Fraud Charges
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-08-10T00:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/absolute-fuels-owner-indicted-on-fuel-credit-fraud-charges-1-.html
Jeffrey David Gunselman, the chief
executive officer of defunct bio-diesel fuel company Absolute
Fuels LLC, was indicted by a federal grand jury in  Texas  on
charges he schemed to generate fake renewable fuel credits and
sell them to  oil companies  and brokers.  Gunselman, 30, was indicted yesterday in Lubbock on charges
that from September 2010 to October 2011 he falsely represented
he was in the business of producing bio-diesel fuel when he
didn’t own a plant to make the product. Gunselman registered
with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, generated false
credits and sold them on an exchange, according to the
indictment.  Oil companies and brokers purchase credits to demonstrate
compliance with federal regulations mandating use of certain
bio-diesel fuels. The credits can be traded, held for future
compliance or retired to satisfy a fuel producer’s obligations
under the law.  Under terms of the 2007 law, refiners must produce a total
of 1 billion gallons a year of biodiesel, which can be made from
soy oil or leftover restaurant grease. Under the EPA rules,
instead of making the fuel themselves, refiners can buy credits
from other producers to fulfill their obligations.  Widespread Fraud  The EPA has allowed widespread fraud in the market for
government-mandated biodiesel credits, lobbyists for refiners
told a congressional panel last month.  Charles Drevna , president of the American Fuel &
Petrochemical Manufacturers, told the House Energy and Commerce
Committee’s oversight panel last month that victims of fraud
were being penalized because the EPA forces refiners to buy
replacement credits.  “We are aware of no other government program that
penalizes the victims of fraud,” Drevna testified.  The indictment charged Gunselman with 51 counts of  wire
fraud , 24 counts of  money laundering  and four counts of making
false statements.  Dan Cogdell , a Houston-based attorney for Gunselman, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call seeking comment on the
indictment.  The scheme netted Gunselman at least $42 million, according
to the office of U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldana of the Northern
District of Texas. Gunselman used the proceeds to purchase a
1984 Gulfstream jet for $1.6 million, a 2011 Bentley for
$254,506, a 1982 M60A1 Patton Military tank for $355,000, a
ranch in Boerne, Texas, for $2.6 million and other luxury items,
Saldana said in a statement. Authorities seek the forfeiture of
$42 million along with the real estate, vehicles, jewelry and
airplane.  Gunselman was arrested on July 19 and appeared before a
U.S. Magistrate judge in  San Antonio . A date hasn’t been set for
his arraignment in Lubbock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in  Fort Worth  at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  