-- Hackers Encrypt Health Records and Hold Data for Ransom
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-08-10T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/hackers-encrypt-health-records-and-hold-data-for-ransom.html
As more patient records go digital,
a recent hacker attack on a small medical practice shows the big
risks involved with electronic files.  The Surgeons of Lake County, a medical facility in the
northern Illinois suburb of Libertyville, revealed last month
that hackers had burrowed deeply into its computer network,
infiltrating a server where e-mails and electronic medical
records were stored, Bloomberg.com reported on its Tech Blog.  Unlike many other data breaches, the hackers made no
attempt to keep their presence a secret. In fact, they all but
fired a flare to announce the break-in, taking the extreme step
of encrypting their illicit haul and posting a digital ransom
note demanding payment for the password.  The doctors turned the server off and notified the
authorities, refusing to pay.  “This story is so ironic -- most people worry that their
health records will be spread all over their local newspaper,”
said Dorothy Glancy, a professor at Santa Clara University’s law
school who specializes in digital privacy. “But in this case,
the doctors -- in fact, nobody --  can access these records.”  The Surgeons of Lake County isn’t the first health care
provider to be targeted by extortionists. The incident, which
was spotted by  privacy blogger Dissent Doe  in a  federal database
of health-related breaches , showcases an unsettling new strain
of opportunism that is emerging as criminals try to exploit the
industry’s shift to digital medical records.  Data Breach  The attackers’ choice of tactics, particularly the use of
encryption, indicates a level of sophistication and targeting
that suggests they knew what they were doing, said Rick Kam,
president of ID Experts, a Portland, Oregon-based company that
makes data-breach prevention technology and specializes in
health care.  Based on the number of practices moving to electronic
health records, “many more” of these types of breaches should
be expected, Kam wrote in an e-mail.  Until now, medical-data blackmail has been a niche crime,
largely because of the difficulty and risk involved. Spam and
online bank fraud are easier ways for fraudsters to make money.  One case involved  Express Scripts (ESRX) , the large prescription-
drug benefits manager, and a threat it received in 2008. Someone
sent the St. Louis-based company personal information on about
75 of its members, including identification numbers and
prescription records, and demanded an unspecified sum. The
company refused to pay, and eventually told 700,000 customers
that their information could have been exposed.  Patient Confidentiality  In 2003 and 2004, health care facilities came under fire
for outsourcing their transcription chores when several
California hospitals were blackmailed by their own workers in
India and  Pakistan .  The  spiraling cost  of health care and lack of insurance for
millions of people have made medical  identity theft  a growing
risk. Security and privacy risks are also emerging with the
creation of “health information exchanges,” vast databases
that states are setting up to handle electronic medical records.  It’s unclear whether the Illinois surgical center’s records
were backed up or have been recovered. The organization declined
to comment.  “Safeguarding every patient’s personal information is a
top priority at the Surgeons of Lake County,” Scott Otto, the
center’s president, said in a  statement . “We are devoting
significant people and technological resources to help protect
patient confidentiality.”  For all of the benefits of making health records
electronic, this incident highlights a downside, said Santa
Clara University’s Glancy.  “This is a warning bell,” she said. “Maybe they’re the
canary in the  coal mine  that unpredictable things can happen to
data once it’s digitized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  