-- Thailand’s Biggest Water Provider Rises After Profit Gain
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-08-10T10:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/thailand-s-biggest-water-provider-rises-after-profit-gain.html
Eastern Water Resources Development
and Management Pcl (EASTW) , Thailand’s biggest private water provider,
reached a five-week high in Bangkok trading after reporting a 48
percent increase in second-quarter profit.  The shares climbed 3.8 percent to 10.90 baht at the close
in Bangkok, the largest advance since June 15. The benchmark  SET
Index (SET)  in comparison rose 0.1 percent.  Net income  in the quarter ending June jumped to 379 million
baht ($12 million) from 256.4 million baht a year earlier, the
company said. Sales climbed 16 percent to 882.4 million baht on
an increase in water volumes sold and tariffs, Eastern Water
said in a statement to the stock exchange.  The Bangkok-based water company, controlled by state-owned
Provincial Waterworks Authority, plans to raise spending by 40
percent after demand from manufacturers grew at more than twice
the pace it estimated, Chief Executive Officer Praphant Asava-
aree said in May. Profit this year will beat last year’s record
on higher water shipment and tariffs, he said.  Carmakers, petrochemical plants and power producers in
 Thailand  have raised output as domestic consumption and
investments rebound following the country’s worst floods in
almost 70 years in 2011.  Eastern Water is also benefiting from an increase in
industrial activity in eastern Rayong province, where General
Motors Co. and Ford Motor Co. have plants, after some
manufacturers partly shifted production there when their
factories in Thailand’s central region were damaged by the
flooding, Praphant said in the interview.  Sales volume in the three months to June climbed 7.2
percent from a year earlier, according to the regulatory filing
yesterday.  Eastern Water shares have  surged  76 percent this year
compared with an 18 percent increase in the SET Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  