-- Taiwan’s Bonds Decline This Week on Inflation, Stock Advance
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-08-10T08:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/taiwan-s-bonds-decline-this-week-on-inflation-stock-advance.html
Taiwan ’s government bonds dropped
for a second week after a report showed the fastest rate of
inflation since 2008 and as progress in  Europe  to solve the debt
crisis boosted demand for equities.  The  consumer-price index  rose 2.46 percent in July from a
year earlier, the most since September 2008, the Statistics
Bureau reported Aug. 6. The  Taiex index  of shares had the best
week in six months after  Germany  backed the  European Central
Bank ’s bond-buying plan and on speculation  China , the island’s
number one export market, will take further measures to
stimulate economic growth.  “The tables are turned for the moment as risk-taking
sentiment is dominating,” said Stanford Chen, a Taipei-based
fixed-income manager at KGI Securities Co. “Higher inflation is
also leading to rising yields.”  The yield on the 1.25 percent notes due March 2022 climbed
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, this week to 1.18
percent in Taipei, according to Gretai Securities Market. It
slipped two basis points today.  Global funds bought $1.7 billion more stocks in Taiwan than
they sold this week, helping spur gains in the local currency,
according to exchange data.  The  Taiwan dollar  appreciated 0.04 percent to NT$29.99
against its U.S. counterpart during the five-day period,
according to Taipei Forex Inc. It touched a one-month high of
NT$29.810 earlier. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, dropped 26 basis
points during the week to 3.44 percent.  The currency pared the week’s advance of China’s surprise
export numbers. Shipments increased 1 percent in July from a
year earlier, less than the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey for 8 percent growth and the 11.3 percent advance in June,
the government reported today. Inflation eased to 1.8 percent,
the least since January 2010, data showed yesterday.  Rate Cuts Avoided  The  Bank of Korea  kept borrowing costs at 3 percent
yesterday after a surprise cut in July, a decision predicted by
10 of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Taiwan’s monetary
authority kept the  discount rate  for 10-day loans at 1.875
percent in June, and its next meeting is scheduled for September.
Both economies are export-oriented and focus on technology-
related industries such as semiconductors and smartphones.  “Bank of  Korea ’s decision has eased some rate-cut
expectations in Taiwan,” Chen said. “But it’s still a long way
until September and it’s a bit too early to put a bet on what
Taiwan will do.”  The  overnight money-market rate  was little changed at 0.387
percent today and during the week, according to a weighted
average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Centre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  