-- Dwight Howard Leaves Magic for Lakers in Four-Team NBA Trade
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/lakers-acquire-dwight-howard-from-magic-in-four-team-nba-trade.html
Dwight Howard  is joining the  Los
Angeles Lakers  from Orlando, adding to the franchise’s history
of getting dominant big men and the Magic’s history of losing
them.  Howard, 26, a three-time National Basketball Association
defensive player of the year, is the centerpiece of the four-
team trade, which also includes the Denver Nuggets and
Philadelphia 76ers.  The Nuggets will receive  Andre Iguodala  from the Sixers,
who get  Andrew Bynum  from the Lakers and  Jason Richardson  from
the Magic. Orlando gets Arron Afflalo, Al Harrington, Nikola
Vucevic and multiple first-round draft picks.  “I’m excited for the Laker franchise because they have a
player that can carry the franchise way after I’ve gone,”  Kobe
Bryant , who has helped the team to five NBA championships, told
reporters in London, where he is playing in the Olympics.  The trade ends an almost two-year, will-he-or-won’t-he saga
that became known as “Dwightmare” for the Magic and Howard,
who told Orlando that he wanted a trade and that he wouldn’t
remain with the team past the 2012-13 season. It was a familiar
refrain from Howard, who could have been a free agent this year
and chose last season to sign a one-year extension after
demanding a trade to the Brooklyn Nets.  Howard’s contract expires after the season, meaning the
Lakers are taking a chance that they can convince him to stay.
The Dallas Mavericks are known to have interest in Howard and
likely will have enough salary flexibility to pursue him after
the season. Bynum’s contract also has one year left.  Leaders Fired  The Magic fired coach Stan Van Gundy and General Manager
Otis Smith in an unsuccessful attempt to convince Howard to
remain with the team that selected him out of high school with
the first pick in the 2004 draft.  Losing arguably the most dominant big man in the game to
the Lakers is familiar to the Magic and their fans.  Shaquille O’Neal  spent his first four seasons in Orlando before opting to
sign with the Lakers as a free agent prior to the 1996-97
season. O’Neal and Bryant teamed to win three consecutive
championships from 2000 through 2002.  It’s the second big-name acquisition of the offseason for
the Lakers, who earlier acquired two-time Most Valuable Player Steve Nash from the Phoenix Suns.  “We have a very powerful team now,” Lakers forward  Pau Gasol  said in a televised interview after helping Spain beat
Russia 67-59 to reach the gold-medal game at the Olympics in
London.  Back Surgery  Howard, who had back surgery in April to repair a herniated
disc, joins a rich history of Lakers centers that includes
George Mikan,  Wilt Chamberlain ,  Kareem Abdul-Jabbar  and O’Neal.  “I told him Los Angeles is a perfect place for him,”
Bryant said. “You look at history and all the great centers
have gone to L.A.; now he’s the next in line.”  The Lakers were eliminated in the second round of last
season’s playoffs by the Oklahoma City Thunder.  Should the Lakers retain Howard, it would give the
franchise a star and personality that it could market after
Bryant, who turns 34 in two weeks. Howard also makes the Lakers
contenders to dethrone the Miami Heat, who boast an all-star
trio of  LeBron James ,  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh .  ‘Championship Hunt’  Online sports book Bovada.lv has the Heat as the 5-2
favorite to win the 2013 championship, meaning a successful $2
bet would bring $5 plus the original stake. The Lakers are
second at 3-1, down from 10-1.  “This puts the Lakers right in the championship hunt,”
former Lakers All-Star  Magic Johnson  said in an e-mail
distributed by ESPN, where the Hall of Fame player works as a
basketball analyst.  Bynum, 24, a native of Plainsboro, New Jersey, about 45
miles from Philadelphia, is coming off his best statistical
season last year, when he averaged 18.7 points and 11.8
rebounds. Afflalo, 26, averaged 15.2 points last season with the
Nuggets.  Iguodala, 28, who has been on the road since July 5 with
the U.S. Olympic team, said he learned about the trade to the
Nuggets at the same time everyone else did.  “It’s going to be great experience just doing the same as
I’m doing with this but on a bigger scale -- bringing my game
anywhere I feel like I can fit in,” he told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  