-- Amy Adams, Bank of America, Sondheim in Park: Scene Last Night
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-08-10T16:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/amy-adams-bank-of-america-sondheim-in-park-scene-last-night.html
“The swag is this,” said Jeff Barker,  Bank of America Corp. ’s  New York  City market president,
opening his arms to encompass all the pleasures at opening night
of “Into the Woods,” the Stephen Sondheim/James Lapine
musical.  For Barker, standing outside Gate 2 of the  Delacorte
Theater  in  Central Park  last night, those pleasures included
digesting the meal of roast chicken he’d just had with Sondheim
and a small group of other arts patrons, and the anticipation of
seeing Amy Adams as the Baker’s Wife. The sight of the ticket
takers reminded Barker of his high school job, as an usher at
the Long Wharf Theater in  New Haven .  Bank of America has been the lead sponsor of the  Public
Theater ’s Shakespeare in the Park season for six years, and not
for the opportunity to pass out logoed seat cushions or baseball
caps.  “It’s the interaction of people at the event that’s most
important,” Barker said. “We believe a vibrant economy needs
the arts. Our giving focuses on access.”  As he spoke some 1,800 people filed in, about to experience
free theater.  Young Partners  Nearby, the Public’s Young Partners group, for patrons in
their 20s and 30s, gathered in a roped-off area in front of the
bathrooms.  Nate Pinsley, a senior strategist at Purpose, which creates
platforms for mass digital participation, talked about becoming
involved with the group almost straight out of Dartmouth.  “I was a young professional looking for something to save
my soul,” Pinsley, 27, said.  He’d grown up on the Upper West Side and remembered waiting
on line for free tickets to productions.  “I thought it would be cool to help make that possible for
thousands of others,” he said.  Inside the theater, the front rows filled with patrons
including former Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette banker Ted Shen
and his wife, Mary Jo Shen, and textile industry executive Marty Granoff and his wife, Perry Granoff. The Granoffs sat with
Elizabeth Diller and Ricardo Scofidio, the architects of the
Granoff Center for the Creative Arts at  Brown University .  The next three hours passed quickly, with the audience
hollering for Donna Murphy’s Witch.  Cast Party  That would have been enough fun, but there was more on what
the artistic director of the Public,  Oskar Eustis , called “a
fantastic night”: a cast party at Belvedere Castle.  Amy Adams , dressed in Lanvin, explained why she decided to
take on the role of the Baker’s Wife.  “It’s the ‘Be careful what you wish’ part,” she said.
“Since having a child, I’m really aware that we’re all under a
social responsibility to understand the consequences of our
actions.”  Sarah Stiles, who plays Little Red Riding Hood, said the
moral of her character is “Don’t be afraid. She’s the only one
who goes into the woods without fear. That’s where she learns
about danger, and she’s able to grow up because of it.”  As for her excellent bike helmet/kneepads/cowboy boots
costume, Stiles said it was inspired by an “Avril Lavigne punk
girl.” She left it behind for the cast party, where she wore a
Naeem Khan red lace dress and red lipstick.  Jack Broderick, 12, who played the narrator, said the
opening night performance was “awesome, the theater was
electrified,” an observation that proved his worth as a reliable
narrator of real life too.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Greg
Evans  on movies.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 