-- Man Utd. Got Most IPO Demand From U.S., Woodward Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-10T20:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/manchester-united-got-most-ipo-demand-from-u-s-woodward-says.html
Manchester United Plc (MANU) , the English
soccer club that raised $233.3 million yesterday in its U.S.
initial public offering, received the most demand for its stock
from American investors, Vice Chairman Edward Woodward said.  The 134-year-old team with a record 19 championships and
the Glazer family, which bought the team in 2005, sold 16.7
million shares yesterday, equivalent to a 10 percent stake, for
$14 each, below the range of $16 to $20 it marketed to investors
globally.  “The understanding that U.S. investors have around sports
business, given it’s the most developed sport market in the
world, has been a benefit,” Woodward said in a telephone
interview after the stock started trading.  United chose a U.S. sale after scrapping plans for an
offering worth as much as $1 billion in  Singapore . Most of its
fans are from  Asia , according to a club-financed survey by
Kantar Media.  The stock was unchanged as of 4 p.m. in  New York  after
climbing as much as 1.4 percent. The IPO price gave the team,
which says it’s the most popular in the world, an enterprise
value of $2.9 billion, about $1 billion more than the value of
 Spain ’s Real  Madrid , according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
Forbes.  Woodward said the club decided to go public at $14 because
the caliber of investors at that level would reduce the risk of
volatility experienced by recent high-profile IPOs. The U.S.
market froze for more than a month following Facebook Inc.’s
record $16 billion offering. The stock sank as much as 32
percent in the weeks following its May debut.  ‘Growth Story’  United’s pitch to investors was its “growth story,”
Woodward said. The club’s revenue has more than doubled since
the Glazers completed a leveraged buyout in 2005, filings show.  Much of the recent growth has been on the back of a series
of commercial agreements. In July, General Motors Co., the
world’s largest carmaker, said it signed a seven-year deal to
have its Chevrolet brand on United’s jerseys starting in 2014.
The agreement will generate $559 million through 2021, the club
said in a filing Aug. 3.  GM ousted its marketing director  Joel Ewanick  for not
properly disclosing as much as a third of cost of the agreement
with United, people familiar with the situation said. Ewanick’s
departure was announced hours before United said it would list.  Woodward confirmed elements of the deal were changed
following Ewanick’s ouster.  “Deals evolve all the way through to the moment you sign
them,” said Woodward.  The agreement is more than 2 1/2 times what current sponsor
Aon Corp. is paying, Woodward said. Aon offered an increase on
its 20 million pounds-a-year contract but baulked when it was
told of GM’s offer.  “We had cover bids close to that level because this is the
most valuable piece of sporting real estate in the world,”
Woodward said.  Sponsorship Deals  United’s sponsorships and product licensing helped generate
89.5 million pounds of revenue in the nine months through March
31, more than one-third of total revenue, filings show. That’s
17 percent more than the year-earlier period.  “We’ve done a whole raft of deals since we’ve even been on
the road,” said Woodward, without providing details.  The Glazers will maintain almost 99 percent of the voting
control, according to the original terms of the  prospectus ,
because the Class B shares they own carry 10 votes apiece,
compared to 1 vote each for the Class A shares sold in the IPO.  The Glazers sold half of the shares in the IPO, while the
company sold the other half and planned to use the proceeds to
repay debt. Borrowings stood at 437 million pounds as of June
30, and the company has spent more than 500 million pounds on
service costs associated with the owners’ debt.  Fans have complained money needed to invest in players has
been diverted to debt reduction. United has been outspent by
rivals including billionaire-owned neighbor  Manchester City  and
London-based Chelsea. Last season was the first time since the
Glazers bought the team that it didn’t win any trophies. Still,
manager  Alex Ferguson  has said the owners have supported him
throughout their tenure.  “The commitment is very clear to Sir Alex that he has
whatever he wants as he has had since 2005 with regards to
buying players,” Woodward said. “Money’s always been available
for that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  