-- Hannover Re Net Falls 13% on Derivative Losses; Shares Drop
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-08-10T09:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/hannover-re-net-falls-13-on-derivative-losses-shares-drop-1-.html
Hannover Re , the world’s fourth-
biggest reinsurer, reported a 13 percent second-quarter profit
decline on losses from hedging derivatives, sending the shares
down the most in almost a year.  Net income fell to 144 million euros ($177 million) from
166.2 million euros a year earlier, the Hanover, Germany-based
reinsurer said in a statement today. That missed the 170.5
million-euro average  estimate  of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Hannover Re booked losses on instruments it uses to hedge
against inflation and risk associated with some securities
deposits held by U.S. life-insurance clients. Analysts were
expecting a profit increase due to a decline in natural-disaster
claims.  “Segment results in property and catastrophe and life and
health are also below consensus, but this is mainly driven by
the derivatives impact,” resulting in an “unspectacular set of
figures,” said Frank Kopfinger, a CA Cheuvreux analyst with an
underperform recommendation on the stock.  Hannover Re (HNR1)   fell  as much as 6.2 percent, the most since
Aug. 26 last year. The shares were down 3.7 percent to 47.65
euros at 11:15 a.m. Frankfurt time, trimming their increase this
year to 25 percent and valuing the company at about 5.8 billion
euros. The 26-company Bloomberg  Europe  500 Insurance Index has
risen 13 percent in the same period. German insurer Talanx AG
holds 50.2 percent of the company’s shares.  ‘Broad’ Miss  Earnings before interest and tax rose 1.2 percent to 204
million euros in the second quarter, missing the 281.3 million-
euro average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The miss was pretty broad,” said  Christian Hamann , an
analyst with  Hamburger Sparkasse  who recommends investors buy
the stock. “Ebit in both the company’s segments was weaker than
expected. The damages weren’t as low as the market was
anticipating.”  Europe’s biggest insurers and the reinsurers who help them
shoulder risks for clients used last year’s catastrophes to push
through higher prices for coverage. Natural disasters caused an
estimated $5.48 billion of insured losses for insurers and re-
insurers in the second quarter, down from more than $27 billion
a year earlier, according to estimates from Aon Benfield, the
world’s biggest reinsurance broker.  Derivative Values  Hannover Re said it booked 82 million euros of losses in
the second quarter after 85 million euros of gains in the
preceding three months. The loss was driven by swings in the
fair value of inflation swaps and a derivative the company uses
to offset credit risk associated with some securities deposits
held for the reinsurer’s account by U.S. life insurance clients.  “We assume a neutral development for these two items over
time, and hence the volatility that can occur in specific
quarters has no bearing on the actual business performance,”
Chief Executive Officer  Ulrich Wallin  said in the statement.  First-half net income jumped to 405.3 million euros from
218.5 million euros a year earlier, according to the statement.  The company’s non-life reinsurance combined ratio improved
to 96.8 percent in the second quarter from 97.7 percent a year
ago. A ratio above 100 percent means claims and costs exceed
premium income, leaving a loss from underwriting.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, said Aug. 7 that
it expects to exceed its full-year profit target after higher
investment income boosted second-quarter earnings to 808 million
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  