-- Apple Witness Says 21 Samsung Phones Copy ‘Rubberbanding’ Patent
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-10T22:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/apple-witness-says-21-samsung-phones-copy-rubberbanding-patent.html
A witness for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  testified
that 21  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  smartphones copy patented
technology for “rubberbanding,” the way an iPad or iPhone
screen seems to bounce when a user scrolls to the end of a file.  Ravin Balakrishnan, a  University of Toronto  professor hired
as an expert witness, told the jury today at the companies’
intellectual property trial that Apple’s innovation was designed
to tell users “you’ve reached the edge, the system is still
alive, and it’s not frozen.”  Another Apple patent for technology that allows users to
pinch, expand and re-size images on a screen is infringed by 24
Samsung products, Karan Singh, Balakrishnan’s colleague at the
university, testified in federal court in  San Jose , California.
He also said Samsung smartphones infringe Apple’s patent for
“repositioning and rightsizing” images on screens.  The rightsizing technology lets users re-size, enlarge and
reposition articles in an online newspaper, for example, to
“make that piece of information available,” he said.  Apple and Samsung are the world’s largest makers of the
high-end handheld devices that blend the functionality of a
phone and a computer. The trial is the first before a U.S. jury
in a battle being waged on four continents for dominance in a
smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1
billion. Each company is trying to convince jurors that its
rival infringed patents covering designs and technology.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  