-- Argentine Peso Surges in Unregulated Market on Rule Change
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-08-10T18:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/argentine-peso-surges-in-unregulated-market-after-rule-change.html
Argentina ’s peso headed to its
biggest weekly advance in 10 months in the  unregulated  market,
the main vehicle for investors to get money out of the country,
after regulators ordered mutual funds to use the official
exchange rate to value assets denominated in foreign currency.  The peso rose 6.3 percent this week to 6.2876 per dollar in
the so-called blue chip swap market at 2:57 p.m. Buenos Aires
time. The rally is the biggest since the week ending Oct. 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate is set by the
difference in prices for securities in local markets and
overseas. Investors skirt currency controls by buying assets in
pesos locally and selling them abroad for dollars.  Argentina’s Securities and Exchange Commission issued a
 statement  dated Aug. 7 mandating that mutual funds value
investments abroad at the official  exchange rate , which fell 0.1
percent today to 4.6013 pesos per dollar. Funds have eight days
before the regulation goes into effect.  “This regulation basically makes mutual funds lose about
30 percent of the value of their dollar-denominated assets,”
said Joaquin Almeyra, a trader at Bulltick Capital Markets in
Miami. “That’s why they rushed to sell.”  Argentina’s  Merval index  fell 0.3 percent today after
tumbling 3.2 percent yesterday, the most since April 17, as
investors sold stocks used in the blue-chip trade.  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  plunged 8.5 percent yesterday, the biggest decline
in a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  