-- Armstrong Judge Questions Delay by Anti-Doping Agency
-- B y   K e l l e y   S h a n n o n   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/armstrong-seeks-to-block-anti-doping-agency-s-arbitration.html
The federal judge considering  Lance Armstrong ’s request to block the  U.S. Anti-Doping Agency  from
forcing the cyclist into arbitration questioned why it took so
long to bring claims about use of performance-enhancing drugs.  U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks in Austin,  Texas , said
yesterday the agency’s notice to Armstrong about doping
violations lacks specific allegations that would allow Armstrong
to mount a “meaningful response.” He said five people accused
of doping violations along with Armstrong aren’t American or
U.S. competitors and questioned lawyers for the agency, whose
allegations go back 12 years, why it waited so long.  “I’m not a fisher person, but I do know the smell of bad
fish,” Sparks said. “Were you so busy, year after year?”  Bill Bock, an attorney for the USADA, told Sparks the
agency “alleged a lot of doping in a very organized fashion
over a long period of time.” The USADA doesn’t have any
positive drug tests for Armstrong or the other individuals
targeted for doping violations, he said.  Armstrong, seeking to protect his seven  Tour de France 
titles, contends the group has no authority to require him to
accept arbitration and its proceedings are rigged.  The doping violations Armstrong faces will be clearly set
out as the arbitration process the organization uses to resolve
doping allegations gets under way, Bock said. Armstrong has no
reason to fear there will be any lack of precise evidence,
witnesses and allegations against him, he said.  An Aug. 13 deadline for Armstrong to agree to binding
arbitration was extended to Aug. 23 to give the judge time to
rule on Armstrong’s suit, said Annie Skinner, a USADA
spokeswoman.  Sparks gave both sides one week to submit further arguments
in writing before he issues his ruling.  ‘Unlawful Choice’  Armstrong said he faces “an impossible and unlawful
choice: either accept a lifetime ban and the loss of his
competitive achievements or endure a rigged process where he
would be certain to lose,” according to court papers.  The USADA notified Armstrong in June that he, three doctors
and two officials from the cyclist’s former U.S. Postal Service
racing team were accused of using and trafficking prohibited
drugs, Armstrong said in court filings.  The same month, the USADA said an independent panel of
arbitrators would decide the matter.  Armstrong denies using banned substances and said he has
never failed a drug test.  Olympics  The cyclist doesn’t have a contract or agreements with the
USADA, the national anti-doping organization for Olympic, Pan
American and Paralympic sports in the U.S., his attorneys said
in court filings. Armstrong signed a license application with
the Union Cycliste International, an international cycling
federation, during the years in question in the USADA case, they
said.  The federation has exclusive jurisdiction over drug tests,
disciplinary actions and other matters covered by the USADA’s
claims, Armstrong said in court papers.  “We have obligations to UCI,” Tim Herman, Armstrong’s
attorney, told Sparks.  Participating in the USADA arbitration would be a breach of
the cyclists’ obligations to UCI, he said.  Referring to USADA’s charging process, Herman said, “The
Christians had a better record against the lions than athletes
do over there.”  Rights Deprived  The USADA’s procedures deprive Armstrong of his
constitutional rights to confront his accusers, obtain
investigative witness statements, and obtain an impartial
assessment of laboratory testing procedures, he said.  The USADA argued in court filings that Armstrong agreed to
U.S. anti-doping rules, which require arbitration to resolve any
disputes. It is seeking to dismiss or postpone Armstrong’s
lawsuit, saying the matter must proceed through arbitration
before he can ask a court to get involved.  Armstrong, 40, won the Tour de  France  every year from 1999
to 2005, survived testicular cancer and created Livestrong, the
largest athlete-founded charity by donations. In February
federal prosecutors in  Los Angeles  ended a criminal probe
involving Armstrong and his professional bicycle racing team
without filing charges.  The case is Armstrong v. U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, 1:12-
cv-00606, U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas
(Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelley Shannon in federal court in Austin at
 kelley@kelleyshannon.com ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  