-- Martha Stewart Living Seeks to Appeal Macy’s Suit Ruling
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-10T14:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/martha-stewart-living-seeks-to-appeal-macy-s-suit-ruling-1-.html
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) 
filed a notice of appeal in a lawsuit by Macy’s Inc. in  New York 
state  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan , according to court records.  Macy’s sued in January to stop New York-based  Martha
Stewart  Living from executing a sales agreement that was
announced in December with Plano, Texas-based  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) ,
saying it has the exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart-branded
products in certain categories.  Justice Jeffrey K. Oing in Manhattan last month granted
Cincinnati-based Macy’s a preliminary injunction blocking New
York-based Martha Stewart Living from taking any steps under the
agreement with J.C. Penney.  Martha Stewart Living is seeking reversal “on the grounds
that the Supreme Court granted plaintiffs’ motion for a
preliminary injunction based on an erroneous interpretation” of
the pact with Macy’s Merchandising Group and “an incorrect
application of the legal standards for a preliminary
injunction,” according to a court filing dated today.  Oing said that  Macy’s (M)  had shown that it was likely to
prevail on its breach-of-contract claim as it had established
that Martha Stewart Living’s agreement with J.C. Penney was
“mutually incompatible” with the Macy’s pact when it concerns
exclusive products, and would suffer “irreparable harm” if
those products were sold at J.C. Penney.  ‘Good Faith’  Martha Stewart Living argued in the court documents filed
today that sales under the J.C. Penney agreement aren’t slated
to start until March and Macy’s hasn’t shown it’s being harmed
by preparations.  “The record in fact shows that since the announcement of
the JCP agreement, MSLO has continued to work in good faith with
MMG, sales of Martha Stewart collection items at Macy’s have not
declined, and overall Macy’s sales have increased
considerably,” lawyers for Martha Stewart Living said in the
court documents.  J.C. Penney acquired a 17 percent stake in Martha Stewart
Living for $38.5 million as the U.S. department-store chain
seeks to revive sales with new mini-stores dedicated to the home
goods brand.  Martha Stewart Living said last month J.C. Penney agreed to
pay at least $282.9 million in sales commission over a 10-year
period under an amended agreement, a $110.5 million increase
from the terms disclosed in December. The amended pact also
added new products.  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for Macy’s, declined to comment
on today’s filings in a telephone interview.  The case is Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc., 650197/2012, New York state Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  