-- Harvard Endowment Buys Stake in Zuckerberg’s Facebook
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/harvard-endowment-buys-20-000-shares-in-zuckerberg-s-facebook.html
Harvard University ’s endowment has
made a small investment in  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the social-networking
service that got started on its campus by  Mark Zuckerberg .  Harvard Management Co., which runs the endowment for the
world’s richest college, held 20,000 shares at the end of June,
according to a regulatory filing. Based on yesterday’s close of
$21.81 in New York, the stake would be valued at $436,140.  Zuckerberg, chief executive officer, has been under
pressure from investors since the company went public in May as
concerns persist about its growth prospects.  Facebook ,
challenged by a shift of users to mobile devices, reported
slowing sales growth in the second quarter. Its shares have
dropped 43 percent since the initial public offering price of
$38.  Facebook raised $16 billion in the May offering, the
largest ever for a technology company. Yet its debut was marred
by technical glitches, and the stock only managed to close above
$38 on the first day of trading.  Sales grew 32 percent in the second quarter, a  slowdown 
from 45 percent in the first and 88 percent for 2011. While
Facebook needs to boost revenue by drawing more advertising from
mobile devices, it only rolled out its first ad platform for
smartphones in March.  Harvard Money  Aside from Facebook, Harvard Management’s other new
investments included two online Chinese companies,  Ctrip.com
International (CTRP) , an online travel company, and  Sina Corp. (SINA) ,
operator of the Twitter-like Weibo site. Harvard Management had
$31.7 billion under management with an investment return of 21
percent in the year ended June 2011.  Zuckerberg, 28, started Facebook with fellow Harvard
students in 2004 in their college dormitory room. He rolled out
the service to other campuses before making it available to the
general public. With almost 1 billion members, Facebook is now
the world’s top social-networking site.  Zuckerberg, who dropped out of college to devote his
efforts to Facebook full time, returned to Harvard late last
year to recruit for his company. The university called it his
first official return since he left in 2004.  -- Editors: Reed Stevenson, Stephen West  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  