-- Massachusetts Sees 8% Pension Gains Shunned by Calpers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-08-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/massachusetts-sees-8-pension-gains-shunned-by-calpers.html
Massachusetts  Treasurer Steven Grossman wants to reduce the assumed rate of return on the
state’s $50 billion in pension-fund assets, currently at 8.25
percent and among the highest for U.S. public retirement plans.  Grossman, a former Democratic National Committee chairman,
said he’s gathering legislative support for a cut to 8 percent,
with an option to go lower. That would put Massachusetts more in
line with other states, yet the move would cost taxpayers and
covered workers $1.7 billion to maintain funding commitments.  “I will predict right now with a fair degree of confidence
that we will be using the 8 percent number for our expected
return,” Grossman, 66, said in an interview. The rate is set by
law, and the earliest it could be changed would be next year.  More than a third of 126 state and municipal pensions,
including the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System ,
the largest with $238.5 billion in assets, have cut investment
assumptions since 2008 as returns have lagged behind historical
averages, according to the Public Fund Survey. Wilshire
Associates said this week that the median return for public
systems was 1.15 percent for fiscal 2012 as the  European debt
crisis  and a slowing global economy curbed equity gains.  While a lower rate of return may better reflect current
market trends, the change may stir controversy. It can increase
the Massachusetts system’s unfunded liability, or the difference
between projected assets and amounts owed to beneficiaries,
pegged at about $19 billion in January 2011. A lower return
assumption can also force higher contributions from the state,
cities and workers to meet funding commitments.  Confidence Booster  “Whatever increase in our unfunded liability is more than
made up for by the increased confidence from the rating agencies
and investment community in our willingness to reflect reality
and common sense,” Grossman said of the change he’s seeking.
The state plans to fully fund its  retirement plan  by 2040.  “In the wake of the big market  downturn  in 2008 there’s a
new-found appreciation for volatility,” said  David Driscoll ,
the national head of public-sector services at Buck Consultants
in  Boston . “That’s fundamentally what people are trying to
avoid,” he said, calling it one of the “consequences of
negative surprises.”  Massachusetts is one of nine retirement systems, out of 126
tracked by the Public Fund Survey, that assume investment
earnings of 8.25 percent a year. Most, 44, forecast 8 percent.
More than half, 68, project less than 8 percent.  Indiana’s 6.75%  Indiana ’s retirement system this month cut its assumed rate
of return to 6.75 percent from 7 percent, the lowest of the
funds tracked in the survey, said  Keith Brainard , research
director at the National Association of State Retirement
Administrators, which conducted the study.  The Massachusetts pension holds more stocks and fewer bonds
than most others, which is why it assumes a higher rate of
return, said Grossman, who was elected treasurer in 2010. During
the past decade, the fund’s average annual return has exceeded 7
percent, he said.  However, in the 12 months through June, the state fund lost
0.08 percent on invested assets, hurt by weak equity market
performance, Grossman said. For that period, the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares  gained  3.1 percent. In the
previous fiscal year, the system earned a 22 percent return.  The state pension board, led by Grossman, meets today in
Boston to discuss investment returns for the past fiscal year.
It is also set to consider matters including whether to place
assets with Steadfast Capital Management, a hedge fund.  Traditional Pensions  Like most public plans, government workers and teachers in
Massachusetts are covered by a defined-benefit package. They
don’t contribute to Social Security and don’t get credit from
the federal agency for their time on government payrolls.  Massachusetts’s unfunded liability stems partly from the
market collapse in 2008 and partly from its failure to begin
setting aside money for retirees until the 1990s,  according to 
the Massachusetts Budget and Policy Center. While workers
contribute as much as 12 percent of their salaries, the state
put in $1.4 billion in fiscal 2011, or about 4.3 percent of its
budget, according to the group.  Grossman, who hasn’t ruled out a 2014 run for governor,
said that the increased taxpayer cost of a lower return
assumption would be partly offset by a reduced growth rate for
government salaries. He said Governor  Deval Patrick , a Democrat
who plans to step down when his current term ends, supports
cutting the return assumption, as do legislative leaders.  An Outlier  “It has been fairly clear to most of the key players in
this discussion that an eight-and-a-quarter return was too high
and made Massachusetts a bit of an outlier,” Grossman said.  Jay Gonzalez, the governor’s secretary of administration
and finance, supports a change to 8 percent, according to Alex
Zaroulis, a spokeswoman. How and when a cut may be implemented
haven’t been determined, she said by e-mail.  Seth Gitell, a spokesman for House Speaker Robert DeLeo, a
Winthrop Democrat, declined to comment on a rate reduction.  A drop to 8 percent doesn’t go far enough, according to Jim
Stergios, the executive director of the Pioneer Institute, a
nonprofit policy research group in Boston, although he supports
the reduction. He said Massachusetts should follow the lead of
states such as  Rhode Island  that introduced 401(k)-like defined
contribution plans as a way to cover its unfunded liabilities.  “If this is a first step, that’s absolutely wonderful, but
we actually need to do a lot more,” Stergios said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  