-- Assured Guaranty Climbs to One-Month High After Reporting Profit
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-10T21:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/assured-guaranty-climbs-to-one-month-high-after-reporting-profit.html
Assured (AGO)  Guaranty Corp. rose to the
highest in more than a month after the bond insurer reported
profit that beat analyst estimates.  Shares climbed 3.6 percent to $12.83 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, capping a 12 percent gain on the
week and reaching the highest since July 6. Credit-default swaps
on the company declined 1.5 percentage points to 12.3 percent
upfront, according to data provider CMA. That means investors
pay $1.23 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10
million of Assured debt from losses for five years.  Second-quarter operating income declined 20 percent to $114
million, or 61 cents a share, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based
company said in a statement yesterday after the close of the
stock exchange. That beat the average estimate of 52 cents a
share in a Bloomberg survey of four analysts.  Assured said in court papers today that Stockton,
 California , isn’t eligible for  bankruptcy protection  and that
the city’s case should be dismissed because it failed to
negotiate in good faith with creditors and hasn’t proved that it
is insolvent. Stockton is trying to force the bond insurer to
accept $100 million in losses instead of seeking more
concessions from labor unions, the company said.  Stockton filed a Chapter 9 bankruptcy on June 28 after
months of talks failed with creditors, including Assured and
labor officials. Stockton said it filed after negotiating with
creditors on an out-of-court restructuring of its debts. The
bankruptcy case is In re Stockton, 12-32118,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of California ( Sacramento ).  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves, pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. CMA is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  