-- Tata Motors Shares Decline After Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-08-10T04:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/tata-motors-shares-decline-after-profit-misses-estimates.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the Indian owner
of Jaguar Land Rover, fell for a second day in Mumbai trading as
slowing demand for  luxury vehicles  in Europe led the company to
report profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Tata dropped 1.8 percent to 235.10 rupees at 9:47 a.m. in
Mumbai, while the benchmark BSE Sensitive Index declined 0.2
percent. The company yesterday reported  net income  rose 12
percent to 22.45 billion rupees ($406 million), missing the 27.3
billion-rupee median of 35  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Profit at the Jaguar Land Rover unit was also below
analysts’ estimates.  Credit Suisse Group AG cut its rating on the stock, citing
concerns the British luxury-vehicle unit faces pressure to lower
prices in markets including  China . Jaguar Land Rover Chief
Executive Officer Ralf Speth is facing pressure to revamp
Jaguar’s aging designs and increase Land Rover’s appeal beyond
the hit-model Evoque after sales growth slowed last quarter.  “Demand is clearly slowing for JLR on uncertainty in
Europe,” said Basudeb Banerjee, an analyst with Quant Broking
Pvt in Mumbai. “The next quarter too may be lackluster and the
third quarter will be crucial.”  Slowing Sales  Sales at the Jaguar Land Rover unit rose 34 percent to
83,452 vehicles last quarter, slowing from a 48 percent increase
in the preceding quarter.  Tata Motors sales increased 29 percent to 431.7 billion
rupees. The company suffered a one-time loss on foreign exchange
of 4.4 billion rupees, it said. The rupee weakened 8.6 percent
against the dollar in the quarter to June 30.  Revenue of its unit, based in Gaydon-England, rose 34.6
percent to 3.64 billion pounds, the company said. The unit’s
operating margin declined to 14.5 percent from 15.1 percent in
the year-earlier quarter.  “We expect to maintain these margins going forward, but
there remain challenges,” Speth said at a press conference in
Mumbai yesterday. “Nobody can predict what’s going to happen
with the economy in  Europe . We are cautious.”  In June, Jaguar’s sales declined for the first time in
seven months, and deliveries of Land Rover sport utility
vehicles -- excluding the sold-out Evoque -- dropped for a third
month, according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  $12 Billion Investment  Tata Motors’ has said it intends to invest $12 billion in
in its British unit over five years and is preparing to unveil
Jaguar’s first two-seat sports car in almost four decades. The
automaker has also said it will form a joint venture with
China’s Chery Automobile Co. to build Jaguar Land Rover vehicles
for the world’s largest auto market.  In the quarter, share of the U.K. in the unit’s total sales
declined to 15.5 percent from 19.4 percent in the year-earlier
period.  North America  accounted for 17.7 percent from 21
percent, while China contributed 22.2 percent from 15.7 percent,
the  company  said. Sales in China rose 91 percent, it said.  Tata Motors said in May it would spend 2 billion pounds
this year in capital expenditure to expand, including
introduction of 40 new or upgraded vehicle models over the next
five years.  The luxury unit is turning to  emerging markets  such as
China,  Russia  and  South Africa  to pursue growth. The company is
set to open a factory in China to produce cars locally and avoid
 import duties .  China Venture  The venture, to be based in the eastern city of Changshu,
in Jiangsu province, will have a production capacity of 130,000
vehicles annually, according to a statement posted on China’s
Ministry of Environmental Protection’s website.  The joint venture is awaiting approval from China’s
National Development and Reform Commission, and will take two
years to build the factory once it gets the permission, Speth
said.  “We have a very, very low market share in China and
therefore assume we can continue this growth,” said Speth. “We
assume the Chinese markets will grow further.”  Profit of Tata Motors, excluding units, declined 49 percent
to 2.05 billion rupees as slowing economic growth in  India  and
intensifying competition led to a decline in sales of its
passenger vehicles and heavy trucks.  There will be continued pressure on sales of medium and
heavy trucks as well as passenger vehicles in India, Chief
Financial Officer C. Ramakrishnan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in  Mumbai  at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  