-- Atlantic Storm Speeds West, Ernesto Breaks Up Over Mexico
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-10T09:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/atlantic-storm-may-form-as-ernesto-weakens-over-southern-mexico.html
Ernesto, formerly a hurricane,
weakened to a tropical depression as it dissipated over the
mountains of southern  Mexico  today while the next Atlantic
weather system sped westward toward the Caribbean.  Tropical Depression Seven was 930 miles (1,500 kilometers)
from the Windward Islands and moving “ rapidly ” west with 35
miles per hour winds, the National Hurricane Center said in a 5
a.m. Atlantic time advisory. The system may become Tropical
Storm  Gordon  if winds reach 39 mph, the Miami-based center said.  Ernesto, which spent a day moving across the Bay of
Campeche, went ashore near Coatzacoalcos, Mexico, yesterday and
has been flooding the region with heavy rain as it moved inland.  “Rainfall amounts may produce life-threatening flash
floods and mudslides,” the NHC said today. The system was 100
miles north-northwest of Oaxaca and moving west.  With six systems being tracked in the Atlantic as well as
in and off Mexico, the  hurricane season  that runs through
November has intensified this week.  The U.S.  Climate Prediction Center  yesterday increased its
seasonal Atlantic storm forecast to 12 to 17 systems, up from
nine to 15 predicted in May.  Conditions between the Caribbean and  Africa  are ripe for
further storm formation, the center said. The area is often the
main storm development region, and is where Ernesto and Tropical
Depression Seven started.  A tropical wave between the Cape Verde Islands and Africa
has conditions considered 50 percent likely to develop into a
tropical depression in the next two days, the center said.  The remnant of Tropical Storm Florence north of  Puerto Rico 
has a 10 percent chance of reforming into a tropical cyclone,
the NHC also said.  In the Pacific off Mexico, Tropical Storm Gilma weakened
about 655 miles from the southern tip of  Baja California  with
maximum winds of 65 mph. It poses no danger to land, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  