-- ATP Oil Said to Get Funding Ahead of Possible Bankruptcy
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s ,   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-08-10T18:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/atp-oil-said-to-get-funding-ahead-of-possible-bankruptcy.html
ATP Oil & Gas Corp. (ATPG) , the oil
explorer whose new chief executive officer quit after less than
a week in June, arranged loan financing ahead of a possible
bankruptcy filing, said two people with direct knowledge of the
matter.  The so-called debtor-in-possession loan of $600 million is
being provided by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , said the people, who
asked not to be identified as the process is private. A filing
may come as soon as today, according to one of the people.  ATP, which faces an $89 million interest payment in
November, deteriorated as it missed production targets and
stumbled executing marquee offshore oil developments. Founder
and CEO Paul Bulmahn hired Matt McCarroll to replace him June 1,
making himself executive chairman. McCarroll quit by June 7
after being “unable to reach a mutually agreeable employment
agreement,” according to the company.  McCarroll’s departure came after strategic disagreements
with Bulmahn, according to two people familiar with the
circumstances of his tenure. Houston-based ATP buys and develops
natural gas and oil reserves in the  Gulf of Mexico  and  North
Sea .  ATP’s stock had lost 98 percent of its value from its peak
at the end of October 2007 through yesterday. The shares  fell  as
much as 62 percent to 50 cents in New York and were halted at
least once after triggering a circuit breaker.  Bond Prices  Representatives at ATP didn’t immediately respond to
several calls or e-mails seeking comment. A spokesman at Credit
Suisse didn’t immediately respond to a call seeking comment.  ATP has $1.5 billion of 11.875 percent notes due May 2015.
In downgrading the firm’s credit rating to CCC on Aug. 1,
 Standard & Poor’s  said ATP won’t have money for its next coupon
payment and other planned spending unless it obtains outside
financing.  ATP had $224.7 million in cash and cash equivalents on
March 31, according to a May regulatory filing. The driller may
have had only $50 million by the end of June after interest
payments and costs of developing more wells, Oliver Corlett, a
New York-based analyst for R.W. Pressprich & Co., estimated in
an Aug. 2 phone interview.  First-lien bondholders have organized a group and hired
Houlihan Lokey to represent them in a potential restructuring,
one of the people said. ATP’s $1.5 billion of 11.875 percent
bonds fell 2 cents to 34.8 cents on the dollar at 1:49 p.m. in
 New York , according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The debt has
dropped from 76.5 cents on the dollar May 1.  In better times, like 2006, Bulmahn rewarded employees with
new Volvo S60s after exceeding production and reserves-growth
goals. Two years later, Bulmahn announced the “Home Sweet
Home” incentive program that promised to pay the home mortgages
of each of its 66 employees for a year if the company met
targets to reduce debt and reached other technical milestones.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  