-- Mauritius Makes ‘Significant Progress’ Rebuilding Reserves
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-08-10T11:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/mauritius-makes-significant-progress-on-reserves-correct-.html
Mauritius’s central bank has made
“significant progress” rebuilding its reserves, Bank of
Mauritius Governor Rundheersing Bheenick said.  In June, the bank said it would buy as much as $900 million
to increase the country’s import cover to 6 months from 4 1/2
months. The decision to buy more dollars to boost reserves
wasn’t aimed at “depreciating the currency,” which is “not a
sustainable solution,” Bheenick told reporters today in  Port
Louis , the capital.  “We were never in the market to provoke an uncontrollable
slide in the rupee,” he said. “We had to have a controlled
approach to it.”  A prolonged debt crisis in Europe and a weaker euro is
triggering losses for hotel operators and manufacturers, fueling
exporters’ calls for a devaluation. The rupee has weakened 4
percent against the dollar since the decision to rebuild
reserves was announced on June 9, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The rupee weakened as much as 1.4 percent to 31.175 a
dollar and traded 0.2 percent lower to 30.80 by 3:11 p.m. in
Port Louis.  Depreciating the currency to bail out key businesses would
be “grossly unfair,” Bheenick said. Instead, the central bank
will provide a special line of credit of 600 million euros ($736
million) to help hotel operators and manufacturers convert their
foreign-currency debt.  Corrected ‘Misalignment’  The central bank’s intervention in the domestic foreign-
 currency market  has corrected a “misalignment,” in the rupee’s
exchange rate, Bheenick said.  “For the time being we are quite comfortable with it,” he
said.  Foreign-exchange reserves rose 6.7 percent to $2.85 billion
by the end of July, compared with two months earlier, according
to central bank data.  Mauritius, a net importer of food and fuel, purchases
mostly in dollars while the euro accounts for about 41 percent
of foreign-currency income, according to central bank data.
Annual inflation declined to 3.7 percent in July, a 21-month
low, Statistics Mauritius said on Aug. 6.  The depreciation hasn’t had a “direct inflationary
impact,” Bheenick said.  The central bank is no longer betting on 3.8 percent growth
this year, Bheenick said. “On present trends, it will be closer
to 3 percent.”  The Indian Ocean island’s economy is growing at the slowest
pace in three years, after the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe 
curbed tourist arrivals. Visitors for the first six months
through June rose 0.5 percent, compared with a 1.6 percent
forecast. Sales of manufactured goods advanced 1.2 percent to
22.6 billion rupees ($714 million), according to cabinet papers
released on July 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  