-- Australia Discussing Possible Changes in Carbon-Price System
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-10T03:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/australia-discussing-possible-changes-in-carbon-price-system.html
Australia ’s government is holding
talks with businesses about possible changes in pricing for
emission permits in a program started July 1.  “Discussions are continuing and no decisions have been
made,” the office of Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The government may scrap a proposed minimum price of A$15
($15.80) and restrict access to cheaper international carbon
credits, the Australian Financial Review reported today, without
citing where it got the information. The government is in
negotiations with the Greens, the political party that Gillard
relies on to pass laws in the lower house of parliament, over
the proposal, the newspaper said.  The carbon price is Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s main
tool for reducing the country’s reliance on coal and meeting its
target for a 5 percent cut in greenhouse gas emissions from 2000
levels by 2020. The levy was set at A$23 a ton for the year
starting July 1 and is slated to rise at a fixed-rate until 2015,
when the nation plans to introduce market-based price in a cap-
and-trade system that lets companies buy and sell permits. They
will also be allowed to use so-called global offsets to meet as
much as 50 percent of their required emissions cutbacks.  While Certified Emission Reductions in the  United Nations ’
Clean Development Mechanism traded this week for less than 3
euros ($3.70), Australia’s carbon law established a minimum
price of A$15 in 2015, and the government is working out exactly
how about 300 emitters bound by the plan would make up the
difference. Australian carbon costs are forecast to be more than
double the rate in the European Union, which runs the world’s
biggest emissions markets.  European Union carbon permits fell yesterday to 7.15 euros,
the lowest level since Aug. 3 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London .  Tony Abbott , the Australian opposition leader whose
Liberal-National coalition leads polls ahead of elections that
must be held by November 2013, has vowed to repeal the so-called
carbon tax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Sydney at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  