-- AWOL U.S. Soldier Gets Life Sentence in Fort Hood Plot
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-10T18:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/awol-soldier-gets-life-sentence-in-fort-hood-bomb-plot.html
A U.S. Army soldier convicted of
plotting to kill American military members by detonating a bomb
near Fort Hood,  Texas , was sentenced to life in prison.  Naser Jason Abdo, who was absent without leave from Fort
Campbell,  Kentucky , at the time of his July 2011 arrest,
received two life terms in prison today from U.S. District Judge
 Walter Smith  in Waco, Texas, after a jury found him guilty of
attempted use of a weapon of mass destruction and attempted
murder of U.S. personnel and other weapons charges.  “This case serves as another reminder of the need for
vigilance against extremists both at home and abroad,”  Lisa Monaco , head of the Justice Department’s national security
division, said in an e-mailed statement. “I thank the many
federal, state and local law enforcement officials who thwarted
Abdo’s plot and were responsible for this successful
prosecution.”  Abdo, 22, was arrested at a hotel in Killeen, Texas, about
three miles from Fort Hood, the largest active-duty armored
post, according to the base’s website. Abdo told police officers
that he had explosives and “intended to conduct an attack
against Killeen and Fort Hood,” according to an affidavit filed
by James Runkel, an FBI special agent.  Handgun Found  His backpack contained two clocks, spools of wire, a .40-
caliber handgun, ammunition and an article entitled “Make a
bomb in the kitchen of your Mom,” according to the affidavit.
When police searched his room they found six bottles of
smokeless gunpowder, five cut shotgun shells, shotgun pellets
and two pressure cookers, Runkel said.  “Abdo admitted he planned to assemble two bombs in the
hotel room using gun powder shrapnel packed into pressure
cookers to detonate inside an unspecified restaurant frequented
by soldiers from Fort Hood,” Runkel said in the July 28, 2011,
affidavit.  After detonating the explosives, Abdo planned to shoot any
survivors, according to a  Justice Department  statement.  In 2009, Nidal Hasan, a U.S. Army major, allegedly shot and
killed 13 people at the base. Hasan, who was wounded by police
and is awaiting trial, had been communicating by e-mail with
Anwar al-Awlaki, a U.S.-born radical cleric who was part of al-
Qaeda in Yemen. Al-Awlaki was killed in a U.S. drone strike last
year.  The case is U.S. v. Abdo, 11-cr-00182, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Texas (Waco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 