-- Axtel Seeks $300 Million in Asset Sales to Avoid Default
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-08-10T21:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/axtel-seeks-300-million-in-phone-asset-sales-to-avoid-default.html
Axtel SAB (AXTELCPO) , Mexico’s second-largest
land-line phone carrier, is considering selling its wireless
towers or long-distance fiber network to raise as much as $300
million and avoid a default on its debt.  Axtel would rent the assets under a sale-leaseback deal,
Investor Relations Director Adrian de los Santos said today in
an interview, without giving a timeline. The San Pedro Garza
Garcia, Mexico-based carrier, which is also weighing a share
sale, must repay $825 million of debt by 2019, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company needs cash after cutting prices to defend its
market share against billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL) 
SAB. Axtel has 1.04 million phone lines in Mexico, lagging
behind the 14.6 million of America Movil’s Telmex unit.  “They have to do something,” said Manuel Jimenez, an
analyst at Banorte Ixe Casa de Bolsa in Mexico City. “They’re
very squeezed in terms of cash and they’re very leveraged.”  Selling the towers would be preferable because they’re not
essential assets to run the business, Jimenez, who advises
selling Axtel shares, said in a phone interview today. A sale of
parts of the fiber network would be less optimal, he said.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded Axtel’s debt one level today
to CCC+, or seven levels below investment grade, citing
weakening earnings due to competition.  Debt Due  Axtel has a $60 million syndicated loan due in 2015, $275
million in bonds due in 2017 and $490 million in bonds due in
2019, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While it also has
access to a revolving credit line of $40 million, it expects to
be able to draw down $20 million of that credit over the next 18
months because of its current liquidity situation and terms
negotiated with lenders.  Yields on Axtel’s bonds due in 2017 have surged 598 basis
points, or 5.98 percentage point, to 26.01 percent in the past
month, the steepest selloff in  Mexico , according to data on the
Bloomberg. The shares rose 1.7 percent to 2.44 pesos at the
close in Mexico City, paring their drop this year to 45 percent.  The assets for sale would allow a buyer to lease capacity
to Axtel and its rivals. Many of Axtel’s 1,000 wireless towers
have space for a second or third phone company to install
equipment, de los Santos said.  WiMax Service  Axtel offers a wireless  Internet service , WiMax, to
residential and business users. Some of its towers also have
equipment for various other wireless technologies used by
business customers for internal communications. The towers could
be used for several services, including mobile-phone networks,
de los Santos said.  The company isn’t considering selling its government
licenses to use wireless airwaves for WiMax and other
technologies, de los Santos said. Those assets wouldn’t be as
attractive to a buyer because they wouldn’t have enough capacity
to lease to multiple phone companies, he said.  Axtel, which drew the syndicated loan from five banks, is
seeking advice from some of them, de los Santos said. The banks
are  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Mexican unit Banamex, Grupo Financiero
Banorte SAB, Credit Suisse Group AG, ING Groep NV and Standard
Bank Plc, he said, without identifying the advising banks.  The company, which paid a record $78 million in interest in
the year ended June 30, still has about $66 million of interest
payments due in the next eight months. The amount exceeds its
cash reserves of about $64 million.  Axtel is also considering a plan to induct a partner into
its information-technology services unit. An outside investor
would provide the funds to pursue growth in that business, Chief
Financial Officer Felipe Canales said last month on a conference
call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  