-- Mayer Brown, Dechert, Simpson, Debevoise: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-08-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/mayer-brown-dechert-simpson-debevoise-business-of-law.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
yesterday won a U.S. Appeals Court ruling affirming its
entitlement to a $312 million lien on the holdings of the
bankrupt suburban Chicago cash management firm Sentinel
Management Group Inc.  Lawyers from Mayer Brown LLP and Dechert LLP represented
the bank in the litigation.  The case dates back to 2007, when Sentinel filed for
bankruptcy. The liquidation trustee Frederick Grede sued the New
York-based lender claiming its employees knew the firm was
improperly using investor assets as credit-line collateral and
sought to disallow or subordinate its lien.  U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel, in a post-trial ruling
in 2010 rejected Grede’s claim that the bank’s actions enabled
Sentinel to deceive its clients. Zagel also dismissed the
trustee’s bid to invalidate the lien as illegal.  In the unanimous appellate ruling, U.S. Circuit Judge John D. Tinder held that “perhaps the bank should have known that
Sentinel violated segregation requirements, but as the district
court found, ‘such a lack of care does not rise to the level of
egregious misconduct necessary for equitable subordination.’”  Grede, in a phone interview yesterday, said he was
disappointed by the court’s decision and that he and his
attorneys were evaluating their options. More than $1.2 billion
in claims have been filed against the firm’s assets, he said.  “Given all of the things that are going on in the
industry, it doesn’t bode well for the protection of customer
funds,” he said of the appellate court ruling.  Grede is represented by Chris Gair, a partner at Jenner &
Block LLP, according to documents filed in the case.  “We are pleased the appeals court has affirmed the
district court’s ruling in our favor,” Kevin Heine, a spokesman
for the bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  The bank was represented by partners Jeff Sarles, Matthew
Ingber and Sean Scott of Mayer Brown and partner Hector Gonzalez
of Dechert.  The case is In re Sentinel Management Group Inc., 10-3787,
10-3990 and 11-1123, U.S. Circuit  Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit  (Chicago).  Dewey to Protect Some Partners From Liability, Retirees Say  Bankrupt Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP is “rushing” to implement a
plan that would largely free select partners from liability for
mismanagement while imposing burdens on others at the firm,
including retired partners, a group of retirees said.  They made the statement in a federal court filing in
 Manhattan , asked for a trustee or an examiner to look into the
“gross mismanagement” that continues after the bankruptcy,
eroding assets, they said. Assigning an examiner to probe and
pursue or settle clawback or other claims related to the conduct
of Dewey and its executives also would be beneficial, they said.  Dewey before bankruptcy was run to provide
“disproportionate” benefits to select partners, who received
more than $250 million just in the year before the firm failed,
they said, citing a July disclosure of Dewey’s finances. The
pattern persists even after the largest  law firm  collapse in
history, they said.  Since its failure, Dewey has been proposing a settlement
seeking $90.4 million from more than 700 partners and former
partners. Partners in exchange wouldn’t be sued, said the so-
called ad hoc committee of retired partners.  Albert Togut, Dewey’s chief bankruptcy lawyer, and
spokesman  Michael Sitrick  didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment on the filing.  The product of a 2007 merger between  Dewey Ballantine  and
LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, the firm at one point had more
than 1,300 attorneys spanning 12 countries. Dewey, based in  New
York , fell apart in a matter of weeks this year after ousting
its chairman and watching partners decamp to competing firms.  In bankruptcy, Dewey has been criticized by the U.S.
trustee who supervises bankruptcies. The estate’s $700,000 bonus
plan and its retention plans may not be cost effective or
economically feasible for a liquidating law firm, the trustee,
Tracy Hope Davis, said. She also faulted nine of Dewey’s
proposals to hire advisers, including the law firm Togut Segal &
Segal LLP. A judge approved several of the hirings anyway.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  JPMorgan Says Credit-Card Swipe-Fee Case Cost Bank $1.2 Billion  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. credit-card lender,
will contribute about $1.2 billion to settle a price-fixing case
brought by retailers over credit-card swipe fees.  JPMorgan agreed to cover about 20 percent of a $6.05
billion deal to settle claims that the bank conspired with
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and  Visa Inc. (V)  to rig credit-card processing
fees, the New York-based bank said yesterday in a filing.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-biggest U.S. credit-card
lender, said last week that it will contribute a total of $738
million to settle the case.  Visa and MasterCard, the world’s biggest payment networks,
and some of the largest U.S. banks agreed last month to pay
merchants $6.6 billion and temporarily reduce credit-card swipe
fees, or interchange, to settle the antitrust lawsuit. The deal
includes cash payments of $6.05 billion to merchants who take
part in the proposed class action and $525 million to individual
plaintiffs. The larger amount would be reduced if some
plaintiffs don’t agree to participate.  Yesterday, lawyers for the plaintiffs, which include
merchants and retail industry associations, updated U.S.
Magistrate Judge James Orenstein on the status of the case in
the first court appearance since the settlement was unveiled.  “We are making progress and getting the underlying
documents drafted,” K. Craig Wildfang, a partner at Robins,
Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi LLP who represents the plaintiffs, said.
“We are going as fast as we can. Not as fast as we would
like.”  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  Deals  Three Firms Advise on Carlyle Group’s Purchase of TCW  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  agreed to buy TCW Group Inc. from  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  in a deal that will give TCW’s management and
employees a 40 percent stake.  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is representing
 Societe Generale . From Skadden are partners Ralph Arditi and
David Hepp, and counsel Justin Askew and David Barrett.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing Carlyle.
Partners Lee Meyerson and Elizabeth Cooper led the deal team
while partner  Christopher Brown  worked on the financing.  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP is representing TCW. The Debevoise
team is led by partner Jeffrey Rosen and includes partners
Elizabeth Pagel Serebransky, Gregory Gooding and Peter Furci.  Carlyle will fund the purchase of the $127 billion  money
manager  through two of its private-equity funds and with money
from TCW’s management, according to a joint statement yesterday
from the Washington-based private-equity firm and the Los
Angeles-based asset manager. Financial terms of the deal weren’t
disclosed.  Moves  Former California Judge Joins Law Firm in Sacramento  Arthur G.  Scotland , the former Presiding Justice of the
Court of Appeal, Third Appellate District in  California , has
joined Nielsen Merksamer Parrinello Gross & Leoni LLP in the
firm’s Sacramento office.  Scotland, who retired from the bench in 2010 after serving
on the Court of Appeal for 23 years, will be a member of the
firm’s government law section, and will assist in litigation as
well as political law.  Nielsen Merksamer specializes in government, political and
initiative law, litigation, taxation and as well as in other
areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 