-- Baht Rises This Week as Investors Boost Holdings of Thai Assets
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-08-10T08:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/baht-rises-this-week-as-investors-boost-holdings-of-thai-assets.html
Thailand ’s baht advanced this week
and government bonds rallied as foreign funds increased holdings
of the nation’s assets amid speculation global central banks
will ease monetary policy to spur growth.  China, Thailand’s biggest export market, yesterday reported
 inflation  slowed for a fourth month in July to 1.8 percent,
giving it more room for stimulus measures. International
investors pumped a net $163 million into local equities and $767
million into government debt this week through yesterday,
according to data from the stock exchange and the Thai Bond
Market Association.  “Asian currencies continue to gain ground against the
dollar, pricing in higher probability that the  Federal Reserve 
and  European Central Bank  will satisfy expectations for further
significant monetary easing,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-
based senior currency strategist at Scotiabank, a unit of Bank
of Nova Scotia. “Slower inflation definitely does add to
speculation of easing in China.”  The baht rose 0.2 percent this week to 31.49 per dollar as
of 3:10 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency, unchanged today, touched 31.27 on Aug. 6, the
strongest level since May 22. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, held
steady today and this week at 4.51 percent.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 dropped
six basis points this week to 3.10 percent, the lowest level
since February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
rate declined one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 