-- Bank of Ireland Says Margin Goal ‘Challenging’ as Loss Soars
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-08-10T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/bank-of-ireland-first-half-pretax-loss-more-than-doubles-1-.html
Bank of Ireland Plc  Chief Executive
Officer Richie Boucher said his 2014 target of rebuilding
margins from lending “looks very challenging” as the nation’s
largest lender reported its first-half loss more than doubled.  The pretax loss widened to 1.26 billion euros ($1.55
billion) from 556 million euros in the year-earlier period, the
Dublin-based lender said in a  statement  today. That was worse
than the 899 million-euro median estimate of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The  lender’s shares  declined.  While the bank’s medium-term aim to shrink its balance
sheet and cut loan-loss provisions and costs is on track, its
goal of raising net interest margin to more than 2 percentage
points by the end of 2014 is being hampered by low  interest
rates  and “intense competition” for deposits among banks,
Boucher said to reporters. The margin, the difference between
the rate at which Bank of Ireland borrows and lends to
customers, fell to 1.20 points in the first half from 1.33
points a year earlier.  “We have to call those parts of the targets that we think
remain very much in our control,” Boucher said. “The net
interest margin is a challenge because there are factors outside
our control such as the absolute level of interest rates and the
competitive dynamic in the deposit markets.”  Shares in Bank of Ireland fell as much as 6.1 percent in
Dublin trading and were down 5.2 percent at 9.29 euro cents at
9:30 a.m. local time.  ‘Disappointing’ Figures  “These results are disappointing, highlighting the extreme
pressure on pre-provision profits in a very weak environment
despite bank action on margins and costs,” said  Emer Lang , an
analyst at Dublin-based securities firm Davy.  While provisions for bad loans rose by 12 percent to 941
million euros from the year-earlier period, Boucher said they
should decline as the economy recovers. The charge for troubled
Irish home loans doubled to 291 million euros.  Ireland’s banks, which have received 64 billion euros of
bailouts since the implosion of a property bubble in 2008,
continue to struggle with residential mortgages after the state-
owned National Asset Management Agency took over most of their
risky commercial real-estate assets in 2010. The  unemployment
rate  was 14.8 percent in June, while  home prices  have been cut
in half from 2007, according to the  Central Statistics Office .  By value, 9 percent of the bank’s Irish owner-occupier
mortgage book was at least three months in arrears at the end of
June, up from 7 percent in December, the bank said. Arrears in
the buy-to-let portfolio rose to 21 percent from 17 percent.  Loan Impairments  Still, Bank of Ireland today echoed comments in the past
two weeks by  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and Lloyds Banking Group Plc that the rate of increase
in Irish home-loan arrears has slowed.  Loan impairments “are above the base case but within the
stress-case numbers” that the country’s central bank forecast
in 2011 for three years through 2013 as part of an assessment of
the banking industry, the lender said.  The bank has completed 16 billion euros of a 24 billion-
euro target of shrinking its loan book over three years through
2013. Boucher said it’s “very realistic” that the lender’s
costs will be about 1.5 billion euros in 2014, down 500 million
euros from their peak.  The first-half figures were reduced by a 206 million-euro
loss on loan sales. The net loss widened to 1.1 billion euros
from 507 million euros for the first half of last year, Bank of
Ireland said.  “Lower revenue and higher costs than envisaged will see us
pare our forecasts,” said  Eamonn Hughes , an analyst at  Goodbody
Stockbrokers  in Dublin, who has a sell recommendation on the
stock. “We continue to retain our cautious stance and would see
more value in the stock” if it falls below 8 cents, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  