-- Betaworks Tries Digging for Gold in Internet Brand Graveyard
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-08-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/betaworks-tries-digging-for-gold-in-internet-brand-graveyard.html
John Borthwick, who runs Web-
development studio Betaworks, didn’t want to let a good name
die. So his company bought struggling news aggregator Digg Inc.
last month, and he enlisted his staff to quickly design a new
service under the old name.  With the debut of the retooled Digg.com last week,
Borthwick became one of several executives trying to stage a
second act for a once-popular Internet property that lost its
luster. They will have to win over skeptics who have written off
websites from a bygone era, a challenge not unlike the one
facing  Marissa Mayer  at Yahoo Inc.  Betaworks saw a surge in Digg readership in the days after
unveiling the new site. The challenge facing Borthwick’s team,
and other buyers of dying Web brands such as Delicious and
MySpace, is to keep those people coming back in an industry
dominated by Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. To rejuvenate the
brands, they’ll need to appease faithful visitors while wooing
new users, even those with no memory of the original site.  “It’s very hard to go back and revive the past,” said
Susan Etlinger, a social-media analyst at  San Mateo , California-
based research firm Altimeter Group. “The Internet is a moving
stream. Some say you can’t drink from the same stream twice, and
I think that’s true of the Internet, too.”  Internet Gravediggers  Other Internet gravediggers include members of the team
that founded YouTube Inc. who purchased the link-sharing website
Delicious from Yahoo, and Specific Media Inc., a digital-
advertising company that brought in actor  Justin Timberlake  to
help turn around MySpace after buying it from News Corp. These
deals made headlines last year and attracted plenty of interest,
partly because of the nostalgia induced by the familiar names.  Digg, founded in 2004, helped pioneer features that let
 Internet users  share news stories with friends. Its popularity
fizzled after a site overhaul -- meant to help it keep pace with
social-media services such as Facebook and Twitter -- drove away
users.  More than half a million people showed up to check out the
new Digg in the first couple of days after the latest redesign,
according to New York-based Betaworks. That’s about a fifth of
what Digg’s audience was during the entire month of June,
research firm  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  said.  “Never before at Betaworks have we had a startup launch
that has gotten so much attention,” Borthwick said in an
interview. “It’s a really good brand. It sort of represents
social news in Web 2.0.”  Reviving Brands  Still, Betaworks’ early success with the new Digg stands
out because many other recent Internet ventures that have taken
a similar approach haven’t been able to capitalize on the
initial spike in traffic that came after the sale. MySpace’s
audience declined 13 percent since it was acquired last year to
29.3 million in June, according to ComScore. Neda Azarfar, a
spokeswoman for MySpace, said executives weren’t available to
comment.  Chris DeWolfe, a MySpace co-founder who now runs SGN Games
Inc., said it would be difficult to polish the tarnished MySpace
brand, especially in the constantly changing Internet landscape.
He said he would rather start from scratch because a name isn’t
worth much on the Web.  News Corp. (NWSA)  unloaded MySpace for $35
million in addition to equity in the new venture.  “It’s really difficult to reinvigorate a brand name,”
DeWolfe said. “It’s just been wilting on the vine for three and
a half years. I think with every year that’s passed, the
challenge has gotten greater and greater.”  ‘Coolness Factor’  That’s partly because social networks may have more in
common with nightclubs than with trusted brands of toothpaste or
soda. MySpace executives watched in awe recently as photo-
sharing app Instagram and other startups quickly shot past the
once-dominant social network, said Arvind Puri, who was a vice
president at MySpace in 2010 and is now chief technology officer
at startup Stayhealthy Inc.  “The coolness factor is so crucial, because that’s where
the next generation is going to go,” Puri said. “Once a brand
kind of loses its shine, then people are reluctant to go back.”  Napster, the pioneering music-download service that has
changed hands twice in the past four years, faces similar
challenges, said Elizabeth Brooks, an early executive at the
company who is now chief marketing officer at BuzzMedia. Owners
have squandered any goodwill that was left from the original
service, she said.  “You’re looking at nine years of diminishing brand,”
Brooks said. “I’m not sure that Napster means anything to the
younger generation. If you weren’t around, if you weren’t using
the computer when the original Napster was in force, it doesn’t
mean anything.”  Napster Name  Rhapsody International Inc., a paid music-streaming
provider, has no plans to squeeze the remaining drops from the
Napster name in the U.S. after acquiring it from  Best Buy Co. (BBY) 
last year, said Jon Irwin, Rhapsody’s president. Napster’s U.S.
subscribers were transitioned to Rhapsody software, he said.  Irwin wanted Napster mainly for its operations in  Europe ,
where the name is held in higher esteem, he said. Erin Bix, a
Best Buy spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Attempts to recreate past Internet glory need to take
today’s competition into consideration, said Jay Adelson, who
ran Digg as chief executive officer for most of its existence.  “What entrepreneurs and investors have learned in the
Valley is that timing is so critical for some of these ideas,”
Adelson said. “The original concepts behind Digg are dated.”  Delicious Opportunity  Joshua Schachter, founder of Delicious, has said the
opportunity for the sort of bookmarking site he created in 2003
probably doesn’t exist anymore, because it now faces tougher
competition from other social-networking sites, and its features
can be overwhelming to a mainstream audience.  “We’re in the process of reinvigorating that now,” Chad Hurley, one of the YouTube founders who acquired Delicious, said
in a statement. Delicious had 457,000 visitors in June, an
increase of 11 percent from a year earlier, according to
ComScore.  Hurley and his cohorts at AVOS Systems Inc. have turned
much of their attention away from Delicious in the past few
months to focus on a project called  Zeen , which is projected to
debut in the next few weeks. They recently began work on a
redesign of Delicious, which won’t be finished for several
months, Hurley said.  AVOS saw buying Delicious as a way to “hit the ground
running” by working on a service that had hundreds of thousands
of visitors at the outset, Hurley said. His team rewrote the
code of the Delicious site to be more efficient, like Betaworks
did with Digg.  Slimming Down  The new Digg, meanwhile, has slimmed its operations by
hosting the site on rented equipment from Amazon.com Inc. and
running with a staff that’s about a 10th the size of what it
once was, making a potential fall less costly. Betaworks paid
$500,000 and gave a few percentage points of equity in the new
venture in exchange for Digg’s remaining intellectual property,
according to a person familiar with the deal who asked not to be
named because terms weren’t publicly disclosed. Betaworks had
already been working on a similar news aggregation service
called News.me.  “The fit was almost too good,” said Digg General Manager
Jake Levine, adding that he hadn’t used the social-news site
much in the past four years. “It was so new and different in
2004, and we want to be new and different again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  