-- BMW in China Explains Europe’s Best New Bonds: Corporate Finance
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-08-10T07:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/bmw-in-china-explains-europe-s-best-new-bonds-corporate-finance.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s  China 
growth is being rewarded by investors who have pushed down
relative yields on bonds sold in January by the biggest luxury
carmaker more than any other new issue in  Europe  this year.  The spread on BMW’s 1.25 billion euros ($1.5 billion) of
notes due 2015 has narrowed 77 basis points since its Jan. 13
sale to 6 basis points, Bloomberg generic prices show. The 94
percent decline outpaced an 83 percent drop for the 500 million
euros of 2017 notes issued the same month by SA de Gestion des
Stocks de Securite, the manager of French oil reserves.  BMW posted a 5 percent rise in July group sales, even as
German factory orders fell more than twice as much as economists
forecast the previous month. The Munich-based company is reaping
the rewards of expansion in China, with first-half sales rising
25 percent in  Asia  and where BMW says it expects demand for
luxury and SUV models to boost growth for the rest of the year.  “In China, cars are a symbol of status and achievement and
families will put all their income into the purchase of these
items,” said Vanessa Cochrane, a London-based debt analyst
focusing on the  auto industry  at Mizuho International Plc. BMW
has undertaken “successful expansion into China, where it is
doubling capacity,” she said.  Best Performing  Chinese demand for  luxury vehicles , particularly SUVs, is
boosting investor confidence in BMW’s ability to ride out
recession in Europe. The company forecasts a 20 percent to 25
percent rise in sales in China for 2012.  Bonds sold this year by German car manufacturers comprise
four of the six best-performing notes out of a total 218 new
issues, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The spread on Wolfsburg-based  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s 2.125 percent
three-year bond issued in January has tightened 79 percent,
while Stuttgart-headquartered Daimler AG’s 1.75 percent 2015
bond has narrowed 67 percent since its February sale.  The spread on BMW’s 2.125 percent bonds from January shrank
to 6 basis points from 14.5 basis points, or 0.145 percentage
point, this month, Bloomberg data show,  “BMW has a solid liquidity and refinancing basis,” said
 Mathias Schmidt , a spokesman for the company, which had 8.1
billion euros in cash and cash equivalents on June 30. “Our
liquidity puts us in a very good position in volatile  capital
markets .”  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps insuring against default on BMW’s debt
fell 54 basis points to 99.5 basis points since the start of the
year, putting them on par with those of Volkswagen and Daimler,
Bloomberg data show.  A decline signals improved perceptions of
 credit quality , with a basis point on a contract protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years equivalent to
1,000 euros a year.  “People like luxury brands,” said Stefan Sauerschell, a
Frankfurt-based  fund manager  at Union Investment GmbH, who
oversees 1 billion euros of debt and owns BMW bonds. “Plus,
from a bondholder point of view,  Germany  is a safe haven.”  BMW, whose Mini cars made a cameo appearance at  London ’s
Olympics opening ceremony, is focusing on expanding its range of
models to fend off growing competition. In particular, it is
extending products offered in China.  Falling Short  The company isn’t immune to the effects of Europe’s debt
crisis. BMW said Aug. 1 that six-month sales in Italy and  Spain 
fell short of the previous year’s figures. Chief Financial
Officer Friedrich Eichiner told analysts on a conference call
the same day that BMW’s car prices are 1 percent to 1.5 percent
below year-ago levels.  BMW also reported its first drop in quarterly operating
profit for three years, because of pricing pressure and
increased spending on new models. Second-quarter earnings before
interest and taxes declined 19 percent to 2.27 billion euros.  Net income fell 28 percent to 1.28 billion euros, as the
company received a one-time gain of 464 million euros in the
same period in 2011 for adjusting credit risks.  “We are positive on BMW as its operational and debt
dynamics are solid, but have decided to reduce positions on the
automotive industry because of cyclical concerns, especially in
Europe,” said Iain Bremner, a fund manager at LA Banque Postale
Asset Management, who owns BMW bonds.  Maturing Bonds  Moody’s Investors Service  rates  BMW at A2, the sixth-
highest investment-grade ranking, while  Standard & Poor’s  has an
equivalent A grade. S&P lifted its rating by one step in April,
citing expected sustained demand for luxury cars and BMW’s and
improved operating margin following four years of cost cuts.  The  96-year-old  company has 33.8 billion euros of bonds and
loans maturing through to 2019, data compiled by Bloomberg  show ,
including 2.45 billion euros due this year. BMW had 4.2 billion
euros of net debt at the end of the second quarter, down from
4.3 billion euros a year earlier.  It has a net debt to Ebitda, or earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, at minus 0.8 times,
according to Societe Generale SA. The ratio, which strips out
financial services-related debt, compares with minus 0.9 times
for Volkswagen and Daimler.  “The ongoing run for luxury brands in Asia is a factor in
favour of BMW and its Asia sales make its EBITA margins more
robust,” said Thomas Neuhold, who manages 300 million euros in
corporate debt at Gutmann Kapitalanlage AG in  Austria , including
BMW bonds.  Auto Index  Spreads on BMW’s bonds average 68 basis points, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Automotive index shows. That
compares with the average of 133 for the index, which contains
273 securities from companies including Volkswagen, Daimler and
 Peugeot SA. (UG)   BMW bonds returned 1.78 percent in July, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Automotive index, compared with
1.69 percent for Daimler’s notes and 1.76 percent for
Volkswagen’s debt. BMW’s stock has risen 16 percent this year,
including a 6.8 percent rally in July. It traded at 60 euros at
8:10 a.m. in London.  “BMW is now accelerating past that of Daimler on account
of its continued expansion in China and Daimler’s lack of SUV
offerings, which are much favored in the Chinese market,”
Mizuho’s Cochrane said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  