-- Bo’s Wife Confessed to Murder During Trial, Xinhua Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-10T19:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/bo-s-wife-confessed-to-murder-during-trial-xinhua-says.html
Gu Kailai, the wife of ousted
Chinese Politburo member  Bo Xilai , confessed to charges she used
poison to kill a British businessman in his hotel room,
according to  China ’s official news agency.  Gu admitted to dripping cyanide into Neil Heywood’s mouth
as he lay drunk on his bed because she thought he had threatened
her son, the Xinhua News Agency wrote in an account of the
seven-hour trial in the eastern city of Hefei on Aug. 9. Zhang
Xiaojun, an orderly in Gu’s house, confessed to aiding in the
crime, Xinhua reported.  “This case has been like a huge stone weighing on me for
more than half a year,” Xinhua cited Gu as saying at the end of
the trial. “What a nightmare. During those days last November,
I suffered a mental breakdown after learning that my son was in
jeopardy. The tragedy which was created by me was not only
extended to Neil, but also to several families.”  The trial was the most public part of a scandal that saw
Bo’s ouster as Chongqing party chief in March and triggered the
most serious political upheaval since the 1989  Tiananmen Square 
protests in 1989. China’s state-run media have said it will
strengthen people’s faith in the legal system, a message aimed
at bolstering the legitimacy of the ruling Communist Party
before a once-in-a-decade leadership transition later this year.  The verdict will be announced at a later date, according to
Tang Yigan, vice president of the Hefei Intermediate People’s
Court.  Cover-Up  Four police officers admitted during a separate trial
yesterday to involvement in covering up Gu’s actions, Tang said.
Their actions included hiding physical evidence and fabricating
interview records, Tang told a news conference yesterday. The
court will deliver a verdict at a later date, Tang said.  The officers listed the cause of death as alcohol poisoning
and didn’t file criminal charges after determining that Gu was
“highly suspected” of committing the offense, Xinhua said.
While Heywood’s body was cremated without an autopsy,
examination of trace evidence later showed the presence of
cyanide ions, it said.  Chinese officials had originally told U.K. authorities that
Heywood died of alcohol poisoning.  Gu said in her testimony that Heywood wrote to her in 2005,
when her son was studying in the U.K., to introduce himself,
Xinhua reported. Gu had Heywood serve as a proxy for a company
and to participate in planning a property project, which never
got started, Xinhua said.  Falling Out  The two later had a falling out over payment and “other
issues,” and Heywood wrote to Gu to threaten her son’s
“personal safety,” Xinhua reported. Prosecutors introduced e-
mails exchanged between Heywood and Gu into evidence, the  news
agency  said.  “To me, that was more than a threat,” Gu said in
testimony presented in court, according to Xinhua. “It was real
action that was taking place. I must fight to my death to stop
the craziness of Neil Heywood.”  Gu had been treated for chronic insomnia, anxiety and
depression with drugs including anti-psychotics, anxiolytics,
antidepressants and sedative hypnotic drugs, Xinhua said, citing
an assessment by forensic psychiatrists.  While her dependence on hypnotics had caused “mental
disorders,” Gu had a “clear goal and practical motive” for
committing the crime and had planned ahead by obtaining the
poison and arranging for Heywood’s visit to Chongqing, Xinhua
reported.  Formal Invitation  She arranged for Chongqing government officials and Zhang
to invite Heywood to Chongqing from Beijing, the court’s Tang
said earlier.  On the night of Nov. 13, Gu and Zhang went to Heywood’s
hotel room carrying a glass bottle of cyanide and a bottle of
drug capsules, Xinhua said, citing Gu’s testimony. Gu gave the
poison to Zhang, who waited outside, Xinhua said.  Heywood and Gu drank tea and wine together until Heywood
fell drunk on the bathroom floor, Xinhua reported, citing
testimony. Zhang then entered the room and moved Heywood to the
bed, Xinhua said.  Gu then scattered the pills around the bed, to make it
appear that Heywood had consumed the drugs, and poured cyanide
compound into a small soy-sauce container she had prepared
earlier, Xinhua said. After Heywood vomited and asked for water,
she poured a mixture of water and cyanide compound into his
mouth, the official news service said.  Physical Evidence  Physical proof, including surveillance video from the hotel
and DNA and chemical trace evidence support this version of
events, Xinhua reported.  Defense counsel for Gu and Zhang conducted briefings for
them at the trial, and representatives of the victim’s family
also spoke, Xinhua reported. In his final statement, Zhang
confessed and apologized to Heywood’s family, it said.  Jiang Min, a Hefei-based lawyer who the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper said was assigned by the court to represent Gu, didn’t
answer calls to his mobile phone on Aug. 9.  By choosing not to dispute the evidence against her, Gu may
be trying to avoid a death sentence, said Zhang Ping, a Beijing-
based criminal defense lawyer. “Gu was a lawyer herself so this
process is not foreign to her,” he said.  The political context of the case and the manner in which
court proceedings are conducted in China all point to a
predetermined guilty verdict, Donald Clarke, a law professor at
George Washington University, said before the trial started.
Clarke said he expected Gu would be given a suspended death
sentence.  Chengdu Drama  The trial is a climax of the drama that began in February
when the former police chief of Chongqing fled to the U.S.
Consulate in Chengdu with evidence implicating Gu in Heywood’s
murder, according to U.S. officials briefed on the matter. The
diplomatic furor sparked by the incident presaged Bo’s ouster as
Chongqing party chief.  There were more than 140 people present in the court,
including members of Heywood’s family and friends, as well as
British embassy and consular officials, media representatives
and Chinese lawmakers and political advisers, Xinhua said.  For the wife of a Politburo member to be tried for
murdering a foreigner is unparalleled in Chinese history, said
Minxin Pei, a government professor at  Claremont McKenna College 
in  California . Only the prosecution of Jiang Qing, Gang of Four
leader and the last wife of former leader  Mao Zedong , has any
similarities, he said.  Rule of Law  “The fact that we have a defendant like this can be seen
as a step forward but just because this happened to them doesn’t
mean we have the rule of law,” said Yan Yiming, a Shanghai-
based trial lawyer. “The proceedings weren’t terribly
transparent. For a trial to be truly open, anyone would have to
be able to walk in.”  Gu is the youngest of five daughters of a People’s
Liberation Army general, according to a Chinese-language website
affiliated with the Communist Youth League. She rose from a
butcher’s assistant during the 1966-1976 Cultural Revolution to
become a lawyer who won a lawsuit in the U.S. and went on to
write a book about the experience.  The handling of her trial has triggered criticism from
international jurists. There’s no sign the authorities are
adhering to laws that give the accused the right to see their
lawyers, Jerome Cohen, a law professor at  New York University ,
said before the trial.  “Gu has been alone with her accusers for months,” said
Cohen. The case has shown “how limited the meaning of the rule
of law is in China,” he said.  Tang said prosecutors in Hefei filed the charges on July 26
and that the court informed the defendants and Heywood’s family
of their rights. The court also invited defense lawyers to meet
and read through the entire case file, “fully protecting Gu and
Zhang, and the victim’s family’s litigation rights,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in  Hong Kong  at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  