-- Boeing Fills Top Sales Job After Commercial CEO’s Exit
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-08-10T20:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/boeing-s-wojick-to-succeed-conner-as-sales-chief.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  named John Wojick as the
planemaker’s new sales chief, filling a post vacant for more
than a month after a management shake-up in June.  A 32-year veteran, Wojick began his career as an aerospace
engineer and led regional sales units including  Latin America 
and India before becoming North American sales vice president.
He will now be vice president of Boeing Commercial Airplanes.  Ray Conner, who had been leading commercial sales for less
than a year, was named president of the business when  Jim Albaugh  decided to step down for personal reasons June 26, the
week before the industry gathered in England for the Farnborough
air show.  Wojick’s promotion “suggests elements of continuity within
the Boeing leadership team that would allow Ray Conner and his
team to move forward rapidly and with maximum effectiveness,”
said Michel Merluzeau, a consultant with G2 Solutions in
Kirkland,  Washington .  Wojick will be the ninth Boeing sales chief since  John Leahy  became chief commercial officer at Airbus SAS 18 years
ago. Toulouse, France-based Airbus has led Boeing in annual
deliveries since 2003, though the U.S. planemaker predicted it
will reclaim the top spot in 2012 as it boosts production.  Boeing has won more orders than Airbus this year after the
company began selling the 737 Max, an upgrade to its best-
selling 737 that’s meant to challenge the Airbus A320neo that
dominated purchases last year. The Chicago-based company is also
considering offering a stretch version of the new, composite-
plastic 787 as well as an improved 777 wide-body jet.  Boeing  fell  0.1 percent to $74.21 at the close in  New York .
The shares previously gained 1.3 percent this year.  Brad McMullen, who led Japan and Oceania sales, will
succeed Wojick in the North American post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  