-- Brazil Coffee Quality Seen Improving After Rainfall Eases
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-10T08:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/brazil-coffee-quality-seen-improving-after-rainfall-eases.html
The quality of coffee from this
year’s crop in  Brazil , the world’s largest producer of the
commodity, is improving after rainfall in growing regions eased,
according to Rio de Janeiro-based Flavour Coffee.  Rains in June delayed the 2012-13 crop and reduced the
quality of beans already picked. Dry weather returned to growing
regions, helping speed up the harvest and improve bean quality,
the broker said in a report e-mailed yesterday. Growing areas
won’t get “significant” rain at least until Aug. 23, Sao
Paulo-based forecaster Somar Meteorologia said in a report.  “Harvesting in all arabica areas are under full
activities,” Flavour Coffee said. “Picking, cleaning and
drying being accelerated under ideal conditions. Final cup
quality is improving or at least no further damage seen.”  Buyers of fine-cup arabica coffee for shipment in September
to December are getting a discount of 10 cents a pound to the
price on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange in  New York , unchanged
from last week, the broker said. Good-cup quality beans for
shipment in the same period were at a discount of 18 cents a
pound.  Good-cup quality beans for shipment this month traded at a
smaller discount because of late demand, Flavour Coffee said.
Sales were concluded at a discount of 9 cents to 13 cents a
pound for the period, according to the broker. Fine-cup beans
are usually more expensive because of their taste profile.  Buyers of conillons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known,
are trading at a premium of 15 cents a pound ($331 a metric ton)
to the price on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London , Flavour
Coffee said. That compares with a premium of 13 cents a pound
last week, data from the broker showed.  Robusta coffee for September delivery fell 0.2 percent to
$2,162 a ton by 9:52 a.m. on NYSE Liffe. Arabica coffee for
September delivery was little changed at $1.665 a pound on ICE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 