-- Brazil’s $385 Million Olympic Soccer Team Goes for First Gold
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-10T02:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/brazil-s-385-million-olympic-soccer-team-goes-for-first-gold.html
Brazil ’s Olympic soccer team is
getting nervous ahead of tomorrow’s final against Mexico.  The record five-time world champion, Brazil has never won
the gold medal at the games, and striker Neymar said he feels
the expectation back home.  “There’s a lot of pressure wearing this shirt,” Neymar,
20, told reporters yesterday at the team’s hotel north of
London. “We are doing this for all Brazilians.”  Brazil is seeking to end decades of underachievement at the
Olympics by players who went on to win the  World Cup  such as
Romario and Ronaldinho. Its last Olympic final was in 1988, a
2-1 loss to the Soviet Union in Seoul.  Professional soccer players weren’t allowed to compete at
the Olympics before the 1984 Los Angeles games, ruling out some
of Brazil’s most famous players including Pele and Manuel
Francisco dos Santos, better known as Garrincha. The current
rules permit three players over the age of 23.  The gold-medal game is at London’s Wembley Stadium.  South
Korea  and  Japan  contest the bronze-medal match today in Cardiff,
Wales.  Neymar, whose full name is Neymar da Silva Santos Jr.,
leads the upcoming Brazilian talent. The 18-man squad is the
most valuable at the London games with a market worth of 313
million euros ($385 million), according to data from the
 transfermarkt.com  website.  Midfielder Lucas Rodriguez Moura Silva, 19, was the latest
to secure a big-money move to  Europe  when he agreed to join
 Paris Saint-Germain  from  Sao Paulo , PSG said Aug. 8. Brazil’s
Globo network put Lucas’s transfer fee at 108 million reais ($53
million), calling it a record receipt for a Brazilian club.  Tune-up Loss  Even though Brazil lost 2-0 to  Mexico  in a June 3 tuneup in
 Dallas , anything less than the gold medal would be a
disappointment, according to midfielder Sandro Raniere Guimaraes
Cordeiro.  “So many Brazilians have failed to win gold before and
finally we have one game left to put this right,” Sandro, 23,
said. “Hopefully on Saturday we are winning gold, and not
talking about winning gold.”  Brazil has wobbled at the London games.  The team allowed two second-half goals in a 3-2 win against
 Egypt  in its opening game in Cardiff. It twice trailed before
beating Honduras 3-2 in a quarterfinal at St. James’ Park in
Newcastle,  England .  Brazil, whose coach is Mano Menezes, downed South Korea 3-0
in the semifinals.  “I don’t know if we are more prepared than other Brazilian
Olympic teams in the past, but I’m satisfied with what we’ve
done so far,” Neymar said.  Calderon’s Congratulations  Mexico already surpassed its best Olympic performance by
rallying from a goal down to beat Japan 3-1 and reach the final.
Mexico’s president,  Felipe Calderon , called the team after the
win to congratulate the players, coach Luis Fernando Tena said
at a news conference after that match.  “We have personality, we have character,” Tena told
reporters. “Yes, we did play badly, but we clenched our teeth
and went forward.”  One of Mexico’s best-known players, Giovani Dos Santos,
tore a thigh muscle against Japan and won’t play in the final,
the Mexican soccer federation said. The Tottenham Hotspur
forward’s injury will take about 14 days to heal.  Brazil stayed away from the  Olympic Village  that houses
most athletes and based players at a hotel in  St. Albans , north
of London. Its matches have all been outside the capital city.  Tomorrow, the Brazilians will make the 20-mile journey to
Wembley.  “This is the one we’ve been waiting for,” Sandro said.
“We’re nervous but prepared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  