-- BTG Pactual Climbs Above IPO as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-08-10T20:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/btg-profit-beats-estimates-on-real-estate-fixed-income-gains.html
Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11) , the Brazilian
investment bank that went public this year, rose above its
initial offering price for the first time since April after
second-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates.  BTG climbed as much as 5.7 percent to 31.67 reais in Sao
Paulo, before paring the gain to 31.24 reais at 5:05 p.m. The
Sao Paulo-based bank priced its IPO at 31.25 reais on April 24
and  last traded  above that level on April 30.  Net income increased to 822 million reais ($408 million),
or 93 centavos per share, in the three months through June from
310 million reais, or 39 centavos, a year earlier, the company
said in a statement on its website yesterday after the stock
market closed. That surpassed the average estimate of 63
centavos in a Bloomberg  survey  of three analysts.  “BTG’s well-diversified business model has allowed the
bank to post very strong results in adverse market conditions,”
 Mario Pierry , Marcelo Cintra and Tito Labarta, analysts at
Deutsche Bank AG in Sao Paulo, wrote in a report today.  BTG, led by Chief Executive Officer  Andre Esteves , 44,
increased revenue from real estate to 308 million reais in the
quarter, compared with a loss of 13 million reais a year
earlier, according to the statement. The bank said it boosted
global-markets revenue to 362 million reais from 35 million
reais on fixed-income gains stemming from  Brazil ’s lower
interest rates, mortgages in the U.S. and reinsurance.  ‘Superior Return’  “We were able to deliver superior return on equity,
despite recognizing extraordinary expenses of 221 million reais
from goodwill amortization and from our IPO in the quarter,”
Esteves said in the statement.  Investment-banking revenue slid 3 percent to 129 million
reais in the second quarter from a year earlier. Sales and
trading more than doubled to 334 million reais from 147 million
reais.  “We’ll continue performing in line with our expectation in
terms of sales and trading,” Esteves said on a conference call
with analysts. “Market conditions will probably improve at this
point.”  The firm and its shareholders  raised  3.66 billion reais in
the IPO, the first time a standalone investment bank in Brazil
listed itself on a stock exchange. Esteves said the firm needs 6
months to 12 months to “deploy all capital” raised in the
offering.  Private Equity  BTG has been expanding its  private-equity  division and the
investment-banking business in  Latin America  since the offering.
It bought Colombian brokerage Bolsa y Renta SA for $52 million,
while its private-equity arm, BTG Pactual Participations Ltd.,
acquired a 40 percent stake in Brazilian retailer Leader
Participacoes SA for 665.2 million reais in May.  BTG said its board approved the payment of 401.6 million
reais in proceeds, including dividends, to its shareholders on
Aug. 22, according to a separate regulatory filing.  “We expect to continue to deliver this type of
dividends,” Marcelo Kalim, a BTG executive director, said on
the conference call, adding that dividends will be paid every
six months.  The firm also named Joao Marcello Dantas Leite as investor
relations director, replacing Kalim, another filing showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  