-- Veterans Charity Sued by California Over Fundraising
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/california-sues-veterans-charity-claiming-fundraising-fraud-1-.html
Help Hospitalized Veterans was sued
by California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  over claims the
charity engaged in fraudulent fundraising.  The Winchester, California-based organization engaged in
self-dealing and paid excessive  executive compensation , Harris’s
office said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The suit, filed in state court in Riverside, east of Los
Angeles, seeks to recover more than $4.3 million that was
diverted from veterans’ programs and spent on golf memberships,
a condominium for the officers, and excessive compensation to
the group’s former president, Roger Chapin, and current
president,  Michael Lynch , Harris said.  The officers “improperly diverted money that hard-working
and patriotic Americans donated to support injured vets,”
Harris said in the statement. “We must protect veterans,
active-duty military and donors from scam artists who see them
as little more than prey for their financial frauds.”  Harris also seeks the removal of the group’s officers and
directors.  The state attorney general also claims the organization
used accounting gimmicks to inflate how much it spent on
veterans’ services while artificially minimizing the amount
reportedly spent on fundraising, resulting in false filings to
the  Internal Revenue Service  and the Attorney General’s office,
according to the statement.  The complaint couldn’t immediately be confirmed in
electronic court records.  A representative of Help Hospitalized Veterans didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment yesterday on the
lawsuit.  The case is California v. Help Hospitalized Veterans,
California Superior Court, Riverside County (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  