-- Canada Natural Gas Slides as Cooler Weather Cuts Fuel Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-08-10T20:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/canada-natural-gas-slides-as-cooler-weather-cuts-fuel-demand.html
Canadian natural gas declined on
moderating U.S. weather that may reduce fuel demand from
electricity generators and trim the need for imports.  September gas in Alberta  dropped 7.2 percent as MDA
EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , predicted normal or
below normal temperatures in the central part of  Canada  and the
U.S. through Aug. 24. Hotter-than-normal weather has helped
reduce a U.S. inventory  surplus  for 18 straight weeks.  “Overnight it appeared that cooling loads in the near end
of the forecast were dropping off a bit,” Pax Saunders, an
analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston, said in a note to
clients today. “Each day we rip off the calendar is one less
day of summer demand and one more day of higher storage fills.”  Alberta  gas for September delivery slid 16 cents to
C$2.0725 per gigajoule ($1.99 per million British thermal units)
as of 3:55 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada
and the U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for September delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  fell 17.5, or 5.9 percent, to $2.77 per
million Btu, the lowest settlement price since July 10. The
futures are down 7.3 percent this year.  The high in Boston on Aug. 20 may be 75 degrees Fahrenheit
(24 Celsius), 4 below the usual reading, and  Detroit  may be 7
below normal at 74 degrees, said  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State
College ,  Pennsylvania .  Cooling Demand  Cooling demand in the Midwest will be 25 percent below
normal during the week ending Aug. 17 and the south-central
states will be 4 percent below normal, according to Weather
Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri . Electricity generators account
for about 36 percent of U.S. gas consumption, Energy Department
data show.  U.S. gas stockpiles totaled 3.241 trillion cubic feet in
the week ended Aug. 3, the Energy Department said yesterday. A
supply surplus dropped to 14 percent above the five-year average
for the week, the least since the week ended Dec. 23.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16 billion cubic
feet at 1 p.m.  New York  time, below the target of 16.2 billion.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.9 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.99 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 51 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.98 billion cubic feet today, compared with the
estimated capacity of 2.02 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.94
billion cubic feet at 2:50 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  