-- Caterpillar’s Long-Term View of China Remains ‘Positive’
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 2012-08-10T15:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/caterpillar-s-long-term-view-of-china-remains-positive-1-.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
largest maker of construction and mining machinery, says its
long-term view of China remains positive as the country
experiences growing pains.  China’s government has returned to more growth-oriented
policies such as interest-rate cuts, Caterpillar Chief Financial
Officer Ed Rapp said in an interview today with Bloomberg
Television’s  Carol Massar  on “In the Loop”.  “We’ve been to this movie before,” Rapp said. “History
has been as they go through those transition periods between
growth, or trying to drive inflation down, you get through rough
spots. I think 2012 has been a rough spot but the fundamentals
are still the same.”  A slowdown in China, which represents 3 percent of
Caterpillar’s revenue, led to an increase in inventory, the
company said July 25. The company shut its main excavator
factory in China for much of July and is exporting many of the
products manufactured there,  Mike DeWalt , director of  investor
relations  said in a presentation yesterday.  China is trying to stimulate growth for a population
increasingly moving to cities from rural areas, while managing
inflation for those already living in urban centers, Rapp said
today. While the Peoria, Illinois-based manufacturer more
recently has made a push in the country through deals and
factory expansions, it has been selling machines in China since
the late 1970s.  China export growth has shrunk, with shipments increasing 1
percent from a year earlier, the customs bureau said today in
Beijing, after an 11.3 percent rise in June. The slowdown
intensifies risks of a seventh quarter of deceleration in the
world’s second-largest economy.  “We are pacing some of the investments we are making in
 China ,” Rapp said today. “It’s pulling it in, pacing out some
of the timing and going at a slower pace. The long-term view
that we have of China remains very positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  