-- Caterpillar CEO Oberhelman to Campaign on U.S. Government Debt
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/caterpillar-s-oberhelman-to-campaign-on-u-s-government-debt-1-.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  Chief Executive
Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said he will campaign later this year
for a cut in  U.S. government debt  because the issue affects
customers of the largest maker of construction and mining
machinery.  “It’s starting to hold us back,” Oberhelman said in an
interview yesterday with Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart”
at the company’s demonstration and learning center in Edwards,
Illinois. “For the contractor base and customers in this
country, it’s worrisome. It has a chill in the air.”  Customers of Caterpillar are “scared to death” that tax
rates will rise as public expenditure stalls, he said. Higher
taxes and cuts in spending on government programs amounting to
$607 billion as measured by the  Congressional Budget Office  will
take effect at year-end without congressional action.  The looming so-called fiscal cliff is “holding back our
customer base in the United States more than it is us,”
Oberhelman said.  Oberhelman is a member of the Campaign to Fix the Debt,
said  Jim Dugan , a spokesman for Peoria, Illinois-based
Caterpillar. The organization is a bipartisan group of former
lawmakers, business leaders and budget experts that also
includes former World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  and
Honeywell CEO David Cote.  Political Donations  The group said in July it would rally centrist voters who
are more concerned with reducing the  budget deficit  than
ideological battles over taxes, spending and the size of
government.  Oberhelman  donated  $2,500 to Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  in March and the same amount in June 2011
to Illinois Senator Dave Koehler, a Democrat, according to data
compiled by OpenSecrets.org, a campaign finance watchdog group
in Washington.  Caterpillar rose 0.6 percent to $88.94 in New York
yesterday. The shares have dropped 1.8 percent this year, the
worst performer on the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  after
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , McDonalds Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc.  “We’re global enough we’ve got things we can do all over
the world,” Oberhelman said.  Caterpillar got 37 percent, or $6.5 billion, of its sales
from North America in the second quarter, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Its next largest source of revenue was
the Asia-Pacific region, accounting to 25 percent of sales.  Chinese Slowdown  The company is trying to boost its presence in China.
Caterpillar said last month that it has too much inventory in
the country as the economy there slows.  China’s export growth shrank in July, with shipments
increasing 1 percent from a year earlier, the customs bureau
said yesterday in Beijing, after an 11.3 percent rise in June.
The slowdown intensifies risks of a seventh quarter of
deceleration in the world’s second-largest economy.  Caterpillar shut its main Chinese excavator factory for
much of July and is exporting many of the products manufactured
there,  Mike DeWalt , director of investor relations said in a
presentation yesterday.  “You have to take a long view of China,” Oberhelman said
yesterday. “It’s going to modernize, it’s going to develop.”  “It’s way under-excavated,” he said. “In the meantime,
we can’t cede the China construction market to someone else.”  While Caterpillar more recently has made a push in the
country through acquisitions and factory expansions, it has been
selling machines there since the late 1970s, Chief Financial
Officer Ed Rapp said yesterday in a separate interview.  China is trying to stimulate growth for a population
increasingly moving to cities from rural areas while also
managing inflation, he said.  “We’ve been to this movie before,” Rapp said. “History
has been as they go through those transition periods between
growth, or trying to drive inflation down, you get through rough
spots.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  