-- CEZ Profit Almost Doubles on Rising Capacity, Currency Gains
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-08-10T15:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/cez-second-quarter-net-almost-doubles-to-12-9-billion-koruna-1-.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the  Czech Republic ’s largest
power producer, said second-quarter profit almost doubled on
increased output capacity and foreign-exchange gains.  Net income rose to 12.9 billion koruna ($629 million) from
6.74 billion koruna a year earlier, the Prague-based utility
said today in a statement. The result beat the 7.92 billion-
koruna mean estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  A weak koruna against the euro raised the value of earnings
from abroad, while capacity increased in CEZ’s home market after
it refurbished the Tusimice plant, the company said. The
utility’s production also expanded in  Romania , where it’s
completing the construction of a 600-megawatt wind farm.  CEZ affirmed a full-year net income target of 41 billion
koruna and earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 87.9 billion koruna, according to the statement.  “The company benefited from a weakening koruna and 6
percent higher generation,” Petr Bartek, a Ceska Sporitelna AS
analyst, said in a note. “The numbers look very strong at first
sight as we don’t see any big one-offs on the Ebitda level.”  CEZ climbed 1.9 percent to 738 koruna in  Prague  trading.  Temelin Project  The company, which had pre-sold 65 percent of its 2013
power output and 32 percent of its 2014 production by Aug. 1,
will focus on expanding the Temelin nuclear plant and may seek a
strategic or financial partner for the $10 billion project. It’s
deciding on a builder for two new reactors at the site.  CEZ may accelerate the pre-sale of power as prices have
been rising, trading director Alan Svoboda said at a presser
held in Prague today. The company pre-sold 2013 power production
for an average price of 52 euros per megawatt hour and for 51.5
euros per megawatt hour in 2014, Svoboda said. CEZ expects its
power output to decrease on coal shortage, the executive said.  Westinghouse Electric Corp.,  Areva SA (AREVA)  and a Russian-Czech
group led by Rosatom Corp.’s Atomstroyexport unit submitted bids
on July 2. CEZ will make a preliminary assessment in December
and choose the winner of the largest tender in the republic’s
history next summer, Chief Executive Officer Daniel Benes said.  CEZ is also talking to potential investors, he has said.  The company kept losing money in Albania as the regulator
ordered it to pay the state-run power producer higher tariffs
without allowing the increased cost to be passed on to
customers. That trend will “certainly” continue throughout
2012 but CEZ doesn’t expect its loss in Albania to widen, Chief
Finance Officer Martin Novak said at the presser.  Debt was 1.65 times Ebitda and CEZ expects it to widen to
2.3 times of the benchmark, Novak said.  It plans to sell at least one of its aging coal-fired power
plants and add wind capacity in Romania, Poland and  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  