-- Chavez Says U.S. ‘Mercenary’ Captured Entering Venezuela
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-08-10T04:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/chavez-says-u-s-mercenary-captured-entering-venezuela.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said security forces captured a U.S. man who appeared to be a
“mercenary” attempting to enter the country illegally from
 Colombia .  Chavez, speaking yesterday on state television during an
electoral campaign rally in Vargas state, said the U.S. citizen
of Latin American origin had a passport with stamps showing he’d
visited Iraq, Afghanistan and  Libya  and had attempted to destroy
a notebook containing co-ordinates. The man is being questioned
by Venezuelan officials, he said.  The self-declared socialist often points to an attempted
coup in 2002 as evidence that the U.S. and his “bourgeois”
opponents are planning to topple him. Chavez refers to his
opponent in October’s election, Henrique Capriles Radonski, as
“the bourgeois candidate” and last night warned that
Venezuelans will lose the social benefits of his “21st century
revolution” if he’s defeated.  “He has all the appearance of a mercenary,” Chavez said.
“This obliges us to activate the alarms.”  An e-mail to the State Departments press office for Western
Hemisphere Affairs seeking comment wasn’t immediately answered.  The former tank commander said that only by his re-election 
him stability in  Venezuela  be guaranteed and said the opposition 
could resort to violence if defeated.  Should the opposition gain power, `` they would persecute 
popular leaders and begin a purge within the armed forces and 
that would generate an earthquake in the country,'' Chavez said.  Chavez is seeking to to extend his 13 years in power with 
another six-year term in October’s presidential election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  