-- Cheung Kong Pays Above Estimates for Hong Kong Station Site
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-08-10T16:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/cheung-kong-pays-above-estimates-for-hong-kong-station-site.html
     Aug. 11 (Bloomberg) -- Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the
developer controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-shing , paid more than
a third above estimates for its first land acquisition this
year, flagging the developer’s confidence demand will stay
strong even as the government is set to boost supply.  The HK$9.63 billion ($1.2 billion) paid by Hong Kong’s
second-largest builder beat five bids for the site atop Tsuen
Wan West railway station in the northwest. With 2.24 million
square feet of buildable residential and commercial space, the
project was expected to fetch HK$7 billion, according to the
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Property prices  in Hong Kong have risen 10 percent this
year, defying a slowdown in the city’s economic growth. Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying pledged to boost supply to bridge a
widening wealth gap and rein in home prices that have become
increasingly unaffordable for the general public.  “It shows that, at least for  Cheung Kong , there isn’t any
worry about a major downturn in home prices in the near term,”
said Vincent Cheung, director of valuation and advisory for
greater China at Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  At the price paid by Cheung Kong, the average cost for the
project will be around HK$9,100 a square foot, meaning the
developer will have to sell apartments at HK$10,000 a square
foot to make a “reasonable profit,” said Cheung. The average
price of new apartments in Tsuen Wan is currently about HK$8,000
a square foot, he said.  Conflicting Signal  Cheung Kong will spend HK$20 billion to develop the site,
including the land cost, Victor Li, the company’s vice chairman,
told reporters yesterday.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the city’s biggest builder,
last month bought a  Hong Kong  Island building site sold by the
government for a less-than-estimated HK$6.91 billion, while a
plot in Tsuen Wan was bought for HK$2.74 billion in February,
almost 20 percent lower than estimated.  “The signal has been conflicting and it just reflects how
developers’ sentiments respond to changes in the market,”
Cushman & Wakefield’s Cheung said.  The Hong Kong government cut its estimate for full-year
growth to 1 percent to 2 percent from a previous 1 percent to 3
percent yesterday after saying the economy contracted 0.1
percent in the second quarter from the first three months.  Cheung Kong shares fell 1.9 percent to close at HK$109 in
Hong Kong. They have gained 18 percent this year, compared with
a 9.2 percent increase in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Sales Resume  In January, the government, one of the city’s biggest
suppliers of unoccupied land for housing, had to withdraw the
same Tsuen Wan site sold yesterday after none of the tenders
submitted met its requirement.  “The market has recovered quite a bit lately,” Alvin Lam,
a surveyor at  Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200) , the city’s biggest publicly
traded realtor, said before the tender result was announced.
“It also helps that there won’t be another large-scale project
coming up in the near future.”  Hong Kong developers are seeking to replenish precious land
reserves as the government resumed regular sales last year after
a seven-year hiatus. Sales had been sporadic since 2004, when
the government stopped regular auctions after  home prices 
plunged 70 percent from their 1997 peak amid the Asian financial
crisis and the SARS epidemic.  Chief Executive Leung pledged to put more land on the
market in a bid to rein in home prices that have jumped more
than 80 percent since the start of 2009 and are now the world’s
highest.  Prices have been underpinned by low  interest rates  and an
influx of mainland Chinese buyers, who made up 36.8 percent of
all new home sales by value in the first quarter, down from 37.9
percent in the previous three months, according to Midland
Holdings Ltd. The number reached 53.9 percent in the third
quarter last year, the realtor said.  Savills Plc (SVS)  said Hong Kong is the world’s costliest place
to buy an apartment, with prices about 85 percent higher than in
 London , where the property broker is based.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  