-- Chilean Peso Retreats From 11-Month High on Larrain, China
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-08-10T21:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/chilean-peso-retreats-from-11-month-high-on-larrain-china.html
Chile ’s peso fell from an 11-month
high after Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said he was concerned
about the currency’s strength.  The peso slid for the first time this week, plunging 0.9
percent to 479.1 per dollar, the biggest drop among the six
major currencies in the region. The peso has gained 0.4 percent
since Aug. 3, extending its increase to 8.4 percent in 2012.  Chile’s government wants to sustain a competitive  exchange
rate  and has many ways to achieve that, Larrain told reporters
in Santiago today. The comments spurred speculation that policy
makers may act to weaken the peso, according to Alejandro Araya,
a trader at Banco Santander Chile in Santiago.  “The peso has strengthened so much it reached a level
where people started questioning whether it is supported by
fundamentals,” Araya said.  The price of copper, Chile’s main export, slid as much as
1.9 percent today after data showed Chinese export growth
weakened and imports slowed.  China’s export growth slowed to 1 percent in the year
through July and imports increased 4.7 percent. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had expected exports to rise 8 percent and
imports to grow 7 percent.  China  is the biggest buyer of Chilean
copper, which accounts for more than half the Andean country’s
exports.  “The Chinese data also influenced the strengthening of the
dollar,” Araya said. “Our drivers are 100 percent correlated
to China.”  International investors reduced bets against the peso to a
three-month low of $7.6 billion on Aug. 8, according to data
published by the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  