-- China Swaps Drop as Worsening Economic Data Boosts Easing Chance
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-08-10T09:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/china-swaps-drop-as-worsening-economic-data-boosts-easing-chance.html
China’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
fell for a second day as export growth missed estimates, adding
to speculation policy makers will take measures to spur the
economy.  Overseas sales increased 1 percent from a year earlier,
compared with an 11.3 percent gain in June, official data showed
today. The growth also trailed the median forecast of 8 percent
in a Bloomberg survey. Imports rose 4.7 percent, following an
advance of 6.3 percent in June. Government reports yesterday
showed inflation slowed for a fourth month in July and factory
production climbed by less than analysts estimated.  “Interest-rate swaps continued to correct lower gradually,
as the latest set of economic data add to the odds for further
monetary easing,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “The lack of easing at the moment is
keeping the curve inverted at the very front end.”  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repurchase rate, decreased nine basis points to
2.68 percent as of 5:08 p.m. in Shanghai, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The rate increased two basis points this week.  The People’s Bank of China  added  44 billion  yuan  ($6.9
billion) into the financial system in the week through Aug. 9,
following a withdrawal of 86 billion yuan the previous week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Caution on Inflation  China will be more cautious about adjusting monetary policy
as inflation may pick up again, according to a commentary on the
front-page of the China Securities Journal today. The economy
may face a larger  money supply , rebounding  home prices  and
declining interest rates, leaving less room for fine-tuning,
according to the newspaper.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, increased one basis point today to 3.30
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. The rate fell 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, this week.  The yield on the 3.14 percent bonds due February 2017 fell
one basis point to 2.83 percent, according to the National
Interbank Funding Center. The yield climbed six basis points
this week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  