-- China Police Admit Covering Up for Gu Kailai in Heywood Murder
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-10T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/china-begins-trial-of-police-charged-in-heywood-murder-coverup.html
Four Chinese police officers
confessed to helping cover up the murder of British businessman
Neil Heywood during a one-day trial in the eastern city of
Hefei, a court official said.  The officers admitted the “basic facts” of the charges,
Tang Yigan, vice president of the Hefei Intermediate People’s
Court, told a news conference yesterday. The men, led by Guo
Weiguo, former deputy chief of the Public Security Bureau in the
southwestern city of Chongqing, were accused of helping Gu
Kailai, the wife of ousted Politburo member  Bo Xilai , cover up
her actions while they investigated Heywood’s death.  “During their investigations, Guo and the others
discovered that Gu Kailai was highly suspected of committing the
crime,” Tang said. “By fabricating false visitation records,
hiding physical evidence and other methods,” the officers
“concealed the fact that Gu had been at the scene.”  Gu, at her trial in Hefei on Aug. 9, didn’t contest charges
that she poisoned Heywood in his hotel in November. The trial
was part of a scandal that saw Bo’s ouster as Chongqing party
chief in March and triggered the most serious political upheaval
in China since the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests.  Outside the court yesterday, traffic police blocked roads
and more than a dozen security personnel armed with batons
guarded the building entrance and at least 10 police vehicles
patrolled the area.  The verdict will be delivered at a later date, Tang said.
Gu is also awaiting a ruling in her trial.  Tang says the four men agreed to determine Heywood’s cause
of death as “sudden death from alcohol,” and not pursue it as
a crime. After convincing Heywood’s family of their explanation
the men “had his body cremated without an autopsy,” Tang said.  China ’s state-run media have said Gu’s trial will
strengthen people’s faith in the legal system, a message aimed
at bolstering the legitimacy of the ruling Communist Party
before a once-in-a-decade leadership transition later this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  