-- China Stocks Fall for First Time in Week on Exports Data
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-08-10T07:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/china-s-stock-futures-gain-before-export-data-on-policy-outlook.html
China’s stocks  fell, sending the
benchmark index lower for the first time in more than a week,
after exports and new bank loans grew less than estimated,
boosting concern the nation’s economic slowdown is deepening.  Jiangxi Copper (600362)  Co. led declines for  material stocks  on
demand concerns after government data showed  China ’s exports
rose 1 percent in July, compared with economists estimate for 8
percent growth.  TCL Corp. (000100)  dropped for the first time in six days
after the consumer electronics company reported a decline in
first-half net income. Kweichow Moutai Co. slid 4.9 percent
after the biggest baijiu liquor maker’s profit growth slowed.  “The export figures show that it’s hard to improve China’s
economy in the short term,” said Cao Xuefeng, an analyst at
Huaxi Securities Co. in Chengdu.  “There are definitely
expectations for more reserve-ratio requirement cuts and other
measures to boost the economy, but I doubt they will be
effective. There are limited tools the government can use.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.2 percent to
2,168.81 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 0.5 percent to
2,399.75. The  Shanghai  index climbed 1.7 percent this week, a
second week of gains, on speculation slowing growth and easing
inflation will allow the government to loosen monetary policy
and adopt more fiscal measures.  China’s export growth was close to zero in July, raising
the odds the government will take more-aggressive measures to
support an economy the grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter,
the slowest pace since 2009.  Greater Pressure  The growth in July exports compared with 11.3 percent in
June, the customs bureau said. Imports rose 4.7 percent,
compared with the estimate for a 7 percent gain and a 6.3
percent increase in June. The  trade surplus  was $25.1 billion
compared with $31.5 billion a year earlier The median projection
for the trade surplus was $35.1 billion.  China faces greater pressure in the second half of the year
in order to realize the country’s 10 percent trade growth target
for this year, Vice Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng said at a
briefing in Beijing.  Jiangxi Copper, the biggest producer of the metal, declined
1.6 percent to 21.72 yuan. Yunnan Copper Industry Co. fell 1.3
percent to 16.89 yuan. Three-month copper fell as much as 1
percent to $7,460 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  Deutsche Bank AG, which lowered its growth forecast for the
Chinese economy after yesterday’s inflation and industrial
output data, said it expects one interest-rate cut and two cuts
in banks’ reserve-ratio requirements for the rest of the year as
well as “modest” tax cuts for small businesses.  Economic Data  The People’s Bank of China has cut rates twice since early
June and lowered lenders’ reserve requirement ratios three times
starting in November as part of the government’s efforts to spur
credit growth and support the economic expansion.  China’s new local-currency loans were 540.1 billion  yuan  in
July and M2  money supply  expanded 13.9 percent from a year
earlier, the People’s Bank of China said on its website today.
July’s new loans compare with the median estimate of 700 billion
yuan in a Bloomberg News survey of 30 analysts.  Government reports yesterday showed inflation cooled for a
fourth month in July, while industrial output and retail sales
grew less than estimated and producer prices plunged more than
expected.  China will be more cautious about adjusting monetary policy
as inflation may pick up again, according to a commentary on the
front-page of the China Securities Journal today. The economy
may face a larger money supply, rebounding  home prices  and
declining interest rates in the future, leaving less room for
government fine-tuning, according to the commentary, written by
a reporter at the newspaper named Ni Mingya.  Moutai Plunges  Both Deutsche Bank and Barclays Plc cut their growth
forecasts for  China’s economy . Deutsche Bank lowered its 2012
growth estimate to 7.7 percent from 7.9 percent and its third-
quarter forecast to 7.5 percent from 7.9 percent. Barclays cut
its 2012 China growth estimate to 7.9 percent from 8.1 percent.  A gauge of  consumer-staples producers  fell 2.1 percent, the
most among the 10 industry groups in the CSI 300.  Moutai slid 4.9 percent to 248.21 yuan, the biggest drop
since March 27. It said yesterday first-half net income climbed
43 percent from a year earlier to 7 billion yuan. That compares
with 58 percent growth in last year’s first half.  “Net income was below market expectations,” said Liu Hui,
analyst at CSC Securities HK Ltd. “The shares have risen this
year. Investors also wanted to take profits.”  TCL declined 1.6 percent to 1.90 yuan. The company’s first-
half net income fell 48 percent from a year earlier to 282.7
million yuan, according to a statement to the Shenzhen bourse.  Earnings Outlook  Chinese publicly traded companies are required to release
first-half earnings results in July and August. Of the 886
companies in the Shanghai Composite, the 132 that reported
second-quarter earnings had an average 1.4 percent profit
decline, according to data compiled by Bloomberg as of Aug. 8.
Profit rose 2.8 percent in the first quarter, the data showed.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-
traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 0.7 percent
yesterday in  New York . The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  slid 1 percent today.  “Chinese stocks are taking a breather after rising for
five sessions,” said Zhang Yanbin, an analyst with Zheshang
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Inflation has weakened so there
are expectations the government has more scope to loosen
monetary policy and there may be more reserve-requirement ratios
cuts and the economy will stabilize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  