-- China Export Growth Slides as World Recovery Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-10T10:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/china-july-exports-rise-1-vs-economists-estimate-for-8-.html
China ’s export growth collapsed and
imports and new  yuan  loans trailed estimates in July, adding to
signs the global economy is weakening and raising the odds the
government will step up measures to support expansion.  Outbound  shipments  increased 1 percent from a year earlier,
the customs bureau said today in Beijing, after an 11.3 percent
rise in June. New local-currency lending was 540.1 billion yuan
($85 billion), the central bank said, lower than all 30
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey, compared with 919.8
billion yuan in June.  Stocks slid as the data boosted evidence that China’s
interest-rate cuts and accelerated approval of investment
projects have yet to propel growth, after a report yesterday
showed industrial  output  rose the least since 2009. The slowdown
intensifies risks of a seventh quarter of deceleration in the
world’s second-largest economy.  “Monetary policy easing has to be more aggressive in the
remainder of the year,” said Liu Li-Gang, Hong Kong-based head
of Greater China economics at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. He said there’s a risk of a “hard landing” and the
government may lower banks’ reserve requirements as soon as
today.  The MSCI All-Country World  Index (SHCOMP)  of global stocks fell 0.3
percent as of 11:02 a.m. in  London . China’s Shanghai Composite
Index dropped 0.2 percent, the first decline in six days.  Separate reports showed industrial output growth
unexpectedly slowed last month to 9.2 percent from a year
earlier and retail sales rose 13.1 percent, trailing analysts’
forecasts.  Money Supply  New yuan  lending  in July compared with the median estimate
of 700 billion yuan in a Bloomberg survey. It was the lowest
monthly figure since September 2011. Growth in M2, the broadest
measure of  money supply , was 13.9 percent last month, compared
with the median forecast for a 13.8 percent gain.  The growth in July exports compared with the 8 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports rose 4.7
percent, versus the survey estimate for 7 percent and a 6.3
percent increase in June.  The  trade surplus  was $25.1 billion in July compared with
$31.5 billion a year earlier. The median projection was $35.1
billion.  Excluding distortions caused by the timing of the Lunar New
Year holiday, it was the worst export growth since 2009. The
figures put China further at risk of missing its 10 percent goal
of trade expansion for the year. China is still “confident” of
achieving the target, Gao Hucheng, a vice commerce minister,
said at a briefing today.  EU Sales  China’s sales to European Union countries fell 16.2 percent
last month and growth in U.S. exports slowed to 0.6 percent from
10.6 percent in June, customs data showed.  The odds the government will “greatly step up” policy
easing or stimulus are “surely on the rise,” Lu Ting, head of
Greater China economics at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong,
said in a note today. The central bank may cut banks’ reserve
requirements “soon” and another interest-rate reduction is
“in the pipeline,” Lu said, after two so far this year.  Barclays Plc yesterday cut its estimate for third-quarter
growth to 7.7 percent from 8.2 percent while Deutsche Bank AG
lowered its forecast to 7.5 percent from 7.9 percent.  China’s central bank halted gains in the yuan in the first
half of the year, providing some help to exporters amid
deteriorating global demand. The currency has fallen 1 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  this year.  The yuan was little changed against the dollar today at
6.3600, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Clothing Supplier  Li & Fung Ltd., the world’s largest supplier of clothes and
toys to retailers, plunged in Hong Kong trading by the most
since listing in 1992 after slowdowns in the U.S. and  Europe 
caused a slump in first-half operating profit. The company,
whose customers include Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp.,
sells goods that are made in China.  Separately today, the Ministry of Finance said fiscal
spending rose 37 percent in July from a year earlier, while
fiscal revenue rose 8.2 percent.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  Singapore  said its
economy shrank an annualized 0.7 percent last quarter, less than
the preliminary reading of a 1.1 percent contraction.  Hong Kong 
said gross domestic product expanded 1.1 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, compared with the median estimate
for a 1.2 percent rise.  German inflation unexpectedly slowed in July to 1.9 percent
from 2 percent in June. French industrial production stagnated
in June, the latest sign that the euro area’s second-largest
economy may be heading for its first recession in three years.  Russian Rates  The Russian central bank refrained from raising borrowing
costs for an eighth month, highlighting “significant”
inflation risks from a weaker harvest and higher interbank rates
that constrain lending growth.  Brazil ’s unemployment rate probably fell to 5.7 percent in
June, the third monthly decline, based on the median estimate of
35 economists. Canada’s jobless rate may have been unchanged at
7.2 percent in July.  Exports present the biggest uncertainty to China’s outlook,
Song Guoqing, an adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said
last month. He estimated economic growth may slow to 7.4 percent
this quarter.  In its second-quarter monetary policy report released Aug.
2, the central bank said the “primary risk for the global
economy is still the  European debt crisis ,” and that the
possibility of Europe “triggering a double dip in the global
economy can’t be ruled out.”  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Zheng Lifei in Beijing, James Mayger in  Tokyo  and Ailing Tan, Shamim Adam and Stephanie Phang
in Singapore. Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  