-- Codexis Drops After Saying Shell Won't Continue to Fund
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-08-10T20:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/codexis-drops-after-saying-shell-won-t-continue-to-fund.html
Codexis Inc. (CDXS) , the California-based
maker of enzymes for biofuels and biochemicals, fell to its
lowest price after announcing it won’t receive further funding
from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  for research into converting biomass
to fuel.  Codexis, based in  Redwood City ,  declined  21 percent to
$2.44 at the close in  New York , the lowest since it began
trading on April 22, 2010. The shares have dropped 54 percent
this year.  “We are expecting and are planning for Shell to deliver
notice of a reduction in funding under our collaborative
agreement,” Chief Executive Officer John Nicols said in a
statement released after the close of regular U.S. trading
yesterday. The company doesn’t expect any funding after Oct. 31,
he said.  The funding supports 116 research and development employees
representing about one-third of Codexis total staff, Wes Bolsen,
the company’s vice president and chief marketing officer, said
today by telephone.  Codexis will need to reduce headcount further to save costs
and meet a goal of “single-digit million cash burn rate,”
Nicols said yesterday on a conference call.  Raizen Energia  The company is working with Raizen Energia SA, a venture of
Shell and  Brazil ’s Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, on improved
yeast strains to boost the output of mills that turn sugar cane
into ethanol. The company is in talks with The Hague-based Shell
for the rights to sell its CodeXyme technology to other
companies, according to the statement.  “We’re absolutely feeling confident that we’re going to
get the global rights to market these enzymes,” Bolsen said.
Shell previously gave rights to Codexis’ technology in Brazil to
Raizen, so if Codexis receives other offers in Brazil, “it just
means we need to negotiate with Raizen,” he said.  Revenue from selling enzymes to companies other than Raizen
isn’t likely to come before 2015 since most projects nearing
construction already have suppliers, Nicols said. “It’s
probably a low probability expectation that we could displace
who they’re already working with,” he said on the call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  