-- Colombian Rebels Attack BHP, Anglo American Coal Mine
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-08-10T13:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/colombian-rebels-attack-bhp-anglo-american-coal-mine.html
BHP Billiton Plc (BHP) ,  Anglo American Plc (AAL) 
and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s Cerrejon  coal mine  said guerrillas have
stepped up assaults as part of a campaign against energy and
mining infrastructure in  Colombia .  Rebels attacked the mine or its railway four times this
year, up from three incidents in all of 2011, Roberto Junguito,
the venture’s chief executive officer, said in an interview
yesterday in Cartagena, Colombia. Cerrejon is the world’s
largest coal mine for export.  “We’re asking the government to take measures to reduce it
in the future to zero,” he said. “There has been a change in
strategy” by the rebels.  Guerrillas have blown up oil equipment and coal railways as
record commodities production increases revenue for Colombia’s
government in a fifth decade of armed conflict. State-run
 Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  reduced this year’s oil output target after
pipeline bombings more than tripled in the first half of the
year. Attacks on infrastructure like energy towers, roads and
bridges jumped last year for the first time since 2008.  The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, on
Aug. 8 used explosives to damage a railway that carries coal
from Cerrejon to port, after entering the mine to blast
equipment last weekend. Assaults haven’t affected production or
exports from the mine complex spread over about 30 kilometers
(18.6 miles) in northern Colombia, where the government has
increased military presence in the past year, according to
Junguito. He took over as CEO this year.  Production at the mine will rise to 33.3 million tons this
year, about 32 million tons of which will be exported. The
remaining 1.3 million tons will be added to inventories.  Output from the Cerrejon mine is expected to rise to 40
million tons in 2017 as part of an expansion plan announced last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  