-- Colombian Peso Declines on Bets for More Currency Intervention
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-08-10T18:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/colombian-peso-declines-on-bets-for-more-currency-intervention.html
Colombia’s peso fell amid mounting
speculation that policy makers will increase dollar purchases to
stem the currency’s rally.  The peso weakened 0.1 percent today to 1,790.52 per  U.S.
dollar , and dropped 0.2 percent this week. The decline pared the
peso’s gain this year to 8.3 percent, the best performance after
the Chilean peso among the most traded currencies in  Latin
America .  “Even with dollar flows coming in, the peso is trading at
these levels as people bet on more dollar purchases,” said
Guillermo Puentes, the head trader at Banco de Comercio Exterior
de Colombia SA, known as Bancoldex.  Dealing with the peso’s appreciation in the midst of an
international crisis is “very tough,” Finance Minister Juan
Carlos Echeverry said in a speech in Cartagena yesterday.  Echeverry has said he asked the central bank to increase
its daily intervention in the  currency market  to a minimum of
$40 million from the current $20 million. Central bank chief
Jose Dario Uribe reiterated July 27 that Banco de la Republica
will keep buying at least $20 million daily in the  spot market 
until at least Nov. 2.  Foreign direct investment in Colombia will likely rise to a
record $17 billion this year, Echeverry also said yesterday.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
debt due in 2024 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 6.64 percent, according to the central bank. The price
rose 0.348 centavo to 127.084 centavos per peso.  Central Bank Minutes  The yield has fallen 13 basis points since the central bank
unexpectedly cut the overnight lending rate a quarter percentage
point to 5 percent on July 27.  “The yield is pretty low, but the bet is we’ll see more
rate cuts,” Puentes said. “In that case, there would still be
room for the yield to fall further.”  Colombia’s central bank cited the probability of meeting
its inflation target and weaker  consumer spending  and investment
growth in its decision to cut  interest rates  last month,
according to  minutes  to its July policy meeting.  “The combination of a moderation in the global economy,
lower  oil prices  and weak domestic demand pushed the board’s
balance from a neutral bias to dovish,” Nomura Holdings Inc.
strategist  Benito Berber  wrote in a note to clients today.
“BanRep is not hinting rate cuts in the immediate months. Thus,
the timing of the cuts will be data- and event-dependent, in
line with previous cycles.”  Berber forecasts policy makers will lower borrowing costs
to 4.5 percent by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  