-- Commemorating the ‘Greatest Philanthropist in History’
-- B y   K r i s t i n   A g u i l e r a
-- 2012-08-10T14:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/commemorating-the-greatest-philanthropist-in-history-.html
Andrew Carnegie , who died 93 years
ago tomorrow, remains a polarizing figure. He has been labeled a
great industrialist by some, a robber baron by others. Some
argue that his impoverished childhood and work in a cotton mill
enhanced his sympathy for workers, while others contend the
conditions in his  steel mills  were inhumane.  Even his unparalleled philanthropy -- which continues to
shape the American educational and cultural worlds to a
remarkable degree -- has sparked its share of criticism.  After immigrating to the U.S. from  Scotland  at age 12,
Carnegie worked a series of low-wage jobs until landing a
position as personal assistant and secretary to Thomas A. Scott,
superintendent of the Pittsburgh division of the Pennsylvania
Railroad.  Scott, along with Pennsylvania Railroad President J. Edgar
Thomson, taught Carnegie several valuable investing lessons.
Among the most significant was how to exploit inside information
whenever possible, which was legal at the time. Carnegie’s first
investment was for 10 shares in Adams Express, to which the
Pennsylvania Railroad had recently given an exclusive contract
for rail use. Carnegie rose through the ranks and eventually
became superintendent of the railroad’s western division.  He left in 1865 to focus on his own enterprises, primarily
in the steel business. His success in that industry stemmed
largely from innovations he pioneered, including a new steel
production process called Bessemer conversion and a business
method known as vertical integration, whereby his parent company
owned the source of raw materials, the method of production and
the means of distribution.  ‘Gospel of Wealth’  In the late 19th century, the U.S. was embroiled in a
series of labor disputes over wages, hours and working
conditions. From 1881 to 1900, almost 3 million workers were
involved in roughly 12,000 strikes and lockouts nationwide.  Carnegie portrayed himself as a progressive employer who
could pave the way toward labor harmony on a national scale. He
published a series of essays advocating for arbitration over
strikes and lockouts and declared his support for unions.  “The right of the working-men to combine and to form
trades-unions is no less sacred than the right of the
manufacturer to enter into associations and conferences with his
fellows,” Carnegie wrote in his 1889 essay “The Gospel of
Wealth.”  His words, however, often clashed with his actions. One of
the period’s most infamous labor confrontations occurred at
Carnegie’s Homestead Steel Works. The strike and lockout lasted
about six months and resulted in the death of nine workers and
three Pinkerton investigators.  At 65, Carnegie sold Carnegie Steel and many of his other
enterprises to J.P. Morgan for $480 million, netting
$225,639,000 (about $6.5 billion today) for himself. The
transaction created  U.S. Steel (X) , the first billion-dollar
corporation, a behemoth that accounted for 7 percent of the
country’s economic output and had twice the capital stock of all
U.S. national banks combined.  According to Martyn Evans, the chief executive of the
Carnegie U.K. Trust, Carnegie’s deal with Morgan would
eventually make him the world’s richest man -- significantly
wealthier than anyone alive today. Carnegie “would be richer
than the top six richest people in the world at the moment,”
Evans says. “And he chose to give that away.”  Unrivaled Charity  Before his death in 1919, Carnegie donated $350 million to
hundreds of organizations and individuals around the world. He
funded universities, donated $60 million to establish more than
2,800 libraries and established pensions for professors and the
workers in his mills. He poured more than $25 million into peace
efforts and demonstrated his love for music by constructing  New
York ’s  Carnegie Hall  and donating more than 7,000 organs to
churches.  Still, not everyone agreed with the way he distributed his
wealth. Contemporary articles and cartoons called into question
his focus on higher education, which at the time was considered
a luxury of the rich, as well as the extent of his international
giving.  Puck magazine published a satirical cartoon in 1901
criticizing his founding of the  Carnegie Trust for the
Universities of Scotland . Featuring Carnegie and Charles M.
Schwab, the president of Carnegie Steel, the caption reads:
“This is the school most people must go to, and the one that has
always turned out the biggest men. That other school is for the
few and is already turning out too many doctors, ministers,
lawyers and clerks. Don’t you think we ought to improve
conditions in our school rather than in that other one?”  According to Carnegie  biographer  Peter Krass, the grand
scale of Carnegie’s philanthropy also frightened many people,
who thought it was anti-democratic.  “There was a fear within the proletarian ranks that it
amounted to social control: Carnegie and others like him were
forcing their ideas and values on the masses in an attempt to
control their thoughts and actions, to control their behavior by
instituting strict conditions for how their far-reaching
benefactions could be used,” Krass wrote.  Despite the divergence of opinion about Carnegie’s methods,
the scale of his charity remains unrivaled. According to Anthony Marx, the president of the  New York Public Library  -- which was
founded with a gift from Carnegie -- his legacy of giving is
without equal, even compared with today’s most generous
philanthropists.  “Andrew Carnegie was, as far as I can tell, the greatest
philanthropist in history,” Marx says. “The  New York Public
Library  system was created by a gift of $5.2 million, which in
today’s dollars is equivalent to $2.7 billion.”  Ultimately, perhaps Carnegie’s greatest achievement was
that he lived up to his own philosophy of distributing wealth
within one’s lifetime. As he put it, “He who dies rich, dies
disgraced.”  This philosophy has inspired today’s most generous
philanthropists, notably  Warren Buffett  and Bill and  Melinda
Gates , who in 2010 initiated the Giving Pledge to encourage
billionaires to donate half their wealth. In a nod to Carnegie,
Buffett described the letters submitted by the initial 81
signers of the pledge as the “81 Gospels of Wealth.”  (Kristin Aguilera is the deputy director of the  Museum of
American Finance  and the editor of Financial History magazine.
“Andrew Carnegie: Forging Philanthropy” will be on view at the
museum through October. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Kristin Aguilera at
 kaguilera@moaf.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 