-- Connecticut Pulls Disabled From Site of Alleged Beatings
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-10T20:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/connecticut-pulls-disabled-from-site-of-alleged-beatings.html
A Connecticut agency plans to pull
at least four disabled state residents out of a  Florida 
rehabilitation  center  facing allegations that its patients were
abused and neglected.  Terrence Macy, commissioner of the Connecticut Department
of Developmental Services, said he was “outraged” watching
video that police describe as footage of two autistic patients
being beaten at the Florida Institute for Neurologic
Rehabilitation.  Macy said his department doesn’t plan to make any further
placements at FINR and is taking steps to withdraw four of the
10 patients it already has sent to the facility in rural
Wauchula, Florida. Last week, investigators from three state
agencies conducted a surprise inspection of the treatment
center, without disclosing what they found.  Wayne J. Miller, an attorney for closely held FINR, said
the patients slated to leave the facility “have vastly improved
as a result of the care they were given at FINR and are now well
enough to be transferred to a facility in  Connecticut  that
provides a lower level of care.” He said FINR has been working
with Connecticut officials for a “few months” on the discharge
of those patients.  Connecticut is responsible for certain disabled and
mentally ill patients under laws entitling them to adequate
care.  Incident Video  “Watching the video, I saw things that were reprehensible
to me and horrific and would never be tolerated in this state,”
Macy said.  In one video recorded last year, 21-year-old autistic
patient Danny Silva sits on a couch between two large male
staffers who punch, elbow and slap him at least 30 times.  The video was taken by a third employee using a mobile
phone, according to police, and posted online last month by
Bloomberg News. The two staffers have pleaded not guilty to
criminal charges of abuse.  Melinda Jakobowski, a mentally ill patient sent to Wauchula
by Connecticut, died at a Tampa hospital last year after she was
found unresponsive in her room at  FINR . Investigations by
Florida regulators determined that staff members failed to watch
Jakobowski as required, including one who slept on the job.  The state will step up monitoring of Connecticut patients
who remain at FINR, Macy said.  Two Agencies  Asked whether he was confident the individuals his agency
has placed in Florida are safe, Macy said, “not completely.”
He said FINR is the “best we can do until we can create
opportunities here with the best supports possible.”  The  Wauchula  firm is one of the largest U.S. centers for
treating brain-injured patients, according to competitors. Some
of its 196 beds have been filled by other types of patients.  In addition to the 10 patients sent to FINR by Macy’s
agency, five others were placed there by the Connecticut
Department of Mental Health & Addiction Services, according to
the  department .  Silva is one of the patients sent to Florida by Macy’s
agency, according to James McGaughey, the executive director of
the Office of Protection and Advocacy for Persons with
Disabilities in Connecticut. Macy said privacy rules prevented
him from confirming whether Silva is one of his agency’s cases.  Resources Lacking  It may take several months to return the four patients to
Connecticut, Macy said. A company in the state that provides
disabled care offered to take a fifth FINR patient after
watching the video of alleged abuse, he said, although it hasn’t
been determined whether the program is appropriate for the
patient.  Macy said patients were sent out of state because
Connecticut doesn’t have the resources to treat all of its
residents with severe behavioral problems. His agency will
change the way it oversees care at FINR to make it more
effective, he said, declining to elaborate.  The total cost of treating the 10 patients placed by his
agency is $1.9 million a year, Macy said.  A spokesman for the mental health department, James
Siemianowski, said it had planned to bring one of its five
clients back to Connecticut because his condition improved. That
individual elected to stay at FINR and complete an educational
program, Siemianowski said.  He said the agency maintains a “high level of oversight”
of the patients at FINR.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  