-- S&P 500 Extends Longest Rally Since 2010; Treasuries Rise
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2012-08-10T20:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/corn-wheat-advance-as-asian-stocks-fluctuate-before-china-data.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose
for a sixth day, the longest rally since 2010, amid speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will pursue more stimulus measures.
Treasuries rose and commodities fell as Chinese and French data
added to signs the global economy is slowing.  The  S&P 500  gained 0.2 percent to 1,405.87 as of 4 p.m. in
 New York , reversing a 0.5 percent drop to close at its highest
level since April 3. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell
three basis points to 1.66 percent after yesterday touching the
highest level since May. Natural gas slid 5.9 percent to lead
commodities lower. Corn slipped from a record and wheat lost 2.8
percent. The euro pared an early loss versus the dollar.  Stocks opened lower after  China ’s exports increased 1
percent in July from a year earlier, trailing all estimates in a
Bloomberg survey of economists, and French industrial output
stagnated in June from May. Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams  said lack of progress in
reducing unemployment and the slow economic recovery have
convinced him it’s time for the central bank to undertake more
quantitative easing, the San Francisco Chronicle reported today.  “The weaker the data, the higher the likelihood of
stimulus from central banks,” said  Alan Gayle , a senior
strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond,
 Virginia , which oversees about $47 billion. “The weakness in
China is likely to prompt a move there,” he said. “While the
Fed has been clear it will do anything to support growth, some
people tend to think it’s inevitable.”  Five Weeks  The S&P 500 extended its rebound from a five-month low in
June to 10 percent. The index climbed 1.1 percent over the past
five days to cap a fifth straight  weekly  advance, its longest
rally since March, and extend this year’s gain to 12 percent.  Costs to protect against further declines decreased. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility, the benchmark gauge
of U.S. options prices known as the VIX, slipped 3.5 percent to
14.74, the lowest level since March 26.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  retreated 5.4 percent. Chief Executive Officer
 Marissa Mayer  has embarked on a strategy review that could mean
the company alters plans to return to shareholders the proceeds
from the sale of Yahoo’s stake in Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,
Yahoo said late yesterday in a regulatory filing.  Monster Beverage Corp. sank 11 percent as the company
disclosed a probe by an unspecified attorney general. Chesapeake
Energy Corp. lost 3.1 percent as it received a subpoena from the
antitrust office.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  climbed 6.3 percent as
two people familiar with the situation said the company’s
enterprise-services unit has attracted the interest of
International Business Machines Corp.  European Markets  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.1 percent, trimming
this week’s advance to 1.6 percent. The gauge has climbed for 10
straight weeks, the longest streak since January 2006.  Hannover
Re , the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer, dropped 2.4 percent as
second-quarter profit declined 13 percent because of unrealized
losses on investments.  “Whilst markets have recently been rallying on bad news --
in the expectation that it will lead to further stimulus from
the central banks -- the deterioration in the fundamentals is
becoming a bit harder to ignore,” said Jonathan Sudaria, a
trader at Capital Spreads in  London . “Traders may be
disappointed if their thirst for stimulus isn’t satiated as soon
as they expect.”  Treasury Yields  Ten-year Treasury yields fell for the first time in six
sessions. The 10-year yield  climbed  to 1.73 percent yesterday,
surpassing the U.S. inflation rate and offering investors a so-
called positive real yield for the first time in 14 months.  The yield on the German 10-year bund declined five basis
points to 1.39 percent, with similar-maturity U.K. gilt rates
dropping eight basis points to 1.54 percent.  The cost of insuring against default on sovereign debt
rose, with the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 15 governments climbing 1.7 basis points
to 247.  The euro recovered most of a 0.5 percent slump earlier to
trade down 0.1 percent at $1.2294 and weakened against 11 of 16
major peers. The yen appreciated versus 15 of its 16 major
peers.  Oil dropped 0.5 percent to $92.87 a barrel and natural gas
sank 5.9 percent, leading a 0.9 percent decline in the S&P GSCI
Index of commodities. Wheat, soybeans and corn have risen the
most this year among the 24 commodities tracked by the measure
as the drought parched fields across the U.S. Midwest.  Corn Retreats  Corn futures fell the most this month, slipping 1.3 percent
to $8.13 a bushel, on signs that record-high prices may erode
grain demand by makers of  animal feed , ethanol and food
products.  While the domestic harvest probably will drop 13 percent to
a six-year low of 10.78 billion bushels this year, demand will
shrink 10 percent from a year earlier, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said today in a report. Corn futures are up 61
percent since mid-June as the crop conditions deteriorated to
the worst since 1988.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose less than 0.1 percent
and rallied 2.8 percent for its best gain since February. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies slid 0.6
percent. Russia’s Micex Index dropped 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  