-- Corn Falls From Record as USDA Sees High Prices Eroding Demand
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-08-10T20:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/corn-falls-from-record-as-usda-sees-high-prices-eroding-demand.html
Corn futures fell the most in four
weeks on signs that record-high prices during a crop-damaging
U.S. drought may erode grain demand by makers of  animal feed ,
ethanol and food products.  While the domestic harvest probably will drop 13 percent to
a six-year low of 10.78 billion bushels this year, demand will
shrink 10 percent from a year earlier, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said today in a  report . Corn futures are up 60
percent since mid-June as the crop conditions deteriorated to
the worst since 1988.  “The USDA is saying that high prices have already begun to
slow demand,”  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst at Northstar
Commodity Investment Co. in  Minneapolis , said in a telephone
interview. “Ethanol production will slow as corn availability
declines, and hog, cattle and dairy producers are already
liquidating herds.”  Corn futures for December delivery slid 1.8 percent to
close at $8.0925 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, the biggest decline since July 11. The price fell as much
as 2 percent today after jumping 3.1 percent to an all-time high
of $8.49.  The government forecast U.S. farm prices will average a
record $8.20 in the marketing year that begins Sept. 1, up from
$6.25 this year.  Production outside of the U.S. will rise 2.2 percent to
575.22 million metric tons in the year that begins Oct. 1, lead
by a record 200 million tons in  China , the world’s second-
biggest grower and consumer, the USDA said. China will import 2
million tons, down from 5 million forecast a month ago and 5
million estimated for this year, the agency said.  South America  Brazil  and  Argentina  will produce and export more,
partially offsetting the smaller U.S. harvest, the USDA said.
The two South American countries will collect a combined 98
million tons, a record and up from an estimated 93.8 million
this year, the agency said. Combined exports may jump 8.3
percent to 32.5 million tons, it said. Argentina is the biggest
exporter after the U.S., followed by Ukraine and Brazil.  “The current elevated level of corn prices indicate that
the market has broadly priced-in the impact of lower-than-
initially anticipated production in the U.S.,” London-based
Capital Economics Ltd. said in a report today. “The uncertain
global economic outlook will drag grains prices lower,” with
corn dropping to $6.75 by the end of the year, the researcher
said.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, government figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  