-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as China, Europe Data Signal Slowdown
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-10T19:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-china-europe-data-signal-slowdown.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate debt risk
was little changed as Chinese exports stumbled and  France ’s
industrial output stagnated, signaling the global economy is
weakening even as U.S. corporations rush to the debt markets.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.4 basis point to a mid-price of 103.3 basis points at 2:04
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  climbed after the department-
store chain reported a wider-than-expected second-quarter loss
and said it wouldn’t meet its profit forecast for the year.  Economic weakness from China to the U.S. will pressure
corporate cash flows and weigh on companies’ ability to service
debt obligations. Slow growth also means low  interest rates ,
prodding borrowers to seek new debt, according to John Lekas,
chief executive officer at  Portland , Oregon-based Leader Capital
Corp. New issuance this week was at the fastest pace since
March, Bloomberg data show.  “They’re making lemonade out of lemons,” Lekas said in a
telephone interview. “They should issue all they can. Keep your
foot on the gas and your head down.”  China ’s outbound shipments increased 1 percent in July from
a year earlier, compared with an 11.3 percent rise in June, as
France’s June industrial output was unchanged from May. U.S.
companies issued at least $37.3 billion in debt this week, up 45
percent from the period ended Aug. 3, Bloomberg data show.  J.C. Penney CDS  The swaps gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of J.C. Penney
climbed 0.7 percentage points to 14.6 percent upfront, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $1.46 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of J.C. Penney’s debt for five years.  The department-store chain had a net loss of $147 million,
or 67 cents a share, in the fiscal second quarter, compared with
net income of $14 million, or 7 cents, a year earlier, according
to a statement from Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney. The company
said it no longer expects to meet fiscal 2012 profit forecasts
of $2.16 a share excluding some items, without providing a new
projection.  CDX High Yield  The default premium on the Markit CDX North America High
Yield Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt
risk, climbed 5 basis points to a mid-price of 556.5 basis
points at 2:31 p.m. in  New York , Bloomberg prices show.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings increased 1.4 to 148.9.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  