-- Cruz Seeks to Pry Mexican-Americans From Democratic Fold
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-08-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/cruz-seeks-to-pry-mexican-americans-from-democratic-fold.html
Ted Cruz , the Republican running for
a U.S. Senate seat in Texas, has his work cut out for him even
though no Democrat has won a statewide race since 1994.  His party is banking on Cruz to attract Latinos to their
ticket in November as  Mitt Romney  takes on President  Barack Obama . His success -- or failure -- may determine the political
future of a state with an expanding Hispanic population.  “If we can get 40 to 50 percent of the Hispanic vote, we
can stay the majority party for a very long time,” said Steve
Munisteri, chairman of the state Republican Party. “If we get
20 or 30 percent, this state will become Democratic.”  Cruz, 41, is a Cuban-American, while 85 percent of Hispanic
Texans have Mexican roots and most backed Democrats in past
elections. The Houston lawyer and Ivy League alumnus, who has
called his Spanish “lousy,” would be the first Latino senator
from the second-largest U.S. state. Hispanics make up 38 percent
of the  Texas  population, a 42 percent gain since 2000.  “To the extent that there was a misperception that the
Republican Party was not open to the Hispanic community, having
a candidate of his descent dispels that,” Munisteri said.  The Tea Party-backed candidate, a former state solicitor
general, is also a rising star among Republicans nationwide. A
week after he beat Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst 57 percent
to 43 percent in a primary runoff, Cruz was named to speak at
the party’s national convention later this month.  Convention Speaker  Cruz will be a “headliner” during the Aug. 27-30 event in
Tampa,  Florida , according to Reince Priebus, the Republican
National Committee chairman. The candidate will join leaders
such as Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , whose confrontations
with Democrats and public-worker unions made headlines in 2011.  “Cruz is a rock star, probably the single most appealing
Republican figure in this state right at this moment,”
Munisteri said. Cruz is seeking to replace Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison , who is retiring after three full terms.  Republicans have dominated Texas politics since the late
1990s and now control every statewide elected office and both
legislative chambers. They set the agenda on everything from
spending and taxes to health care and education. Drawing in
Hispanics, who are forecast to be the majority ethnic group by
2030, “is a matter of survival,” Munisteri said.  Past Elections  Among Latino Texans, 75 percent backed Democrats in 2010
voting, according to Richard Murray, who teaches politics at the
 University of Houston . While 67 percent of U.S. Latino voters
supported Obama in 2008, in Texas it was 63 percent, according
to the  Pew Hispanic Center  in  Washington . In 2004, 49 percent
backed President  George W. Bush , a Republican from Texas.  By opposing amnesty for illegal immigrants and supporting
the construction of a wall along the entire 1,900-mile (3,100-
kilometer) U.S.-Mexico border, Cruz may repel Hispanics, who
tend to hold “more liberal” views, said Jason Casellas, a
government teacher at the University of Texas at Austin and at
the school’s Center for Mexican American Studies.  “A lot of this anti-immigrant rhetoric is seen as anti-
Latino,” Casellas said. “How many Mexican-Americans will see
Cruz as one of us?”  In his primary campaign, which began in January 2011 when
he has said he was at 2 percent in voter surveys -- less than
the typical margin of error, Cruz didn’t put much focus on
winning over Latinos.  Few Republicans  “Very few Latinos voted in the Republican primary,”
Casellas said. “Now that Cruz has to pivot to the general
election, you can see him making some appeal to Latinos using
the values argument” on social issues.  Cruz’s father is a Cuban immigrant, while his mother is an
American of Irish-Italian descent. He was born in  Canada , before
the family moved to Houston when he was a child.  As a Southern Baptist, Cruz differs in his faith from
almost 70 percent of U.S. Latinos, who are Roman Catholic,
according to the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.  His opposition to abortion and same-sex marriage “would
seem to be ready-made for Latino voters, who are predominantly
Catholic, pro-life, very patriotic” said Jerry Polinard, a
politics professor at the  University of Texas  Pan American in
Edinburg, in the heavily Hispanic Rio Grande Valley.  “But that’s not what matters most to Latino voters,”
Polinard said. “They care about education and health care, and
today, immigration. Those issues are going to be persuasive.”  Opposes ‘Obamacare’  In the primary campaign, Cruz said he would abolish the
U.S. Education Department and pledged to help repeal Obama’s
signature health overhaul if he wins in November against
Democrat Paul Sadler, a former state representative. Texas has
the nation’s highest rate of uninsured residents, at 25 percent.  “I don’t think it’s the government’s job to provide health
care for everyone,” Cruz said during a July 23 debate with
Dewhurst in Houston. “I think it’s an individual’s job to
provide health care for themselves and their families.”  The  Republican Party  is gaining popularity among Latino
Texans, Munisteri said, citing primary wins by Hispanic
Republican office seekers. He counts Cruz among a new generation
of leaders in their 30s and 40s, a group that includes George P.
Bush, the Mexican-American nephew of the former Texas governor
and U.S. president.  “Ted feels that Hispanics want the same things that
everyone else does -- good jobs, opportunities,” said James
Bernsen, a Cruz spokesman in Austin.  “The opportunities that Ted has experienced are directly
related to the core values of faith, family, hard work and
responsibility that most Hispanics share,” Bernsen said. “The
Hispanic community in America isn’t looking for handouts. It’s
looking for a share of the American dream.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  