-- Cuomo Seeks to Trim Toll Increase on New Tappan Zee Span
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-08-10T19:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/cuomo-seeks-to-trim-toll-increase-on-new-tappan-zee-span.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
said he wants the state Thruway Authority to reduce its
intended toll increases on the new Tappan Zee Bridge, which
would almost triple to $14 when it opens in 2017. The agency’s 
bonds fell in the heaviest trading in three weeks.  Cuomo asked the board to appoint a panel of architects,
historians, local officials and engineers to find ways to cut
costs. The committee should choose a bridge design consistent
with “the natural beauty of the Hudson River and the interests
of the citizens,” Cuomo said in a letter sent to the board.  “The projected 2017 toll schedule based on the  Federal
Highway Administration ’s estimate of up to $5.2 billion for the
new bridge is too high,” Cuomo said today. “Over the next 5
years, we must find alternatives, revenue generators and cost
reductions that reduce the potential toll increases.”  Building a new  Hudson River  span about 30 miles (48
kilometers) north of midtown  Manhattan  is a priority for Cuomo,
54, a Democrat who likens the project to the 19th century
construction of the Erie Canal. Without the replacement, tolls
would rise to about $11.30 to cover the $3 billion to $4 billion
needed to make improvements to the 56-year-old span, according
to Larry Schwartz, Cuomo’s chief of staff.  “It’s been stalled for so long that some people just
believe it’s never really going to happen,” Cuomo said during a
radio interview today on  Albany ’s  Talk 1300 . “They’ll use the
expression, ‘yeah I’ll get to that when they build the new
Tappan Zee Bridge,’ like it’s never going to happen.’”  Congestion Headaches  A new bridge’s potential to handle commuter rail or bus
transit makes it preferable to renovating the existing span,
which would cost “in the same range,” Cuomo said in the
letter, addressed to Thruway Authority Chairman Howard Milstein
and Executive Director Thomas Madison Jr.  “A new bridge brings not only transit capacity, but
expanded lanes to reduce congestion, and accommodate emergency
vehicles, breakdown lanes, and pedestrian and bike access -- and
a 100-year life before major maintenance,” Cuomo said.  The 3.1-mile Tappan Zee, part of the  New York  Thruway
system, carries 138,000 vehicles, 40 percent more than its
design intended, at a cost of $5 cash, collected in only one
direction.  The proposed cash fare would increase to $14, with a
discounted commuter plan costing $8.40 instead of the current $3
and E-ZPass users about $13.30 rather than $4.75, Schwartz said
at a community meeting this month.  A New York State Thruway Authority bond sold in June and
maturing in 2042 traded today at an average yield of 3.77
percent, up from 3.6 percent yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Trading volume today was the highest
since July 20, the data show.  In June,  Standard & Poor’s  revised its outlook on the
authority to negative from stable, citing “uncertainty related
to NYSTA’s plan of finance and long-term tolling strategy
related to the replacement of the Tappan Zee Bridge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  