-- TCW Ends Decade Under SocGen With Carlyle-Backed Buyout
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-08-10T18:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/tcw-ends-decade-under-socgen-with-carlyle-backed-buyout.html
TCW Group Inc., the $131 billion
asset manager founded by  Robert Day  in 1971, will go back to
being a stand-alone firm after more than a decade under
ownership by  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   Carlyle Group LP (CG)  agreed yesterday to buy Los Angeles-based
TCW in a deal that will give TCW’s management and employees a 40
percent stake. The transaction with Carlyle values TCW at $700
million to $800 million, according to two people familiar with
the agreement, who asked not to be identified because the
information wasn’t disclosed publicly.  “From the standpoint of TCW, the decade of Societe
Generale’s ownership really wasn’t a helpful thing,” said
Geoffrey Bobroff, a mutual-fund consultant in  East Greenwich ,
 Rhode Island . “When you have institutional ownership, there are
expectations that prompt you to run the business differently and
it isn’t in the position to create incentives.”  The deal ends 11 years under the French bank’s ownership,
during which the firm failed to keep pace with  Bill Gross ’s
Pacific Investment Management Co. and suffered withdrawals and
the departures of more than 40 employees when it fired top-
ranked bond-fund manager  Jeffrey Gundlach  in December of 2009.
Societe Generale, which bought TCW in 2001 for about $880
million and then added to its stake, took a 200 million-euro
($246 million) writedown in the second quarter and said it may
have to make more adjustments when the deal closes.  The bank is selling assets as lenders across  Europe  seek to
shore up their balance sheet amid the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis and tighter capital rules.  Gundlach Ouster  Since being taken over by Societe Generale in 2001, TCW’s
assets rose from $80 billion to a peak of $147 billion in 2007
before declining. By comparison, Pimco, which was co-founded by
Gross in the same year that TCW was started and is now owned by
 Germany ’s  Allianz SE (ALV) , has grown to $1.8 trillion in assets and
manages the world’s largest mutual fund, the $263 billion Pimco
Total Return bond fund.  Gundlach, who started DoubleLine Capital LP after being
ousted by TCW at the end of 2009, has since gathered $40 billion
in assets, almost a third of TCW’s total. The $30.4 billion
DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund has beaten 97 percent of peers
in the past year.  Yesterday’s deal should help TCW put aside questions of
ownership and turnover of key employees that hurt the firm in
the past, said Elizabeth Nesvold, managing partner at New York-
based Silver Lane Advisors LLC, an investment bank that
specializes in mergers and acquisitions of asset and wealth
management companies.  ‘Shackles Off’  “When you’re in the institutional asset management world
and there are rumors about being for sale, it puts you in the
penalty box with a lot of gatekeepers,” Nesvold said. “The
shackles are off for TCW.”  The relationship between Gundlach and TCW started to sour
with  Societe Generale ’s acquisition, when Gundlach said his
stake in the fund company fell, according to court transcripts.
Gundlach’s ouster cost the firm $566 million in damages, TCW
said in court documents.  Gundlach, TCW’s former chief investment officer, had
offered to buy 51 percent of the business for about $350 million
in September 2009, valuing the asset manager at about $700
million, according to court documents filed last year. He was
dismissed by TCW about three months later.  MetWest Deal  TCW agreed to purchase Los Angeles-based Metropolitan West
Asset Management on the same day it fired Gundlach, as it sought
to replace the manager and his team and add mutual-fund assets.
MetWest was acquired for about $300 million, according to court
documents.  David Lippman, who was MetWest’s CEO before becoming head
of fixed income at TCW, is president and chief executive officer
of the company following the deal, and  Marc Stern , who was CEO,
will be TCW’s chairman when the transaction closes, according to
yesterday’s statement.  TCW’s flagship fund is the $21.5 billion  Metropolitan West
Total Return Bond Fund (MWTIX) , which has returned 8.3 percent in the
past 12 months, putting it ahead of 96 percent of peers. It’s
run by  Tad Rivelle , chief investment officer for fixed income,
Stephen Kane and Laird Landmann, who are both generalist
portfolio managers in the U.S. fixed-income group.  Employees’ Stake  TCW was started by Day, the grandson of Superior Oil Co.
founder William Keck, as Trust Company of the West. TCW’s
clients include corporate and public pension plans, financial
institutions, endowments, foundations and high-net-worth
investors. The firm also sells mutual funds to individual
investors.  Before yesterday’s deal, TCW employees owned a 17 percent
stake in the firm, with Societe Generale and Amundi, an
affiliate of the French bank, holding the rest, according to a
person familiar with the breakdown who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private.  Asset managers have been targets of private equity before
because they provide relatively steady revenue, which helps
service the debt used to finance leveraged buyouts. In 2007,
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC acquired Nuveen Investments Inc.
for about $5.6 billion.  Carlyle, the world’s second-largest private-equity firm,
will make the purchase through two of its funds and with money
from TCW’s management, according to a joint statement yesterday
by the two U.S. firms.  Carlyle’s Funds  “The bigger challenge is coming back to the market within
three to seven years because when private equity makes an
investment, within that time they’re either going to have an IPO
or sell it to someone else,” Bobroff said, referring to an
initial public offering of stock.  Carlyle, based in  Washington , started a team dedicated to
financial services in June 2007 and, after turnover and
leadership changes, hired Olivier Sarkozy in 2008 from Swiss
bank UBS AG to head it. The group also includes former Wachovia
Corp. treasurer James Burr.  Sarkozy and his team are seeking $2 billion for a new fund
to follow the inaugural one that completed raising capital in
2010, according to a presentation viewed by Bloomberg News. The
fund is seeking to take advantage of turmoil in the European
financial-services industry, regulatory changes and emerging-
markets opportunities.  ‘Additional Adjustment’  Societe Generale “will record a limited additional
adjustment in the goodwill value, depending on the final closing
conditions,” Nathalie Boschat, a spokeswoman in Paris, said
yesterday by telephone. She declined to give further details on
the financial terms of the deal.  The transaction, expected to close during the first quarter
of 2013, will increase Societe Generale’s core capital ratio
under Basel III rules by 13 basis points, the company estimated
in a separate statement. Societe Generale is targeting a core
Tier 1 ratio under Basel III standards of between 9 percent and
9.5 percent by the end of 2013. Disposing of businesses can
provide an “additional capital buffer,” the bank has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  