-- Czech Policy Makers Want Clear Risk Outlook Before Acting
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-08-10T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/czech-policy-makers-want-clear-risk-outlook-before-acting.html
A majority of Czech central bank
board members wants to see how inflation risks develop as policy
makers contemplate whether to cut rates further, minutes from
the Aug. 2 meeting showed.  The Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka left the  benchmark 
two-week repurchase rate at a record-low 0.5 percent last week,
after cutting it by a quarter-point in June. Vice Governor
 Vladimir Tomsik  and board member Lubomir Lizal voted for another
quarter-point rate reduction on Aug. 2, while the four other
members present voted for stable rates, according to the minutes
published on the central bank’s website today.  The bank board said inflationary risks included uncertainty
over commodity and food prices as well as a possibility of more
changes to the value-added tax, the minutes showed. Anti-
inflationary risks featured a possible delay in the euro area’s
economic recovery and potential further government measures to
cut the  budget deficit .  “As information that would be available in the coming
months might clarify the extent of these risks, a majority of
the board members recommended a wait-and-see approach,”
according to the minutes. “However, it was also said that a
timely interest rate cut was the appropriate monetary policy
response.”  The minutes don’t identify individual opinions expressed in
the policy discussions.  Inflation jumped this year after the government raised the
VAT rate. Rate setters are now estimating the effect of more
increases the Cabinet plans to introduce next year and assess
the effects of the euro-area debt crisis on the economy.  Parliament last month backed new measures, including a
higher sales levy, to narrow the fiscal gap to within the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product
next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  