-- Czech Central Bank Sees 2013 Budget Gap Below Cabinet’s Target
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-08-10T09:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/czech-central-bank-sees-2013-budget-gap-below-cabinet-s-target.html
The Czech central bank forecasts the
fiscal deficit will be smaller than the government’s target next
year even as austerity measures curb household spending and
economic growth.  The public-finance  deficit , the fiscal yardstick for
assessing a European Union member’s readiness to adopt the euro,
will be 2.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2013, compared
with the targeted 2.9 percent, the Prague-based Ceska Narodni
Banka said in a report on its website today. The deficit should
be 3.3 percent of GDP this year, 0.1 percentage point higher
than the government’s latest estimate, the central bank said.  The two-year-old Cabinet of Prime Minister Petr Necas is
pushing through measures, including higher taxes and spending
cuts, to trim the budget gap to less than the EU’s 3 percent
limit as the strategy has helped bring funding costs to record
lows. The fiscal steps are depressing household spending and
will continue to curb economic growth, the central bank said.  “The whole package of restrictive fiscal measures will
slow down economic growth by around 0.8 percentage point next
year,” the bank said. The government’s spending cuts and tax
increases will amount to about 1.3 percent of GDP in 2013, the
central bank said.  The central bank sees GDP growing 0.8 percent next year,
down from an earlier projection for a 1.9 percent expansion,
according to forecasts published Aug. 2. The  Finance Ministry 
expects the economy to grow 1 percent in 2013.  GDP shrank 0.8 percent in the first quarter from the final
three months of 2011, the second contraction in as many
quarters, as households curbed spending in response to  Europe ’s
worsening economy. The  Czech Republic  relies on demand for cars,
auto parts and electronics goods from the European Union, which
buys about 80 percent of its exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  