-- Detroit Mayor Bing Has Plan to Fix Aging Street Lights
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-08-10T17:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/detroit-mayor-bing-has-plan-to-fix-aging-street-lights.html
Detroit ’s thousands of broken
streetlights would be fixed faster and many would be removed
under a plan by Mayor Dave Bing to upgrade a public-lighting
system that dates back to the early 1900s in some areas.  The plan, however, requires state legislation for the city
to create a lighting authority that would have approval to sell
bonds. That measure has stalled with lawmakers on summer recess.  Improved public lighting is Detroit’s most important issue
next to crime, Bing told reporters today in his City Hall
office. He said his plan would replace 3,330 broken street
lights within six months, and eventually fix any reported outage
within a week using a new call center.  The plan, which hinges on $160 million of borrowing, would
“solve a generations-old infrastructure problem that hinders
public safety and quality of life for the citizens of Detroit,”
said Bing, 68.  The state Senate meets one day next week before recessing
until September, and the mayor urged action on the public-
lighting bills. Only 35,000 of the 88,000 fixtures in Detroit’s
lighting system work, according to city chief operating officer
 Chris Brown .  Brown said the modernized system would have 40,000 to
45,000 street lights.  Broken Lights  Public lighting has been lacking in many Detroit
neighborhoods, while some with few residents are well-lit. Many
lampposts have been vandalized and haven’t worked for years, and
as many as 15,000 street lights date from the 1920s, according
to a 2010 study by McKinsey & Co., a consulting firm.  Repairing, modernizing and reducing the system’s footprint
would cost $140 million to $200 million, while the operating and
annual capital costs would increase 22 percent to about $28
million, according to the McKinsey report.  Bing said in the early phases of his plan, every reported
broken street light would be fixed. He also wants to remove
lights in unpopulated areas, including 13,639 alley fixtures.  His administration is wrestling with consolidating services
and encouraging residents to move into more densely packed
neighborhoods to cut costs.  Spread over 139 square miles (360 square kilometers) -- an
area bigger than  Boston , Buffalo and  San Francisco  combined -- 
Detroit ranked 10th in population among U.S. cities in 2000, yet
lost 25 percent by 2010.  Brown said the new lighting authority wouldn’t just turn
out lights in sparsely populated areas. He said the agency would
consult with residents to create a long-term plan to consolidate
lighting. The most urgent need now is to replace broken lights
along the city’s major roads, many with obsolete circuitry, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  