-- Doji Chart May Halt 10-Year Slump, BofA Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-08-10T16:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/doji-chart-may-halt-10-year-slump-bofa-says-technical-analysis.html
The trend that has driven Treasury
 10-year notes  to nearly twice the return of the broader  U.S.
debt  market since mid-March is intact, even as the securities
are poised for their third weekly decline, according to Bank of
America Corp., citing analysis of trading patterns.  The benchmark securities’ yield movements on a candlestick
chart are forming a so-called Doji pattern, which is created
when a security closes at almost the same level as it did the
previous day after moving higher and lower during the trading
session. The yield movements have also formed a so-called
shooting star pattern, which results when a security’s price, at
some point during the day, advances well above the opening
price, while closing lower than the opening price. Both patterns
suggest the selloff is running out of steam.  “The momentum of selloff is looking exhausted,” said
 MacNeil Curry , chief rates and currencies technical strategist
in  New York  at the firm’s Bank of America Merrill Lynch unit.
“It’s going to take more bearish trading to break the trend.
Even with the selloff the bullish trend in the market, which has
been in place since March, is still intact.”  The signals come after Treasuries failed to sustain a break
of 1.67 percent on the benchmark 10-year note yield, which
halted a five-day gain today as its yield dropped five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.64 percent at 10:22 a.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
yield is up eight basis points this week.  The yield has increased eight basis points this week. A
break below 1.596 would be further confirmation of the trend.  Ten-year U.S. debt has returned 7.6 percent since March 20,
when the 10-year note yield rose to 2.4 percent, the highest
since October, 2011. This is almost double the 4.1 percent gain
in the broader Treasury market, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  