-- Lehman Files for IPO of Apartment Landlord Archstone
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-08-11T05:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/lehman-owned-property-company-archstone-files-for-initial-offer.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed
to take Archstone Inc. public after battling billionaire  Sam
Zell  to get full control of the apartment landlord amid the
strongest demand for rentals in a decade.  Englewood, Colorado-based Archstone, Lehman’s biggest
property holding, filed to raise $100 million in an initial
public offering. The amount is a placeholder that may change and
is used to calculate fees. Besides reducing debt, proceeds from
the IPO may be used to finance acquisitions and development,
according to yesterday’s filing.  “This is setting the stage for a multibillion-dollar IPO
later this year or very early next,” Andrew McCulloch, a
managing director at research firm Green Street Advisors Inc. in
 Newport Beach , California, said in a telephone interview.
“Lehman’s likely goal is to eventually liquidate its position
in order to pay creditors.”  Lehman, which exited bankruptcy in March, took over all of
Archstone in May following a fight with former shareholders Bank
of America Corp. and Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit,
which in December tried to sell their joint stake to Zell’s
Equity Residential. The lenders had helped finance the $22.2
billion acquisition of Archstone by Lehman and Tishman Speyer
Properties LP in October 2007, close to the peak for property
prices.  The debt taken on for the acquisition contributed to
Lehman’s collapse in 2008 as credit markets seized up,
ultimately leaving Archstone controlled by Lehman’s bankrupt
estate and the two banks. Bank of America and  Barclays Capital 
had sought to sell their joint 53 percent stake last year, while
Lehman favored waiting for an IPO, saying Archstone was worth
about $6 billion in equity value, or $1 billion more than the
banks estimated.  Offer Matched  After Bank of America and Barclays struck an agreement to
sell their stakes to Zell, Lehman exercised its right to match
the offer and in May reached an agreement to buy the rest of
Archstone and pay Zell a breakup fee.  Peter Jakel, a spokesman for Archstone, and  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, both declined to comment.  Lehman, run by Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld when
its collapse helped bring on the worst economic slump since the
Great Depression, failed because of too much debt and risky real
estate investments, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report.
 Bryan Marsal , who ran Lehman after its bankruptcy, said in May
2009 that it made more sense to manage properties and maximize
their value than liquidate them at “fire sale” prices.  “With full ownership of Archstone, we will now be able to
move forward and pursue monetization opportunities for the
company,” Lehman Chairman  Owen Thomas  said in a May 25
statement.  Vacancies Fall  U.S. apartment vacancies fell to 4.7 percent in the second
quarter as home foreclosures and stricter mortgage standards
drove demand for rental housing, according to Reis Inc. It was
the lowest vacancy rate since the end of 2001.  Archstone plans to organize itself as a real estate
investment trust. Shares of U.S. apartment  REITs (BBREAPT)  have gained 246
percent since dropping to a low in March 2009, outperforming the
broader Bloomberg REIT Index, which has tripled, and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which has doubled.  Archstone is the 11th-largest U.S. apartment landlord by
number of units owned, according to the Washington-based
National Multi Housing Council. The company generated $1.12
billion in revenue in 2011, a 7.2 percent increase from a year
earlier, yesterday’s filing shows. Archstone’s net loss for the
year narrowed to $41.2 million from $909 million.  The company plans to list the  shares  on the  New York  Stock
Exchange under the symbol ASN.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. are leading the offering, according to the filing.  ‘Little Surprised’  “We are a little surprised they are trying an IPO with the
sizable amount of debt sitting on the balance sheet,” said
McCulloch, the Green Street analyst. “It seemed like they had a
lot of wood to chop on the asset sale-side” before filing.  Archstone owned all or part of 181  apartment  complexes in
the U.S., with 59,419 units operating or under construction, as
of March 31, according to the filing. Its properties are located
mainly in  Washington , D.C.; Southern  California ; the San
Francisco area; New York;  Boston ;  Seattle  and southeast  Florida .
The company also owns development land in the U.S. and
apartments in  Germany .  McCulloch estimates that Archstone’s asset value totals $16
billion to $17 billion, including about $10 billion of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  