-- Meilan Said to Plan Hong Kong’s First Dual-Currency IPO
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2012-08-10T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/meilan-said-to-plan-hong-kong-s-first-dual-currency-ipo.html
Meilan International Holdings Ltd.,
a Chinese chemical producer, plans to raise more than $100
million in what may be  Hong Kong ’s first dual-currency initial
public offering, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Meilan, based in Taizhou city, Jiangsu province, has
submitted an application to Hong Kong’s stock exchange and may
conduct the offering in the fourth quarter, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
The company may offer two tranches, one denominated in Hong Kong
dollars and the other in yuan, they said.  A dual-currency offering will test demand for yuan-
denominated investments in Hong Kong, where deposits have
decreased as the appreciation of the Chinese currency slowed.
The People’s Bank of  China , which sets the yuan’s exchange rate
daily, yesterday fixed it at the weakest since November.  The Hong Kong bourse set up a framework for yuan-
denominated  share sales  last year as demand for the currency
grew. An IPO may have a tranche denominated in  yuan , and another
in Hong Kong dollars, and the exchange will allow investors to
switch between the two tranches, Charles Li, chief executive
officer of the exchange, said last year.  CCB International (Holdings) Ltd. will manage the offering
for Meilan, whose main products include refrigerant. Two calls
to Meilan’s head office in Taizhou seeking comment on the IPO
went unanswered yesterday.  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong rose to a record 627.3 billion
yuan at the end of November before dropping to 557.7 billion
yuan at the end of June. Deposits in the Chinese currency are
forecast to account for a third of total savings in Hong Kong by
2015, from the current level of 9 percent, Donna Kwok, an
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc wrote in a report this month.  Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust (87001)  conducted Hong Kong’s
only yuan-denominated IPO in April 2011. Its shares are down 28
percent from its offer price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  