-- Emerging Stocks Snap Five-Day Rally on China Trade Data
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-08-10T21:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/emerging-stocks-snap-five-day-rally-on-china-trade-data.html
Emerging-market stocks posted their
biggest weekly advance since February on speculation central
banks from  China  to the U.S. will take steps to stimulate their
economies.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  stood at 979.25 at 5 p.m.
in  New York  to hold its gain for the week at 2.8 percent, the
biggest increase since the period ended Feb. 3.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV) 
 index (VXEEM)  rose as homebuilder  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  jumped the most in nine
weeks and clothing retailer Lojas Renner SA advanced.  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s largest Internet company, slumped the
most in four weeks in  Hong Kong  after its online games partner
cut its sales forecast.  China’s exports rose 1 percent in July, trailing the 8
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Data showing
weaker lending added to signs that policy makers in the second-
biggest economy may struggle to boost growth from the slowest
pace since 2009. The  International Energy Agency  cut global oil
demand forecasts for this year and next.  “The Chinese data figure points to very poor international
demand, so this had a negative impact on the whole market,”
Daniel Lenz, chief strategist for  emerging markets  at DZ Bank AG
in  Frankfurt , said by phone. “This data feeds expectations of
further easing measures.”  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, added 0.5
percent while the Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, declined 2.7 percent.  Oil Declines  The Bovespa gained 0.8 percent as Gafisa, the worst-
performing Brazilian homebuilder in the past 12 months, surged
15 percent after reporting a surprise profit in the second
quarter following two consecutive losses. Lojas Renner added 3.9
percent, rising to a four-month high,  Crude for September delivery fell 0.5 percent on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  to settle at $92.87. The decline
trimmed a weekly advance to 1.6 percent. It was the fourth gain
in five weeks.  Polish bond yields increased to the highest level in more
than two weeks on concern rising food prices will fuel
inflation.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries increased five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 322, according to the JPMorgan
Chase & Co. EMBI Global Index.  Fund Flows  The  MSCI emerging markets index  has advanced 6.9 percent
this year, trailing an 8.1 percent gain by the MSCI World Index
of developed countries. The emerging markets measure trades at
10.8 times estimated earnings, compared with 13 for the
advanced-nations gauge, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Emerging-market stock funds posted inflows for the week
ended Aug. 8, taking in $784.4 million, according to EPFR
Global. Developing-nation debt funds had inflows for a ninth
straight week, luring $720 million.  China’s 1 percent growth in July exports compared with 11.3
percent in June. New local-currency lending was 540.1 billion
 yuan  ($85 billion), the central bank said, lower than all 30
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey, after 919.8 billion yuan
in June. Today’s figures followed a report yesterday showing
industrial output rose the least since 2009.  Tencent fell 2.8 percent after its partner Nexon Co. cut
its forecast for full-year net income by 13 percent yesterday.
The guidance prompted Nomura Holdings Inc. to lower its
estimates for Tokyo-based Nexon’s revenue in 2013 and 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net , or
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  