-- Herbalife Resolves SEC Correspondence After Einhorn Questions
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-08-10T20:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/herbalife-resolves-sec-correspondence-after-einhorn-questions.html
Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) , the maker of
namesake nutritional supplements, was questioned by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission about its disclosures,
following similar questions from hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  in May.  The SEC asked Herbalife why it viewed certain disclosures
related to its distributors as immaterial to investors,
according to a letter dated June 5 that was released Aug.8 in a
filing. On July 11, the SEC said it had completed its review
following an explanation from Herbalife, an additional
correspondence shows.  Einhorn, chairman of  Greenlight Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE) , asked
executives on a May 1 conference call why Herbalife had stopped
disclosing a breakdown of three groups of distributors in
filings that it had previously provided. The questions sent the
shares down 20 percent that day and led to a three-day plunge.
Einhorn hasn’t spoken publicly about the company since.  The SEC was reviewing Herbalife’s 2011 financial filing
prior to Einhorn’s questions, according to an April 19 letter to
the company. The agency turned its attention to the distributor
breakdown only after the May conference call, the letters show.  “The documents speak for themselves, the matter’s closed
and there’s no SEC investigation,” Barbara Henderson, a
Herbalife spokeswoman, said today in a telephone interview.  Herbalife sells vitamins, shake mixes and skin gels through
a marketing network of independent distributors in 81 countries.
The distributors earn revenue by selling products directly to
customers and recruiting new distributors, for which they earn a
share of those sales and incentives from the company.  Herbalife  declined  1.3 percent to $50.59 at the close in
 New York . The shares have fallen 2.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  