-- Ethanol Credits May Ease Pressure on U.S. Corn, IEA Says
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-08-10T09:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/ethanol-credits-may-ease-pressure-on-u-s-corn-iea-says.html
Ethanol credits held by U.S.
refiners may help reduce demand for the blending fuel and ease
pressure on rising prices of corn, from which ethanol is made,
the  International Energy Agency  said.  The credits, known as Renewable Identification Numbers or
RINs, were given out when refiners use more than the required
quantity of ethanol mandated by the Renewable Fuels Standard,
and can be used to avoid purchases now. About 2.5 billion
credits have been banked by refiners in recent years, according
to the Renewable Fuels Association trade group, the IEA said.  The RIN credits “provide some flexibility for blenders to
meet the 2012 RFS requirements despite the projected lower
ethanol output, and could help reduce some of the pressure on
corn prices,” the Paris-based IEA said in a monthly report
today.  Ethanol prices have risen about 19 percent this year in
part as a U.S. drought means farmers can find higher prices
selling corn as a source of food rather than fuel. Corn futures
rallied to a record and are up 27 percent this year.  A bipartisan group of twenty-five U.S. senators sent a
letter on Aug. 7 to the Environmental Protection Agency
Administrator  Lisa Jackson  urging use of her waiver authority to
adjust the country’s ethanol mandate because of the impact on
corn prices caused by the most severe U.S. drought in 56 years.
Ethanol will be produced from 38 percent of this year’s crop,
down from 41 percent last year, according to government
estimates.  There is currently no indication from the EPA that it will
waive the RFS mandate, IEA said. U.S. ethanol stockpiles are
“fairly high” at 800 million gallons, providing the
possibility to satisfy “at least part of” the 13.2 billion
gallons of ethanol mandated under the RFS this year, the energy
agency said.  Ethanol producers have responded to higher feedstock costs
by slashing  output  in recent months. U.S. production was 817,000
barrels a day in the week ended Aug. 3, down from 908,000 a year
earlier, according to the Energy Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  