-- European Stocks Gain for 10th Week on Earnings, Stimulus
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-08-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/european-stocks-gain-for-10th-week-on-earnings-stimulus.html
European stocks  rose for a 10th
week, extending the longest streak since January 2006, as
companies reported better-than-expected earnings and speculation
grew policy makers will do more to stimulate the economy.  Bankia SA, the lender bailed out by the Spanish state,
posted the biggest gain in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index for a
second week.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  and  Aegon NV (AGN)  each surged 11 percent
as profit beat estimates.  Standard Chartered  Plc tumbled 15
percent after U.S. regulators alleged it processed $250 billion
of deals with Iranian banks subject to sanctions.  The Stoxx 600 increased 1.6 percent to 269.88 this past
week, even after falling 0.1 percent yesterday. The benchmark
gauge has climbed 15 percent since June 4 as euro-area policy
makers eased repayment terms for Spanish banks and optimism grew
that central banks will introduce new stimulus measures.  “The earnings season hasn’t come in as bad as expected,”
said Thomas Tilse, who helps manage $6.2 billion as head of
global portfolio strategy at Allianz Global Investors in
Frankfurt. “On the liquidity side, basically the market has the
assumption that the Fed as well as the ECB and the  Bank of
England  will be in coordinated action in loosening monetary
policy further.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said Aug. 2
that the bank may take action to reduce debt yields for nations
on Europe’s periphery, while stressing that the ECB must work
“within its mandate to maintain  price stability .” German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  is “not worried” by Draghi’s
announcement, spokesman Georg Streiter told reporters in Berlin
on Aug. 6 when asked whether the government is concerned that
ECB independence might be compromised.  Monti Warning  Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  warned of a potential
breakup of the euro region without greater urgency in efforts to
lower government borrowing costs. In an interview with Germany’s
Der Spiegel magazine published Aug. 5, he said that
disagreements within the 17-nation euro area are detracting from
the policy response to the debt crisis.  Of the 247 companies listed on the Stoxx 600 that have
reported quarterly profit this  earnings season , 124 have
exceeded analysts’ projections, while 121 have missed them,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western
European markets, except Sweden. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  advanced 1
percent, while Germany’s DAX Index jumped 1.2 percent. France’s
CAC 40 gained 1.8 percent.  Bankia Rallies  Bankia jumped 31 percent. The shares have more than doubled
from this year’s low on July 17.  Mediobanca SpA, Italy’s biggest publicly traded investment
bank, added 11 percent. Credit Agricole SA rose 12 percent.
France’s third-biggest bank received bids from  Greece ’s biggest
lenders for its unprofitable Emporiki Bank unit, moving the
French company closer to an exit from Greece.  Danske Bank gained 11 percent, the most since September.
Denmark’s largest lender said second-quarter profit surged 27
percent to 1.5 billion kroner ($250 million), exceeding
estimates in a Bloomberg survey by the most since the first
quarter of 2010.  Aegon rallied 11 percent. The Dutch owner of U.S. insurer
Transamerica Corp. posted second-quarter net income of 254
million euros ($313 million), topping the average estimate of
88.5 million euros in a Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts.
Underlying earnings, which exclude investment swings, rose 10
percent to 443 million euros.  Schibsted, ThyssenKrupp  Schibsted ASA, (SCH)  Norway’s largest media group, gained 7.5
percent as its second-quarter results matched analysts’
estimates and the company announced a cost-cutting program.  ThyssenKrupp AG rose 9.7 percent. Germany’s biggest
steelmaker said adjusted earnings before interest and taxes, the
profit gauge used by ThyssenKrupp to forecast future results,
fell 79 percent to 122 million euros in the fiscal third-quarter
as losses from the Steel Americas unit widened. That still beat
the 83.4 million-euro average of 12 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  A gauge of mining companies was the  best performer  among
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600, advancing 6.2 percent.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  advanced 5.9 percent, the most since
January. The world’s third-largest mining company reported
first-half profit of $5.9 billion from $7.6 billion a year
earlier. That compared with the $5.04 billion average of 11
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Randgold Rises  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  surged 9.7 percent. The miner of
precious metals in Africa said second-quarter profit rose 3.7
percent to $117.5 million after gold output increased to 210,534
ounces. The company is on schedule to meet the mid-range of its
825,000-to-865,000-ounce full-year target and forecasts possible
acquisitions of gold explorers in Africa, Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Bristow  said.  Evraz Plc (EVR) , a miner of iron ore and coal, increased 13
percent. UBS AG analysts removed the company from their list of
least preferred shares.  Tod’s SpA (TOD) , the Italian maker of pink alligator loafers,
gained 10 percent as its first-half revenue of 482.5 million
euros beat estimates of 476.4 million euros.  Nokia Oyj rallied 18 percent. The smartphone maker that
started using Microsoft Corp. operating systems to revive its
business agreed to sell its Qt app-tools unit to Digia Oyj as it
stops developing home-grown software. Nokia plans to announce
its new line of smartphones using the Windows Phone 8 operating
system as early as next month and offer them for sale before the
year-end holiday shopping season, a person with knowledge of the
matter said this month.  Mapfre Surges  Mapfre SA (MAP)  rose 18 percent, the biggest jump since 1998. The
Spanish insurer was raised to overweight, meaning investors
should buy the shares, from equal weight at Morgan Stanley,
which said downside risks for the stock are more than priced in.  Standard Chartered tumbled 15 percent, the most since 2009,
after  New York  regulator  Benjamin Lawsky  threatened to strip the
London-based bank of its license to operate in the state,
alleging it processed deals with Iranian banks subject to
sanctions.  Amadeus IT Holding SA fell 8.6 percent after Iberia Lineas
Aereas de Espana SA hedged its entire stake in the Spanish
operator of airline bookings systems after a rally this year.  Securitas AB (SECUB) , the world’s second-biggest guarding-services
company, sank 8 percent after reporting second-quarter net
income of 337 million kronor ($50 million), trailing the average
analyst estimate of 422 million kronor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  