-- Ex-Carlyle Consultant Gets Probation for Insider Trading
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-08-10T16:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/ex-carlyle-consultant-gets-probation-for-insider-trading-1-.html
Former  A.T. Kearney  Inc. partner
Sherif Mityas was sentenced to three years of probation for
trading on inside tips he learned while serving as a consultant
to private-equity firm the  Carlyle Group , according to a
spokesman for federal prosecutors.  Mityas, who also previously served as president and chief
executive officer for now-liquidated Movie Gallery Inc., was
sentenced today at a hearing in  Brooklyn , New York, federal
court, according to  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for U.S.
Attorney Loretta Lynch. He wasn’t ordered to pay any financial
penalties, Nardoza said in an e-mail.  The former consultant pleaded guilty in March to one count
of  securities fraud  for making trades in the stock of vitamin
maker NBTY Inc. based on nonpublic information. As a partner at
Chicago-based A.T. Kearney, Mityas had learned Carlyle, a
client, was planning to buy the vitamin company in 2010. The
$3.8 billion deal was announced in July 2010.  By timing his purchases and sales of the vitamin company’s
stock with the acquisition announcement, Mityas made $25,871 in
trading profits, prosecutors alleged.  In a memorandum filed with the court, Mityas’s lawyer, Eric
Chase, asked that his client be sentenced to no prison time,
only to three years of probation, saying that crime was out of
his character.  ‘Family Man’  “Mr. Mityas’s history and characteristics along with the
nature and circumstances of the offense paint a picture of a
responsible, middle-aged family man whose mounting financial
stressors led him to make this one foray into criminal conduct,
Chase said in the memorandum, filed on July 24.  Assistant U.S. Attorney David C. Woll Jr. told the judge in
a letter filed Aug. 7 that the government believed a sentence
outside of an advisory range of 10 to 16 months in prison might
be appropriate, given the circumstances.  ‘‘The defendant’s criminal conduct was serious,” Woll said
in the letter. “However, the defendant has no prior criminal
history and his criminal behavior appears to be aberrant.”  Mityas also faced a civil suit by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over the NBTY trades. The former consultant
consented to a $78,237 judgment in that case, according to court
filings.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Mityas, 1:12-cr-00133, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Mityas, 1:12-cv-01281, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  