-- Facebook CFO Said to Meet Investors Before Lockup Expiration
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-08-10T18:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/facebook-cfo-said-to-meet-investors-before-lockup-expiration.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Financial
Officer  David Ebersman  is meeting with investors in  New York 
today, a person familiar with the matter said, days before the
lifting of a ban on stock sales by some of the company’s biggest
shareholders.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Microsoft Corp. and other large
investors that bought equity before the initial public offering
will have freedom to sell their Facebook stakes starting Aug.
16. That’s after the lifting of limits imposed by underwriters
on the sale of shares for a preset period after an IPO. The
person with knowledge of the meetings declined to elaborate on
the plans, which are private.  Through yesterday, Facebook tumbled 45 percent since the
company sold shares at $38 in the May 17 IPO. Ebersman’s
meetings give the executive a chance to tell investors why they
should hang on to the shares or add to holdings even as the so-
called lockup expires, creating the prospect of further
declines. Facebook needs to do a better job outlining how it
plans to generate ad sales from the growing slice of users who
access the social-networking service on mobile phones, said
Victor Anthony, an analyst at Topeka Capital Markets.  “Investors who bought into the IPO have lost billions of
dollars,” said Anthony, who’s based in New York. “He needs to
get out there and tell the story of how he’ll drive revenue
growth.”  The  shares  increased 2.8 percent to $21.59 at 2:02 p.m. in
New York.  Ebersman’s meetings were previously reported by CNBC.  Growth Slows  Facebook results last month showed that second-quarter
sales growth slowed to 32 percent from 45 percent in the first
quarter. That was the slowest growth on record for the company.  Even before the IPO, concerns over growth began building.
Facebook said in May that sales growth wasn’t keeping pace with
gains in users on mobile. The company didn’t roll out its first
mobile-advertising service until March.  Mark Zuckerberg , Facebook’s chief executive officer, is
taking steps to make more money from mobile ads. During the call
with analysts when the company announced second-quarter results,
he said mobile is a key area of focus for the company. Mobile
users, who make up more than half of the membership, are more
active than counterparts who use only the desktop version.  “Mobile is a huge opportunity for Facebook,” Zuckerberg
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  