-- Fed Can’t Fix U.S. Economic Headwinds, Clarida Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-08-10T15:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/fed-can-t-fix-u-s-economic-headwinds-clarida-says-tom-keene.html
Federal Reserve policy can’t resolve
the biggest drags on the  U.S. economy , said  Richard Clarida ,
global strategic adviser at Pacific Investment Management Co.  “The main challenges facing the U.S. now are not
monetary,” Clarida, of Newport Beach, California-based Pimco,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a television
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen and Scarlet Fu. “We have the headwinds from the fiscal
cliff, from the slowdown in China, from the turmoil in Europe.
None of those are monetary-policy issues.”  U.S. gross domestic product slowed to a 1.5 percent annual
rate in the second quarter from a revised 2 percent gain in the
prior quarter, Commerce Department figures showed in Washington
July 27.  The U.S. faces a so-called fiscal cliff of higher taxes and
reductions in spending on defense and other government programs
that will take effect at year-end unless Congress acts. The
spending cuts and tax increases amount to $607 billion, or 4
percent of GDP, as measured by the  Congressional Budget Office .  China’s export growth collapsed and imports and new  yuan 
loans trailed estimates in July, adding to signs the global
economy is weakening.  “At the margin, I think the Fed believes where it can make
a difference it will,” said Clarida, who is also a professor of
economics and international affairs at  Columbia University .
“But it recognizes that this is not ultimately going to be a
monetary-policy solution for these challenges.”  Monetary Stimulus  The U.S. central bank has held  interest rates  near zero
since 2008 and plans to keep them there through 2014 to
stimulate the world’s biggest economy. The Fed has also bought
$2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in
two rounds of so-called quantitative easing, or QE.  At the same time, the European Union’s 17-nation common
currency faces an “existential threat,” and Europe’s biggest
economy is also showing signs of slowing, Clarida said. The
 European Central Bank ’s quarterly survey of professional
forecasters showed yesterday that the euro-area economy may
shrink 0.3 percent this year instead of a previously projected
0.2 percent contraction.  “Increasingly, the German economy is feeling the impact of
the European turmoil,” he said. “ Germany  probably of all the
countries has more room to maneuver, but again they don’t set
interest rates for the euro area. They’re an export machine, and
not just to Europe but also to the rest of the world. I think
the options in Germany are limited right now.”  German industrial production declined in June, led by a
drop in construction output. Production fell 0.9 percent from
May, when it gained a revised 1.7 percent, the Economy Ministry
in Berlin said Aug. 8. It was the third report this week to
signal the German economy is cooling as the sovereign debt
crisis erodes demand for its goods.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  