-- Ferrell Revels in Crude ‘Campaign’; Loud ‘Bourne’: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/ferrell-revels-in-crude-campaign-loud-bourne-review.html
An adorable baby and the beloved
pooch from “ The Artist ” get sucker-punched in “ The
Campaign ,” and they’re barely the easiest of the comedy’s
targets.  But even cheap shots demand some skill, and costars  Will
Ferrell  and  Zach Galifianakis  have it in spades, even when the
story fails them.  The well-matched comics play equally well-suited rivals for
a Congressional seat in  North Carolina .  Ferrell, resurrecting his George W. Bush impersonation but
with big, libidinous dollops of  Bill Clinton  and  John Edwards ,
plays Cam Brady, a know-nothing Congressman who keeps his seat
by pandering (“America! Freedom! Jesus!”) and following the
orders of his sensible campaign manager ( Jason Sudeikis ).  When Brady’s philandering is exposed, two out-of-state
power brokers ( John Lithgow  and  Dan Aykroyd ) smell blood. They
recruit a hapless stick-man challenger to further their
community-destroying corporate interests.  The dolt is Marty Huggins (Galifianakis, doing an oddly
sweet spin on the effeminate Bible-thumper character from his
stand-up act).  Ruthless Candidate  Dismissed by his own father ( Brian Cox ) as a cross between
Richard Simmons and a hobbit, the Lady Gaga-worshipping Marty is
remade (and butched up) into a coyly ruthless candidate by an
amoral campaign fixer ( Dylan McDermott , fine and slimy).  Director  Jay Roach ’s work in recent years has moved from
the broad comedy of the Austin Powers and Fockers film
franchises to the more outwardly sophisticated political
showcases of  HBO ’s “ Recount ” and “ Game Change .”  “The Campaign” fitfully puts both approaches on the same
ticket. The raucous and crude go head-to-head with the satirical
and savvy.  Raucous and crude wins, and “The Campaign” is more funny
than trenchant. The formulaic populism (those power brokers are
named the Motch brothers, most certainly to be confused with the
Kochs) doesn’t stand a chance in a race with two clowns.  “The Campaign,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ***1/2 (Evans)  ‘Bourne Legacy’  “ The Bourne Legacy ” is a two-hour roller coaster ride --
and do you really want to spend that long on a roller coaster? I
started getting queasy around the 45-minute mark, at the wolf-
wrestling scene.  Until then, the movie keeps you nervously off balance,
explaining nothing as it cuts rapidly between Karachi,  Seoul ,
the mountains of  Alaska  and other expensive-looking locations
against a soundtrack that’s like a symphonic version of a car
alarm.  What’s going on turns out to be vaguely related to the
other “Bourne” movies. The U.S. government (spoiler alert) is
shutting down a secret experimental program by killing off all
its genetically enhanced participants. Number 5 ( Jeremy Renner )
is the one who gets away.  Renner has more than enough muscle to man his way through a
big, personality-free piece of technology like this. But he’s
saddled with  Rachel Weisz , as a biochemist the government is
also trying to kill.  The fragility that can make Weisz heartbreaking registers
as hysteria in this role. In a scene that requires her to freak
out after surviving a murder attempt, she just shouts. (Her
ineptitude is almost endearing -- the one thing in the movie
that’s on a human scale.)  The director,  Tony Gilroy  (“ Michael Clayton ”), devotes
about a minute to exposition, bringing in such stars as  Edward
Norton ,  Stacy Keach  and  David Strathairn  to play the harried-
looking government thugs.  Otherwise it’s action. The movie’s only ambition is to make
your heart pound by applying relentless percussion and violent
editing to the most primitive of all motion-picture structures,
the chase. It works very efficiently.  “The Bourne Legacy,” from Universal, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: ** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Lewis
Lapham  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Greg Evans at  gregevans@yaghoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 