-- Finnair Narrows Quarterly Loss as Passenger Traffic Advances
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-08-10T07:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/finnair-narrows-quarterly-loss-as-passenger-traffic-advances-1-.html
Finnair Oyj (FIA1S) , Finland’s biggest
airline, posted a narrower second-quarter loss as passenger
traffic increased and it deepened a cost-cutting plan.  Shares of Finnair rose as much as 8.9 percent after the
Vantaa-based carrier said its loss was cut to 19.9 million euros
($24 million) from 23.1 million euros a year earlier,  “The result reflects not only increased demand but also the
successful progress of our structural change and cost reduction
program,” Chief Executive Officer Mika Vehvilainen said in a
statement. “We have taken definite steps forward, although the
majority of cost savings are still being realized.”  Finnair, which has established Helsinki as a  hub  for travel
from European to  China , Japan and  Korea , lifted passenger
numbers almost 11 percent in the quarter. The company hasn’t
posted an annual  profit  since 2007 as competition with  Norwegian
Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  and Stockholm-based  SAS Group (SAS)  weighs on margins.  The stock was trading 5.9 percent higher at 2.15 euros as
of 10:42 a.m. in Helsinki, paring the decline this year to 6.5
percent and valuing the company at 276 million euros.  Finnair is seeking to create a joint venture that would
expand its presence across the Nordic region and stem losses
from short-haul operations, it said in February.  “This analysis will be continued and our goal is to find
solutions that would be in line with the overall interests of
the company and would promote our operations as a network
company,” Vehvilainen said today.  Finnair, a member of the Oneworld alliance that includes
British Airways, aims to shave 140 million euros from costs by
2014 in a program begun last year. Measures include cutting 100
cabin-crew jobs starting in 2014.  Analysts had predicted a quarterly loss of 4.33 million
euros, the average of three estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  