-- Food Lobbying Group to Ask EPA to Trim Ethanol Mandate
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-08-10T19:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/food-lobbying-group-to-ask-epa-to-trim-ethanol-mandate.html
The main lobbying group for food
producers plans to ask the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
to reduce requirements for the use of corn-based ethanol in
gasoline as a drought boosts the grain’s price to records.  The Grocery Manufacturers Association, which represents
 Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  Kellogg Co. (K) , today will ask the EPA to
reduce the requirement for how much of the biofuel must be sold
this year, said Louis Finkel, the Washington-based group’s
executive vice president of government affairs.  Kellogg and Kraft, which use corn in sweeteners, are facing
increased costs amid a more than 60 percent surge in the grain’s
price since mid-June because drought has damaged crops in the
U.S. Midwest growing region. The group argues that using 40
percent of the nation’s corn crop in ethanol exacerbates those
gains and will hurt consumers by raising food prices.  “The issue with ethanol has been around for a number of
years,” Kraft Chief Executive Officer Irene Rosenfeld said in a
phone interview last week. “It has definitely been wreaking
havoc with corn prices. I would like to see an ethanol policy
that is better aligned with the realities of the market.”  Kraft, the Northfield, Illinois-based maker of Oreo cookies
and Velveeta cheese, said Aug. 2 that it raised prices to help
recoup higher costs.  Lowering the mandate won’t reduce corn prices, said  Matt Hartwig , chief of staff for the  Renewable Fuels Association , the
Washington-based group that lobbies on behalf of ethanol
producers.  Lower Production  Lower fuel sales and accumulated credits from
overproduction in previous years, means ethanol refiners may
sell 10.5 billion gallons of the fuel this year instead of the
mandated 13.2 billion gallons, Hartwig said.  “The waiver will not make it rain,” Hartwig said in an
interview. “It won’t bring down corn prices.”  The first mandate that a certain amount of ethanol be sold
was enacted in 2005 and then increased in 2007.  Corn prices more than doubled from June 2007 through the
same month the following year to a then-record $7.9925 a bushel
for the most-active futures on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
price dropped below $5 by the end of the year. Corn surpassed $5
in 2010 and has stayed above that price ever since. The most
active futures reached a record $8.49 today.  “It could go to $12 a bushel in October,” Finkel said in
a telephone interview. “The ethanol mandate has significantly
increased corn prices and it has created price volatility. We
want to ensure that the larger portion of corn goes to food and
feedstock.”  Kellogg Costs  Kellogg CEO John Bryant said the  Battle Creek , Michigan-
based maker of Corn Flakes raised cereal prices 13 cents a pound
in the second quarter to recoup rising grain costs.  “We did see an impact from corn,” Bryant said in a phone
interview. “Our hope is that something will change in the
ethanol mandate. We want the EPA to pull back on the mandate.”  The EPA is in close contact with  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  and monitoring crop-yield estimates, Alisha Johnson,
a EPA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The Obama administration
is reviewing the nation’s ethanol policy,  Jay Carney , White
House press secretary, said today.  Hillshire Brands Inc. CEO Sean Connolly said the company,
which makes Hillshire meats and Jimmy Dean sausage, has seen
higher prices because the grain is used in livestock feed. While
meat prices may fall if producers slaughter livestock earlier to
avoid higher feed costs, costs may rise again next year, he
said.  “Consumers could get some relief from higher food costs,”
Connolly said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  