-- Ford Outlook Raised as S&P Sees Commitment to Europe Fix
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-08-10T20:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/ford-outlook-raised-as-s-p-sees-commitment-to-europe-fix.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , working to reverse
overseas losses, received a vote of confidence today from
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services that the automaker will act
decisively to fix its European operations.  The outlook on Ford was revised to “positive” from
“stable,” the ratings company said in a statement. S&P
affirmed its BB+ rating, one step below investment grade. S&P is
the last major ratings company to have Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford at non-investment grade.  “Ford will act with increasing decisiveness and commitment
to restructure  Europe  to profitability amid prospects for
several more years of weak vehicle sales there,” S&P said. “We
would likely want to have a good understanding of 2014 prospects
for profitability by region before an upgrade and do not expect
to raise our rating on Ford until then.”  The economic crisis in Europe is denting the turnaround
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has engineered at Ford.
European pretax operating losses expanded to $404 million in the
second quarter, from $149 million in the first quarter and
profit of $176 million a year earlier. Ford said July 25 that it
now expects full-year European losses to exceed $1 billion,
double its earlier forecast.  Analysts are calling for Ford to close plants in Europe,
where the automaker uses just 63 percent of its factory
capacity. The economy in Europe, which accounts for a quarter of
Ford’s revenue, is worse than the company anticipated at the
start of the year and will stay challenging for at least five
years, said Bob Shanks, the automaker’s chief financial officer.  ‘Real Demand’  “The most important thing about our plan -- has been and
it will continue to be -- is for us to match production to the
real demand,” Mulally said July 25 on a conference call with
analysts. “We are going to continue to decrease our production
to match the real demand.”  S&P said it expects Ford’s “profits and cash use in Europe
will get worse before they get better.”  “The positive outlook reflects our view that there is a
one-in-three chance that we could raise our corporate  credit
rating  on Ford to investment grade within 18 months -- although
this is not likely before late 2013,” S&P said. “For an
upgrade, we would expect Ford to be on track for sustainable
profitability outside  North America , particularly Europe.”  Ford rose 0.1 percent to $9.35 at the close in  New York .
The  shares  have declined 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  