-- Free IPads Highlight U.S. Stores’ Back-to-School Frenzy
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-08-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/free-ipads-highlight-u-s-stores-back-to-school-frenzy.html
With  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  giving
away 1,000 iPads and  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  offering $10 million of
free haircuts, U.S. retailers are pulling out the stops to make
sure they get a share of what may be the best back-to-school
shopping season in a decade.  Back-to-school sales, second only to the end-of-year
 holiday shopping season , may rise 2.5 percent to a record $40.4
billion this year, as consumers replenish wardrobes with more
disposable income and the number of students increases,
according to the  International Council of Shopping Centers .  Retailers, stinging from lackluster sales in the first half
of the year, are tempting shoppers with promotions to distract
them from anxiety tied to the  U.S. economy , where the
 unemployment  rate has been above 8 percent for more than three
years. Kmart is providing free flu shots to loyalty
members who spend at least $100, and Gap Inc.’s Old Navy  gave
out  backpacks and  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX)  coupons to shoppers who spent
$50 or more.  “The retailers are very aggressively going after foot
traffic this year,” Penny McIntyre, president of  Newell
Rubbermaid Inc. (NWL) ’s consumer group, said in a telephone interview.
“With all of the nervousness around the economy, the retailers
have very much focused on the back-to-school season and doing
very innovative programs.”  Retailers could use a boost. While the Standard & Poor’s
500 Retailing Index is trading at about a 41 percent  premium  to
the broader  S&P 500 , that’s down from a 51 percent premium in
April after retailers posted their fourth straight month of
same-store sales that topped analysts’ estimates.  Important Period  It’s an important period for retailers, as the season is
highly correlated to sales in the holiday period,  Jennifer Davis , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in  New York , wrote
in a July 23 note.  The number of students enrolled in preschool through 12th
grade will probably rise to a record 54.9 million this fall, up
159,000 from last year, and is projected to increase annually
through 2020,  according to  the National Center for Education
Statistics. This year’s figure includes 240,000 more public-
school students in preschool to eighth grade, a group that tends
to be a major driver of back-to-school sales.  The  U.S. population  has grown to an estimated 312.8 million
as of Jan. 1,  mainly  from more births and fewer deaths, a 4
million increase from April 1, 2010, according to the Census
Bureau.  Sales will increase at a slower pace than last year’s 3.5
percent gain, according to the ICSC.  U.S. students typically start school in August or at the
beginning of September after two to three months of summer
vacation. Most back-to-school sales fall in August and
September.  Restocking Wardrobes  Many parents who held back on spending last year will be
more apt to restock wardrobes this season, the  National Retail
Federation  said in a report last month. The Washington-based
group estimates a 22 percent increase in back-to-school shopping
to $83.8 billion, the most in the survey’s 10-year history. The
NRF’s data includes all retail channels, while the ICSC tracks
family clothing, shoes, electronics and books.  The NRF’s forecast may exaggerate potential spending
because it measures consumer intentions, which can differ from
actual sales,  Deborah Weinswig , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
New York, said in an Aug. 5 note.  “We expect consumers to focus on finding the basics for
the best price and potentially foregoing discretionary back-to-
school purchases,” Weinswig said in the note.  Free Haircuts  J.C. Penney, based in Plano,  Texas , has more than 703,000
appointments booked for the typically $14 haircuts, available to
children in kindergarten through sixth grade this month, said
Ann Marie Bishop, a spokeswoman. Its salons performed almost
104,000 of the cuts on Aug. 1, she said.  The fourth-biggest U.S. department-store company, led by
former Apple Inc. retail chief  Ron Johnson , is looking to boost
store traffic after sales fell 20 percent in the first quarter
and as  analysts  project a similar decline in the three months
ended July 31. It’s also a chance for the chain to showcase its
locations’ new stores-within-a-store layout.  “Parents have been thrilled with the offer,” Bishop said
in an e-mail. “It has been popular with current customers, and
it has also brought new customers in to our salons.”  Abercrombie, the teen retailer that reported a second
quarterly drop in same-store sales last week, is running a back-
to-school sweepstakes with prizes including 1,000 Apple iPads,
promotional gift cards and trips to flagship stores in Paris and
Milan. From July 14 through Labor Day, weekend shoppers who
visit the Columbus, Ohio-based company’s stores will receive
entry cards with codes that they can text immediately to see if
they won.  Social Media  Retailers are using smartphones and social media more often
and more creatively as customers increasingly preview
merchandise online, Alison Paul, who leads the retail group at
Deloitte LLP in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) , the third-biggest U.S. department-store
company, will introduce a multichannel “Shop it to Win it”
sweepstakes this month, in which shoppers who spend $25 or more
in-store, online, at kiosks or on mobile devices will get game
codes for giveaways, Vicki Shamion, a spokeswoman for the
 Menomonee Falls , Wisconsin-based retailer, said in an e-mail.  Newell Rubbermaid has found a “tremendous amount of
success” by interacting with the more than 3 million fans of
Sharpie pens on Facebook with coupons and contests, McIntyre
said. While it’s early in the season, initial reads at retailers
have been “very positive,” she said.  Free Backpacks  Old Navy , with about 1,000 locations, planned to give the
free backpacks and OfficeMax coupons to the first 70,000
customers that spent $50 or more in stores on Aug. 5, according
to an Aug. 1 statement.  Back-to-school sales this year may include $53.5 billion
from college spending, according to a survey of 8,509 consumers
conducted by BIGinsight from July 2 to July 9 for the
Washington-based NRF. Parents of children in kindergarten
through 12th grade may spend an average of $689 from $604,
driven by clothing and accessories, while college families may
spend about $907 on everything from dorm furniture to school
supplies.  Last week, more than 20 U.S. chain stores from  Gap Inc. (GPS)  to
 Macy’s Inc. (M)  posted July same-store sales that rose an average of
3.3 percent, beating analysts’ estimates for a 1.4 percent
increase.  “It’s going to be a very strong back-to-school this
year,” Deloitte’s Paul said. “One, there’s some pent up
demand. Two, I think retailers have really come off the
sidelines and done some very creative merchandising and
advertising, and so the all-important parent is really being
encouraged to get out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  