-- French Industrial Output Drops in Sign of GDP Contraction
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-08-10T06:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/french-industrial-output-drops-in-sign-of-gdp-contraction.html
French  industrial output  stagnated
in June, the latest sign that the euro area’s second-largest
economy may be heading for its first recession in three years.  Output was unchanged from May, Paris-based statistics
office Insee said today in an e-mailed statement. Economists had
forecast an increase of 0.1 percent in June, according to the
median of 20 estimates gathered by Bloomberg News.  The lack of growth underlines both France’s faltering
short-term growth prospects and a decade-long loss in its share
of export markets that’s leading companies from  PSA Peugeot
Citroen SA (UG)  to Alcatel Lucent SA to cut jobs. The Bank of France
said on Aug. 8 that confidence among factory executives is at a
three-year low, indicating the economy may contract in both the
second and third quarters.  “Overall production may be declining, though not
precipitously,” said Fabrice Montagne, an economist at Barclays
in Paris. “It reflects the situation in external trade, with
weak demand in many countries, notably  Italy .”  With  Spain , Italy and the U.K. already in recessions,
France’s exports to other European Union countries fell 0.5
percent in the first half of 2012, the French customs office
said on Aug. 8.  In France, manufacturing output, which excluded power
generation, advanced 0.1 percent in June, though it fell 1.2
percent in the second quarter, Insee said today.  Sentiment among French factory executives fell to 90 in
July, the lowest since August 2009, from 91 in June, according
to the Bank of  France  survey published two days ago. Executives
reported a drop in output at car and textile factories. Factory
use fell, order books shrank and inventories climbed, the survey
showed.  Insee publishes its first estimate of second-quarter gross
domestic product on Aug. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  