-- Gasoline Rally Seen Reviving U.S. Call to Use Oil Reserve
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-10T17:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/gasoline-rally-seen-reviving-u-s-call-to-use-oil-reserve-1-.html
Gasoline prices in the U.S. have
climbed since July 1 and now exceed levels that triggered
lawmakers this year to urge the Obama administration to draw
down from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  Regular gasoline  prices at the pump, averaged nationwide,
were $3.673 a gallon yesterday, according to data compiled by
AAA, the nation’s largest motoring organization. The average was
$3.612 on Feb. 22, when three Democratic lawmakers called on
President  Barack Obama  to use the strategic stockpile, and was
$3.287 on Feb. 24, 2011, when similar calls were made.  “We’ve seen, both this spring and last spring, as prices
rose for 2011, that has prompted some calls for releases from
the strategic petroleum reserve,” Avery A. Ash, Washington-
based manager of regulatory affairs for AAA, said in an
interview. The group backs using the reserve to deal with supply
disruptions, “not to simply address rising prices,” he said.  Democratic Representatives  Edward Markey  of Massachusetts,
 Peter Welch  of Vermont and  Rosa DeLauro  of Connecticut urged
Obama to release oil from emergency inventories last year, when
oil touched $103.41 a barrel, spurred by turmoil in the Middle
East. The administration reacted on June 23, 2011, announcing
the release of 30 million barrels in an international effort
coordinated by the Paris-based  International Energy Agency .  Monitoring Market  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said today the
administration is “very closely” monitoring the oil market and
“broadly” examining its options.  Obama has so far resisted calls from Markey, Welch and
DeLauro this year, as gasoline peaked at $3.936 on April 4. The
price slid 15 percent to $3.326 on July 1.  In response to the lawmakers’ calls, in February Energy
Secretary Steven Chu said the administration was considering all
options, including using the reserve, amid concerns that Iran,
in retaliation for economic sanctions, might interrupt oil
supplies and push prices higher.  Pump prices are increasing amid a rally in crude, tensions
tied to  Iran’s nuclear program  and a supply disruption at
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s refinery in Richmond, California, Ash said.  An Aug. 6 fire at Chevron’s Richmond plant has curbed
output at Northern California’s largest facility.  ‘Geopolitical Tensions’  “This is more a result of geopolitical tensions and some
positive signs for the global economy, especially when looking
at China,” Ash said.  Leaders of China’s ruling Communist Party last week pledged
to keep adjusting policies to ensure a stable expansion this
year after inflation and industrial-production growth cooled in
July.  Spokesmen for Markey and DeLauro didn’t have a comment.
Scott Coriell, a spokesman for Welch, said he didn’t know
whether the lawmaker would renew his call.  Senator  Bernie Sanders , an independent from Vermont, has
been “very focused” on high gasoline prices in his state and
held a hearing on the issue on Aug. 6, Michael Briggs, his
spokesman, said in an interview.  Republicans and oil-industry lobbyists opposed a release
from the strategic petroleum release, arguing for more oil
production on federal lands and opening areas off the California
and Virginia coasts to exploration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  