-- Heating Oil Slides as Chinese Data Points to Lower Demand
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-08-10T19:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/gasoline-heating-oil-fall-on-chinese-trade-slowdown.html
Heating oil fell from a three-month
high as Chinese trade data increased concern that the global
economy is slowing, threatening demand for transportation fuels.  Futures slipped as China’s export growth slowed more than
forecast in July, according to data from the customs bureau in
Beijing. This followed a report yesterday that showed China’s
industrial  output  rose the least since 2009.  “If the Chinese economy is slowing much more than people
think, until they come up with more stimulus measures, prices
are going to be under pressure,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Heating oil for September delivery fell 2.45 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $3.0205 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. Prices rose 3.2 percent this week.  China’s  exports  increased 1 percent from a year earlier,
the customs bureau said today in Beijing, after an 11 percent
rise in June. Imports rose 4.7 percent, versus the survey
estimate for 7 percent and a 6.3 percent increase in June.  Prices also declined as the  International Energy Agency 
reduced global oil demand forecasts for this year and next. The
IEA said global demand will average 90.5 million barrels a day
next year, 400,000 barrels less than in last month’s estimate.  “The whole reason to be long in the oil market was we were
going to have uninterrupted Chinese demand,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “The
only thing keeping this market from falling further is the
expectation of some stimulus.”  Gasoline Rises  Gasoline rose after  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  shut the 100,000-
barrel-a-day fluid catalytic cracker at its St. Charles refinery
in Norco, Louisiana, today. The shutdown was unplanned and the
unit is expected to be operating by the end of August,  Bill Day ,
a spokesman for the company in  San Antonio , said in an e-mail.  “Gasoline has rallied on the back of finding out Valero is
going to be down a couple of weeks,” said  Andy Lipow , president
of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Gasoline for September delivery rose 0.31 cent to settle at
$3.0039 a gallon, ending the week with a gain of 2.5 percent.
September gasoline was the only contract to increase. Its
premium to October widened 0.54 cent to 19.79 cents.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, advanced
1.1 cents to $3.673 a gallon yesterday, AAA data showed. That’s
the highest price since May 23. Prices have climbed 34.7 cents
since July 1, according data from the nation’s largest motoring
organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  