-- German Bunds Gain on Signs of Slowing Growth; Spanish Notes Drop
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-08-10T15:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/german-10-year-bunds-advance-as-inflation-unexpectedly-slows.html
German  government bonds  rose along
with U.S. Treasuries as a collapse in  China ’s export growth
added to signs the global economy is weakening and underpinned
demand for the safest assets.  Germany’s  two-year  yield fell to within three basis points
of a record low as a report showed French industrial output
stagnated in June. German  10-year bonds  completed a weekly gain
after inflation unexpectedly cooled in July and the nation’s
economy ministry said the outlook for quicker growth was fading.
Spanish and Italian two-year notes declined for a fourth day.  “There’s a great deal of uncertainty for all the euro
member nations,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist
at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “Weak
Chinese data is a concern because exports are an important
aspect of Germany’s economic performance. We’re seeing a little
more support for bunds.”  The German 10-year yield fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.38 percent at 4:23 p.m. London time. The
1.75 percent bond due in July 2022 rose 0.52, or 5.20 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,225) face amount, to 103.405. The yield has
declined five basis points this week.  The two-year rate dropped two basis points to minus 0.07
percent after slipping to 0.097 percent on Aug. 2, the  lowest
level  since Bloomberg began tracking the securities in 1990.  The prospect of a worldwide recovery is “fragile,”
 Germany ’s economy ministry said in its report for August
published today. “Hopes that the global economy would revive
quickly after moderate growth in the winter months are proving
premature amid a renewed worsening of the bank and debt
crisis,” the Berlin-based ministry said.  Inflation Rate  Germany’s annual  inflation rate , calculated using a
harmonized European Union method, slowed to 1.9 percent from 2
percent in June, the Federal Statistics Office said. That’s the
first time it has fallen below the  European Central Bank ’s 2
percent limit since December 2010. Slower inflation helps to
preserve the purchasing power of the fixed income from debt.  French industrial output was unchanged from May, Insee, the
Paris-based statistics office, said in an e-mailed statement.
Economists had forecast an increase of 0.1 percent, according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by  Finland  and the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the spread between two-
year and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note declined three basis
points to 1.65 percent.  China Exports  China’s annual  export growth  slowed to 1 percent in July
from 11.3 percent the previous month, the customs bureau said in
Beijing. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted an 8
percent gain.  Spanish two-year yields climbed to the highest level in a
week amid speculation an ECB plan to buy the debt of so-called
peripheral nations won’t be enough to stem the region’s
financial crisis.  Spanish and Italian securities jumped last week after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank may buy government
debt along with the region’s bailout funds. The ECB said
yesterday it may take such measures only if troubled nations
commit to improving their economies and fiscal positions.  The Spanish two-year yield increased 15 basis points to
4.19 percent, the highest level since Aug. 3. Similar-maturity
Italian yields climbed 12 basis points to 3.4 percent.  ‘Good Amount’  Norway’s $620 billion sovereign wealth fund,  Europe ’s
biggest, boosted its holdings in German bonds by 53 percent last
quarter to 58 billion kroner ($9.78 billion), according to Yngve Slyngstad, chief executive officer of Norges Bank Investment
Management, which runs the fund.  “The bund is the most liquid and easily tradable cash
instrument in the euro-area bond sphere today, so it’s natural
for us to a have a good amount of that,” Slyngstad said in an
interview in Oslo.  German bonds returned 3.2 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities lost 4.3 percent and Italy’s debt earned 9.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  