-- Germany Opens Swiss Tax-Evasion Probe Amid Paper Trail Report
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   J a n - H e n r i k   F o r s t e r
-- 2012-08-10T15:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/germany-opens-swiss-tax-evasion-probe-amid-paper-trail-report.html
Prosecutors in the German city of
Bochum opened a probe into  tax-evasion  by nationals with Swiss
bank accounts, as German authorities were reported to have found
evidence lenders in Switzerland helped clients to conceal their
money in  Asia .  Prosecutors received “tip-offs” that plans have been
developed “on a large scale” on how to hide money parked in
Switzerland until a planned tax accord between Switzerland and
 Germany  is in place, Norbert Walter-Borjans, finance minister of
the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia, said in an interview
on ZDF television today.  While North Rhine-Westphalia has regularly been the subject
of reports it bought CDs with Swiss account information on
German clients, the latest allegations mark an escalation that
may further undermine efforts to seal a bilateral agreement to
halt tax-dodging.  The spat emerged yesterday when the Financial Times
Deutschland reported the state obtained a CD with information on
German clients of Swiss bank  UBS AG (UBSN)  suspected of tax evasion.  The same newspaper followed up today with a report that
German authorities have found evidence showing how Swiss banks
helped German tax dodgers to transfer their money to Asian
financial centers such as Singapore.  “Since the announcement of the tax accord we haven’t
recorded an increase in requests for asset transfers to other
regions,” the bank said today in an e-mailed statement. “UBS
doesn’t offer customers assistance in activities that bypass
their tax obligations.”  Bochum Probe  Prosecutors in Bochum, in North Rhine-Westphalia, have
received data and are looking into it, spokesman Bernd Bieniossek said by phone today. He declined to provide any more
details of the investigation.  Authorities have for the first time found a “paper trail”
leading from Switzerland to  Singapore , the FTD reported, citing
an unnamed official close to the North Rhine-Westphalia Finance
Ministry. Daniel Moritz, a ministry spokesman, didn’t confirm
the report.  “It seems obvious that people who have money in
Switzerland try to hide it,” Moritz said. North Rhine-
Westphalia regularly gets offers to buy such data, he said.  The investigation comes as Switzerland and Germany seek to
ratify an accord that would end a dispute over tax evasion by
German nationals with undeclared assets in offshore Swiss bank
accounts. The deal, which proposes a withholding tax on the
dividends and  capital gains  while keeping client identities
secret, would remove an incentive for regional authorities to
buy tax-data CDs, the German government has said.  Bundesrat Blockage  Walter-Borjans of North Rhine-Westphalia, ruled by the
 Social Democrats , the main opposition party nationally, said the
accord is a giveaway to tax cheats. The SPD is blocking the
agreement in Germany’s upper house of Parliament, the Bundesrat
where it holds a majority with its Green Party allies.  Mario Tuor, a spokesman for Switzerland’s State Secretariat
for International Financial Matters in Bern, declined to comment
on the speculation over new CD purchases.  Fiscal authorities have increasingly been offered secret
bank information since Germany in 2009 prosecuted tax evaders,
including former Deutsche Post AG Chief Executive Officer Klaus Zumwinkel, using the information bought from a former computer
consultant at LGT Group, a private bank owned by Liechtenstein’s
princely family.  Coutts, a wealth-management unit of London-based Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, said last month there’s no evidence to
suggest any infringement of client data following reports that
details of about 1,000 wealthy Germans had been sold to the same
German state for 3.5 million euros. Swiss secrecy laws threaten
bank employees with a jail term if they divulge client
information.  Switzerland  agreed in March 2009 to cooperate with
countries investigating tax evasion in order to avoid being
blacklisted as a tax haven.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Jan-Henrik Forster in Frankfurt at 
 jforster14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  