-- Goldman Sachs Partner Cai Jinyong to Head World Bank Unit
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-08-10T20:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/goldman-sachs-partner-cai-jinyong-to-head-world-bank-unit.html
World Bank  President Jim Yong Kim
appointed a Chinese partner at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to head
the poverty fighting institution’s private-sector arm.  Cai Jinyong, chief executive of Goldman Sachs’s China
securities venture, will become executive vice president and
chief executive officer of the Washington-based  International
Finance Corporation  effective Oct. 1, the World Bank said in an
e-mail statement today.  Cai, 53, becomes the first Chinese national to hold the
position, confirming the nation’s influence at the World Bank
two months after chief economist Justin Lin left. IFC, which
committed $15 billion last year, focuses on the private sector
of developing economies by making loans and taking equity stakes
in companies.  “I am pleased that a world-class financial and development
professional like Jinyong has decided to bring his considerable
talent to the work” of IFC, Kim said.  “With his extensive knowledge of global financial markets
and investment climates, he’ll help IFC identify sound,
strategic private sector investments and public-private
partnerships that will help reduce poverty and create greater
prosperity for people in the developing world,” Kim said.  Cai started his career at the World Bank before joining
Morgan Stanley and then China International Capital Corp., now
the country’s biggest investment bank, at its inception,
according to the World Bank.  He joined Goldman Sachs in 2000, was named a managing
director in 2001 and a partner in 2006. Prior to his
appointment, he headed Goldman Sachs Gao Hua Securities Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  