-- Google Faces Norway Fine on Street View Data Collection
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-08-10T22:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/google-faces-norway-fine-on-street-view-data-collection.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  faces a fine from
Norway’s data-protection regulator of 250,000 kroner ($42,260)
after unlawfully collecting and failing to delete personal data
gathered through its Street View mapping service.  In a notice sent to Google this week, the agency said the
company will be subject to the fine, called a violation charge,
for collecting data in Norway without people’s consent. Google
has four weeks to convince the regulator to reconsider.  Collecting the data “violated the  privacy rights ,” it was
processed without consent and wasn’t deleted as the agency
requested, the regulator said in the Aug. 7 notice to the
operator of the world’s largest Internet search engine.  “This is one of the biggest fines we have imposed,” Bjorn Erik Thon,  Norway ’s data-protection commissioner, said in a
phone interview today. “We have to come up with a reaction when
such a huge company like Google is behaving like this.”  The Norwegian agency received a letter from Google, which
had revenue of $12.2 billion for the second quarter, on July 27
alerting it to the undeleted data and asking the agency what it
should do. The regulator said Google has to delete it by Oct. 1.  Google sent a similar  letter  to the U.K. Information
Commissioner’s Office, also on July 27, saying it still had some
data collected via Street View that should have been deleted in
December 2010. The U.K. agency  asked  Google to provide the data
“immediately” for analysis and a French regulator made a
similar request on July 31.  FCC Fine  Peter Fleischer , Google’s global privacy counsel, said
today that the company apologized for the Norway matter.  “Google has recently confirmed that it still has in its
possession a portion of payload data collected by our Street
View vehicles,” Fleischer said in an e-mailed statement. Google
will delete the remaining data, he said.  “The amount of the fine is trivial for Google, but the
fact of the fine and related privacy penalties around the world
are increasingly damaging to Google’s image and reputation with
consumers and governments,” said  Greg Sterling , an analyst at
Opus Research.  While Google received “the benefit of the doubt” over
Street View data collection at first, it “will be met with
skepticism and doubt in similar situations in the future,”
Sterling said in an e-mail.  Google was fined $25,000 by the  U.S. Federal Communications
Commission  this year for impeding its probe of improper data
gathering. In an agreement ending the U.K. inquiry into Street
View in November 2010,  Mountain View , California-based Google
agreed to further U.K. audits of its privacy practices.  Passwords, E-Mails  “This data can be sensitive, it’s passwords, it’s e-mails,
it’s Wi-Fi information,” said Norway’s Thon, and as long as
Google “have no legal basis to collect and to store this data,
it’s extremely important that it is deleted.”  Google confirmed in June 2011 that so-called payload data
gathered in Norway was deleted. The maximum penalty the
Norwegian agency can impose is 850,000 kroner.  In setting the amount of the fine, the Norwegian regulator
took into consideration that Google voluntarily notified it of
the data issue.  Without the company’s letter, “it wouldn’t have been
possible for us to find out about this,” Thon said. Google
“will have to come up with a really good explanation” to avoid
the fine, Thon said.  Data protection is currently policed by separate regulators
across the 27-nation EU, and the region wants to simplify the
system so companies deal with only one regulator in the bloc.
While Norway isn’t part of the EU, it belongs to the European
Economic Area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  