-- Google Unveils Search Changes to Curb Access to Pirated Content
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-08-10T21:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/google-unveils-search-changes-to-curb-access-to-pirated-content.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  said it will introduce
changes to its search engine that will discourage piracy by
placing legitimate copyrighted content higher in online queries.  The company next week will begin using algorithms that push
potentially pirated material to a lower position in search
results,  Mountain View , California-based Google said today in a
blog  posting  on its website.  Entertainment companies have been pressing Google for years
to take steps to make pirated content harder to find. The new
system will use “removal notices,” or complaints from
entertainment companies, that a website has received in ranking
search results, Amit Singhal, senior vice president for
engineering, said on the blog. Hollywood applauded the move.  “We are optimistic that Google’s actions will help steer
consumers to the myriad legitimate ways for them to access
movies and TV shows online,”  Michael O’Leary , a senior
executive vice president at the  Motion Picture Association  of
America, said in an e-mailed statement.  Lower rankings don’t represent a conclusion that a
copyright has actually been violated, Singhal wrote. The company
received 4.3 million copyright removal notices in the last 30
days, he said.  “So while this new signal will influence the ranking of
some search results, we won’t be removing any pages from search
results unless we receive a valid copyright removal notice from
the rights owner,” Singhal said.  Jason Freidenfelds, a Google spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking additional comment.  Google was little changed at $642 at the close in  New York .
The stock has declined less than 1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  