-- Green Infra to Ditch Supplier-Led India Wind Farm Model
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-10T01:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/green-infra-to-ditch-supplier-led-india-wind-farm-model.html
Green Infra Ltd. , backed by IDFC
Private Equity, will start developing wind farms from scratch
next year, ditching a business model in  India  that favors
dominant turbine supplier  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  over competitors
such as  General Electric Co. (GE)   The New Delhi-based developer seeks to bring down project
costs by acquiring land and clearances for new projects, tasks
traditionally handled by the turbine supplier in India, Chief
Operating Officer Sunil Jain said.  “From 2013, we’ll start doing this ourselves,” Jain said
in a phone interview yesterday.  Green Infra joins independent wind farm developers such as
 Greenko Group Plc (GKO)  and  Mytrah Energy Ltd. (MYT)  in separating project
development from turbine orders to drive better deals from
suppliers. A global supply glut has driven down the price of
 wind turbines  by  23 percent  since 2009, squeezing turbine
makers’ margins and intensifying competition for orders in
India, the world’s third-biggest wind market, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Unlike most markets, suppliers in India tend to hand over
completed wind farms to owners and investors, negotiating deals
that include project development costs as well as turbines.  That model has benefited manufacturers such as Suzlon,
Spain’s  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM)  and Denmark’s  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S (VWS) , which grabbed 54 percent of Indian installations
last year, according to data from the Indian Wind Manufacturers
Association. In contrast, GE and  Siemens AG (SIE) , who do turbine-only
deals, didn’t install any machines in the country.  Project Development  Turbine suppliers in India are quoting prices of about 63.5
million rupees ($1.2 million) per megawatt, Jain said. They’ve
refused to lower prices despite a turbine oversupply, citing
escalating project development costs, he said.  By handling its own project development, Green Infra will
consider a broader range of suppliers, including GE and
potentially Chinese manufacturers such as  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558) 
and  China Ming Yang Wind Power Group (MY)  if they’re able to get
their machines approved by regulators, Jain said.  “We don’t believe suppliers have the right approach,”
Greenko President Mahesh Kolli said in an interview last month.
Greenko signed a deal with GE to buy at least 450 megawatts of
turbines over the next three years. That contract will supply
machines that are 20 percent more efficient than the average
available in the market for the same price, Kolli said.  Standard Chartered Deal  Green Infra, which bought  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Indian wind-energy
portfolio of 100 megawatts in 2009, has 232 megawatts of wind
farms and a 10-megawatt solar plant in the country.  It has secured financing to build two more solar projects
totaling 25 megawatts by early 2013 that will use thin-film
panel technology, said Jain, who declined to name the supplier
or banks involved. It will also add another 100 megawatts of
wind capacity by the end of this year.  Jain denied a  report  by the Hindu Business Line newspaper
this week that said  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  bought a 26 percent
stake in Green Infra.  Standard Chartered  and its unit, Scope International, want
to buy 11.5 million units of clean electricity directly from
Green Infra’s wind farms. That required the bank to purchase a
less than 1 percent stake in Green Infra’s wind unit, Jain said,
declining to provide further details.  IDFC Private Equity, which manages $1.3 billion in funds
for Indian infrastructure investments, set up Green Infra in
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  