-- Growing Paychecks Boost Americans’ Purchasing Power: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-10T20:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/growing-paychecks-boost-americans-purchasing-power-economy.html
Americans’ paychecks in the first
half of 2012 grew at the fastest pace in five years, pointing to
an improvement in purchasing power that may help propel the
economic expansion.  Wages and salaries  for all employees increased at a 4.8
percent annual pace from January through June after adjusting
for inflation, the most since March 2007, according to
calculations by  Harm Bandholz , chief economist at UniCredit
Group in  New York , based on data from the Commerce Department.
The pickup contrasts with last week’s Labor Department report
that showed the smallest gain in average hourly wages on record.  “What matters to people is the size of the paycheck,”
said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “How much money you get in the bank,
that’s what I care about.”  The Commerce Department figures take into account the total
number of people holding jobs and the length of the workweek,
which is what shows up in Americans’ paystubs. The recent gains
indicate consumers have the means to boost spending and shield
the U.S. from any global slowdown as  Europe ’s debt crisis
lingers and Asia cools.  Stocks rose, giving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its
longest advance since December 2010, as optimism the  Federal
Reserve  will act to stimulate the economy helped the market
recover from an earlier decline. The  S&P 500 Index  advanced 0.2
percent to 1,405.87 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Treasury
securities  climbed, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year
note down to 1.66 percent from 1.69 percent late yesterday.  Global Slowdown  China ’s export growth collapsed and imports and new  yuan 
loans trailed estimates in July, the country’s customs bureau
reported today. Concern about Europe’s debt crisis also grew as
French industrial output stagnated in June, the latest sign that
the euro area’s second-largest economy may be heading for its
first recession in three years.  An increase in hours worked in the first half of this year
and the drop in fuel costs is what gave U.S consumer buying
power the additional boost, making up for gains in payrolls that
have been too small to reduce unemployment. The jobless rate
climbed to 8.3 percent in July, a five-month high.  Employers took on 896,000 additional workers from January
through June, little changed from the 875,000 gain in the final
six months of 2011. Nonetheless, the average workweek for all
employees increased by 6 minutes in the first half of the year
from the previous six months, which represents 2.6 hours of
extra pay for the six-month period. When spread over the 111
million employees on company payrolls who made $23.39 an hour on
average, that represents an additional $6.75 billion pumped into
the economy.  Inflation Ebbs  Inflation also ebbed. The Commerce Department’s price gauge
tied to  consumer spending  patterns climbed 1.5 percent in the
year ended June after rising 2.6 percent in 2011.  “By most measures, real incomes look better over the past
several months,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist in New
York for Barclays Plc, referring to the inflation-adjusted
figures. “We expect that’ll translate into better consumer
spending as we move through the year.”  Maki and Stanley agree that because they take total
employment gains and the length of the workweek into account,
the Commerce Department’s income numbers are broader, more
significant, measures of the health of the American consumer.
That may help dispel concern raised by Labor Department data
released last week.  Record Low  Hourly earnings  for production workers, or non-management
staff, climbed 1.3 percent on average in the 12 months through
July, the worst performance in figures dating back to 1965, the
Labor Department’s jobs report showed. The increase for all
workers, which has a shorter history, was 1.7 percent, matching
the smallest gain since the series began in 2007.  “It is not as bad as people think,” said UniCredit’s
Bandholz. “Paychecks are doing better than the payrolls numbers
suggest. The slowdown in the labor market hasn’t reduced
purchasing power as much as it seems.”  Labor Department hourly earnings data do have a time
advantage, being the first income measure released each month as
part of the payrolls report. They are at a disadvantage because,
as an average measure, they can be weighed down by increases in
hiring at lower-paying jobs at the expense of higher earners
like construction and factory workers.  “Hourly wage growth is pretty muted but we’re seeing
decent income growth mainly because we’ve had reasonable job
gains and on top of that there’s been some lengthening of the
workweek,” Stanley said.  Adding Shifts  Drew Industries Inc. (DW) , a  White Plains , New York-based
supplier of fixtures and parts such as vinyl doors and ramps for
recreational vehicles, is among companies adding shifts. It
hired 1,000 employees in the last six months to meet demand.  “Typically, we’re running a one-shift operation, or a one-
shift operation of 45 or 50 hours, but we’ve run some secondary
shifts and even some third shifts at some of our plants with the
explosive growth we’ve had,” Jason Lippert, chief executive
officer of Drew’s subsidiaries, Lippert Components and Kinro,
said on a conference call with analysts on Aug. 2.  How workers are faring will take added significance as the
presidential election nears, with President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  each trying to convince voters
their policies will best revive the economy.  Barclays’ Maki, a former Federal Reserve economist, also
likes to track another labor-income proxy -- hourly earnings
multiplied by the total hours worked -- in making short-term
predictions on consumer spending patterns. Longer term, his
money is on total wage-and-salary figures.  “If I had to bet on one month or one quarter, then average
hourly earnings or the payroll proxy might give the best
signal,” Maki said. “But if one wants to look at what’s going
to happen over the next year, I’d tend to lean toward the
broader measure, wages and salaries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  