-- Libya National Congress Names Magariaf Interim President
-- B y   S a l e h   S a r r a r   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-08-10T04:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/libya-national-congress-names-magariaf-interim-president.html
Libya ’s new interim legislature
elected Mohammed Yussef Magariaf, leader of the National Front
Party, as its new president as the country rebuilds after the
overthrow of  Muammar Qaddafi  10 months ago.  Magariaf won 113 votes to 85 votes for Ali Zaidan, an
independent, in a session late yesterday of the General National
Congress. The 200-member legislature also chose a first vice
president and will select a second vice president later today.  Magariaf was a long-time opponent of Qaddafi, who ruled the
north African country for 42 years. He set up the National Front
for the Salvation of Libya in 1981, the oldest Libyan armed
opposition movement, and lived in exile for many years,
according to the  Associated Press .  The National Transitional Council, which took power in
Libya after Qaddafi was ousted and killed in one of the
bloodiest uprisings in the Arab Spring, passed authority to the
Congress in a ceremony in Tripoli yesterday. The legislature is
charged with naming a prime minister and a Cabinet before
parliamentary elections expected to be held in 30 days.  “The National Transitional Council hands over all
constitutional authorities in the country to the interim
legislature, which is considered from this historical moment the
only legitimate representative of the Libyan people,” Mustafa Abdel Jalil, the council’s chairman, said around midnight local
time in a televised address.  Abdel Jalil acknowledged that the council was unable to
meet public expectations for dealing with issues such as
security, refugees and help for those wounded in the revolution.
“We were not able to establish security like we wanted or in
the manner that the Libyan people hoped,” he said.  ‘New Chapter’  The U.S. is prepared to work with Libya, Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said in a statement yesterday. The U.S. had
played a key role in the initial part of the NATO bid to aid the
then-rebels against Qaddafi.  “Less than one year after an entrenched, brutal
dictatorship, the Libyan people are writing a new chapter in
their history,” Clinton said.  The change in Libya has been far from smooth. The lack of a
clear victor in the elections, as well as unrest, moves toward
autonomous rule and the reluctance of militias to disband, have
left the incoming assembly with little flexibility as its
members seek to revive the economy and restore security.  Libyan Achievements  “It’s easy to underestimate what has been achieved in
Libya,” Crispin Hawes, head of the Eurasia Group’s Middle East
program, said by phone from  London . “Yes, there’s been
considerable violence. However, if you go back to October last
year, there was absolutely no guarantee, or anything close to a
guarantee, that you’d be talking about anything called a Libyan
government.”  The NTC has managed to hold a national election and the
country has seen a rebound in external revenue and the oil
industry, he said. Still, “the next phase of this transition is
arguably at least as difficult,” Hawes said.  The new legislature takes over a nation that remains almost
as divided as the one the NTC inherited after the eight-month
rebellion against Qaddafi. A secession bid in the east has been
echoed in the south, where African tribal rivalries have pitted
regional militias against each other, as well as against the
still-weak national army.  New Alliances  Unlike in  Egypt  and  Tunisia , Libya’s Islamists came in a
distant second in the national vote for the new congress, with
the Muslim Brotherhood’s Justice and Construction Party winning
17 of the 80 seats reserved for party blocs. An alliance headed
by Mahmoud Jibril, Libya’s wartime rebel premier, won 39 seats,
falling short of a majority and leaving both groups jostling for
new alliances with the other parties or some of the 120
independents who won individual seats.  The centrist National Front Party won three seats in the
assembly.  Among the names touted in the Libyan media for the
premiership are current Deputy Prime Minister Mustapha
Abushaghur and former wartime Prime Minister Ali Tarhouni.  One of the main tasks facing a new government will be
reducing the economy’s dependency on oil. The  International
Monetary Fund  said in an April  report  that crude had typically
accounted for 70 percent of gross domestic product, more than 95
percent of exports and about 90 percent of government revenue.  Foreign investors have been slow to return to Libya. Oil
and gas companies, which have worked to develop  Africa ’s largest
source of proven crude reserves, have returned with skeleton
crews and lower budgets.  “Most of the companies that have returned thus far have
been in the country’s hydrocarbon sector,” said Jonathan Terry,
a  senior analyst with Maplecroft, a U.K.-based risk consultant.
“Outside the oil sector, where risk margins are tighter, many
companies are still holding out until the 2013 elections take
place before they commit major  capital spending .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Saleh Sarar in Dubai at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  