-- Icahn Petitions Delaware Chancery Court on Forest Data
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-08-10T21:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/icahn-petitions-delaware-court-on-forest-lab-documents.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn 
asked a judge to let him publicize documents obtained from
 Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  as part of a proxy fight over seats on
the drugmaker’s board.  The documents, released to Icahn Aug. 6 by Delaware
Chancery Court Judge  Abigail LeGrow  in Wilmington after a trial,
involve licensing agreements with other drugmakers, the
billionaire said today in a statement. One of the agreements
includes an embedded “poison pill” shareholder-rights plan
that may thwart any potential Forest takeover, Icahn said.  “Forest flatly refuses to let us tell other shareholders
what those agreements say about a change of control,” Icahn
said in the statement. The investing public needs to know about
the agreements before the New York-based drugmaker’s annual
meeting Aug. 15, he said.  Howard Solomon, Forest’s chief executive officer, told
investors in a letter today that Icahn was “twisting facts”
about the licensing agreements.  “We regret that Mr. Icahn is making false and misleading
statements less than a week before our annual meeting in an
egregious and desperate attempt to manipulate the results of the
election,” Solomon said.  Icahn’s petition targeting the agreements was filed under
seal yesterday, according to court dockets.  Poor Management  Icahn, Forest’s second-largest stockholder with 9.9 percent
of shares outstanding as of May 29, seeks to persuade
shareholders to back his board nominees in his second proxy
fight with the company in as many years. Icahn has said he seeks
to remedy poor management at Forest through the proxy contest.  Earlier this month, Institutional Shareholder Services
Inc., a proxy adviser, recommended that Forest shareholders
support two of Icahn’s candidates for the company’s board.  Icahn sued Forest in June seeking access to company records
about the company’s succession plan for its top executive.
Solomon, 84, has been the drugmaker’s CEO for the last 35 years.  Icahn is seeking LeGrow’s permission to use the materials
obtained through his suit as part of his campaign to win
investor support for his board nominees.  “Forest opposes the request,” Gregory Varallo, a
Wilmington, Delaware-based lawyer representing the drugmaker,
said in a letter to the judge today.  Lexapro, an antidepressant, is the company’s top-selling
drug, accounting for almost half of its  revenue  for the year
ended March 31.  The case is High River LP v. Forest Laboratories, CA7663,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ; Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at
   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  