-- Microsoft Said to Hold Facebook Stake as Lockup Expires
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/microsoft-said-to-plan-to-keep-facebook-stake-as-lockup-ends-1-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will probably hang
on to its stock in social-network operator  Facebook Inc. (FB)  after a
ban on share sales expires next week, a person with knowledge of
the company’s plans said.  Microsoft, the largest software maker, views the stake as a
strategic investment reflecting the pair’s aim to combat  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , rather than as a near-term moneymaker, said the person,
who requested anonymity because the plans are private. Microsoft
held 26.2 million Facebook shares, or 1.7 percent, after the
initial public offering, regulatory  filings  show. The stake is
worth $571.9 million.  Some of Facebook’s biggest investors, including Microsoft
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., get the chance to start selling
shares on Aug. 16, after a ban on sales lifts. The stock has
lost 43 percent since the May 17 IPO, and the prospect of
further sales has weighed on the share price. Facebook Chief
Financial Officer  David Ebersman  was meeting with investors in
 New York  yesterday, a person familiar with the matter said, as
the lockup expiration approaches.  “He needs to get out there and tell the story of how he’ll
drive revenue growth,” Victor Anthony, an analyst at Topeka
Capital Markets, said in an interview.  Facebook climbed 3.8 percent to $21.81 at yesterday’s close
in New York, while Microsoft retreated less than 1 percent to
$30.42.  Growth Slowed  Facebook results last month showed that second-quarter
sales growth slowed to 32 percent from 45 percent in the first
quarter. That was the slowest growth on record for the company.  Even before the IPO, concerns over growth began building.
Facebook said in May that sales growth wasn’t keeping pace with
gains in users on mobile. The company didn’t roll out its first
mobile-advertising service until March.  Mark Zuckerberg , Facebook’s chief executive officer, is
taking steps to make more money from mobile ads. During the call
with analysts when the company announced second-quarter results,
he said mobile is a key area of focus for the company. Mobile
users, who make up more than half of the membership, are more
active than counterparts who use only the desktop version.  “Mobile is a huge opportunity for Facebook,” Zuckerberg
said.  Microsoft paid $240 million for its stake in 2007 in an
investment that valued Facebook at $15 billion. The two
companies are collaborating on features that integrate social
information from Facebook into Microsoft’s Bing Web-search
service, a rival of Google’s market-dominating product.  Tony Imperati, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft declined to comment, as did Ashley Zandy, a
spokeswoman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook .  Ebersman’s meetings were previously reported by CNBC.  -- Editors: Reed Stevenson, Stephen West  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  