-- Imperial Oil Imports Help Fuel Record Machinery Imports
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-08-10T14:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/imperial-oil-imports-help-fuel-record-machinery-imports.html
An hour north of Fort McMurray,
 Alberta ,  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  crews are assembling equipment
shipped across the Pacific Ocean from  South Korea  for one of
 Canada ’s largest construction projects. Government figures show
other companies are following Imperial’s lead.  Imports of machinery and equipment, a gauge of business
investment, jumped 3.2 percent to a record $11.2 billion in
June,  Statistics Canada   reported  yesterday, up from average
growth of 0.1 percent the previous seven months.  The import data comes as companies such as  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) 
and Imperial, which is building an C$8.9 billion dollar ($9
billion)  oil-sands  operation near Fort McMurray, 755 kilometers
(470 miles) northeast of Calgary, report higher capital
expenditures in the second quarter. The figures indicate
Canadian businesses may be regaining their appetite for spending
as policy makers try to rein in household borrowing.  The import data are “tentatively suggesting maybe the
slowdown we got earlier this year was just that, a temporary
slowdown,”  Mark Chandler , fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank
Capital Markets in Toronto, said by phone. “We’re helped a
little bit by the improvement in  oil prices  and a little bit
better equity prices.”  Business investment grew an average 1 percent in the three
quarters through March, after rising at an average quarterly
pace of 3 percent following the 2009 recession.  Prices Drop  Falling commodity prices and global financial uncertainty
stemming from the  European debt crisis  had kept companies from
spending, one of the reasons  Mark Carney , governor of the Bank
of Canada, cut his growth forecasts for the economy last month.  Average commodity prices have dropped 3.9 percent from the
start of the year and 15 percent from a post-recession peak in
April 2011, according to Bank of Canada data. Recent gains
though, with prices up 11 percent since June 27, may be spurring
a revival.  Imperial, which said July 26 its  second-quarter  profit
declined 13 percent as crude prices fell, increased its  capital
expenditures  41 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier. The company, which is 70 percent owned by Irving,
Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , spent C$2.48 billion in the first
half at its Kearl bitumen project. Some of that was spent on
pipe, heat-valve and monitoring equipment modules from South
Korea that will help the company produce 110,000 barrels a day
of oil once the project begins operations later this year.  The company chose Korean suppliers several years ago when
surging construction demand in the oil sands limited the
capacity of Canadian contractors, said spokesman Pius Rolheiser.  Imperial was little changed at C$44.67 at 10:38 a.m. and
has advanced 11.6 percent since touching a 2012-low on June 4.  Biggest Spender  Crescent Point Energy Corp. (CPG) , had the fastest one-year
 capital spending  growth among Canadian companies with a market
value of at least C$10 billion, excluding financials, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg News. The Calgary-based company
spends about 85 percent of its total expenditure on drilling and
development, said Kellie D’Hondt, a spokeswoman for the company
in a phone interview. The company mainly uses external drilling
crews and needs to spend about C$600 million a year on drilling
to maintain production levels, she said.  Average capital spending measured over 12 months by
companies on Canada’s S&P/TSX Composite Index that have reported
results in the current earnings season rose 6.8 percent during
the second quarter to C$716 million. That’s up from 2.4 percent
growth in the first quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To be sure, businesses have let up since 2010, when monthly
growth in machinery and equipment imports averaged 1.2 percent
growth, the fastest pace since 1997.  Consumer Risk  The  Bank of Canada  estimates business investment will add
0.5 percentage points to growth this year, down from 1.4
percentage points in 2011. The central bank expects an expansion
of 2.1 percent in 2012, down from 2.4 percent last year.  “There was more overall machinery and equipment purchases
in 2010 and businesses have really been steadily buying the
stuff for the past three years,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto  Canada has relied on consumers to drive its expansion
because, unlike Canada’s three previous recessions, trade has
remained a drag on growth. That driver of growth, though, has
created new risks for the Canadian economy with  household debt 
rising to the highest on record. Policy makers have been
clamping down on the housing market, and encouraging businesses
to ramp up investments.  Capital Flows  Carney, in an interview Aug. 8 with CTV television, said
that investors have begun to see Canada as a safe haven and the
country needs to put more of the capital flowing into the
country into productive uses rather than housing.  “Our challenge as a country is how do we use that capital
that comes in,” Carney said in the interview. “We can use it
to grow our economy, invest it in new productive assets and
industries, or we can build houses. Our view is we should do the
former.”  Statistics Canada reported yesterday that imports of
industrial and agriculture machinery jumped 5.9 percent in June,
the fastest pace in a year. Purchases of drilling machinery for
mining rose 9.9 percent, while excavating machinery rose 7.4
percent. According to Bloomberg calculations, since the early
1980s, movements in the monthly imports of capital goods have
correctly predicted the direction of change in quarterly
investment in machinery and equipment over 80 percent of the
time.  “At least relative to the last couple of quarters that
have been quite weak for business investment, this is moving in
the right direction,” said  David Tulk , chief Canada strategist
for TD Securities in Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  