-- Import Prices in U.S. Unexpectedly Fell in July for Fourth Month
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-08-10T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/import-prices-in-u-s-unexpectedly-fell-in-july-for-fourth-month.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. unexpectedly fell in July for a fourth consecutive month,
reflecting lower costs for fuel and food.  The 0.6 percent drop in the import-price  index  followed a
2.4 percent decline in June, the Labor Department reported today
in  Washington . Economists projected the July gauge would rise
0.2 percent, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey. Costs excluding fuel decreased 0.4 percent, the biggest
decline in two years.  American companies and consumers may continue to see
limited cost pressures abroad as the slowing global economy
reduces demand for raw materials. A stronger dollar also affords
U.S. businesses the room to hold the line on prices, allowing
the  Federal Reserve  to keep  interest rates  near zero.  “I don’t think there’s much underlying, non-petroleum
price inflation,” Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. in  New York , said before today’s report.
“With the global slowdown, you’re going to see some discounting
of product.” Ricchiuto predicted a 0.2 percent decline in
import prices.  Projections for July import prices ranged from a decrease
of 1 percent to an increase of 1.8 percent, according to the
Bloomberg survey of 44 economists.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Producer prices are due Aug.
14, and the consumer-price index on the following day.  Fuel Costs  The cost of imported petroleum products decreased 1.6
percent in July from the prior month and was down 12 percent
from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month decrease since
September 2009.  Imported food and beverages were 1.2 percent less expensive
last month, today’s report showed.  The decrease in the cost of food from overseas may help to
offset building pressures in the U.S., where a drought in the
Midwest has started to affect some food prices, driving up corn
and limiting the cost of beef. More expensive corn feed has
ranchers sending more of their cattle to market, which means a
smaller herd and higher prices early next year.  “Longer-term, we expect demand for beef will rebound
causing cost to increase, while herd rebuilding will take
several years,” Stephen Hare, chief financial officer of
 Wendy’s Co. (WEN) , a fast-food retailer based in Dublin,  Ohio , said on
an Aug. 9 earnings call. “This drought will have an impact.”  Stronger Dollar  At the same time, the  dollar  has increased in value since
the end of January as concerns about  Europe ’s debt crisis drove
investors to the safety of the greenback, making foreign goods
cheaper. It has climbed 2.2 percent since Jan. 31 through
yesterday against a trade-weighted basket of currencies from its
biggest trading partners, according to Fed data.  Prices for imported automobiles and parts rose 0.4 percent
after 0.1 percent decreases in the prior two months, today’s
report showed. The cost of imported capital goods fell 0.1
percent from the previous month.  The cost of imported goods from  China  decreased 0.2 percent
in July and was up 0.8 percent over the past 12 months.  Imported goods from  Japan  were little changed, while the
cost of goods from the European Union dropped 0.1 percent. Goods
from  Mexico  decreased 0.4 percent.  U.S. export prices climbed 0.5 percent in July, today’s
report showed, after falling 1.7 percent the previous month.
Prices of farm exports climbed 6.4 percent and those of non-farm
goods decreased 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  