-- Indian Bonds Set for Best Weekly Gain Since June on Deficit Plan
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-08-10T04:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/indian-bonds-set-for-best-weekly-gain-since-june-on-deficit-plan.html
India ’s bonds were set for the
biggest weekly gain since June on optimism the government will
take steps to rein in the fiscal deficit and boost growth.  Palaniappan Chidambaram, who took over as finance minister
on July 31, said this week the nation’s interest  rates  are
“high.” Fiscal and monetary policies must “move in tandem”
and the government will work with the  Reserve Bank  of India to
curb price increases, he said. The minister’s statement has
triggered speculation the government will tighten finances,
which may also prompt the central bank to lower borrowing costs,
according to Srinivasa Raghavan, vice president of treasury at
Dhanalaxmi Bank Ltd.  “The bond rally will continue next week on expectations of
a rate cut,” said Mumbai-based Raghavan. “The economy’s
performance is pretty weak.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 fell 10
basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, this week to 8.15
percent as of 9:45 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central
bank’s trading system. That was the biggest decline since the
period ended June 15. The yield rose one basis point today.  India’s factory  output  contracted 1.8 percent in June from
a year earlier, after a revised 2.5 percent gain the previous
month, the  Central Statistical Office  said yesterday. The median
estimate of 27 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.4 percent increase.  Deficit Target  India plans to cut the budget  deficit  to 5.1 percent of
gross domestic product in the year to March 2013, from 5.8
percent in the previous 12 months, according to official
estimates.  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left the repurchase
rate unchanged at 8 percent at a policy review on July 31. The
 benchmark  rate was last cut by 50 basis points in April. At a
review last month, Subbarao reduced the economic-growth forecast
to 6.5 percent for the current fiscal year, from an earlier
prediction of 7.3 percent. The economy expanded 6.5 percent in
the 12 months through March.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell two basis
points this week and today to 7.74 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  