-- Innovation City Seeks to Lure London Start-Ups to Olympic Sites
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-08-10T11:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/innovation-city-seeks-to-lure-london-start-ups-to-olympic-sites.html
Infinity SDC Ltd.’s Innovation City
affiliate is trying to lure tenants to offices built for the
2012 Olympics and away from London’s Soho and Shoreditch areas
as competition for commercial occupants heats up.  Innovation City, a  data-center  venture between closely held
Infinity and developer Delancey Estates Plc, plans to turn the
Main Press Centre and International Broadcast Centre at the
Olympic Park in east London into about 1 million square feet
(93,000 square meters) of office space after the games. It plans
to lease the facilities to technology companies and to add a
data center after being chosen for the task last month.  “The rents that we can charge are quite low,” Innovation
City Chief Executive Officer  Gavin Poole  said in an interview.
“If you look at some of the discussions and some of the reports
coming out, particularly around the Shoreditch area and Soho
area, the cost of office space has gone astronomical.”  U.K. commercial real estate values fell for the seventh
straight month in May and have stagnated during the past two
years as Britain’s economy weakened, Investment Property
Databank Ltd. said in June. The average value of stores, offices
and warehouses declined 0.5 percent from April, IPD said. Total
return, which combines changes in real-estate values and rental
income, was zero for May, compared with 0.2 percent in April.  The media centers in  London ’s Stratford neighborhood are
accommodating 20,000 journalists during the Olympics. The
Broadcast Centre will have 95,000 square feet of offices and
575,000 square feet of commercial space available after the
games. The Press Centre will have almost 317,000 square feet of
offices. Around 47 percent of the space has been pre-rented and
Innovation City may add 500,000 square feet of offices,
according to Poole.  The commercial rents begin at 15 pounds ($23) a square foot
and can be as much as 35 pounds a square foot, Poole said.
Monthly rents for prime offices in London’s West End averaged
92.50 pounds a square foot last year, broker Knight Frank LLP
said in a March report.  Infinity SDC, a  Milton Keynes , England-based data center
operator, has investment from Rothschild Investment Trust and
Lansdowne Partners, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 