-- J.C. Penney Rises After CEO Says Overhaul Is ‘On Track’
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-08-10T20:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/j-c-penney-loss-is-larger-than-estimated.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  rose the most in
more than six months after Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson 
said his overhaul of the department-store chain is “on track”
amid quarterly losses and plunging sales.  J.C. Penney climbed 5.9 percent to $23.40 at the close in
New York, the biggest one-day gain since Jan. 26. Before
Johnson’s remarks, the shares dropped as much as 12 percent as
the company posted a $147 million second-quarter loss and said
it wouldn’t meet its profit forecast for the year.  Johnson, the former  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  retail chief who joined as
CEO in November, is tweaking his pricing strategy after the
previous plan confused customers by reducing sales events and
coupons. Second-quarter revenue slid 23 percent to $3.02
billion, the company said today. That trailed analysts’ $3.18
billion average estimate for the  lowest  quarterly sales since at
least 1989, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m completely convinced that our transformation is on
track,” Johnson told analysts and investors at a presentation
today in  New York . When unveiling plans for the overhaul in
January, “we said this would be a really tough year. Somehow, I
don’t think that message got through.”  Annual Forecast  On Jan. 26, the company said profit excluding some items
would meet or exceed $2.16 a share this year on Johnson’s
turnaround plan. The forecast topped analysts’ estimates and
sent the shares surging the most since at least 1980 that day.
Today, the company said it no longer expects to meet that
forecast, which was reiterated in May, and didn’t provide a new
projection, saying it will plan for similar trends as the past
two quarters.  Investors and analysts had high expectations after the Jan.
26 presentation as Johnson said the retailer wouldn’t provide
the annual forecast if it didn’t have “extraordinary confidence
we could meet or exceed.” Chief Operating Officer Mike Kramer
said in the same presentation the management team is “not going
to commit to anything that we’re not confident we can hit.”  The fiscal second-quarter net loss of 67 cents a share
compares with net income of $14 million, or 7 cents, a year
earlier, the Plano, Texas-based company said in a statement.
Excluding some items, the loss was 37 cents a share. The average
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 14-
cent loss.  Outlet Exit  Part of the sales decline was due to the retailer exiting
its outlet business, J.C. Penney said. Sales also were hurt by a
cut in marketing in July as the company adjusted its pricing
strategy and outlined its back-to-school shopping strategy, J.C.
Penney said.  Comparable-store sales fell 22 percent in the quarter while
 Internet sales  plummeted 33 percent to $220 million.  The stock started to rise after Johnson’s presentation
based on his conviction in the new store model and willingness
to make changes, said Steven Kiel, the founder of Annandale,
Virginia-based Arquitos Capital Management LLC, which holds J.C.
Penney shares.  “They have plenty of cash, there’s no reason why they
don’t have six to nine months to a year to actually see all of
this working,” Kiel said in a telephone interview.  J.C. Penney is switching to a two-tiered pricing system of
everyday low prices and clearance items and has said it would
promote price matching for the first time. The previous strategy
had three tiers, consisting of regular prices, monthlong sales
on seasonal items and two “best prices” promotions each month,
which Johnson said today was confusing.  Alienated Customers  The company is changing its marketing to focus more on the
value it’s offering to regain alienated customers and will air
new television advertisements in September, Johnson said in
today’s presentation. Johnson last week explained the new
pricing in an e-mail to 17 million customers that he said had
the highest open rate of any e-mail J.C. Penney has sent.  This month, J.C. Penney’s salons are giving away at least 1
million haircuts, which normally cost $14 each, and the retailer
started to implement its new store-within-store layout, he said.
Johnson said he is “encouraged” by the start of the back-to-
school shopping season, with August traffic down only 7 percent
and sales 2 percent better than in the spring.  The company’s  gross margin  narrowed to 33.2 percent from
38.3 percent a year earlier as J.C. Penney recorded $102 million
of markdowns to clear inventory for the back-to-school season,
including exiting brands it will no longer carry.  Cash Position  J.C. Penney said it will end the fiscal year with more than
$1 billion of  cash  following $800 million of  capital spending  to
support the transformation and repaying $230 million of debt due
this month. Chief Financial Officer Ken Hannah said the company
also has a $1.5 billion asset-backed line of bank credit that it
doesn’t plan to tap this year and may sell non-core assets to
boost its cash position.  “I want you to understand how strong our balance sheet
is,” Hannah said in the presentation with Johnson today. “Our
liquidity allows us to fund this transformation out of our
current operations.”  Today’s share gain may have been fueled by short-sellers
seeking to cover their positions after management emphasized
J.C. Penney’s strong balance sheet, Erika Maschmeyer, an analyst
with Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Chicago , wrote in a note.  Potential bankruptcy “has been a concern cited by shorts
given several S&P credit downgrades and a recent sale of non-
core assets,” she wrote.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the
retailer’s credit grade last month with a “negative” outlook,
before the company raised $248 million by selling stock in a
unit of  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG)   Short-Sellers  Short-sellers borrow stock and sell it, then attempt to
profit by repurchasing the securities at a lower price and
returning them to the holder.  “They really emphasized their strong free cash flow
situation and liquidity,”  Liz Dunn , a New York-based analyst at
Macquarie Group with an outperform rating on the stock, said in
a telephone interview. “There have been a lot of rumors
floating around about their liquidity and whether or not they
could weather this sales downturn, and I think they really put a
lot of those criticisms to rest with today’s meeting.”  Johnson said in January that his overhaul of the 110-year-
old retailer will take four years and reiterated today that such
changes are “not a sprint.”  By the 2013 holiday season, J.C. Penney aims to have 40
store-within-stores. The plan ultimately calls for 100 of the
shops, which will match the number of stand-alone specialty
retail stores in many malls, Johnson said.  Executive Team  Johnson said he’s creating a new category of department
store that’s different from competitors such as Macy’s Inc. and
 Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  called a “specialty department store.”  The CEO has revamped the company’s executive team, mainly
with former colleagues from Apple and  Target Corp. (TGT) , where he
helped develop the chain’s “cheap chic” persona. He also has
announced more than 1,000 job cuts to reduce expenses and last
month said 350 positions would be cut at the company’s
headquarters.  The retailer said in June that then-President  Michael Francis , the former Target marketing chief whom J.C. Penney
hired in October, was leaving and didn’t give a reason for the
exit. Johnson said at the time that he would take over marketing
and merchandising efforts.  J.C. Penney has declined 33 percent this year through the
close today, compared with a 62 percent gain at  Sears Holdings
Corp. (SHLD) , an 18 percent advance at Macy’s and a 3.3 percent
increase at Kohl’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  