-- Janus Strikes Dai-Ichi Deal Looking to Stem Redemptions
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-08-10T20:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/janus-strikes-dai-ichi-deal-looking-to-stem-redemptions.html
Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , the fund
company struggling to reverse 12 quarters of investor
redemptions, lined up support from  Japan ’s second-largest life
insurer, sending its shares up the most in two years.  Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. (8750) , based in  Tokyo , will buy a
stake of as much as 20 percent in Denver-based Janus, owner of
the Janus, Intech and Perkins funds, and plans to take a seat on
the firm’s board of directors, according to a statement today.
The life insurer will also invest $2 billion into Janus funds
and help distribute them in Japan. Janus rose 10 percent to
$8.46, the biggest gain since July 2010.  “We think this is an undervalued asset and it may be a
chance to get in at a good time,” Macrae Sykes, an analyst for
Rye, New York-based Gabelli & Co., said today in a telephone
interview. Sykes, who has a buy recommendation on the stock,
expects Janus to use some of the money to create new products.  Janus Chief Executive Officer Richard M. Weil, a former
executive at Pacific Investment Management Co., the bond-fund
manager co-founded by  Bill Gross  and now owned by German insurer
 Allianz SE (ALV) , is partnering with Dai-Ichi Life as falling markets
and client withdrawals erode assets and the fees charge for
overseeing them. Janus lost 47 percent of its market value over
the past three years through Aug. 9.  ‘Sizable’ Redemptions  “The fundamental story for Janus’ core equity business
remains the same,”   Michael Kim , an analyst with Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York , said today. “They are still
dealing with sizeable redemptions and performance is an issue,”
said Kim, who has a sell rating on the stock.  Janus announced the deal a day after Los Angeles-based TCW
Group Inc. ended 11 years under the ownership of Societe
Generale SA,  France ’s second-largest bank, through a buyout led
by  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  that will give management a 40 percent
stake.  Weil said he had been talking to Dai-ichi about a
relationship since he first came to Janus in 2010. The deal, he
said, will help Janus’s efforts to diversify, both
internationally and in its lineup of products. A “significant
portion” of the money Dai-ichi invests with Janus will be in
fixed-income, he said.  “We are a high beta stock with a large exposure to
equities,” Weil said in an interview. “Moderating that will
make us a stronger company. Fixed income is too small a part of
our business.”  Shares Rise  Before today, Janus had risen 22 percent this year,
compared with an 11 percent increase in Standard & Poor’s 20
member index of asset managers and custody banks.  “Janus is a powerful franchise in the largest asset
management market in the world,” said Hideto Masaki,
representative director and deputy president of Dai-ichi Life.
“We are confident in Janus’ quality and leadership, and we are
very pleased to acquire a substantial stake in the future growth
of the firm at a level that we believe offers significant
upside.”  The purchase is Dai-ichi Life’s first overseas acquisition
in asset management. The Japanese insurer plans to purchase
between 15 percent to 20 percent of Janus stock within one year
on the open market and potentially through options issued by
Janus, according to the statement.  Dai-ichi Life, which agreed to buy Tower Australia Group
Ltd. for A$1.2 billion ($1.3 billion) in December 2010, has
existing life insurance businesses covering four countries.  Shares of Dai-ichi Life rose 1.1 percent to 80,900 yen at
the close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange today before the statement
was released. The stock has advanced 8.3 percent this year,
outperforming the 4.3 percent gain by the six-member Topix
Insurance Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  