-- Japan Ratifies First Sales-Tax Increase Since 1997 in Noda Win
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-08-10T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/japan-passes-first-sales-tax-rise-since-1997-in-win-for-noda-1-.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  won parliamentary approval for his bill to raise the
country’s sales tax for the first time in 15 years, a move that
split his ruling party and weakened its election prospects.  The opposition-controlled upper house yesterday ratified
legislation to double the five percent  tax  by 2015 after Noda
this week reaffirmed a deal with two opposition parties,
pledging in return to call elections “soon.” The lower house
passed the bill in June, causing more than 50 ruling  Democratic
Party  of  Japan  legislators to leave.  “It is important to take the opportunity to start to
improve the fiscal situation,” Noda said at a televised press
conference in Tokyo. “I want the people to understand this.”  Noda made raising the levy the center of his legislative
agenda, saying it was essential to rein in Japan’s record debt
and pay for soaring welfare costs even as public opposition
mounted. The main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  is seeking
early elections to capitalize on the falling popularity of the
prime minister, Japan’s sixth leader in as many years.  “Getting this controversial bill, a major legislative
accomplishment, through a hung parliament should burnish Noda’s
credentials,” said  Jeff Kingston , head of Asian studies at the
Tokyo campus of  Temple University  in Philadelphia. “Still, he
has lots of problems and one of them is he doesn’t appear to
listen to popular opinion.”  The bill raises the tax to 8 percent in April 2014 and to
10 percent in 2015, and a clause allows for implementation to be
canceled based on an assessment of economic conditions. The last
sales tax increase in 1997 contributed to pushing the economy
into a 20-month recession, costing then-premier Ryutaro
Hashimoto his job.  Yields Fall  Yields on Japanese government  bonds  yesterday fell half a
basis point to 0.795 percent today after rising to a one-month
high of 0.81 percent on Aug. 7 on concerns the bill might fail.  Even with the sales tax increase, the government said in
January that it will probably miss its goal of achieving a
primary balance surplus, which excludes debt servicing costs, by
fiscal 2020. It forecast a primary deficit of between 1.9
percent and 3.1 percent of gross domestic product in that year,
compared with the fiscal 2011 deficit of 7.4 percent.  “A sales tax rate of 10 percent is nothing close to
sufficient,” said  Takahira Ogawa , a Singapore-based director of
sovereign ratings at Standard and Poor’s. S&P downgraded Japan’s
credit rating to the fourth-highest grade of AA- in January
2011, and cut the outlook to “negative” three months later.  The  International Monetary Fund  and the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development have both urged Japan to be
more aggressive in tackling a debt that the OECD predicts will
reach 223 percent of GDP next year.  Tanigaki Failure  LDP leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  failed in an attempt this week
to force Noda to specify a date for an early general election in
exchange for support of the tax bill. Noda, who faces re-
election as the head of his party of Sept. 21, agreed only that
he would call an election “soon,” which analysts including
Kingston said is unlikely until December. Elections must be
called by August 2013.  While Noda has fallen in opinion polls over the bill and
opposition to the re-starting of nuclear plants following last
last year’s Fukushima disaster, the LDP has failed to increase
voter enthusiasm for its policies.  In a survey published in the Asahi newspaper on Aug. 6,
Noda’s support rate fell to 22 percent from 25 percent the
previous month, which is the lowest since he took power in
September last year. Support for the DPJ and the LDP was tied at
13 percent.  About 48 percent of respondents said they opposed the sales
tax bill, while 42 percent said they supported it. The Asahi
surveyed 1,540 people on Aug. 4-5 and provided no margin of
error.  “Voters are going to have to hold their nose and vote for
what seems to be the least bad option,” Kingston said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  