-- Asia Bonds Pause After $1.9 Billion of Sales, Debt Risk Steadies
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-08-10T03:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/japan-corporate-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Borrowers from the Asia-Pacific
region sold the least U.S. dollar-denominated debt in five weeks
as companies paused offerings to report earnings results. Bond
risk in Asia held at the lowest since March.  Sales declined 12 percent from a week earlier as China
Petrochemical Corp.,  Sound Global Ltd. (SGL)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
raised $1.9 billion on Aug. 6, with no issuance after the first
day of the week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
gauge of bond insurance costs in Asia was little changed today
at the least since March 19, according to Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices and historical data from CMA.  More than 150 companies in the  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  index have
announced quarterly results this month, with businesses
reporting aggregate sales growth of 7.5 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Market activity has been reduced as
investors break for the London Olympics and a Singapore public
holiday on Aug. 9, according to  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)   “Regional supply will really ramp up in September once
earnings season is over,” said Mark Reade, a credit desk
analyst at  Credit Agricole . “With the Olympics about to end in
Europe and Singapore back on deck post National Day, we should
start to see issuance pick up as investors return to the office.
We anticipate a busy second half.”  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia  index  of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 146.5 basis points
as of 8:36 a.m. in Singapore, RBS prices show. The index fell
yesterday to its lowest since March 19, according to CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia  index  was also little changed
at 157 basis points as of 11:01 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac prices
show. The gauge closed yesterday at its lowest since May 2,
according to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan   index  decreased 2 basis points to
185 basis points as of 9:21 a.m. in Tokyo, Deutsche Bank AG
prices show. The measure has fallen 19 basis points since Aug.
7, its biggest two-day drop since May 28, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  