-- JPMorgan, Citi Units Sued by FDIC Over Colonial Sales
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/jpmorgan-citi-units-sued-by-fdic-over-colonial-sales.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  were among the banks sued by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. over $388 million in securities sold to  Colonial Bank .  The FDIC alleged that the banks misrepresented the quality
of the loans underlying residential mortgage-backed securities
that Colonial purchased, according to a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  The misrepresentations included inaccurate loan-to-value
ratios based on inflated property values, according to the
filing. Also, many of the properties at issue had second
mortgages that weren’t disclosed, the FDIC said.  “In many cases, the amount of the undisclosed additional
liens was much greater than the owners’ ostensible equity,
putting the owner ’under water’ on the day on which this
securitization closed,” the FDIC said in the complaint, filed
by attorneys David J. Grais, Mark B. Holton, Leanne M. Wilson
and Maria Heifetz.  Colonial Bank, of Montgomery,  Alabama , was closed by the
Alabama State Banking Department on Aug. 14, 2009, and the FDIC
was named as a receiver for the institution, according to the
FDIC’s website.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
spokeswoman didn’t immediately return a call yesterday seeking
comment on the complaint.  The case is Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. as receiver for
Colonial Bank v. Chase Mortgage Finance Corp, 12-cv-06166, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  