-- JPMorgan Expanded Inquiry, Google, Nomura Ads: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-10T12:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/jpmorgan-expanded-inquiry-google-nomura-ads-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is being
investigated by at least 11 state, federal and international
enforcement bodies as the bank struggles to contain damage from
a botched derivatives trade that cost it at least $5.8 billion.  Authorities in Singapore, Germany and Japan have joined the
list of agencies probing the largest U.S. bank’s trading errors,
the company said in a regulatory filing yesterday. The U.S.
Justice Department, Congress, Securities and Exchange Commission
and U.K. Financial Services Authority are among those examining
the bank, which could still lose as much as $1.7 billion more on
its credit derivatives portfolio, the company said. The bungled
trade may also make it more difficult to resolve other pending
reviews, the company said.  “The firm expects heightened scrutiny by its regulators of
its compliance with new and existing regulations,” the company
said. Regulators will more frequently bring “formal enforcement
actions for violations of law rather than resolving those
violations through informal supervisory processes.”  The bank reiterated it found “material weakness” within
its internal controls and financial reporting related to the
trade and, as a result, its initial first-quarter results
couldn’t be relied on.  Eight civil lawsuits have already been filed since the bank
initially disclosed problems in its synthetic credit derivatives
book on May 10, the bank said. The Justice Department and SEC
are also among agencies investigating the bank’s possible role
in an international bid-rigging scheme to manipulate the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, the bank said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Online Investors May Gain Protections From U.S. Muni Regulator  U.S. financial regulators, responding to the growth in
trading securities over the Internet, want to bolster
protections for investors buying municipal bonds through online
brokers.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which drafts
regulations for the $3.7 trillion state-and-local bond market,
said yesterday said it may place new requirements on online
brokers, such as collecting information about investors, sending
out educational material and drawing up procedures for meeting
their obligations -- including those aimed at preventing
overcharging.  The municipal market is dominated by individuals seeking
tax breaks or safety of bonds sold by state and local
governments, which rarely default. Other bonds also backed by
specific revenue, including parking garage tickets or levies on
new housing developments, pose more risks to investors.  The board said the new rules would help individual
investors trading online understand the features and risks of
municipal securities.  State Street Urges Futures Client Account Change After MF Global  U.S. futures regulators seeking to bolster protection of
customer funds after the collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  and
Peregrine Financial Group Inc. should allow clients to put
collateral in separate accounts at custody banks, according to
representatives of  State Street Corp. (STT)   The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  should revoke
a policy enacted in 2005 that banned futures customers from
using the accounts, State Street, the third largest custody
bank, said in a presentation prepared for a discussion in
Washington on possible new regulations. The agency should allow
for so-called tri-party custody accounts between clients,
brokers and custody banks, according to the presentation.  Allowing such accounts “would help protect customer margin
monies from misuse or fraud by the futures broker, without
impacting the clearinghouses’ access to necessary funds,”
Charley Cooper, senior managing director of State Street Global
Markets, said in a statement yesterday before the discussion. In
tri-party accounts, futures brokers substitute their own
collateral to fully fund the clearinghouse while client money
remains at the custody bank.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  SMBC Nikko Ordered to Improve Compliance After Banker Charged  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ’s investment banking
unit was ordered to improve operations by Japan’s financial
regulator after a former banker was indicted for securities
violations.  The  Financial Services Agency  told  SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc.  to report on how it will bolster compliance by Aug. 17, the
regulator said in a statement in Tokyo today. The firm lacked
controls to monitor the executive’s actions during the time he
allegedly breached securities laws, according to the FSA.  The order is the second for Tokyo-based SMBC Nikko in four
months after it was told to beef up internal controls in April
following tips staff gave to clients on a public stock offering.
Japanese authorities are cracking down on insider trading after
leaks at brokerages including  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  eroded
confidence in the nation’s capital markets.  Former SMBC Nikko executive Hiroyoshi Yoshioka and another
individual were charged with violating the financial instruments
and exchange law on July 15, said a Yokohama district court
official, asking to speak anonymously in accordance with the
court’s policy. Japan’s banking watchdog earlier recommended
they be indicted for conspiring to buy shares of a company with
insider knowledge that it was a takeover target.  SMBC Nikko said this week it will cut President Eiji
Watanabe’s salary by 30 percent for four months in the wake of
the latest probe. The company will increase employees’ liability
for breaching compliance rules and boost monitoring of
communication between staff and clients, SMBC Nikko said.  “We apologize for causing significant trouble to clients
and stakeholders,” the firm said in a statement today. “We
will carry out the improvement measures announced.”  Standard Chartered Fitness Key Shutdown Grounds in N.Y. Law  New York’s financial-services regulator has grounds to shut
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  in the state even if he accepts the
firm’s argument that it illegally laundered only a fraction of
the $250 billion he claims.  As the state’s top banking regulator,  Benjamin Lawsky  has
power to act in his discretion against any financial institution
he deems untrustworthy, according to the charter of his year-old
department.  Penalties he could impose include fines and the revocation
of the bank’s license to operate in the state. Lawsky is said to
be considering a settlement figure as high as $700 million,
according to person familiar with the case. That would match the
amount HSBC Holdings Plc set aside last month to resolve
allegations of similar behavior.  Since the Aug. 6 issuance of  an order  from Lawsky’s
Department of Financial Services threatened to revoke Standard
Chartered’s license, the bank has focused its defense on the
amount it laundered, saying it involved less than 1 percent of
the 60,000 Iranian wire transfers asserted by Lawsky.  Even if  Standard Chartered ’s position is legally sound, the
order’s disclosure of internal e-mails suggesting a conspiracy
to hide the identity of Iranian clients from regulators has
given Lawsky grounds to act when the two sides face off at an
administrative hearing Aug. 15, according to experts on both
sides of the Atlantic.  For more, click here.  Google Agrees to Pay $22.5 Million for Apple Browser Breach  Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed to pay a record $22.5 million to settle
allegations by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission that it
breached  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Safari Internet browser.  The fine, the largest ever the FTC has levied against a
company, represents the first by the agency for a violation of
Internet privacy as the agency steps up enforcement of
consumers’ online rights.  The FTC alleged that  Mountain View , California-based Google
deceived consumers and violated terms of a consent decree signed
with the commission last year when it planted so-called cookies
on Safari, bypassing Apple software’s privacy settings, to track
users’ Internet browsing behavior.  Google has drawn regulatory scrutiny and pressure from
consumer advocates for the way it handles personal information.
The operator of the world’s largest search engine signed a
consent decree with the FTC last year to settle allegations that
it used deceptive tactics and violated its own privacy policies
in introducing the Buzz social-networking service in 2010.  Nagai Vows to Put Insider Scandal Behind Nomura in Newspaper Ads  Nomura Holdings Inc. Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai
pledged in newspaper advertisements to avoid a repeat of the
leaks that led Japan’s biggest brokerage to lose underwriting
deals and cost his predecessor his job.  “Nomura will make efforts to prevent a recurrence and to
strengthen internal controls further by carrying out improvement
measures thoroughly,” Nagai said in the advertisement published
in nine major Japanese newspapers this morning. “We will seek
to restore confidence by working together.”  Nagai took office on Aug. 1 after Kenichi Watanabe resigned
to take responsibility for failing to prevent employees from
giving tips to traders on share sales the firm managed in 2010.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. were among 12
securities firms operating in Japan that this week pledged to
improve how they guard client information.  “We take this matter seriously and the entire firm is
working to regain the trust of the public,” said Keiko Sugai, a
spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Nomura.  Nomura submitted a report to the  Financial Services Agency 
yesterday showing its progress on improving compliance, two days
before the deadline. The regulator penalized domestic brokerage
unit Nomura Securities Co. on Aug. 3.  Goldman Says SEC Closed Probe of Firm After Threatening Case  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said U.S. regulators ended an
investigation of its role in selling $1.3 billion of mortgage-
backed securities and won’t sue the firm, reversing course after
investigators warned in February that they intended to recommend
legal action.  Securities and Exchange Commission lawyers told Goldman
Sachs on Aug. 6 that they no longer planned to pursue claims
against the bank, the New York-based company said yesterday in a
regulatory  filing . The regulator had sent Goldman Sachs a so-
called Wells notice in February, which typically gives
recipients a chance to dissuade investigators from recommending
the agency authorize enforcement action.  The SEC’s investigation looked at disclosures during the
late-2006 offering of subprime residential mortgage-backed
securities underwritten by Goldman Sachs, according to the
firm’s filing. It didn’t elaborate on the SEC’s decisions.  David
Wells , a spokesman for the firm, declined to comment on the
filing.  EADS Unit Probed by U.K. Prosecutors Over Saudi Bribery Claims  A  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  unit in Britain
is being probed by U.K. prosecutors over allegations it paid
bribes to win a telecommunications deal with Saudi Arabia’s
royal family.  The investigation involves suspected payments to Saudi
officials from EADS’s GPT Special Project Management unit,  David
Jones , a spokesman for the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office in
London, said yesterday in a phone interview.  The contract was valued at 2 billion pounds ($3.13
billion), the Telegraph newspaper reported in May 2011, citing
statements to investigators by a former GPT employee.  “Certain allegations have been made and these are being
properly addressed with our full and constructive engagement,”
an EADS spokesman, who declined to be cited by name, said in a
statement.  Leoni, Wire Harness Makers Probed by EU Over Antitrust Cartels  Leoni AG and other makers of automotive wire harnesses are
being probed by the European Union for possible collusion in
multiple cartels.  The wiring unit of German wire and cable-maker Leoni is
cooperating with the European Commission, the company said
yesterday. The antitrust investigation, announced by the
regulator, is part of a crackdown on price fixing in the auto-
parts industry. The commission didn’t name the companies it is
probing.  Leoni will cooperate with the EU probe and provide
information and documents to clarify the issue, Bernd Buhmann, a
spokesman for the Nuremberg-based company, said in a telephone
interview.  “We have not made any provisions for a possible fine,” he
said. “There were several inspections at our premises since
February 2010 and we do not know if they will continue or
intensify or are already completed.”  Courts  Cargill Must Pay Former Singapore Trader’s Bonus, Judges Say  Cargill Inc., the biggest agricultural company in the U.S.,
must pay a former Singapore-based trader $1.74 million in
deferred bonuses, the appeals court in the Asian city ruled in a
49-page decision received yesterday.  Mano Vikrant Singh, who left Cargill in 2008, sued the
company claiming his bonus was wrongly forfeited. Singh, who was
paid a monthly salary of S$25,000 ($20,054), had a bonus of $3.2
million for the 2008 financial year, according to the ruling.  Cargill, which forbade some staff that left from continuing
a career within the financial or commodity-trading industries
for two years, sought to stifle competition with its
restrictions, Singh had said in his complaint.  Cargill, based in Minneapolis, Minnesota, had demanded that
Singh return confidential information he took from the firm, and
said he breached his contract by setting up Xangbo Global
Markets Pte.  The company said in a statement today it will abide by the
decision.  Philip Jeyaretnam, Singh’s lawyer, said the judgment
established that the restraint of trade doctrine doesn’t only
apply to outright prohibition of post-employment competition.  The case is: Singapore High Court and Mano Vikrant Singh v
Cargill TSF Asia Pte. OS103/2011. Singapore Court of Appeal.  Interviews  FSA’s Wheatley Supports ‘More Scientific’ Libor Process  Martin Wheatley, the managing director of the Financial
Services Authority, discusses regulating the Libor interest
rate, the manipulation of key benchmarks and the role of the
British Bankers’ Association.  He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse.”  For the video, click here and for more, click here.  High-Frequency Trading Is Like ‘Video Game,’ Arnuk Says  Sal Arnuk, a partner at Themis Trading LLC, talked about
the implications of high-frequency trading for financial markets
and the Aug. 1 software malfunction that caused  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG)  to suffer a $440 million dollar trading loss.  Knight Capital will resume its duties as a designated
market maker on the New York Stock Exchange on Aug. 13, the
exchange said Aug. 8. Arnuk spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and
 Stephanie Ruhle  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Levitt Says Standard Chartered Allegations Go Deeper  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and senior adviser to Goldman Sachs, said
allegations that Standard Chartered Plc processed $250 billion
of deals with Iranian banks subject to sanctions “are something
with much deeper depth.” Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken
Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 