-- Julius Baer Said Near Deal to Acquire Merrill Non-U.S. Units
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-08-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/julius-baer-said-near-deal-to-acquire-merrill-non-u-s-units.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the Swiss
 money manager  established in 1890, is nearing an agreement to
acquire  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch wealth management
businesses outside the U.S., according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  An announcement may come as early as Aug. 13, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private. Julius Baer said June 19 it was in talks to buy the
Merrill Lynch units, which may be valued at $1.5 billion to $2
billion, the people said. The two parties are negotiating the
final details and the deal could still fall apart, they said.  Jan Vonder Muehll, a spokesman for Zurich-based  Julius Baer 
and Sara-Louise Boyes, a London-based spokeswoman for Merrill
Lynch wealth management, declined to comment.  Baer, which bought ING Groep NV’s Geneva-based wealth
business in 2009, is seeking acquisitions to boost its 178.8
billion francs ($183 billion) of managed assets as a global
crackdown on  tax evasion  pushes customers to repatriate funds
from offshore accounts in  Switzerland . The Merrill Lynch
purchase may make the bank the third-biggest Swiss wealth
manager after UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG.  Julius Baer fell 0.4 percent to 35.43 Swiss francs in
Zurich trading yesterday. The stock has  declined  3.6 percent
this year, cutting the bank’s market value to 6.96 billion
francs.  Ideal Time  The Merrill Lynch units outside the U.S. manage about $80
billion of assets, one of the people said. The business has
clients in  Europe , the Middle East and Africa, plus high-net-
worth customers in  Latin America  and Asia, outside  Japan .  “We’re absolutely at the bottom in market valuation terms,
so in that respect it’s an ideal time to buy a private-banking
business,” said Ray Soudah, head of MilleniumAssociates AG, an
advisory firm for banking mergers based in Zurich and London.  Julius Baer bought a 30 percent stake in Brazilian wealth
manager GPS Investimentos Financeiros e Participacoes SA and
acquired Macquarie Group Ltd.’s Asian private-client business
last year. Baer lost out to Safra Group last November to buy a
controlling stake in Basel, Switzerland-based Bank Sarasin &
Cie. AG.  The acquisition of the Merrill Lynch units would mean that
Julius Baer has almost doubled assets under management from
129.1 billion francs at the end of 2008.  Transaction Details  Buying private-banking franchises requires approvals in
different regulatory jurisdictions, meaning the details of the
transaction will probably be honed in the coming months, one of
the people said.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
whose firm is the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets, has
unloaded foreign businesses to focus on selling more services to
existing customers. He has sold more than $50 billion in assets
and businesses since taking over in 2010, including Canadian and
European credit-card units, to bolster capital before stricter
international rules take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  