-- Juventus Coach Conte Banned for 10 Months in Match-Fixing Probe
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-08-10T10:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/juventus-coach-conte-banned-for-10-months-in-match-fixing-probe.html
Juventus Football Club (JUVE)  SpA’s coach
 Antonio Conte  was suspended for 10 months by  Italy ’s soccer
federation for failing to report a match-fixing incident, the
organization said today in an e-mailed statement.  The disciplinary proceedings involve 45 people, including
players and coaches for 13 teams, FIGC said. Angelo Alessio,
Conte’s deputy, was suspended for eight months. Cristian
Stellini, who was Conte’s assistant at Juventus, resigned Aug. 6
“to put all my efforts into clearing my position in these
matters,” according to a letter posted on the team’s website.  Juventus, Italy’s Serie A Champion last season, said it’s
already preparing an appeal of Conte’s suspension in the “firm
belief that the coaches had no involvement in the matter.” The
club hasn’t announced who will replace him.  The probe is part of a broader scandal involving match-
fixing and illegal betting. The Italian police arrested in May
Stefano Mauri, the team captain of SS Lazio SA, and prosecutors
probed Conte as part of an international investigation into
match-rigging in the nation’s soccer leagues. Conte was
suspended because he “failed to report illicit behavior”
regarding the second-division match between Novara and Siena on
May 1, 2011, the soccer federation said. Conte was Siena’s coach
at the time.  The Turin team, which is controlled by Agnelli family
investment company  Exor SpA (EXO) , will play Napoli tomorrow in
Italy’s Super Cup, which pits the winner of Serie A against the
Italian Cup champion. Juventus shares fell as much as 2.1
percent in Milan trading and were down 0.8 percent at 19 cents
at noon.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ; 