-- Knight Holders Face Funding Options in Hotspot, Direct Edge
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a ,   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-08-10T21:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/knight-investors-face-funding-options-with-hotspot-direct-edge.html
The investors who bailed out  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  may wring more value from the firm by selling
its currency platform and stake in Direct Edge Holdings LLC.  Hotspot FX, the foreign-exchange trading system acquired in
2006, would get as much as $300 million in a sale, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Its 19.9 percent of Direct Edge Holdings
LLC may be worth $80 million, said Raymond James & Associates
Inc. While the company’s U.S. broker-dealer has $300 million in
excess capital, Knight can’t rule out more losses from lawsuits
and diminished business, it said yesterday in a filing.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce avoided
insolvency with an agreement to sell convertible securities to
six investors for $400 million, a “permanent solution” for
Knight’s funding issues, he said in a telephone interview Aug.
6. The six investors, whose stake is worth more than $800
million on paper, may find it tempting to boost the payout even
more with sales.  “Management will probably take a fresh look at the company
beyond just internal controls,”  Michael Wong , a Chicago-based
analyst with Morningstar Inc., said in a phone interview.
“There is the potential for them to sell off some assets.”  Knight, whose  market-making  unit executes about 10 percent
of U.S. equity volume, said in a government  filing  that last
week’s mishap may spur more losses. Should its customers and
trading partners lose confidence, Knight’s reputation and
business may suffer, the firm said. Lawsuits and regulatory
probes may also cost money, it said.  Capital Needs  “Knight resolved its capital needs through the transaction
announced Monday,” Kara Fitzsimmons, a spokeswoman for Knight,
said in an e-mail yesterday. “It is sufficiently capitalized.”  The  stock  has tumbled 72 percent from its $10.33 closing
price before the Aug. 1 software malfunction caused it to spew
out orders into the market, triggering a trading loss that will
total $270 million after tax, according to a filing. The stock
slid 5.5 percent to $2.90 in  New York  today.  Among Knight’s rescuers,  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  bought $125
million of convertible stock, according to a regulatory filing
by Knight. Automated trading firm Getco LLC and  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , a private equity company, bought $87.5 million each. Broker
 TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  got $40 million, and investment bank
Stephens Inc. and brokerage Stifel Nicolaus & Co. took $30
million each, the filing showed.  Strategic Investment  “We saw the Knight opportunity as a good strategic
investment for our company,”  Kim Hillyer , a spokeswoman at TD
Ameritrade, said in an e-mail. “Beyond that, we think it’s
premature to speculate about what we might or might not do in
the future.”  Richard Khaleel, a spokesman at Jefferies, declined to
comment. Stifel bought its stake because it was an
“attractive” financial investment, said Ronald J. Kruszewski,
chairman, president and CEO of  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , said in a
conference call Aug. 8. Getco invested because Knight is a
“very valuable company,”  Daniel Coleman , its chief executive
officer, said in a phone interview Aug. 6.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, said in an e-mail,
“Any comment at this stage would be premature.” Frank Thomas,
a spokesman for Stephens, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  Market Maker  Knight spent the last decade  expanding  from a market maker
that mainly handled orders from individuals sent by brokers to a
financial services company with institutional clients,
electronic trading services, and businesses in fixed income and
currencies. The company provides research and asset management
and got into the reverse mortgage business in 2010.  The trading malfunction raises concern about risk control
and may limit how much investors are willing to pay for shares
relative to earnings, JPMorgan analyst Kenneth B. Worthington
wrote in a note. Stock in Knight was  valued  at 6.8 times annual
profit on July 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The company was already trading in the mid-single digits
given the lack of transparency, and valuations as a going
concern will likely fall meaningfully,” he wrote in the Aug. 6
note. “Given this perspective, we expect investors will look to
value the Knight pieces, expecting the parts may be divested at
more opportune times.”  Trading Volume  Businesses Knight  acquired  over the last seven years may be
worth $600 million, including $300 million for Hotspot FX based
on the valuations of its competitors and taking into account
increased trading volume, which has tripled since 2006 when
Knight bought the business for $77.5 million, according to
Worthington.  Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP’s  Richard Repetto  estimated
in an Aug. 7 note that Hotspot’s value could be about half
Worthington’s figure. The currency platform reported $28 billion
in average daily volume in the first half of 2012, he wrote.
Assuming this could lead to about $48 million in revenue and
$10.3 million in post-tax profit this year, Repetto said Hotspot
would be worth $155 million after applying a 15 times multiple
on earnings.  Direct Edge  Knight’s stake in Direct Edge may be worth as much as $100
million in cash, Repetto wrote. The exchange was valued at $390
million in 2008 when International Securities Exchange Holdings
Inc. bought a 31.5 percent stake in the company, according to
Repetto. Assuming the sale price could be as much as $500
million, this could generate up to $60 million in an accounting
gain, he said.  Retail brokers including TD Ameritrade have a “vested
interest” in Knight’s survival to ensure that the amount of
payment for order flow they receive from  wholesalers  doesn’t
decrease, Patrick O’Shaughnessy, a Chicago-based analyst at
 Raymond James , wrote in a note to clients dated Aug. 6.  Selling some of Knight’s “non-core” businesses, including
Direct Edge, its EdgeTrade unit and BondPoint, may generate
almost $300 million, O’Shaughnessy wrote in a separate note,
adding that it was a “very rough guess.”  Knight’s investors are making too much money from the
transaction to be considering deals now, said Jeffrey Meyerson,
market maker and senior managing director at Sunrise Securities
Corp., in a phone interview.  ‘Shrewd Deal’  “I’d be surprised if they have a concentrated strategy to
break the firm up,” Meyerson said in phone interview. “The
investors made a very shrewd deal and got some very cheap
equity. They’ll want to grow the company to sell their stock.”  The rescue was probably more of a “buy low opportunity”
than a plan to eventually split up the company,  Larry Tabb ,
chief executive officer of research firm Tabb Group LLC in New
York, said in a phone interview.  “There’s a high likelihood they’re not breaking up, given
the investors that they have,” Tabb said. “If it had been
bought by one or two private equity guys, I would say it would
get broken up. But you’ve got a whole consortium of different
people,” he said. “They would have a really hard time
splitting up all the Knight assets.”  Knight hadn’t done any new strategic planning as of Aug. 6,
Joyce said in an interview. Budgets and strategies would be set
over the normal schedule toward the end of the year. The
“footprint” of the company would “remain intact for a
while,” he said.  “Once the internal review of the trading error is
completed, we would expect the board and management to re-
evaluate the model and strategic direction,”  Christopher Allen ,
an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in New York, wrote in an e-
mail yesterday. “We would not be surprised if there was
increased scrutiny of any businesses that generate only marginal
profitability relative to their capital usage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  