-- Korea Bond Sales Fall to 3-Month Low as Central Bank Holds Rates
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-08-10T07:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/korea-bond-sales-fall-to-3-month-low-as-central-bank-holds-rates.html
Corporate bond sales in South  Korea 
fell to a three-month low as borrowers waited for the central
bank’s first  interest-rate  decision since unexpectedly cutting
benchmark borrowing costs in July.  Only Cheil Industries Inc. sold debt with 200 billion won
($177 million) of three- and five-year notes, after 980 billion
won of issuance last week when Lotte Shopping Co. offered a
record 780 billion won of securities, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bank of Korea kept its key interest rate at 3
percent yesterday as it gauges the impact of  Europe ’s fiscal
crisis on  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy.  “Companies usually refrain from selling bonds near the
central bank’s monetary policy decision as the rate may be cut
and companies want to avoid uncertainties,” said Park Cheongho,
chief credit analyst in  Seoul  at Dongbu Securities Co.  Bank of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo surprised economists
last month by reducing rates, triggering a tripling in corporate
bond sales as yields fell to all-time lows. Woori Finance
Holdings Co., the nation’s biggest financial group by assets,
plans a bond sale as soon as next week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Three-year AA- rated corporate yields, the benchmark for
company borrowing costs according to the Korea Financial
Investment Association, rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.38 percent this week.  Borrowing costs touched 3.35 percent on Aug. 8, the least
in data going back to 2000. Yields on U.S. corporate debt with
an AA ranking increased three basis points to 2.19 percent this
week, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Economy Risks  The yield on  South Korea ’s three-year benchmark government
bonds climbed three basis points this week to 2.80 percent,
posting its the first weekly increase since June, Korea Exchange
Inc. prices show. The BOK’s decision was forecast by 10 of 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, with the remaining six
expecting a reduction.  Risks to South Korea’s economy are larger than the
potential upside as Europe’s slump deepens, policy makers said
in a statement released after the decision. The rate pause
raises the possibility of a cut next month, according to Sun
Yoo, an economist at Woori Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.  The won strengthened 0.4 percent this week to 1,130.45 per
dollar, finishing a fourth weekly gain, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency strengthened to a four-month
high on Aug. 6 as data showed employment in the U.S. exceeded
forecasts in July.  Cheil, Woori  Cheil Industries, an apparel and chemical-products maker,
priced 100 billion won of notes maturing in August 2015 to yield
3.06 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The borrower also
sold the same amount of August 2017 securities at a yield of
3.19 percent.  The company last sold debt in February and now has 960
billion won of bonds outstanding, the data show. Its 100 billion
won of 3.95 percent three-year notes issued in February traded
at a yield of 3.12 percent yesterday, according to NICE Pricing
Service. Cheil Industries is ranked a third-highest AA by South
Korea’s three ratings companies.  “We planned the bond issuance as financial market
conditions including yield levels were favorable, and there’s a
risk of Europe’s debt crisis deteriorating in the second half,”
said Lee Tae Hun, a Seoul-based senior manager at the corporate
communications team at Cheil Industries. “The proceeds will be
used for investment in our chemical and electronic materials
business,” he said.  Woori Finance (053000)  is planning a 250 billion won bond sale, the
preliminary data show. The offering is to refinance 250 billion
won of debt maturing at the end of the month, according to Ahn
Chul Woo, a general manager in the financial planning
department. The company’s 250 billion won of notes due on Aug.
30 pay a coupon of 5.79 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  South Korean companies have sold 34.8 trillion won of bonds
this year, compared with 33.6 trillion won in the same period
last year, the data show.  -- Editors: Beth Thomas, Sarah McDonald  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  