-- N.J. Towns Borrow for $200,000 Farewells Christie Abhors
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-08-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/n-j-towns-borrow-for-200-000-farewells-christie-abhors.html
Jersey City, New Jersey’s second-largest municipality, borrowed $19 million in the past two years
to cover retiring workers’ unused sick and vacation time.
Similar deals by other communities are helping double the
penalty the state and municipalities are paying on their bonds.  While Governor Chris Christie wants those payouts
eliminated, the current legislative session ended in June
without lawmakers acting. The impasse between Christie, 49, and
Democrats, the majority party in the Senate and House, has been
going on since the Republican governor took office in 2010.  “I will not compromise on the issue that we should no
longer have cash value attached to sick leave,” Christie told
reporters on Aug. 6 in Middlesex. “That’s a matter of principle
for me.”  Christie calls the payouts “boat checks” because they can
top $200,000 and some retirees use them to buy watercraft.
Growing obligations for workers’ retirement benefits have
stressed city budgets from San Jose to Long Beach, New York.
Officials say some perks can no longer be sustained as they
struggle to balance revenue with spending.  In New Jersey, 428 municipalities faced liabilities of $825
million as of May 2011 for accumulated sick and vacation days,
according to Christie’s office. Boat checks and New Jersey’s $42
billion unfunded pension obligation are helping raise borrowing
costs for the state and its cities in the $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market.  Penalty Paid  New Jersey and its localities are paying an average yield
penalty of 0.57 percentage point over AAA securities to borrow
for 10 years, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The gap
is more than double the five-year average. It was 0.35
percentage point the day Christie took office.  Towns in New Jersey paid workers $43 million for unused
sick and vacation time in 2010, according to Christie.  Jersey City, a community of almost 248,000 across the
Hudson River from downtown  Manhattan , has made payouts to 343
retirees since the governor vetoed a bill in late 2010 that
would have capped the checks at $15,000. Christie also spurned a
$7,500 limit.  Newark, East Orange and Hackensack have also borrowed to
make the payments as workers retired ahead of Christie raising
their pension and benefits contributions.  “The reforms in Trenton caused a stampede to the door,”
Jersey City Mayor Jerramiah Healy, a Democrat, said in a
telephone interview.  Borrowing Costs  A Jersey City general-obligation bond due in 10 years and
rated Aa3, Moody’s Investors Service’s fourth-highest grade,
traded Aug. 6 with an average yield of 2.71 percent, 1.02
percentage point above top-rated municipals with similar
maturity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That yield
difference is down from a 1.23 percentage-point spread on a Dec.
21 trade in the week the city sold the bonds.  Jersey City, which has a budget of $485 million, will
continue to be squeezed by the cost for unused leave payouts
unless Christie and lawmakers act, Healy said. A cap would be a
good start, and then the payments could be lowered or eliminated
in the future, the mayor said.  “The governor in his search for the perfect has abandoned
the good,” Healy said. “To carry on in this fashion is just
not sustainable for any city, any government or the taxpayers.”  The governor had sought a plan that would have required
employees to burn through amassed sick time before using new
days off. Democrats have balked at that provision, saying the
state can’t strip employees of a benefit they’ve already earned.  ‘Retirement Fund’  “Sick leave should be for when you are sick -- not a
supplemental retirement fund,” said Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, a Republican from Little Silver who sponsored a bill
to stop workers from amassing the payouts.  Even a $7,500 cap would cost taxpayers $3.25 billion if all
434,000 public workers retired, Christie said.  Senate President Stephen Sweeney, a Democrat from West
Deptford, in February proposed legislation that would stop
current employees from amassing more for the payments and end
them for new hires. Christie called the plan “encouraging.” No
hearings have been scheduled on Sweeney’s measure.  Public-employee retirements in New Jersey jumped 45 percent
in 2010 as Christie pushed proposals to raise their pension and
health-care contributions, and 10 percent last year as he
enacted them. Workers are retiring at a slower pace this year,
and filings are on track to drop 30 percent in 2012, based on
data from the state Treasury Department as of July 20.  800 Retirees  Julien Neals, business administrator in  Newark , said he
doesn’t expect a repeat of 2010, when the state’s largest city
had to borrow $7 million to cover checks to more than 800 people
for unused sick and vacation days. The city caps the awards at
$15,000, he said. Yet with an additional 80 police and fire
retirements expected this year, Neals said the payouts will
still put a dent in the budget.  John Mousseau, a portfolio manager at Cumberland Advisors
in Vineland, New Jersey, said allowing workers to cash out
unused days is a “meat-ax” issue: someplace local governments
can make a big dent in spending with one trim. The expense is
weighing on cities as they deal with less state aid and higher
pension contributions, he said.  “Here’s another thing that is wrong, and clearly it needs
to be changed,” said Mousseau, whose firm manages $2.2 billion,
including $1.2 billion of municipal bonds. “What you’re doing
is raising another liability at an increasing rate for really
what is no reason at all.”  Following are pending sales:  ENERGY NORTHWEST, which provides electricity to 1.5 million
customers in  Washington , is set to borrow $777 million of
electric revenue bonds, including taxable debt, as soon as next
week, Bloomberg data show. Bond proceeds will help finance fuel
purchases and capital upgrade, according to bond documents.
Standard & Poor’s rates the bonds AA-, its fourth-highest grade.
(Added Aug. 10)  CALIFORNIA plans to issue $10 billion of revenue-anticipate
notes as soon as soon as next week. The notes are rated MIG 1,
Moody’s highest short-term grade. (Updated Aug. 9)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  