-- Naira Heads for Best Weekly Gain in a Year on Bank’s Policies
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-08-10T14:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/naira-heads-for-best-weekly-gain-in-a-year-on-bank-s-policies.html
The naira strengthened for a third
day, heading for its best weekly gain in more than a year, as
the Central Bank of  Nigeria ’s commercial lending and foreign-
exchange auction policies tighten the interbank market.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer rose 0.4
percent to 158.13 a dollar as of 3 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial
capital. The naira has advanced 2.1 percent this week, the best
five day performance since July 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Governor Lamido Sanusi has tried to support the naira and
control inflation by increasing the amount of cash commercial
lenders must hold with the central bank to 12 percent from 8
percent. The regulator restricted access to its twice-a-week
foreign-exchange  auctions  on Aug. 1, preventing dealers from
buying foreign currency using naira purchased at a discount
through the central bank’s standing lending window and
repurchase facility.  The currency’s gains are “mostly down to central bank
policy designed to support the naira which is having unintended
consequences in the  interbank market ,” Kojo Amoo-Gottfried, an
analyst at FM Capital Partners Ltd. in  London , said in an e-
mailed reply to questions today.  Nigeria’s interbank overnight lending rates have more than
doubled this month, reaching 32 percent on Aug. 8, the highest
since September 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rates, which declined four percentage points yesterday, have
averaged 15 percent this year compared with 11 percent in 2011.  Yields Rise  “The ensuing tighter liquidity has helped push dollar-
naira lower in recent days, assisted by solid foreign exchange
sales from  oil companies ,” Standard Bank Group Ltd.
strategists, led by London-based Stephen Bailey-Smith, wrote in
a report today. “We are also starting to see resumed foreign
interest in buying Nigerian fixed income instruments.”  Yields on the West African nation’s 16 percent domestic
debt due 2019 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
16.52 percent, according to yesterday’s prices on the Financial
Markets Dealers Association website. Borrowing costs on the West
African nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due 2021 declined 16
basis points to 5.14 percent today.  Ghana ’s cedi gained 0.1 percent to 1.9545 a dollar in
Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  