-- Nestle Searches for Acquisitions to Bolster Health-Science Range
-- B y   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-08-10T11:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/nestle-searches-for-acquisitions-to-bolster-health-science-range.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the Swiss maker of
Nescafe coffee and KitKat, said it’s looking for acquisitions to
strengthen its health-science range for chronic diseases and
brain health.  “The future is about acquisitions, partnerships and
innovation,” Luis Cantarell, chief executive officer of Nestle
Health Science, said in an interview in London. “We’ve been
active in making acquisitions and we’ll remain active.”  Nestle’s nutrition and health-care sales in the first half
rose 6.6 percent to 5.21 billion Swiss francs ($5.33 billion)
after an investment last year in medical food developer Vital
Foods and acquisitions including CM&D Pharma Ltd., which makes
products for people with  kidney disease . In July, Nestle
acquired a stake in U.S. company Accera, whose Axona milkshake
is designed for dietary management of Alzheimer’s disease.  “We’ll help Accera in clinical trials and evaluate the
possible launch of Axona in  Europe ,” Cantarell said. “Nestle
will help them reinforce the quality of the product with further
evidence.”  The Nestle Health Science unit was set up in January 2011
to deliver nutrition products for conditions such as diabetes,
obesity and Alzheimer’s disease.  “We want to create a new market combining nutrition and
health,” Cantarell said.  Nestle, based in Vevey,  Switzerland , will unite its
nutrition and science operations in the U.K. as part of a 500
million-pound ($780 million) investment in manufacturing
facilities over the next three years, it said at the British
Business Embassy summit in London yesterday.  The company will transfer its London-based health-care
nutrition unit to the northern England town of Liverpool where
Nestle owns Vitaflo, a U.K. developer of nutritional products
for metabolic and stomach disorders, which it bought in 2010.  “We have a good business in the U.K.,” Cantarell said.
“We hope to work closely with the ministry of health, invest
more resources and perform more clinical trials.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Tadeo in  London  at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  