-- New York Ironman Triathletes Wait to See If Sewage Cancels Swim
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-10T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/new-york-ironman-triathletes-wait-to-see-if-sewage-cancels-swim.html
Charles MacIntosh, a managing
director at Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc., swam 29 miles last week
in preparation for the inaugural  New York City Ironman 
triathlon. Now he and 2,499 other participants may not get to
swim in the  Hudson River  tomorrow due to a broken sewer line.  Organizers for the 140.6-mile (226-kilometer) race, which
combines swimming, cycling and running, said the swim portion
may have to be canceled after an overnight discharge of several
million gallons of chlorinated raw sewage into the river that
separates New York and New Jersey.  As experts analyze the water quality and direction of the
current in the Hudson, MacIntosh and other competitors are left
waiting to learn if they should leave their wetsuits behind.
Ironman spokeswoman Jessica Weidensall said a decision on
whether the swim is held would be made this afternoon.  “In my mind and probably most people in the race, if
there’s no swim, some of the personal satisfaction of doing an
Ironman is gone,” said the 34-year-old MacIntosh, who was part
of a relay team that swam around the island of  Manhattan  last
week. “It’s just a long bike and a marathon. It’s still a lot
of work, but you’re not a true Ironman.”  MacIntosh has competed in more than 100 triathlons since
1997 and said maybe five of those had the swim canceled because
of bad weather. In those cases, he said, organizers have added
an additional run and made it a run-bike-run duathlon, or sent
the bikers off in a time-trial format before the run.  “For a lot of people this is their first and only Ironman
of the year, if not their whole career,” MacIntosh said by
phone following a race briefing last night. “So they’re really
hoping the swim happens, even though I’m sure they’re very
concerned about the quality of the water.”  $895 Entry  Canceling the swim would be a blow for an event that’s
proved enormously popular, selling out its $895 regular race
slots online in 11 minutes more than a year ago. It’s the most
expensive triathlon in the Ironman series, as the typical entry
fee for a race is about $575.  Chris McCallum, associate director of fixed income sales
for R.W. Pressprich & Co., said he’d be very disappointed if the
2.4-mile swim leg is eliminated, especially since it’s his
strongest discipline.  “I don’t want an asterisk next to the race if this is most
likely the only full Ironman I’m doing,” McCallum said in a
telephone interview. “Taking that out really throws the whole
day off, especially being the first event.”  McCallum said he’s also concerned about his health.  The Westchester County Department of Health issued an
advisory yesterday urging anybody using the Hudson River for
recreational purposes to “avoid direct contact with the water
from Croton Point Park and points south until further notice.”  Sewage Dump  The sewage was to be dumped into the river last night in a
controlled discharge near Sleepy Hollow, New York, so that
repairs could be made to the broken line in Tarrytown. Sleepy
Hollow is about 20 miles north of the George Washington Bridge,
which is near the finish line for the swim.  Cory Terzis, who’s in his second year in a trade support
role for equities derivatives at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , is also
attempting the Ironman distance for the first time. Terzis has
done six triathlons at the sprint and Olympic distances, which
range from about 15 miles to 32 miles, and said it’s not a real
Ironman if there’s no swim.  “You mentally prepare for the swim, which is really the
toughest for me,” Terzis, 27, said by phone. “This is
something you don’t want to rack your brain with before the
race, however you just have to put it out of your mind because
it’s nothing you can control.”  2011 Race  In 2011, a fire at a sewage-treatment plant led to almost
500 million gallons of waste being dumped into the Hudson River
two weeks before the annual Olympic-length triathlon in  New
York . The race was held as scheduled that year.  “The Hudson was flowing north,” John Korff, who is an
organizer for both races, said yesterday. “The Hudson is tidal,
so you just don’t know.”  Terzis competed in that 2011 race, which has a swim of
almost one mile, and said he was shocked by how clean the water
in the Hudson was.  “You couldn’t really see too far in front of you, but you
didn’t have any sewage, it didn’t smell, it wasn’t slimy,”
Terzis said. “So that’s my saving grace here. That leak and
fire caused, it seems, a lot more damage.”  Tomorrow’s race is supposed to begin with the swim portion,
with competitors taking ferry boats to a fixed barge for the
start. Korff said because of the logistics of ferrying
competitors to the start, it’s “ridiculous” to make a decision
on whether to scrap the swim the morning of the race.  “We don’t want to keep anybody hanging,” Korff said.  Previous Cancellations  MacIntosh said participants were told at last night’s
briefing that they’d know before 4 p.m. local time whether the
swim will be held. If it’s canceled, competitors may instead
start with the 112-mile bike ride on the closed Palisades
Interstate Parkway in  New Jersey  and New York before finishing
with a full marathon-distance run of 26.2 miles that ends in
Manhattan.  Weidensall said there have been instances in which Ironman
races have been shortened or had a swim cancellation, usually
due to weather. In April, the World Triathlon Corporation
canceled the swimming portion of the New Orleans half-Ironman
race because of high winds and replaced it with a two-mile run.  Weidensall declined to say whether organizers offer refunds
or discounts on future races if an event is shortened.  “We do our best to work with our athletes in situations
like this,” she said in an e-mail. “We understand the
sacrifices athletes make to participate in our races and do
everything we can to help them reach their race goals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  