-- New York Ironman Swim Gets Approval After Sewer Break Repaired
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/new-york-ironman-swim-will-proceed-after-sewer-break-repaired.html
The swim portion of today’s
inaugural  New York City Ironman  triathlon will proceed as
scheduled after a broken sewer line and sewage discharge
threatened to cancel that portion of the event.  Organizers for the 140.6-mile (226-kilometer) race, which
combines swimming, cycling and running, said the Hudson River
passed a water quality test yesterday after a discharge of 3.4
million gallons of chlorinated raw sewage.  The broken sewer line was repaired yesterday afternoon and
a health advisory warning swimmers and boaters to avoid the
river was to be lifted last night at 11 p.m. local time.
Organizers asked experts to analyze the water quality and
direction of the current in the Hudson before deciding whether
to cancel the 2.4-mile swim leg.  “We’re very excited and we’ll have the real deal in NYC,
instead of having Ironman light” John Korff, an organizer for
the race, said in a telephone interview. “It’s the  Hudson
River . It’s one of the great mysteries of the western world, but
it’s our river and we love it.”  Canceling the swim would have been a blow for an event that
has proved enormously popular, selling out its $895 regular race
slots online in 11 minutes more than a year ago. It’s the most
expensive triathlon in the Ironman series, as the typical entry
fee for a race is about $575.  The sewage was dumped into the river two nights ago in a
controlled discharge near Sleepy Hollow, New York, so that
repairs could be made to the broken line in Tarrytown. Sleepy
Hollow is about 20 miles north of the George Washington Bridge,
which is near the finish line for the swim. Another smaller
discharge occurred in Yonkers, about five miles north of the
bridge, according to the  county website .  Health Warning  The Westchester County Department of Health issued an
advisory urging anybody using the Hudson for recreational
purposes to “avoid direct contact with the water from Croton
Point Park and points south until further notice.”  That warning was lifted last night “because the elapsed
time since the discharge stopped would have allowed it to
dissipate,” the county said on its website.  When triathlon swims are canceled, usually due to bad
weather, organizers often add an additional run to create a run-
bike-run duathlon, or simply send the bikers off in a time-trial
format before the run.  In April, the World Triathlon Corp. canceled the swimming
portion of the New Orleans half-Ironman race because of high
winds and replaced it with a two-mile run.  “You plan as hard as you can and you don’t know what could
go wrong,” Korff said. “We love the Hudson River right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net 
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  