-- New Orleans Murder Rate Climbs as City Begins Overhaul of Police
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-08-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/new-orleans-murder-rate-climbs-as-city-begins-overhaul-of-police.html
Late in July, six people were
murdered in 24 hours in  New Orleans . Five days later police
superintendent Ronal Serpas and a dozen uniformed officers
visited the neighborhood where three of the killings happened.  Led by a local high-school marching band and passing out
paper fans in the heat, the officers headed down Orleans Street
in what has become a monthly routine, exhorting neighbors to
come out from behind barred doors and march against violence.  The display was part of the latest push by city officials
to overhaul a department dogged by a history of brutality and
tense community relations. This time, the effort has some
federal muscle behind it. A week before the march, U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder and the city announced a consent decree that
Holder said would provide for the most comprehensive federally-
mandated police overhaul in  Department of Justice  history.  “We have had a systematic failure,” said New Orleans
Mayor Mitch Landrieu, 52, in a telephone interview. “We have to
undo it all and the decree will help us get there. It will be
very expensive, but the cost of not doing it is a lot more, in
dollars and in human lives damaged and changed by bad police
behavior.”  The July 24 consent decree was the result of a federal
finding that city police had systematically violated citizens’
constitutional rights. It followed the successful prosecutions
of 14 police officers related to the killing of civilians after
 Hurricane Katrina  incapacitated the city in 2005.  Soaring Murders  Landrieu, a Democrat elected in 2010, and his police
superintendent have vowed to reform the department and to bring
down the city’s soaring  murder rate , which was the highest in
the U.S. last year, according to FBI  statistics .  So far they’ve had little success, at least with the murder
rate. The city had 199 murders last year, or 58 for every
100,000 residents, up from 50 for every 100,000 in 2010. The
city with the next highest crime rate last year was Flint,
 Michigan , with 51 murders for every 100,000 residents followed
by  Detroit  with 48 murders for every 100,000.  Change has not gone over well in all quarters. Hundreds of
officers have left the force, while lingering distrust of police
in the city’s most murder-prone neighborhoods has undermined
efforts to stop the violence. A police union, a community group
and the city’s independent police monitor have all filed to
intervene when a federal judge holds the first hearing on the
consent agreement August 29.  Hurricane Katrina  The march down Orleans Street exemplified the challenges
the mayor and his police chief must overcome. As women, children
and a handful of men ventured out to watch the parade, Serpas,
52, bounded up sagging front porches, shaking hands and teasing
children. His message was to stem the killing, neighbors need to
begin trusting and talking to the police.  Residents decried the violence yet stayed on their porches.
None of them joined in the neighborhood march.  “The bottom line is that nobody is talking and people are
not going to be talking,” said Charlandra Jones, 46, after the
police passed. “There is no protection here.”  The consent decree won’t make neighbors trust the police,
said her sister Deborah Jones, 61. “They need new leadership.
They all have to go, even -- I hate to say it -- him who was
just standing here,” she said.  Jones was referring to Serpas, who returned to the
department as superintendent in 2010 after working for a decade
in law enforcement in other states.  “The storm,” as residents call Katrina, left New Orleans
with the need to rebuild most of its public services, including
schools, health care and other municipal functions.  “Literally, we had to reorganize government,”said
Landrieu.  Sporadic Reform  Adding to the hurdles, the city’s population fell by more
than half immediately after Katrina, from 452,170 to 223,388. It
has since climbed to 360,740 in July 2011, according to the  U.S.
Census .  The biggest challenge has been the police department, where
there have been sporadic overhaul efforts over the years,
Landrieu said. The last attempt at change was in the late 1990s,
after a police officer ordered the assassination of a
neighborhood woman who had reported his beating of a witness and
the murder rate had soared to more than double what it is now,
according to a report in the Times-Picayune. While that effort
resulted in a decline in murders, it didn’t address poorly
trained and hired police, the mayor said.  “From about 2000 to 2010, nobody was minding the store,”
Landrieu said.  The Katrina killings brought negative national attention to
the police. In the chaos after the storm, officers shot and
killed four civilians and then tried to cover up their actions,
federal prosecutors would eventually establish in court.  Bridge Killings  Police shot Henry  Glover , 31, on Sept. 2, 2005, four days
after the hurricane overwhelmed levees and flooded the city,
according to U.S. Justice Department documents. A good Samaritan
drove the wounded man to a makeshift police station. The police
didn’t help and Glover died, the documents say. An officer then
drove the car with his body to a levee and set it on fire.
Relatives pushed for prosecution. “After what happened to
Henry, I will never trust the  New Orleans Police Department 
again,” said Rebecca Glover, 66, who was Henry Glover’s aunt.  Two days after the Glover killing, officers shot unarmed
civilians walking across the Danziger Bridge, wounding four and
killing two, including a 40-year-old mentally disabled man with
the mind of a six-year-old, according to court testimony. They
then fabricated evidence to bolster a false claim that the
victims fired first, according to the testimony.  The incidents hardened distrust of the police in black
neighborhoods, said Deborah Jones. “It may have been a surprise
to the rest of the world. It was not surprising to us.”  Criminal Prosecutions  The Justice Department’s civil investigation unfolded
alongside the criminal prosecutions. The probe found a pattern
of unconstitutional use of force, failure to investigate
violators, out-of-control police dogs and improper handling of
rapes. The  Justice Department  report detailed a system of
private work for off-duty officers that it called an “aorta of
corruption” that created conflicts of interest and sapped
resources.  The 124-page settlement requires retraining, new hiring and
disciplinary policies, video cameras in squad cars and recording
equipment in interview rooms, among other changes that will be
enforced by the courts over four years.  Landrieu likened the task to trying to build a winning
football team with players inherited from a losing one. Those
players are going. Since January 2010, 319 officers out of about
1,600 have left the department, including 71 this year, said
Remi Braden, spokeswoman for the New Orleans police.  No Lies  Serpas credits a new “You Lie, You Die” policy, which
makes it a firing offense to lie for some of the exodus: “It’s
true we’ve run a lot of people off.  There have been a lot of
people who left before we terminated them, because the
truthfulness thing is so powerful.”  Peter Scharf, a criminologist at Tulane University’s
Department of Global Health Systems and Development, said
officers say they feel demonized by the top-down approach to the
changes. He said the low morale contributes to the department’s
failure to shave the murder rate: “The issue is whether we can
become ethically acceptable, in the mainstream of  law
enforcement , before the city comes close to closing down because
of violence in the street,” he said.  Scharf surveyed 463 of 1,300 officers in a study paid for
by the police union, and found most disagreed with the overhaul;
80 percent would leave if they could keep pay and seniority and
97 percent thought the department was undermanned. Braden, the
police department spokeswoman, said the survey wasn’t
representative of the force.  Hero Officers  Officers are hurt, said Fraternal Order of Police spokesman
Raymond Burkhart: “Many of these officers were heroes during
the storm. They stayed. They lost houses and friends.”  The department marches are intended to build rapport
between police and residents in neighborhoods where drugs and
revenge killings among young black men drive the murder rate,
Serpas said. Fear of retaliation and distrust of police has made
witnesses reluctant to come forward, making the murders hard to
prevent or solve, he said.  Neighborhood anti-violence advocate Al Mims said the walks
fall short of what’s needed to change that. “They’re after the
fact,” he said.  District Five Commander Christopher Goodly said the events
bring payoffs whether neighbors walk alongside police or not. On
Orleans Street, he gave some contact information to a woman
desperate to keep her teenage son out of trouble.“That’s worth
it right there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  