-- Norwegian Fund Fell 2.2% Last Quarter as Stocks Declined
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-08-10T09:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/norwegian-fund-fell-2-2-last-quarter-as-stocks-declined.html
Norway’s $620 billion sovereign
wealth fund,  Europe ’s largest equity investor, saw its assets
decline 2.2 percent last quarter as stocks fell on concern the
euro area’s debt crisis would hamper a global recovery.  The  Government Pension Fund Global  lost 77 billion kroner
($13 billion) on its investments, as measured by a basket of
currencies, it said in a statement published out of Oslo today.
Equity investments slipped 4.6 percent, while the fund’s bonds
returned 1.5 percent.  “A weaker than anticipated development in the world
economy weighed on stock markets in the second quarter,”  Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive officer of Norges Bank Investment
Management, which runs the fund, said in a statement. “There
was also increased uncertainty about the repercussions of the
European sovereign debt crisis.”  Investors sold stocks as European leaders struggled to
contain the euro area’s debt woes in the quarter.  Spain  in June
became the fourth euro nation to seek a bailout as the currency
union’s fourth-largest economy asked for loans to rescue banks
pummeled by a real estate slump now in its fifth year.  The MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of stocks dropped 5.8 percent last
quarter. Ten-year yields on Spanish government debt rose above 7
percent to a euro area record on June 18 -- a level that pushed
 Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to seek international aid.
Borrowing costs on Italian 10-year debt also rose to above 6
percent on concerns about contagion.  Strategy Shift  The Norwegian fund is in the midst of a strategy shift to
reduce its bond and stock holdings in Europe to capture more
global growth as it struggles to meet a 4 percent return target.  The fund reduced its holdings of bonds issued in European
currencies in the quarter to 48.1 percent of total fixed-income
investments from 51 percent, it said. It also boosted the share
of bonds in American currencies to 40.1 percent and increased
the portion of bonds in currencies of  Asia  and Oceania to 11.6
percent.  The changes were in line with its strategy to gradually
reduce the share of bonds in currencies of developed European
nations, it said. The fund in the quarter also increased
investments in  government bonds  in the currencies of emerging
economies such as China, Brazil and  India , it said.  Buying German  The holdings of German bunds rose to 58 billion kroner in
the period, up from 38 billion kroner as of March 31. The fund’s
investments in U.K. government bonds slid to 82 billion kroner
from 89 billion kroner, and its French government holdings
declined to 71 billion kroner from 80 billion kroner.  At the end of June, the fund held 59.6 percent of its
assets in stocks, 40.1 percent in bonds and 0.3 percent in real
estate. It’s mandated to hold 60 percent in stocks, 35 percent
in bonds and 5 percent in real estate. The fund is managed by
the central bank and gets guidelines from the Norwegian
government.  The fund’s largest stock holding at the end of the quarter
was Royal Dutch Shell Plc, while its biggest bond holding was
U.S. Treasuries.  Inflows  Norway ’s government deposited 72 billion kroner of oil
revenue into the fund in the quarter. The fund’s result missed
by 0.2 percentage point the benchmark set by the  Finance
Ministry .  The  Oslo-based investor  got its first capital infusion in
1996 and has been taking on more risk as it expands globally,
raising its stock portfolio from 40 percent in 2007. It first
added equities in 1998,  emerging markets  in 2000 and this year
real estate to boost returns and safeguard wealth.  Norway, a nation of 5 million people, generates money for
the fund from taxes on oil and gas, ownership of petroleum
fields and dividends from its 67 percent stake in  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
the country’s largest energy company. The Nordic nation is the
world’s second-largest gas exporter and the seventh-biggest oil
exporter. The oil fund invests outside Norway to avoid stoking
domestic inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  