-- Novatek Profit Drops on Foreign Exchange, Misses Estimates
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-08-10T15:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/novatek-second-quarter-net-drops-33-as-ruble-weakens-oil-falls.html
OAO Novatek, Russia’s second-biggest
producer of natural gas, said second-quarter profit declined 33
percent because of a foreign exchange loss and lower  oil prices .  Net income fell to 9.66 billion rubles ($303 million) from
14.3 billion rubles a year earlier, Novatek said today in a
statement. That missed the average  estimate  of 10.1 billion
rubles from 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Novatek, controlled by billionaires Leonid Mikhelson and
 Gennady Timchenko , suffered from lower prices for crude and gas
condensate amid slumping demand in export markets, while export
duties on the liquids remained high. Sales of gas, which makes
up most of the company’s output, were hurt by President  Vladimir
Putin ’s delay of an annual increase in the regulated price to
July 1, keeping a lid on domestic tariffs during his campaign to
return to the Kremlin.  “Following the trough in the second quarter, we see
earnings picking up significantly in the second half,” Troika
Dialog analysts led by Oleg Maximov said in a research note
yesterday. Barring a collapse in oil prices, “2012 will be
another record year for Novatek, where the growth in financials
will go against the decline in the oil sector at large and at
Gazprom, in particular.”  Gazprom Results  State-controlled OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas
producer, hasn’t yet reported first-quarter results.  Shares declined 2.3 percent to 353.60 rubles at the close
in Moscow, the biggest decline in almost three week.  Revenue rose 11 percent to 45.1 billion rubles as sales
volumes increased and the company boosted production capacity,
Novatek said in the statement.  The ruble weakened 11 percent on average, resulting in a
foreign exchange loss of 5.3 billion rubles, compared with a
gain a year earlier. Excluding the foreign exchange effects, net
income rose 10 percent to 15 billion rubles from 13.6 billion
rubles a year earlier.  Urals Price  The average price of Urals,  Russia ’s export blend, fell 6.2
percent from a year earlier, according to Novatek. Russia
updates export duties, the heaviest tax on the oil industry, on
the first of each month based on the average price for the four-
week period ending the 14th of the previous month. The time lag
means companies pay a higher percent of revenue as tax as prices
fall and less when they rise.  Export duties on crude oil and stable gas condensate, the
main liquid commodities that Novatek sells, declined 0.8 percent
to average $443 per metric ton in the period, Novatek said in
the management  analysis  of the results, posted on the website.  Unlike liquids, most of which are exported, all of
Novatek’s gas is sold at home, where domestic tariffs were held
unchanged from January 2011 until the July 1 increase. Gas made
up 63 percent of the company’s revenue last year.  Gas production rose 16 percent in the second quarter,
according to the company’s preliminary data last month. Gains in
the first half led Novatek to revise this year’s output growth
target to 7 percent to 11 percent, compared with a 6 percent to
7 percent increase expected earlier, Mikhelson, the chief
executive officer, said on Aug. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  