-- NYC Best: Shepard’s ‘Heartless,’ Lyle Lovett, Quay Twins
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/nyc-best-colbert-rocks-shepard-s-heartless-lovett.html
Now’s your chance to see lots of
off-beat musicals, comedies and dramas.  The 16th  New York  International Fringe Festival is under
way, with nearly 200 plays in 20 downtown venues over the next
couple of weeks.  How about “The Art of Painting,” which promises Nazis,
child molesters and infidelity?  Or the musical “Danny Visconti is Hill-Bent,” tracing a
night of booze, strippers and prank-calling  Michele Bachmann 
following a chance meeting with the Secretary of State?  Information:  http://www.fringenyc.org .  Saturday Outside  Lincoln Center  Out of Doors finishes with a bang this
weekend, presenting the “29th Annual Roots of American Music
Festival.”  Today and tomorrow, concerts include a tribute to Laura
Nyro, sets by Otis Clay, Tom Paxton, Taylor Mac, Aloe Blacc and
a gala salute to Gil Scott-Heron.  At Damrosch Park and various other venues around Lincoln
Center.  For sustenance, there’s barbeque and drinks.  Information:  http://www.lcoutofdoors.org .  Saturday Night  Singer-songwriter and road warrior Lyle Lovett brings his
country-folk-inflected music to the Prospect Park Bandshell.  He appears with his Acoustic Group as part of Celebrate
 Brooklyn , and you can expect tunes from his most recent album,
“Release Me,” as well as classics from his songbook.  Opening for the witty, raspy-voiced Texan is Aoife
O’Donovan.  At 9th St. and Prospect Park West, Brooklyn. Information:
+1-718-683-5600;  http://www.bricartsmedia.org .  Stop for a glass of pinot noir and a prosciutto pizza with
tomato, mozzarella and arugula at Bar Toto in Park Slope.  At 411 11th St. at 6th Ave., Brooklyn. Information: +1-718-
768-4698.  Saturday Late  Tony winner Norbert Leo Butz adds cabaret to his resume
with an eclectic, high-energy show at  54 Below .  Don’t expect Broadway standards from this expansively
gifted performer. His personal touchstones include  Tom Waits ,
Jimmy Webb and  Alicia Keys .  Singer Lauren Kennedy and a terrific band add to the show’s
bluesy tinge.  The club is serving well-priced small plates -- try the
sliders with a cold one.  At 254 W. 54th St. Information: +1-646-476-3551;
 http://www.54below.com .  Sunday  Early in their careers, the twin Quay Brothers, Stephen and
Timothy, designed an album cover for Blood, Sweat and Tears that
portrayed the group standing around in a field -- all of them
headless.  Before releasing it, Columbia Records put the heads back
on.  Now you can see both versions at the  Museum of Modern Art ’s
retrospective devoted to the reclusive duo, in addition to their
animation, film, drawing and other graphic-design work.  Also represented are recent site-specific pieces based on
Bartok and Kafka.  “Quay Brothers: On Deciphering the Pharmacist’s
Prescription for Lip-Reading Puppets” runs through Jan. 7 at 11
W. 53rd St. Information: +1-212-708-9400;  http://www.moma.org .  Sunday Evening  Head over to the Park Avenue Armory for a concert by the
International Contemporary Ensemble, currently artists-in-
residence at the Mostly Mozart Festival.  “For the Birds” presents avian-inspired works ranging
from Messiaen and Cage to world premieres by Marcos Balter and
Suzanne Farrin. They’re played as musicians and audience migrate
among the stunning rooms at the Armory.  At 643 Park Ave. Information: +1-212-721-6500;
 http://mostlymozart.org .  Sunday Night  “Heartless,” a new play by Sam Shepard focusing on women
is running at Signature Theater Company.  Julianne Nicholson stars as a Los Angeles resident with a
mysterious past that erupts into her present life.  Also in the cast: Gary Cole and Lois Smith.  Daniel Aukin directed the world premiere production.  In previews at 480 W. 42nd St., for an Aug. 27 opening.
Information: +1-212-244-7529;  http://www.signaturetheatre.org .  Post-show, grab a banquette at Ca Va Todd English and
settle in with an icy martini and the Maine crab salad.  At 310 W. 44th St. Information: +1-212-803-4545.  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s  podcast  and  movie 
reviews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 