-- Obama Finds No Easy Way to Buoy U.S. Homeowners Deep Underwater
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-08-10T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/obama-finds-no-easy-way-to-buoy-u-s-homeowners-deep-underwater.html
Shaun Donovan, secretary of the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, stood in the
beating sun amid the scrapyards and vacant lots of  Cleveland ’s
East Side and noted that rising  home prices  have begun to reduce
the number of families whose mortgages exceed the value of their
homes.  The ranks of underwater borrowers nationwide dropped by
700,000 in the first quarter of the year, Donovan told a crowd
gathered for a news conference last week in a parking lot
outside a housing-counseling center. Still, he acknowledged, the
problem remains severe in regions like greater Cleveland, where
a third of homeowners have negative equity, according to data
provider CoreLogic Inc.  “There is still a ways to go to make sure that hard-hit
communities like Cleveland can fully recover, but we are on the
right path,” Donovan said. “We have to do more.”  Even as home prices begin to stabilize in many areas of the
U.S. and mortgage delinquencies drop to the lowest level in
three years, the administration of President  Barack Obama  faces
an uphill battle to find solutions for keeping the nation’s 11.4
million underwater homes from turning into foreclosures.  The situation is particularly difficult in Cleveland, which
saw  14 straight  years of rising foreclosures before leveling off
in 2010. Home values have dropped by 30 percent on the East Side
since 2009 alone, according to the county assessor.  Anthony Brancatelli, a Cleveland city councilman who
represents some of the neighborhoods wiped out by home seizures,
said he worries about the many “ghost” owners who have simply
given up and disappeared.  ‘No Matter What’  “We’ve got to figure out a way to keep people in their
homes no matter what,” Brancatelli said as he watched the HUD
secretary speak July 30.  Donovan, the public face of the administration on housing
issues, plugged a package of Senate bills that would expand
opportunities for troubled borrowers to save money by
refinancing their mortgages into lower  interest rates .  The signature federal refinancing effort, the Home
Affordable Refinancing Program, has helped about 150,000
borrowers with negative equity obtain lower interest rates and
lower monthly payments since the beginning of the year,
according to  data  released Tuesday by the Federal Housing
Finance Agency.  Still, Cleveland housing activists said refinancing
programs and even mortgage modifications may mean little to many
homeowners who are so far underwater that it may take decades
for them to get ahead. Homeowners are dismayed that they still
owe the full amount of the original loan when their homes may be
worth just half that much now.  Decades to Equity  “Why would anyone consider it reasonable to stay in a
house you’re going to be paying 30 years on, and maybe longer if
the neighborhood deteriorates more, before you see any equity?”
Paul Bellamy, research director at Empowering and Strengthening
Ohio’s People, an organization that assists homeowners, said in
an interview.  The administration was pinning its hopes for helping those
deepest underwater on Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency , which regulates Fannie Mae and
 Freddie Mac . The Treasury department offered to cover a portion
of the cost if FHFA would allow the two government-sponsored
enterprises to cut the debt on loans they own or guarantee.  DeMarco last week rejected the administration’s offer.  The FHFA said it would only make financial sense to write
down loans if the debt reductions convinced most borrowers who
hadn’t made mortgage payments in more than a year to suddenly
start paying again. The agency made it clear it considered that
highly unlikely and suggested that the best solution was a
“graceful exit” from homeownership for those borrowers.  Solutions Needed  Donovan, whose agency is trying to keep neighborhoods from
being swamped with  vacant  houses, is looking for additional
solutions.  In an interview as he traveled between appointments in
Cleveland, Donovan noted that there’s already been some success:
Principal reduction is increasingly common in modifications of
loans that aren’t backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, a fact
that he attributed in part to the $25 billion settlement between
large loan servicers and federal and state officials.  The settlement requires servicers including  Bank of America
Corp. , JP Morgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  to spend at
least $10 billion of the money cutting principal balances.  About 10.2 percent of loan modifications in the first
quarter of 2012 included principal reductions, up from 2.8
percent a year earlier, according to the OCC.  Moving the Needle  “We’ve been able to move the needle to make change,”
Donovan said. “That’s going to have a big impact for those who
are struggling to pay their bills.”  Early signs suggest that those efforts might be coming too
late for some of the most troubled borrowers. Bank of America
reported last month that it got no response from more than half
of the 60,000 homeowners it has contacted offering writedowns of
as much as $150,000.  There are other signs that aid isn’t reaching the most
vulnerable borrowers. Overall, modifications of mortgage terms
to make loan payments more affordable for delinquent homeowners
were down by nearly 37 percent in the first quarter of 2012
compared to last year, according to the  Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency .  Of $22 billion in federal money allocated for lender
incentive payments under the Home Affordable Modification
Program, only $3 billion has been  spent  so far.  Some of the slowing may reflect good news: The nascent
housing recovery pushed the loan delinquency rate to 11.1
percent, the lowest level in three years, according to the OCC.
Still, the agency said in a recent report, much of the drop in
loan modifications may be happening “as servicers exhaust
alternatives to assist delinquent borrowers who have not already
been assisted.”  Unspent Funds  Meanwhile, the Obama administration also is now looking at
ways to encourage the use of unspent federal housing funds to
get around the FHFA’s objections to cutting principal balances.  California and  Nevada  are about to begin cutting debt on
loans backed by the government-sponsored enterprises using their
allocations from the Hardest Hit Fund, a $7.6 billion aid
program for families in states with the largest home-price
declines. Of that amount, only $351 million had been spent to
assist 43,580 homeowners by the end of June, according to a
recent audit.  Unlike the plan rejected by FHFA, which offered  Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac up to 63 cents for each dollar of principal
reduction, the California and Nevada programs will cover 100
percent of the potential costs to the government-sponsored
enterprises. The regulator has approved those plans.  Analysts say other states might be able to follow suit.  “Treasury has money that is meant to help homeowners, and
the money has not gotten out the door,” said Julia Gordon,
director of housing finance and policy at the Center for
American Progress, which last week put out a  paper  calling for
the Treasury to cover all the costs of debt reduction on Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac-backed loans. “DeMarco has not seen fit to
agree to do it one way, but that money should be spent to help
homeowners, and if it means offering the money in a different
amount or a different format, that should be done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  