-- MModal to Disclose Data to Settle Suits Over Acquisition
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-08-10T15:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/mmodal-to-disclose-data-to-settle-suits-over-acquisition.html
MModal Inc., a maker of medical-
transcription software, agreed to make more disclosures about a
$1.1 billion buyout offer by a unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to
settle investor lawsuits over the acquisition, according to
court filings.  MModal agreed to disclose more information about
projections used by the company’s financial advisers in
evaluating the fairness of the $14-a-share offer from JPMorgan’s
One Equity Partners to resolve the suits, Delaware Chancery
Court filings show. One Equity executives also agreed to extend
the tender deadline for MModal shares by one day to Aug. 14 as
part of the accord.  MModal shareholders and the companies were able to reach an
agreement that resolves “all claims relating to the merger
agreement,” according to an Aug. 8 filing. The accord still
needs a judge’s approval.  One Equity Partners, New York-based JPMorgan’s private
investment arm, agreed July 3 to pay the $14 a share in cash for
MModal, which amounted to an 8.3 percent premium for shares of
the maker of medical document-processing technology, MModal
officials said last month.  MModal investors argued in court filings last month the
company’s directors wrongfully rejected a $17-a-share offer from
 Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN) , its primary competitor. Burlington,
Massachusetts-based Nuance makes speech-recognition software.  ‘Flawed’ Process  David Levy , a spokesman for MModal, and Tasha Pelio, a
spokeswoman for One Equity, declined to comment on the
settlement today.  One Equity  manages about $11 billion of assets and has
invested about $9 billion since 2001 buying more than 60
companies across the chemicals, health care, technology, travel
and manufacturing industries, according to its website.  MModal has 12,000 employees in five countries, and more
than 140 patents and licenses for speech recognition and
understanding technology, according to its  website .  The company’s directors “breached their fiduciary duties
to MModal’s public shareholders by engaging in a flawed sales
process,” lawyers for unhappy MModal investors said in a July
24 court filing.  MModal shareholders who sued over the deal argued the
company wrongfully withheld  cash-flow  projections used by
Macquarie Group Ltd., a bank hired to evaluate the fairness of
One Equity’s offer.  Under the settlement, MModal filed disclosures with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission showing officials of
Macquarie,  Australia ’s biggest investment bank, used projections
about the software maker’s “unlevered free cash flow” through
2016 to scrutinize One Equity’s offer, according to court
filings.  The case is In re  MModal Inc. (MODL)  Shareholder Litigation,
CA7675, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  