-- Pakistan Unexpectedly Cuts Key Rate to 10.5% as Inflation Eases
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-08-10T19:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/pakistan-unexpectedly-cuts-key-rate-to-10-5-as-inflation-eases.html
Pakistan cut  interest rates  by a
greater-than-forecast 1.5 percentage points, seeking to bolster
faltering growth with the first reduction since 2011 after
inflation slowed to a more than two-year low.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan reduced the  discount rate  to
10.5 percent from 12 percent, Governor Yaseen Anwar told
reporters in Karachi yesterday. None of the eight economists in
a Bloomberg News survey predicted the outcome. Four expected a
cut to 11.5 percent, two to 11 percent and the rest no change.  Power blackouts and a slide in exports as global growth
slows have pressured an economy that needs to repay billions of
dollars to the  International Monetary Fund . The nation also
faces an insurgency on the Afghan border and instability from a
clash between the judiciary and the government that contributed
to a credit-rating downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service.  “Easing commodity prices and the soft outlook for
inflation made this decision likely,” said Ahsan Amir Ali,
analyst at ABL Asset Management Co. in Karachi. “But there are
still many risks for economic growth. The government may need to
apply for a new loan from the IMF soon.”  Pakistan  joins a wave of rate cuts in recent weeks from
 China  to  Brazil  to  Europe .  Consumer-price growth  eased to a 31-
month low of 9.6 percent in July, while remaining the fastest
after  India  and  Sri Lanka  in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Weak Economy’  “Inflation has moderated because of a weak economy,”
Anwar said yesterday. “There are still deep-rooted factors
driving inflation, but the outlook has improved with a full-year
projection of 10.5 percent.”  Risks such as the debt crisis in Europe, a key export
market, have sapped demand for Pakistan’s rupee, which is down
8.3 percent against the dollar in the past year.  Moody’s cut Pakistan’s rating deeper into junk status in
July, citing falling reserves and political instability. The
nation has to repay about $7.5 billion to the IMF from 2012 to
2015, with $1.2 billion of that amount handed over as of June,
it said.  The government and the IMF are likely to agree on a new
loan program in the next few months, said  Mustafa Pasha , a  fund
manager  at BMA Funds Ltd. in Karachi. One obstacle to the rapid
provision of aid may be the need to wait for the outcome of the
next general election, which is due by early 2013.  “The government is likely to increase political pressure
on the SBP to support the economy ahead of next year’s
election,” said London-based Sukhy Ubhi, an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd.  “We have penciled in another 100 basis
points of policy loosening this year.”  The administration estimates the economy probably expanded
3.7 percent in the fiscal year ended June 2012. It has a goal of
4.3 percent growth in the 12 months that began July 1, even as
power blackouts as long as 18 hours a day hamper businesses.  “The rate cut is encouraging for industry and may trigger
expansion and investment plans,” said Lahore-based Inayat Ullah Niazi, chief financial officer at D. G. Khan Cement Co. “I hope
inflation continues to cool.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi  at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  