-- Pentagon Envisions New Air Force One Presidential Jet
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-08-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/pentagon-envisions-new-air-force-one-presidential-jet.html
The president of the  United States 
may get a new  Air Force  One jetliner -- that is, whoever’s
president after the 2020 elections.  The Pentagon started a program yesterday to develop and buy
replacement presidential aircraft for use a decade from now.
Undersecretary of Defense for Acquisition Frank Kendall
authorized the Air Force to establish an office for the
replacement program, which includes new Marine One helicopters
available for use no earlier than 2020.  The first of two current  VC-25A  Boeing 747-200B aircraft
that serve as Air Force One entered service transporting
presidential parties in September 1990. The aircraft are
expected to have 30-year service lives, the Air Force said.  “Air Force One is one of the most recognizable symbols of
the presidency, spawning countless references not just in
American culture but across the world,” the White House says on
its  website .  Capable of refueling midair, Air Force One has unlimited
range and can carry the President wherever he needs to travel,
according to the White House. The on-board electronics are
hardened to protect against an electromagnetic pulse. Air Force
One is equipped with advanced secure communications equipment to
function as a mobile command center in the event of an attack on
the U.S., as well as a medical suite that can function as an
operating room.  Aircraft Makers  The first phase of the program will focus on completing a
market analysis and assessment of performance requirements for
the presidential transports, according to a defense official who
spoke yesterday on the condition he not be identified since the
decision memo hasn’t been released. These will be reviewed by
the Joint Chiefs of Staff formal requirements board.  The plan is good news for aircraft and engine makers such
as Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , Chicago-based
 Boeing Co. (BA) , and engine makers Fairfield, Connecticut-based
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and Hartford, Connecticut-based  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)   The Pentagon has budgeted $757 million through 2017 for the
first phase of the Air Force One replacement and $1.84 billion
for the helicopter replacement through 2017 and most of the
money would be spent after fiscal 2015, the official said.  The initial new Air Force One wouldn’t be delivered for
modification with specialized technology until 2019, according
to the Pentagon’s latest 30-year aviation plan.  A new presidential helicopter to replace the 35-year-old
models now in service wouldn’t be declared operational until
2020, followed by the new Air Force One aircraft in 2023, the
official said, citing a formal schedule.  Clear Need  Kendall directed the Air Force to create a plan that
anticipates releasing a request for proposals for the airplane
to  industry  in 2015 with the potential for a development
contract award in 2016, according to a summary of his
acquisition decision memo.  The Air Force analysis will form the basis for a decision
whether to buy sole-source from Boeing, maker of the current two
aircraft that comprise the presidential fleet, or open the
contest to competition, said the official. The documents didn’t
specify the number of aircraft that may be purchased.  In March 2010 House testimony, then-Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  acknowledged a need to replace the current Air
Force One fleet saying “there clearly is a need for a new
presidential aircraft.”  “We actually have some money in the budget, in 2011, to
begin looking at a new Air Force One,” Gates said. “That money
will clearly ramp up in the next few years, as we move in that
direction,”  Marine One  The Air Force on January 7, 2009 -- before Obama was
inaugurated --  announced  a market survey “to identify potential
sources that possess the expertise, capabilities and
experience” to develop and build an Air Force One replacement.
The survey said replacing the VC-25s with new airframes was
“the most cost-effective option” instead of modifying the
current aircraft.  The helicopter plan is the latest attempt to replace the
existing choppers since Gates terminated the then-VH-71 program
in 2009 because of cost growth and schedule delays after
Lockheed Martin won the program.  The VH-71 helicopter program when canceled was projected to
cost $13 billion, more than twice the original estimate of $6.1
billion. The most capable version of the aircraft to be
operational by December 2017 was running at least 24 months late
when terminated.  ‘Perfectly Adequate’  President  Barack Obama  in February 2009 called this program
“an example of the procurement process gone amok” and
suggested he didn’t need a new helicopter. The current version
of Marine One is “perfectly adequate,” he told a White House
summit on fiscal responsibility.  Kendall in his memo directed the Air Force begin detailed
planning for an acquisition strategy. The goal is potentially
releasing a request for proposals for the helicopter to industry
in fiscal 2013 and possible development contract in 2014. The
exact number of helicopters to be purchased hasn’t yet been
decided, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  