-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate as Inflation Seen Converging to Target
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-08-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-as-inflation-seen-converging-to-target.html
Peruvian policy makers declined to
follow Brazil’s lead in cutting  interest rates  yesterday and
kept borrowing costs unchanged for a 15th consecutive month as
they see inflation slowing to their target.  The board, led by bank President Julio Velarde, maintained
the key rate at 4.25 percent, matching the forecast of all 15
economists  surveyed by Bloomberg .  The Andean nation is growing at the fastest pace in  South
America  while boasting the lowest inflation rate behind  Chile 
and  Colombia . Still, inflation rates remain above the central
bank target range, giving policy makers little reason to ease
monetary policy, Hedmond Rios, an economist at Celfin Capital
SA, said by phone.  “The unfavorable climatic conditions in the main grain
producing countries have temporarily increased international
prices of these commodities,” the central bank said in a
 statement  accompanying yesterday’s decision. “Despite these
increases, a gradual convergence of inflation to the target
range is estimated for the remainder of the year.”  Peruvian annual  inflation  eased to 3.28 percent in July
from 4 percent the previous month and 4.14 percent in May. While
Velarde last month said inflation probably would drop below the
upper limit of the bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target in 2012,
this week he expressed concern that rising global grain prices
would pressure consumer prices.  Balancing Act  Bloomberg’s  commodity index , which calculates the mean of
indexes including energy, grain, food, precious metals and
livestock, has surged 8 percent since the start of June as grain
prices climb during a drought in the Midwestern U.S.  Inflation probably will end the year at 3 percent while an
increase in food prices threatens to have a greater impact next
year,  Roberto Flores , head of research of Inteligo SAB in Lima,
said by phone Aug 8.  “Right now inflation is converging gradually toward the
target range, meaning there is no reason for the central bank to
increase interest rates,” he said. “And it wouldn’t be
appropriate to stimulate the economy when internal demand
continues growing at high rates.”  Peru ’s economy  grew  6.5 percent in May from the same month
last year following a 4.4 percent expansion in April and 6
percent gain in the first  quarter . Its GDP will climb 5.7
percent in 2012, surpassing all other South American nations and
the Latin American average of 3.7 percent, the  United Nations ’
economic unit for the region said in June.  China, Asia  The economies of  Brazil  and Colombia, the only major Latin
American nations to cut their key lending rates in past
meetings, are showing signs of deceleration.  Brazil’s economy will fall short of the regional average
and expand 2.7 percent this year, according to UN forecasts,
while Colombia’s central bank last month lowered its 2012 growth
forecast to a range of 3 percent to 5 percent.  Like Peru’s policy makers, Chilean central bankers have
kept  borrowing costs  unchanged as inflation slows and economic
growth remained above the regional average at 6.2 percent in
June. Chile will keep its key rate unchanged at 5 percent at
next week’s meeting, according to all seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “Two countries that continue growing at notable rates in
terms of external trade are Peru and Chile,”  Banco Central  de
Chile President  Rodrigo Vergara  said in Santiago Aug. 7. “Both
countries have growing export markets in  China  and  Asia  in
general. You can say in general, the Pacific is doing well and
the Atlantic has more problems.”  Fiscal Stimulus  Still, Peru is starting to show signs of contagion from
China’s slowdown and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The world’s third-largest copper producer, which boosted
exports fivefold in the past decade, has seen overseas sales
decline from $4.61 billion last August to $3.57 billion in June
as a faltering global recovery curbed demand for copper. The
price of the metal fell 14 percent to $3.42 a pound yesterday
from last year.  Falling metal prices will trigger a decline in Peru’s
exports this year for the first time since 2009, the central
bank said in June. The government has responded by increasing
its fiscal stimulus program to the equivalent of 2.5 percent of
GDP.  “It wouldn’t be very wise for the central bank to cut
rates now given that there is a fiscal stimulus in place,” Rios
said. “A cut would just generate additional price pressures and
prevent inflation from converging to its target range.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net 
Alexander Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  