-- U.K.’s Prudential Says Low Interest Rates ‘Challenging’ Insurers
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-08-10T12:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/prudential-s-first-half-profit-rises-13-on-malaysia-indonesia.html
Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s biggest
insurer by market value, said record low  interest rates  aimed at
boosting global growth have created a “challenging”
environment for insurers.  Governments’ continued attempts to resurrect developed
economies by lowering borrowing costs is reducing the long-term
yield insurers earn from their invested assets and constraining
growth, Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam said today on a
conference call with reporters.  “The most significant headwind we have had to face in
recent times is clearly the current level of interest rates and
the shape of the yield curve,” Thiam said. “Prudential
benefits in that context from a few specific factors which have
allowed us to continue to grow, albeit more slowly in this
challenging environment.”  Prudential grew quicker and more profitably than U.K.
competitors, including  Aviva Plc (AV/) , in the first half because of
its businesses in Asia, where it’s the top seller of  life
insurance  in six of the 12 markets in which it operates. The
region contributes almost half its revenue. Still, record low
interest rates in  Europe  and the U.S. and monetary stimuli
elsewhere in the world make long-term profitability more
difficult, Thiam said today.  Not Immune  “We cannot claim to be immune from the challenging
macroeconomic environment in which we all operate,” Thiam said.
Demand for health insurance and income-protection products from
the growing middle classes of south-east Asia such as  Indonesia 
and Thailand and  baby boomers  retiring in the U.S. will help
offset the tough earnings environment, he said.  The stock declined 0.4 percent to 800.5 pence a share at
12:30 p.m. in London trading, valuing the firm at about 20.5
billion pounds ($32 billion).  Prudential today said first-half operating profit rose 13
percent to 1.16 billion pounds in the first six months of the
year, beating the 1.11 billion-pound  estimate  of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales in  Singapore  climbed 37 percent to
141 million pounds and by 30 percent in Indonesia to 206 million
pounds.  “This good news is already fully reflected in the share
price,”  Kevin Ryan , a London-based analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  with
a hold rating on the stock wrote in a note to clients today.  ‘On Track’  Prudential is the second-best performer of the  FTSE ASX
Life Insurance Index (FALIFE)  this year, rising 27 percent as it avoided
the European sovereign debt crisis by focusing on selling life
insurance in Asia. The insurer, which gets 80 percent of its
revenue from outside the U.K., is “on track” with its plan to
double 2009 Asia profit and boost cash generation by next year,
Thiam said.  Once Prudential meets these targets, it will have the
option to sell or spin off its various divisions, Thiam said in
March. Having that potential will help boost the company’s share
price even if it is not used, he said.  Prudential increased its first-half dividend 5.7 percent to
8.4 pence a share, matching the analysts’ estimate. Net income
increased 15 percent to 952 million pounds.  The company is considering a move into Burma and  Cambodia 
as those nations have the potential to increase gross domestic
product rapidly in the coming decade and their populations are
relatively under-insured compared to other Asian countries,
Thiam said.  Prudential this year threatened to quit the U.K. due to the
European Union’s Solvency II regulations, which it says overly
penalize European insurers with operations in the U.S. Thiam
said in March the new rules would leave the firm unable to
compete in the U.S. because it would be forced to hold extra
capital reserves.  For the past few months news from Brussels on Solvency II
has been “positive” and the U.K. authorities “seem to
indicate that we will get U.S. equivalence, which in our jargon
means we won’t have a problem with the U.S. business,” Thiam
said.  Hong Kong  would be an option to relocate to if the rules
didn’t work out as planned, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 