-- Putin, Medvedev Ratings Slide as Rift Threatens to Split Tandem
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-08-10T08:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/putin-medvedev-ratings-slide-as-rift-threatens-to-split-tandem.html
Approval ratings for President
 Vladimir Putin  and Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  have fallen to
their lowest since mass protests erupted last year, threatening
to further widen a rift between the two men.  Putin, 59, who pushed aside Medvedev, 46, to reclaim the
presidency this year, has the support of 44 percent of the
public while the prime minister’s has 39 percent, the Moscow-
based Public Opinion Foundation said on its  website . That’s the
lowest since December, when tens of thousands of people
protested against Putin and alleged fraud in legislative polls.  The Russian leader, who has been in power for 12 years,
publicly contradicted Medvedev this week by backing the
assertions of former generals that the younger man waited to
consult with Putin before launching military action against
 Georgia  in 2008. Medvedev served as president from 2008 until
May this year, while Putin kept the main levers of power as
prime minister.  Medvedev has said he may seek the presidency again when
Putin’s term ends, and he and his team are clashing with allies
of the president as they seek to cut defense spending and ease
state control of the  energy industry , said  Dmitry Oreshkin , a
Moscow-based independent political analyst.  “Putin feels under pressure politically and is turning to
the security establishment to shore up his position,” said
Oreshkin by phone today. “He may eventually get rid of
Medvedev, and for the time being he will limit his room for
maneuver and make him a figurehead prime minister with no
authority.”  Georgian Conflict  A documentary film called “ Lost Day ,” distributed on the
Internet, interviewed former military commanders, including the
ex-chief of the General Staff, Yury Baluyevsky, who asserted
that Medvedev delayed for one day in responding to a Georgian
attack on a Russian-backed breakaway region.  Putin told reporters two days ago that he had spoken twice
to Medvedev and the then defense minister in the space of 24
hours as the crisis unfolded between Aug. 7-8 of 2008, while he
was in Beijing to attend the Olympics. Medvedev yesterday said
he spoke to Putin only late on Aug. 8, 2008 after already taking
the decision to strike Georgia, according to  video comments 
posted on his Facebook page.  “Putin effectively has started a campaign to gradually
discredit Medvedev and make him appear weak while he himself is
portrayed as decisive and competent,” Oreshkin said.  Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said that there wasn’t
any disagreement between the president and the prime minister
and their so-called “tandem” wasn’t collapsing, according to
an interview published yesterday in the Izvestia newspaper.  Medvedev during his four-year presidency spoke out in favor
of greater civil liberties and democratic rights. Putin has
responded to the biggest unrest since he came to power in 2000
by cracking down on the opposition, prosecuting its leaders and
activists and tightening controls over the Internet and non-
government groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  