-- Ranchers Send Cows to Slaughter as Drought Sears Pasture
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-08-10T21:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/ranchers-send-cows-to-slaughter-as-u-s-drought-sears-pasture.html
The grass in Melvin Korte’s 280
acres of pasture in northern  Missouri  is dead, burnt away in the
worst drought in the Corn Belt in more than a half-century. Now
he’s doing all he can to keep his herd of 63 cattle alive.  He’s using up winter hay and buying feed at prices more
than a third higher than three months ago. Later this year, he
may bale the dead corn stalks from his neighbors’ fields for
feed. “There’s not much nutrition in it,” the 65-year-old
farmer says. “But it gets something in the animals’ stomachs.”  Feed-rationing may help Korte save two-thirds of his herd
as he and other cattle farmers struggle to feed animals grazing
on the brown and barren fields. Otherwise, “liquidation” is
the alternative. Without the government-backed insurance
available to corn and soybean farmers, cattle-producers may be
suffering the most under the drought, responding to higher costs
by sending cattle for slaughter early, with some eventually
selling their herds entirely.  “You tough it out,” said Korte, whose farm near
Curryville is about 70 miles northwest of St. Louis. “People
will be deciding how much they need to sell based on whether it
rains or not or if they can make it through the winter.”  Worst Pasture  Missouri, the  sixth-biggest  U.S. cattle producer, has the
nation’s worst-quality pasture, with  99 percent  in poor
condition or worse as of Aug. 5, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . The drought may further thin a
national herd that at the start of the year was the smallest
since 1952, even as meatpackers including  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and
Cargill Inc. boost short-term slaughter, adding to the beef
supply, said Bill Lapp, a former chief economist for  ConAgra
Foods Inc. (CAG)   Cattle prices gained about 8 percent since mid-June through
yesterday on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, as the drought
tightened its grip on the central U.S. Corn, the main ingredient
in livestock feed, surged 63 percent in the same period. Today,
the grain surged to a record $8.49 after the USDA cut its
estimate for the U.S. crop to a six-year low.  The Corn Belt just went through the third-driest June-July
period on record, according to the government.  As ranchers try to avoid the higher feed costs, they are
pushing younger cattle through the food chain faster. At the
Callaway Livestock Center in Kingdom City, about 100 miles west
of  St. Louis , animals normally sold at 700 pounds are coming to
market 100 pounds lighter, and up to twice as many are being
sold each week, said rancher Claude Niemeyer.  Feedlot Sales  Many of the cattle are going to feedlots that typically buy
year-old animals that weigh 500 pounds (227 kilograms) to 800
pounds, called feeders. They are fattened on corn for about four
to five months until they weigh about 1,200 pounds, when they
are sold to meatpackers.  Ranchers haven’t had much help from the heavens lately. In
July, the St. Louis area got only about 0.72 inches of rain,
less than a fifth of the normal amount, while the mean
temperature was 88.1 degrees Fahrenheit, about 10 percent higher
than the average, according to  National Weather Service  data.  The drought doesn’t just kill the grass heifers rely on to
grow, he said. The heat makes it difficult for cows to gain
weight, meaning producers need to supply more nutrition at the
same time their herds have lost their natural forage.  With everything brown but the weeds and rain the only hope
for rejuvenation, most area ranchers are hesitant to feed
animals any more grass, for fear that overgrazing will leave
them with nothing to grow back next year, Korte said.  Saving Hay  “If it rains, I can save hay for the winter, use the grass
for now and save all my cows,” Korte said. “If it doesn’t
rain, then I use my hay, and when winter comes, then what? I
need to sell more cows, and it can take a long time to build
back a herd.”  In the short term, what’s bad for ranchers may be good for
consumers. The increased sales of animals to slaughterhouses
will boost beef supplies and slow price increases at the
supermarket, Lapp said. The USDA last month lowered its forecast
for  beef-price inflation  for 2012 half a percentage point to 3.5
percent to 4.5 percent. For 2013, the expectation is a gain of
as much as 5 percent.  “Near term, there is an adequate supply of meat from all
species,”  Michael Martin , a spokesman for Minneapolis-based
Cargill, said in an e-mail. “As we move into 2013, the supply
of beef, in particular, could be constrained by the U.S. herd
being the smallest in 60 years.”  More Hamburger  More heifers and steers means more hamburger on shelves,
Lapp said. Still, when cows that could be bred instead are sold
for slaughter, the livestock herd contracts, contributing to a
long-term decline in numbers partly caused by consumers buying
less beef. The quality of meat shouldn’t be affected, he said.  “When you liquidate a cow, that’s the future of
livestock,” Lapp said. “How many cows end up sold for breeding
or sent for slaughter will be a key question.”  While many growers of corn and soybeans in the region will
be indemnified for their drought losses by government crop
insurance, livestock producers have no such recourse. Congress
left Washington for vacation last week without acting on a
drought-relief measure for ranchers.  Livestock Assistance  A livestock-assistance program in the current five-year
farm bill expired last year. The  U.S. Senate  and the House
Agriculture Committee have approved bills to replace the current
law which contain livestock relief provisions. House Republican
leaders have not set a vote on their legislation. Last week, the
House approved a $383 million stopgap measure to reinstate the
livestock aid, while the Senate took no action. The current farm
bill was passed in 2008 and expires in September.  President  Barack Obama  said Aug. 7 the administration will
provide $30 million to aid farmers and ranchers affected by the
drought.  “We are very limited in what we can do” because of the
congressional impasse, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said
today in an interview to be televised Aug. 12 on C-SPAN’s
“Newsmakers” program.  “The key issue for livestock is access to hay and grazing
opportunities,” he said, adding that the USDA is focusing its
response on opening conservation lands to grazing and helping
move water to parched herds.  Arthur Meyer, who raises Angus cattle and grows corn and
soybeans on his farm outside  Bowling Green , Missouri, said
federal aid to help defray higher feed costs would be helpful.
Still, he said he doesn’t expect Congress to do anything.  He’s planning to sell his calves in September, three months
early, as he runs out of the hay he normally feeds in winter
months and which is costing him twice as much as it did three
months ago.  “You can’t let them sit out there and not feed them
anything,” the 77-year-old farmer said. “They lose weight, and
now you’re going backward.”  Without rain, “I’m just going to have to bite the bullet,
cut my costs, and sell,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  