-- RBA Highlights Currency Risk as Growth Forecast Raised
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-10T02:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/rba-highlights-currency-risk-as-growth-forecast-raised.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  raised
its 2012 growth forecast on stronger-than-expected consumer
demand, while saying the sustained currency strength could prove
more of a drag on the economy than in the past.  “Important risks revolve around exchange-rate
developments,” the RBA  said  today in its quarterly monetary
policy statement. “It is possible that the persistently high
level of the exchange rate may be more contractionary for the
economy than historical relationships suggest.”  The so-called Aussie closed above parity with the  U.S.
dollar  for all but 23 days this year, remaining well above the
average 75 U.S. cents since the currency was freely floated in
December 1983. The RBA based its forecasts on an  exchange rate 
of $1.06, up from $1.03 in its May statement, and assumed the
overnight cash-rate target would remain at a developed-world
high of 3.5 percent.  “The exchange rate has been high for some time,” and its
elevated level is a key part of structural adjustment that the
economy is undergoing, the central bank said.  The Aussie traded at $1.0550 as of 12:18 p.m. in Sydney,
from $1.0580 in  New York  yesterday, when it reached $1.0613, the
strongest level since March 20. The local dollar has advanced
3.3 percent this year, making it the best performer after  New
Zealand ’s so-called kiwi among the Group of 10 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Upbeat’ Outlook  “It’s a more upbeat-looking statement on the growth
side,” said Ben Jarman, a Sydney-based economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. On the currency, “they’ve left the door open to say
we’re in unchartered territory here in terms of it staying so
high with such a weak global backdrop and with commodity
prices falling, and that kind of gives them an out if later on
it turns out things turn a bit weaker,” he said.  The RBA predicted average gross domestic product growth of
3.75 percent in 2012, stronger than its May estimate of 3
percent. Consumer prices will rise 2.25 percent in the year to
December, from a previous prediction of 2.5 percent; underlying
inflation is predicted at 2.5 percent from a previous 2.25
percent, the central bank said.  “The data currently suggest that growth in activity may
have been above trend over the first half of the year, led by
continued strength in resource investment, and, as measured, a
strong pickup in household consumption volumes,” the central
bank said.  Low Unemployment  Australia’s  unemployment rate  has remained in a range of 5
percent to 5.3 percent for the past 15 months. The economy added
jobs in four of the past five months and unemployment declined
to 5.2 percent in July from a revised 5.3 percent in the prior
month, a government report showed yesterday.  “Despite the recent improvement, employment growth in the
near term is expected to remain relatively modest as structural
adjustment and pressure to improve productivity in many parts of
the economy constrain firms’ ability and willingness to employ
more staff,” the RBA said. “With the unemployment rate
expected to edge higher in the near term, growth in the wage
price index is expected to remain contained.”  The central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total of 50
basis points late last year and a further 75 basis points in May
and June to help shield the economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis
and slower growth in  China . It held rates at its meetings in
July and earlier this week.  Monetary Stimulus  At the past two meetings, the RBA board saw “very early
signs of the effects of the easing of monetary policy.”  The central bank said inflation in the prices of
internationally traded goods, or tradable items, is forecast to
increase as the “lagged effect” from the earlier appreciation
of the exchange rate wanes. It said the impact of the
government’s carbon price on inflation will largely have passed
by late 2013 and recent announcements by state regulatory
authorities and energy retailers indicate that the increase in
household energy prices will be apparent in the September
quarter consumer price index.  Australia’s economy has benefited from high terms of trade,
or export prices relative to import prices, that rose to a
record in the third quarter of last year. Today’s report showed
the terms of trade declined last quarter to be 10 percent or
more lower than that peak.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  is managing an economy powered
by demand from emerging nations including China and  India  for
 iron ore , coal and natural gas. Chevron Corp., Royal Dutch Shell
Plc, Woodside Petroleum Ltd. and ConocoPhillips are among energy
companies spending $180 billion to explore and develop gas
fields in Australia.  Mining Boom  “While some resource companies have adopted a more
cautious approach to investment opportunities still under
consideration, but to which they are not yet committed, some
major projects have gained final approval over the past few
months,” the RBA said today. “Resource investment is expected
to decline gradually in the latter part of the forecast period.
The effect of this on GDP growth is expected to be roughly
offset by faster growth in resource exports.”  Signs are mounting that Australia’s household demand
strengthened in the first half of the year after retail sales in
June matched the biggest advance since April 2011.  Australian  house prices  unexpectedly rose in the three
months through June, ending five straight quarters of declines,
as the central bank’s 1.25 percentage points of interest-rate
cuts spurred buying.  Housing Revival  “There are signs that residential activity may start to
pick up some time in the second half of 2012,” the central bank
said. “Lower  interest rates , rising rental yields and
population growth are likely to provide support for new housing
construction.”  Traders are estimating a 40 percent chance Stevens will
reduce rates by a quarter point to 3.25 percent at the next
meeting in September, according to swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Australia’s economy will have to absorb the first reduction
in spending in at least 42 years as Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
ends four years of budget deficits. An expected moderation in
domestic demand in the second half of the year also reflects
“the impact of the government’s fiscal consolidation on public
demand, the RBA said.  China, Australia’s biggest trading partner, cut rates in
June and July, the first reductions since 2008, as economists
forecast its 2012 growth will be the slowest in 13 years.  The RBA said below-trend growth in Europe and the U.S.
appears to be damping expansions in much of  Asia , although in
China there are signs that economic growth may have stabilized
at a more sustainable pace of 7 percent to 8 percent.  ‘‘A key risk for Australia is the rate of growth in China,
which currently appears to have stabilized, but could be higher
or lower than expected given the challenges the authorities face
in keeping growth at a more sustainable rate in a rapidly
changing economy,” the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  