-- Ready Pac Apples Pulled From Shelves for Listeria Risk
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-08-10T20:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/ready-pac-apples-shipped-to-mcdonald-s-recalled-for-listeria-1-.html
Ready Pac Foods Inc. is recalling
apples shipped to 36 U.S. states for restaurants owned by
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and stores including Wegmans Food Markets Inc.
because of potential contamination from the bacterium listeria.  Ready Pac’s Missa Bay unit voluntarily recalled 293,488
cases and 296,224 individual packs of fruit, vegetable and
sandwich products containing the apples, according to a
 statement  today from the closely held company. No illnesses have
been reported, the Irwindale, California-based company said.  The apples are sold as slices at fast food restaurants
including  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  eateries as well as caramel
and peanut butter dippers at Wawa Inc. convenience stores, Ready
Pac said. The recall is being issued because listeria was found
on equipment used by Missa Bay.  McDonald’s stopped serving the apple products from the
Missa Bay facility and removed them from all restaurants and
distribution centers in “an abundance of caution,” according
to a company statement. The Oak Brook, Illinois-based company,
the world’s largest restaurant chain, said it hasn’t received
any reports of people getting sick from the products.  Listeria monocytogenes is an organism that can cause
serious or life-threatening illness. Symptoms may include fever,
muscle aches, nausea or diarrhea.  Ready Pac said the products containing the apples were
shipped to Alabama, Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida,
Georgia, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana,  Maine ,
Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri,
Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska,  New Hampshire , New Jersey, New
York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma,
Pennsylvania,  Rhode Island , South Carolina, South Dakota,
Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, Wisconsin and West Virginia. The
products were also being recalled in Washington, D.C.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  