-- Treasuries Gain, Snap 5-Day Loss, as China Export Growth Slumps
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-10T11:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/treasuries-gain-snap-5-day-loss-as-china-export-growth-slumps.html
Treasuries rose for the first time
in six days as a collapse in  China ’s export growth added to
signs the global economy is weakening and pushed investors
toward safer assets.  Benchmark  10-year yields  climbed above the rate of
inflation yesterday, luring investors seeking so-called positive
real yields. China’s exports increased 1 percent in July from
the year before, versus 11.3 percent in June, while French
industrial output stagnated, reports today showed. The  Federal
Reserve  will sell as much as $8 billion of short-maturity
Treasuries today as part of its Operation Twist program.  “Today’s move in Treasuries is all down to disappointment
over the Chinese data and worries about global growth,” said
 Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities
Ltd. in London. “The data is the primary driver today for
gilts, bunds and Treasuries.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  dropped four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.65 percent at 7:28 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625 percent
note due in August 2022 rose 13/32, or $4.06 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 26/32.  The 10-year yield climbed as high as 1.73 percent
yesterday, surpassing the 1.7 percent level of U.S. consumer-
price increases. Treasuries have lagged behind inflation for 14
months, leading  Bill Gross , who manages the world’s biggest bond
fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., to  say  it is a form
of “financial repression.”  Inflation Slows  U.S. consumer-price inflation slowed to 1.5 percent in July
from a year earlier, versus June’s 1.7 percent reading,
according to a Bloomberg survey before the Labor Department
report on Aug. 15. The figure would translate into a real yield
of 15 basis points, based on today’s 10-year rate. It was
negative 2.11 percentage points in October.  “The real  interest rate  is becoming more attractive,”
said Kazuaki Oh’e, a debt salesman at CIBC World Markets  Japan 
Inc.in  Tokyo . “The world economy is shrinking, and that means
investors would like to buy bonds.”  Signs of slowing economic
growth around the world are supporting bonds today, Oh’e said.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was
2.28 percentage points. The average over the past decade is 2.16
percentage points.  ‘Financial Repression’  Gross wrote in his July  outlook  that investors are in an
era where “negative real rates on Treasuries and its incumbent
financial repression dominate bond and asset markets.”  The 10-year yield may extend declines to test its 55-day
moving average of 1.57 percent, according to Commerzbank AG.  “It is even possible that the 1.44 percent current August
low and the 1.435 percent June trough are to be revisited before
the yield rises in earnest,” technical analysts including  Karen Jones  in London, wrote in a note.  Treasuries were still poised for a third weekly decline as
signs of improvement in the U.S. labor market increased demand
for higher-yielding assets.  The economy added 163,000 jobs in July, a government report
showed Aug. 3, more than the 100,000 projected by economists.
Initial claims for  unemployment insurance  unexpectedly dropped
by 6,000 to 361,000 last week, a report showed yesterday.  The benchmark 10-year yield has increased eight basis
points this week.  Debt Sales  Demand waned at sales of three-, 10- and 30-year Treasuries
this week. The 10-year auction on Aug. 8 drew  bids  for 2.49
times the amount of debt available, dropping from 3.61 at the
prior sale on July 11.  “Many investors saw the employment data and stopped
buying,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, who invests in Treasuries in
Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $41.9 billion and is part of Japan’s third-biggest
bank. “All three auctions were weak.”  Corporate bonds outperformed government debt as investors
sought higher yields.  U.S. government securities have returned 1.9 percent this
year as of yesterday, versus 7.7 percent for an index of
investment-grade and high-yield company debt, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD) 
of stocks handed investors a 10 percent gain including
reinvested dividends, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross cut the proportion of Treasury debt in Pimco’s $263
billion Total Return Fund to 33 percent of assets last month
from 35 percent in July, according to a report on the  Newport
Beach ,  California , company’s  website  yesterday. Mortgages
comprised 51 percent, from 52 percent. Holdings of bonds in
developed markets outside of the U.S. increased to 6 percent
from 5 percent.  The Fed plans to sell as much as $8 billion of notes due
from July 2013 to January 2014 today, according to the  website 
of its New York branch. The sales are part of the central bank’s
effort to support the economy by swapping shorter-term
Treasuries in its holdings for longer-maturity ones to cap long-
term borrowing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in  London  at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  