-- RIM, Mistras, Monster Beverage: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-10T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/rim-apple-mistras-monster-beverage-intellectual-property.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the
Canadian maker of BlackBerry devices, won a judge’s order
overturning a $147.2 million patent-infringement award to rival
MFormation Technologies Inc. RIM rose as much as 5 percent.  Jurors in federal court in  San Francisco  concluded in mid-
July that RIM software violated Edison, New Jersey-based
MFormation’s patent-protected inventions.  “There was no legally sufficient evidentiary basis” for
the jury’s findings, U.S. District Chief Judge James Ware wrote
in an Aug. 8 opinion.  MFormation, which makes mobile-device management software,
sued RIM in 2008, saying it misappropriated technology learned
during failed licensing discussions. RIM denied any wrongdoing.  “We appreciate the judge’s careful consideration of this
case,” said Steve Zipperstein, RIM’s chief legal officer, in a
statement yesterday.  MFormation spokeswoman Stephanie Markham didn’t immediately
respond to voice- and e-mail messages seeking comment on the
ruling.  RIM shares climbed 4.2 percent on Aug. 8 amid speculation
by a Jefferies & Co. analyst that Samsung Electronics Co. may
license the struggling BlackBerry maker’s new BlackBerry 10
software or consider buying the company.  RIM’s share of the worldwide smartphone market fell to 4.8
percent in the second quarter from 12 percent a year earlier as
Google Inc.’s Android operating system climbed to 68 percent and
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone slipped to 17 percent.  RIM is planning to release two new BB10 phones early next
year and try to claw back some of its lost market share.  The case is MFormation Technologies v. Research In Motion
Ltd., 08-04990, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  Apple Can Seek Appeal of Kodak Ruling on Imaging Patents  Apple Inc., which lost part of a court fight with  Eastman
Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  this month when a federal judge denied its ownership
claim of two digital image patents, can seek an appeal of his
decision, the judge said.  Bankrupt Kodak sued Apple in June, accusing the iPhone
maker of trying to disrupt an auction of more than 1,000 patents
that started Aug. 8. A judge in  Manhattan  ruled in favor of
Kodak on two of 10 patents claimed by Apple, which Kodak plans
to sell as part of its restructuring.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper told Apple in an Aug. 8
order that the company can ask for a review of the ruling before
it becomes final, initiating a so-called interlocutory appeal.
He declined to authorize an immediate appeal because federal
policy was against “piecemeal appeals.”  Apple was free to try to get a district judge to take the
case, he said.  In a letter to Gropper, Apple had asked him to facilitate
an immediate appeal.  “Apple believes it is in all of the parties’ interests to
resolve all potential appeals on these issues as soon as
possible,” the company said.  Apple has been trying to move the Kodak lawsuit from
 bankruptcy court  to U.S. District Court so another judge can
review the merits of its “inventorship and ownership claims,”
it has said.  It renewed its effort to move the case on Aug. 2, a day
after Gropper’s ruling in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan. It
might be “appropriate” if the judge’s order included a
qualification that his decision can be reviewed by a district
judge, Apple said.  In an Aug. 2 letter to U.S. District Judge George Daniels,
Apple noted that Gropper ruled against Kodak on eight of the 10
patents. Daniels invited Apple to come back to him after Gropper
had ruled on the case, according to the letter.  The Apple lawsuit is Eastman Kodak Co. v. Apple Inc., 12-
01720, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Mistras Defeats Trademark Infringement Suit by Sentinel  Mistras Group Inc. (MG) , a provider of technical services to the
 energy industry , turned back a trademark infringement suit
brought by a competitor.  Sentinel Integrity Solutions Inc. , based in Houston, sued
Princeton, New Jersey’s Mistras in federal court in Houston in
May 2012, claiming its “AIM” trademark was infringed.  Sentinel alleged that by Mistras’s use “AIM in its
promotional material, the public was confused and Sentinel was
harmed. The  Texas  company asked the court to order Mistras to
halt its alleged infringement and for awards of attorney fees,
litigation costs and both money damages and the profits Mistras
realized from its alleged infringement.  The court was not persuaded by the Sentinel arguments. In a
July 17 order, U.S. District Judge Gray H. Miller issued an
order affirming a jury verdict rendered in May. He entered a
judgment of noninfringement, and the cancellation of Sentinel’s
disputed mark, saying the jury found the mark to be “generic or
descriptive” and not entitled to protection under trademark
law.  He also said that as the prevailing party in the suit,
Mistras, is entitled to recover its “reasonable” costs
connected with the litigation.  Mistras was represented by  Ahmad Zavitsanos Anaipakos Alavi
& Mensing PC  of Houston.  The case is Sentinel Integrity Solutions Inc., v. Mistras
Group Inc., 4:10-cv-01576, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Monster Beverage Accused of Infringing Beastie Boys’ Copyrights  Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST) , maker of energy drinks and juice
cocktails, was sued for copyright infringement by a hip-hop
group.  In a complaint filed Aug. 8 in federal court in Manhattan,
the  Beastie Boys  accuse Corona, California-based Monster
Beverage of using their music without permission in several
promotional pieces including a video.  The group said its music is used in a video promoting
Monster’s “Ruckus in the Rockies 2012,” and that the video’s
text includes the group’s name and the professional name of its
lead performer, the late  Adam “MCA” Yauch .  Monster is also accused of creating a link to a
downloadable audio recording that uses a 23-minute medley of
excerpts from the group’s music. The video and some MP3 files of
 Beastie Boys  music was initially posted on the  monsterenergy.com 
website beginning in early May, the group said, and is also
cross-posted on several commercial websites.  Beastie Boys said it is hurt by Monster Beverage’s actions,
which it calls both intentional and willful. The group also
accuses the beverage company of infringing its trademarks and of
violating the civil rights of the individual Beastie Boys
members.  The group asked the court to bar further infringement of
its copyrights and trademarks, and for removal of its music from
any place Monster has stored it. Additionally, it seeks money
damages and asked that they be tripled to punish Monster
Beverages for its actions.  Beastie Boys also seeks awards for triple the profits
Monster has realized from its alleged infringement.  Monster didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the suit.  Beastie Boys is represented by Theodore C. Max and Kenneth
B. Anderson of Los Angeles-based Sheppard, Mullin, Richter &
Hampton LLP.  The case is Beastie Boys v. Monster Energy Corp., 1:12-cv-
06065, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Aussies Turn to Legos in End Run Around IOC Copyright Rules  The  Australian Broadcast Corp. ,  Australia ’s national
broadcast system, found a way to step around the organizing
committee of the London Olympics strict control over use of
content from the games.  In a  video  posted on Google Inc.’s YouTube video-sharing
site, ABC broadcasters reenacted the winning performance of
Aussie hurdler Sally Pearson by using figures constructed from
blocks made by Lego A/S.  One of the broadcasters said in the video “I am so sick of
running these still pictures” instead of videos of the event.  Under  rules  adopted in August 2011 by the  International
Olympic Committee , broadcast of the games “is subject to and
protected by full IOC copyright.”  Media groups that haven’t been granted rights by the IOC to
broadcast the games in a particular territory are limited to a
maximum of six minutes of broadcast per day, all in the context
of news coverage, and no more than two minutes of Olympic
content can be used in any one news program.  News coverage of any particular event is limited to the
lesser of one third of that event or 30 seconds, according to
the rules. Content can’t be aired until three hours after it is
first show by the local rights-holding broadcaster.  The ABC video of the hurdles event includes Lego figured
representing spectators, and an enactment of the awards
ceremony. The video closes with one of the commentators saying
that ABC was looking forward to the following day’s events
“which we will also not be able to show you.”  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Hyosung Corp. Claims Energy Trade Secrets Leaked to Competitor  Hyosung Corp. (004800) , a chemical and trading company based in
 Seoul , has accused a maker of power-transmission components of
trade secret misappropriation,  according to the Korea Times .  The newspaper reported that four former Hyosang executives
who went to work for  LSIS Co.  of Anyang,  Korea , have been
questioned by Seoul Metropolitan Police in connection with  trade
secrets  related to high-voltage direct-current transmission
technology.  Hyosung has claimed the technology, which permits better
control over power flow than existing alternative current
technology used in power transmission, is worth billions of
dollars, the newspaper reports.  LSIS declined to comment to the Korea Times, which reported
the company is gearing up for a protracted legal fight over the
disputed technology.  LSIS didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment on the report after regular business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 