-- Roche’s Lucentis Wins Backing to Treat Diabetic Blindness
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-08-10T16:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/roche-s-lucentis-wins-backing-to-treat-diabetic-blindness.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Lucentis won
wider U.S. approval to treat a leading cause of vision loss
associated with diabetes.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the monthly
injection for diabetic macular edema, the agency said today in a
statement. Lucentis is the first approved drug to treat the
condition. More than 500,000 people in the U.S. have diabetic
macular edema, Anthony Adamis, vice president and global head of
ophthalmology at the Genentech unit of Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche, said in a telephone interview.  In addition to Roche’s Lucentis, Tarrytown, New York-based
 Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  is studying its drug, Eylea, for
the condition. Lucentis and Eylea are approved to treat a
similar disease called wet age-related macular edema that tends
to affect people older than 60. Eylea can be used half as often
and doctors also may use a cheaper cancer drug from Roche to
treat the macular edema.  “Diabetes is a major public health issue in our country,
and all patients with diabetes are at risk of developing
diabetic macular edema,” said Renata Albrecht, director of the
Division of Transplant and Ophthalmology Products in FDA’s
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. “Today’s approval
represents a major development for the treatment of people whose
vision is impaired by DME as a complication of their disease.”  Drug Sales  Lucentis generated  $1.7 billion  last year for Roche, the
world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. sales of the drug declined by 5
percent in the first half of this year to 745 million Swiss
francs ($802 million) compared with 2011, Roche said in its 2012
half-year  report . Regeneron’s Eylea was approved in November and
it can be used every eight weeks instead of monthly, as Lucentis
is prescribed.  Alimera Sciences Inc. (ALIM) , based in Alpharetta,  Georgia , and
 Psivida Corp. (PSDV)  also are developing a diabetic macular edema
treatment known as Iluvien. The FDA has twice rejected Iluvien,
most recently in November.  Studies found that 34 percent to 45 percent of those
treated monthly with 0.3 milligrams of Lucentis gained at least
three lines of vision on an eye chart over two years compared
with 12 percent to 18 percent of patients who didn’t receive an
injection, the FDA said. A 0.3 milligram-dose will cost $1,170,
Terence Hurley, a spokesman for Roche’s Genentech unit, said in
an e-mail.  Current Treatment  The existing option for U.S. patients is laser therapy.
Patients who received the monthly injection also were
significantly more likely than those who received fake doses of
the drug to achieve 20/40 vision, which is required for a
driver’s license.  Lucentis and Eylea are drugs known as anti-vascular
endothelial growth factors. Doctors also often use Roche’s
cancer drug Avastin, also an anti-VEGF treatment, for wet age-
related macular edema. Lucentis can cost 40 times as much as
Avastin, making the cancer drug an attractive alternative,
though its repackaging for the eye disease was linked in
September 2011 to eye infections, some of which resulted in
blindness.  Medicare payment advisers determined in March that anti-
VEGF treatments improve health outcomes for diabetic macular
edema patients and said they didn’t have enough evidence to
judge among the drugs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  