-- Romania’s Inflation Quickens More Than Forecast on Leu, Harvest
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-08-10T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/romania-s-inflation-quickens-more-than-forecast-on-leu-harvest.html
Romania ’s  inflation  accelerated in
July more than economists estimated as a prolonged drought and a
weaker currency boosted prices.  The inflation rate rose to 3 percent, the second increase
this year, the Bucharest-based  National Statistics Institute 
said today by e-mail. The figure exceeded the 2.7 percent median
estimate of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Consumer
prices rose 0.6 percent in the month.  The Bucharest-based central bank kept its inflation
forecast for this year at 3.2 percent on Aug. 6 as it lacked
enough data on crops damaged by drought to incorporate in its
outlook. Governor Mugur Isarescu warned that inflation may speed
up as political turmoil pushed the leu to record lows and meager
harvest may boost food prices.  Inflation will remain within the central bank’s target band
of between 2 percent and 4 percent, Isarescu said.  Food prices rose 1.2 percent in July from a year earlier,
compared with a 0.9 percent drop in June, the institute said.
Price growth for non-food items quickened to 3.4 percent from a
year earlier, compared with 3 percent in June.  Service-price growth slowed to 5.7 percent from a year ago
from 5.8 percent in the previous month, the institute said.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei left its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged at a record-low 5.25 percent for a third
consecutive meeting on Aug. 2 as political wrangling that led to
the president’s suspension and sank the leu to an all-time low
outweighed concern about a deepening recession.  Growth Forecast  The government cut a forecast for economic growth this year
to 1.2 percent from a previous estimate of 1.5 percent because
of lower agriculture output, Prime Minister Victor Ponta said
yesterday.  Industrial output rose a seasonally adjusted 1.4 percent in
June from a year earlier, after it declined 0.2 percent in May,
the Statistics Institute said today in a separate release.
Output shrank 0.4 percent on the month.  The leu, the world’s second-worst performing currency after
the Sudanese pound according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
weakened to a record-low 4.6520 per euro on Aug. 3. It rebounded
1.7 percent this week and traded at 4.5444 at 9:20 a.m. in
Bucharest today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  