-- Romney Gets Welfare Politics Right as Ad Misses on Facts
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-08-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/romney-gets-welfare-politics-right-as-ad-misses-on-facts.html
Mitt Romney ’s claim that President
 Barack Obama  has quietly gutted the nation’s welfare overhaul
may be a political winner with some voters.  Yet it’s an assertion that is at odds with the views of
policy experts, the Republican governor who suggested the idea
of more flexible rules, and former President  Bill Clinton , who
signed the landmark 1996 welfare reform into law.  In a new advertisement and on the campaign trail, Romney,
the Republican presidential candidate, is criticizing an
administration  memo  that would relieve states of federal welfare
work quotas if they can present alternatives for moving more of
the record number of impoverished Americans into permanent jobs.  Romney’s  ad  says that under the rule, “you wouldn’t have
to work and wouldn’t have to train for a job,” a claim rejected
even by some members of his own party.  “People who didn’t know the details might be likely to
believe it,” said  Ron Haskins , a Republican and onetime
legislative aide who helped draft the welfare law. Even so,
“this could be a very effective thing for Romney to do.”  The line of attack speaks to concern among white working
class voters, a crucial constituency for Romney, as well as
independents that the government is catering to the highest and
lowest rungs of society at their expense, said Larry Jacobs, a
political science professor at the  University of Minnesota .  It also involves welfare-to-work requirements that enjoy
broad public support and plays into a Romney campaign charge
that Obama wants to promote a culture of dependence.  ‘Big-Spending Liberal’  “It creates an episode that vividly demonstrates the
Republican criticism of Obama as a big-spending liberal,” said
Jacobs, adding that any detailed rebuttal by the administration
wouldn’t be as potent. “It’s going to take you five or six
paragraphs to neutralize a one-sentence attack ad.”  The White House called the ad “categorically false.”  The 1996 law, enacted by Democrat Clinton and a Republican-
controlled Congress, imposed time limits and work rules on
recipients. It also capped the amount of federal money sent to
states, meaning it was no longer an open-ended entitlement
available for as long as recipients are in need.  The welfare rolls plunged. An average of 4.4 million people
received assistance in 2011, a drop of more than two-thirds
since 1993, according to government statistics. Federal  funding 
for the program has been held to about $16.5 billion a year
since 1997.  Surging Poverty  Still, the program captures only a small share of the 46.2
million people the Census Bureau says were living in poverty in
2010. And in no state are benefits enough to push recipients to
more than half the poverty line, according to a November  report 
by the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities  in  Washington ,
which advocates for policies to assist the poor.  The Obama administration said it’s willing to give states
more latitude over the program to help them steer welfare
recipients into the workforce even as the U.S.  unemployment  rate
has been above 8 percent for 42 straight months.  Under the law, states are required to ensure that welfare
recipients engage in federally defined work activities and can
lose money if they fall short of targets. There are limits to
how much of that time can be devoted to activities such as
training or education aimed at helping people land jobs.  In the July 12 memo, the  U.S. Department of Health  and
Human Services said it would waive the requirements if states
can propose more effective ways to place recipients in jobs. The
waivers could be rescinded if the strategies aren’t working.  ‘Stifle Innovation’  George Sheldon, the department’s acting assistant
secretary, said in the memo that state officials had complained
that the rules “stifle innovation and focus attention on
paperwork rather than helping parents find jobs.”  Utah Governor Gary Herbert said he only wanted more
flexibility to shepherd residents into jobs. And in a letter a
year ago, the administration of Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval,
another Republican, expressed interest in being allowed more
freedom to “increase the probability of families becoming self-
sufficient.”  Romney says Obama has other motives. In the 30-second  ad 
released by the campaign this week, he said the administration
is dismantling work requirements established under the law.  The White House denied that, saying that to be granted a
waiver, states must submit proposals that increase the number of
people moving from welfare to work by 20 percent.  No Incentive  Haskins, the former Republican adviser who is now a senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington, said it’s
“implausible” to think Obama is trying to allow welfare
recipients to collect checks without pursuing work.  States, he said, have no incentive to keep more people on
welfare because the funding is capped. He said it would also be
politically foolish for Obama to try to scrap provisions of the
law during a re-election campaign.  “I do not believe the administration is using this to
bring more people onto the welfare rolls,” he said. “The
American public thinks people should work.”  Clinton released a statement calling the ad untrue and
“especially disappointing” because, as governor of
 Massachusetts , Romney had sought a waiver.  In 2005, Romney joined with 28 other governors to urge
Congress to give them more flexibility to run welfare. In 2007,
the  National Governors Association  complained of burdensome
rules tied to the program.  Defending the Ad  Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul, in an interview with  CNN 
this week, defended the ad, saying if the administration had no
interest in eliminating work requirements it wouldn’t have
opened the door to that.  “President Obama has been a vocal opponent of President
Clinton’s bipartisan reform in the ’90s,” Saul said. “It
should really come as no surprise that this would be something
he would want to do.” She said Romney in 2005 was interested in
more freedom, not weakening work requirements.  Robert Rector, a fellow at the Republican-leaning Heritage
Foundation, said the law already allows sufficient flexibility
and that Obama is trying to give states the tools to evade work
requirements. “They’re not trustworthy,” he said of the
administration. “It’s designed to game the system.”  Clinton used the 1996 law to help rehabilitate the
 Democratic Party ’s image after his failed push for a universal
health-care plan and his party’s 1994 election defeat in which
it lost control of the U.S. House for the first time in four
decades.  ‘A Reformer’  “It cemented his image as a moderate, as a reformer,”
said  Karlyn Bowman , a public opinion analyst at the  American
Enterprise Institute  in Washington, which supports limited
government.  What the law didn’t do was address the  poverty rate .  “The expectation was people would leave welfare, get
better paying jobs and be in a better spot, and that’s not
what’s happened,” said Jacobs.  The poverty rate in 2010 was 15.1 percent, the highest
since 1993, and the 46.2 million Americans living in poverty
that year was the most in the 52 years the Census Bureau has
been making such estimates. In a majority of states, the
benefits are less than 30 percent of the poverty line, which in
2011 was $18,530 for a family of three, according to the Center
on Budget and Policy Priorities.  ‘Laughable’  “To say that there is a culture of dependency -- if it
wasn’t so serious -- it would be laughable,” said Peter Edelman, a Georgetown University Law School professor who
resigned as assistant secretary of Clinton’s Health and Human
Services Department to protest the 1996 law. “We don’t even
have welfare anymore in most of the country.”  Romney is betting that his charge will resonate. “We will
end a culture of dependency and restore a culture of good, hard
work,” he told voters in  Illinois  this week.  The campaign dispatched former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ,
who helped usher the 1996 reforms into law, to reinforce the
theme by saying Obama’s administration has increased the number
of Americans on  food stamps . In 2008, the government spent $37.6
billion providing food stamps to 28 million people. In 2011, it
spent $75.6 billion on 44.7 million people.  Still, even Gingrich acknowledged in an Aug. 8 interview on
CNN that “we have no proof today” work requirements will be
dropped. “If the ad makers have asked me, I would have said,
‘this makes it possible,’” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tackett at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net  