-- Romney Bus Tour Charts Course for Battlegrounds Obama Won
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-08-10T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/romney-bus-tour-charts-course-for-battlegrounds-obama-won.html
Mitt Romney , trailing in the latest
national polls as the presidential campaign enters a critical
phase, boards a bus tomorrow for a four-state swing aimed at
taking the fight directly into areas  Barack Obama  won in 2008.  The states --  Virginia , North Carolina,  Florida  and  Ohio  --
all present strong opportunities for the former Massachusetts
governor,  Eric Fehrnstrom , a Romney senior adviser, told
reporters at the campaign’s Boston headquarters today.  “Even though his team is pouring tons of resources into
these states, the bad economy continues to hang over Obama like
a dark cloud,” he said. Romney will highlight his goals for a
“stronger middle class” and focus on the work of small
business owners, getting tough on trade issues with China, and
repealing Obama’s health-care law, Fehrnstrom said as the
candidate worked at his headquarters, remaining out of sight
most of the day.  The bus trip, which starts in Norfolk, Virginia, marks
Romney’s most intense effort at retail campaigning since his
last major bus trip in June, which ended in his native Michigan.
The presumptive Republican presidential nominee continues to
trail Obama in most national polls. A CNN poll released
yesterday showed the president ahead of Romney 52 percent to 45
percent in a survey of registered voters.  Favorability Split  Romney was rated favorably by 47 percent and unfavorably by
48 percent of those polled. Obama was viewed favorably by 56
percent with 42 percent rating him unfavorably. The poll of 911
registered voters had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5
percentage points.  Of the 14 media markets the bus tour plans to visit, Obama
won 12, according to Romney’s campaign. The two exceptions are
Mooresville,  North Carolina , and  St. Augustine , Florida. Other
stops include Ashland and Manassas in Virginia; Charlotte, High
Point and Raleigh in North Carolina; Orlando, Miami and Ft.
Lauderdale in Florida; and Beallsville, Zanesville and
Chillicothe in Ohio.  The cumulative number of electoral votes in the four states
on the bus tour is 75.  Virginia, which has 13 electoral votes, gave Obama 52.6
percent of its votes in 2008, closest to his nationwide total of
52.9 percent. He was the first Democrat in 44 years to carry the
state.  Smallest Margin  North Carolina, with 15, made Obama the first Democrat
since 1976 to win its electoral votes; his margin of victory of
three-tenths of one percentage point was the smallest in the 28
states he carried.  Florida’s 29 votes reflect that it is the most populous
swing state, tied with Democratic  New York  as the third-largest
Electoral College prize behind only Democratic California’s 55
votes and Republican Texas’ 38.  And Ohio, with 18, has a reputation for backing the
nationwide winner, siding with the victor in 12 consecutive
elections starting in 1964. The average vote in Ohio over the
past three presidential elections has been 49.2 percent
Republican and 48.9 percent Democratic, the closest of the 50
states.  They are also among the markets being most heavily
saturated by advertising from both sides.  Fehrnstrom criticized an ad from a pro-Obama super-
political action committee that attacks Romney for actions by
Bain Capital LLC, the Boston-based private-equity firm he
headed. The Priorities USA Action spot links the closing of a
Bain-owned plant to the loss of a worker’s health insurance and
the death of his wife from cancer.  Ad Challenged  Romney left Bain before the plant closed and the man’s
wife, who died five years later, had kept her own job and health
insurance for a period of time after her husband lost his,
according to a Washington Post fact-check that gave the ad
“four Pinocchios,” its worst rating for truthfulness.  “They have gone from what started out as petty distortions
and untruths to unbelievable exaggerations that diminish the
office of the president and insult the American people,”
Fehrnstrom said. “Obama has squandered what has always been one
of his key attributes: that he was a different kind of
politician who was going to take us to a better place.”  Several of Romney’s potential running mates come from
states he will be visiting on the tour, including Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and  Rob Portman  of Ohio. Also under
consideration is former Governor  Tim Pawlenty  of Minnesota, a
state that hasn’t backed a Republican for president since
 Richard Nixon  in 1972.  Phone App  Beth Myers, who is leading the search for a running mate,
was seen today exiting a sport-utility vehicle with Romney and
boarding the campaign plane for the flight to North Carolina.  Fehrnstrom offered no guidance on whether the bus trip’s
schedule was flexible enough for the addition of a rollout of a
running mate. He told reporters to download the campaign’s
smart-phone application if they wanted to learn the news first,
although he declined to answer a question on whether the
campaign has taken protections against it being hacked with
incorrect information.  Recent vice presidential picks have tended to be announced
just before or after a weekend. The choices of Barack Obama and
 John McCain  were revealed on Fridays. The news of running mates
for  Al Gore  and  George W. Bush  leaked out on Mondays. And  John Kerry  announced  John Edwards  on a Tuesday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  