-- Romney’s Campaign Seeks to Keep his Vice Presidential Buzz Alive
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-08-10T04:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/romney-s-campaign-seeks-to-keep-his-vice-presidential-buzz-alive.html
The vice presidential choices of
 Barack Obama  and  John McCain  were revealed on Fridays. The news
of running mates for  Al Gore  and  George W. Bush  leaked out on
Mondays. And  John Kerry  announced  John Edwards  on a Tuesday.  As  Mitt Romney ’s decision nears, the speculation grows as
well. His campaign is doing everything it can to keep the hype
alive, deploying a smart-phone application and putting out a
stream of fundraising appeals tied to the announcement.  In an e-mail to supporters yesterday,  Ann Romney , the
candidate’s wife, wrote, “In just a few short hours one lucky
supporter will win the remarkable opportunity to meet Mitt and
his VP pick in person.”  Left unsaid was just when the actual announcement might
come. Romney had little more to say on the topic yesterday
beyond telling NBC News in an interview that he wants a running
mate with “a vision for the country that adds something to the
political discourse about the direction of the country.”  The 65-year-old former Massachusetts governor spent much of
the day raising money in the New York City area before flying to
Boston to spend the night. He has no planned public events today
as he prepares for a bus tour through battleground states that
starts tomorrow in Virginia.  Several of Romney’s potential running mates come from
states he will be visiting on the tour, including Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and  Rob Portman  of Ohio. Also under
consideration is former Governor  Tim Pawlenty  of Minnesota, a
state that hasn’t backed a Republican for president since
 Richard Nixon  in 1972.  Swing States  Obama is tending to the swing states as well, and his
campaign is shadowing the Republican candidate through Virginia,
 North Carolina , Florida and Ohio with a new advertisement
attacking Romney on his taxes.  Romney, a former private equity executive whose fortune is
estimated at about $250 million, has refused to release more
than two years of tax returns. In an Aug. 7 interview with
Bloomberg Businessweek, he said he shouldn’t have to provide
more details of his finances for public vetting.  “I’m not a business,” Romney said.  Romney’s 2010 return showed he received $21.66 million in
income and paid an effective tax rate of 13.9 percent, largely
due to preferential treatment of  capital gains  and dividends.  Paying Taxes  The latest Obama campaign ad raises questions about how
much Romney has paid over the last decade in federal income
taxes, and accuses him of having “personally approved” a
complex tax-avoidance maneuver as a director on the board of
hotel operator Marriott International Inc.  In 1994, while Romney headed the  audit committee , Marriott
used a tax shelter known to attorneys by its nickname: Son of
BOSS. A federal appeals court invalidated the ploy in 2009.  “These questions are especially relevant given voters’
heightened attention in this election to the fate of their own
tax rates, and the central role tax reform will play in the next
administration,”  Ben LaBolt , an Obama campaign spokesman, said
in a statement.  Amanda Henneberg, a Romney campaign spokeswoman, called the
ad “another dishonorable and dishonest attack.”  “Since President Obama can’t run on record unemployment,
falling incomes and massive debt, he has decided to run a dirty
campaign that is an affront to everything he claims to stand
for,” Henneberg said in a statement.  Another Angle  Campaigning yesterday in Colorado, Obama, 51, hit Romney on
taxes from another angle, repeating his accusation that Romney’s
policies would favor the wealthy over middle-income Americans
and big  oil companies  over alternative energy.  Romney and Republicans in Congress believe that, “if we
give these big tax cuts to folks who don’t need them and are
doing really well and we let corporations run roughshod, even if
they’re not doing the right thing, that somehow that’s going to
lead to jobs and prosperity for everybody,” Obama said in
Pueblo.  Obama highlighted his administration’s bailout of U.S.
automakers  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, saying it
brought the industry “roaring back.”  “I want to do the same with manufacturing jobs,” he said,
adding that Romney would have let the  auto industry  go bankrupt
while subsidizing “an oil industry that’s already making a lot
of profits.”  Diverting Attention  Romney’s campaign says Obama is highlighting taxes to
divert attention from the sluggish recovery and an  unemployment
rate  that has remained above 8 percent for more than three
years.  Speaking to donors in Manhattan yesterday, Romney said the
election could set the course of American history “perhaps for
the entire century.” Should Obama win, Romney said America’s
future would be “one of continued decline.”  He compared the situation to the struggling Japanese
economy of the 1990s.  “We are not Japan,” Romney said. “We are not going to be
a nation that suffers in decline and stress for a decade.”  Woody Johnson, the owner of the New York Jets football team
and head of Romney’s fundraising in the New York region, told
about 600 donors that the campaign is about “halfway” through
its fundraising goals for the region.  “This is a little bit like chopping wood,” he said. “You
look over at your pile and you can actually see how it looks.”  Romney raised about $5 million during a two-day swing
through New Jersey and New York,  Spencer Zwick , Romney’s finance
director, told donors yesterday.  Obama continues to lead Romney in most national polls. A
CNN poll released yesterday showed the incumbent ahead of Romney
52 percent to 45 percent in a survey of registered voters.
Romney was rated favorably by 47 percent and unfavorably by 48
percent of those polled. Obama was viewed favorably by 56
percent with 42 percent rating him unfavorably.  The poll of 911 registered voters had a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in New York at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Pueblo, Colorado at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  