-- Ruble Falls Most in a Week Versus Dollar After Rates Held
-- B y   B r a d   C o o k   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-08-10T16:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/ruble-falls-most-in-two-weeks-versus-dollar-after-rates-held.html
The ruble depreciated the most in
more than a week against the dollar as oil declined and  Russia ’s
central bank left its main  interest rates  unchanged for the
eighth month.  The Russian currency weakened as much as 1 percent after
Bank Rossii decided to leave rates unchanged, and traded 0.5
percent lower at 31.8275 at the close in Moscow. The ruble fell
0.4 percent versus the euro to 39.1841.  Russia is the only major emerging economy that hasn’t
lowered borrowing costs this year. Policy makers left
refinancing, repo and deposit rates unchanged at 8 percent, 5.25
percent and 4 percent respectively today, Bank Rossii said in an
e-mailed statement. Oil, the country’s main export, slid as a
collapse in  China ’s export growth added to signs of global
economic weakening.  “The probability of a correction is considerable at the
moment,” said Nikolay Podguzov, fixed-income strategist at VTB
Capital, in a research note. “Hedging strategies aimed at
protecting against risks of higher ruble volatility could be
useful at the moment.”  Crude for September delivery dropped as much as 1.8 percent
to $91.71 a barrel in  New York .  Investor increased bets on further ruble weakening, with
non-deliverable forwards showing the currency retreating to
32.3415 in three months, compared with 32.2015 per dollar
yesterday.  Russian economic growth fell to the slowest pace in a year
in the second quarter as weaker growth in China and  Europe ’s
debt crisis curbed demand for its commodities exports, the
Federal Statistics Service reported today. Gross domestic
product rose 4 percent from a year earlier, the weakest pace
since the same quarter of 2011 and down from 4.9 percent in the
January-March period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brad Cook in Moscow at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  