-- Rupee Completes Best Week Since June on Optimism of Deficit Cuts
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-08-10T12:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/rupee-set-for-best-week-since-july-on-optimism-of-deficit-curbs.html
India ’s rupee completed its biggest
weekly gain since June amid optimism the nation’s new finance
minister will announce measures to narrow the  budget deficit  and
attract investment.  Palaniappan Chidambaram, in his first speech after taking
office, said Aug. 6 that he will unveil steps to improve public
finances and clarify tax laws. Disinvestment Secretary Mohammad
Haleem Khan said Aug. 8 the government may start its asset-sale
program next month to increase revenue. The currency was also
strengthened by speculation that global central banks will take
steps such as debt purchases to spur growth.  “A lot in India’s trajectory will depend on how the new
finance minister will improve investors’ confidence,” Sergey
Dergachev, who helps manage $8.5 billion in emerging-market
funds at Union Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt , said in an
e-mail. “I see some scope for improvement.”  The rupee advanced 0.9 percent this week to 55.2850 per
dollar in Mumbai, the biggest gain since the five days through
June 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was little
changed today. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at
10.20 percent. The gauge fell 110 basis points, or 1.10
percentage point, this week.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  backed the  European Central
Bank ’s bond-buying plan, her spokesman Georg Streiter said Aug.
6. A government report yesterday showed India’s  industrial
production  in June unexpectedly contracted 1.8 percent from a
year earlier, adding to signs of faltering growth in  Asia ’s
third-largest economy.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 56.37 per
dollar, compared with 56.33 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were unchanged at 56.25. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  