-- Rupiah Drops as Europe Crisis, Global Slowdown Deter Risk-Taking
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-08-10T08:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/rupiah-drops-as-europe-crisis-global-slowdown-deter-risk-taking.html
Indonesia’s rupiah and government
bonds dropped this week as concern that Europe’s debt crisis
will worsen and global growth is slowing damped demand for
riskier assets.  The situation in Europe, a fragile recovery in the U.S.,
and declining exports have put pressure on the rupiah,  Bank
Indonesia  said yesterday after it kept its key  interest rate 
unchanged for a sixth month at a record low of 5.75 percent.
Foreign funds were net sellers of Indonesian  debt  in the first
two days of the week, finance ministry data show. The  European
Central Bank  may intervene in bond markets in tandem with
Europe’s rescue fund to tackle the debt crisis, President  Mario
Draghi  said last week.  “It’s still a risk-off environment,” said Putu Andi Wijaya,
a foreign-exchange dealer at PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia in Jakarta.
“The ECB has been talking for a while but there’s no real
action.”  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent this week and today to 9,479
per dollar as of 3:34 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility,
which measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
steady at 7.50 percent today and for the week.  The central bank said yesterday it was concerned about the
current-account deficit due to slowing exports and rising
imports. Indonesia may report its first full-year current-
account shortfall since the Asian financial crisis in 1997-98,
according to DBS Group Holdings Ltd.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, this week to 5.74
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield was steady
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  