-- Russia Holds Rates for Eighth Month as Inflation Quickens
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-08-10T11:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/russia-holds-rates-for-eighth-month-as-inflation-quickens.html
Russia ’s central bank refrained from
raising borrowing costs for an eighth month even as inflation
accelerated, saying higher interbank rates were already subduing
lending growth.  Bank Rossii’s main  refinancing rate  was left at 8 percent,
a quarter-point above the record low, the Moscow-based central
bank said in a statement on its website today. The decision was
predicted by 18 of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The
overnight auction-based repurchase  rate  was kept at 5.25 percent
and the overnight deposit  rate  will stay at 4 percent.  Russia, the only major emerging economy that hasn’t lowered
borrowing costs in 2012, is weighing tighter monetary policy as
consumer-price growth nears the 6 percent top end of Bank
Rossii’s target range for the year. Inflation quickened to 5.7
percent as of Aug. 6 on an annual basis, the fastest pace since
December, the bank said today.  “The best option would be to stay cautious in terms of
monetary policy,”  Piotr Matys , a London-based economist at
4Cast Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “The economy is
doing rather well so far this year but there’s lots of downside
risk stemming from offshore factors.”  The ruble extended losses against the dollar after the
decision and was 0.8 percent weaker at 31.9275 at 1:52 p.m. in
Moscow. Russia’s sovereign ruble-denominated debt due in July
2015 fell, sending the yield up seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 7.32 percent.  Missing Hint  Policy makers dropped wording used in last month’s
statement that money-market rates were at an acceptable level
for the “nearest future.” In every other decision on rates
this year, the bank had said interbank borrowing costs were at
an acceptable level for the coming months.  The move opens the way for policy makers to raise rates by
a quarter point in September when the annual inflation figure
may breach the central bank’s target and exceed 6 percent,
Vladimir Kolychev and Vladimir Tsibanov, analysts at OAO
 Rosbank (ROSB) , said in an e-mailed note.  Bank Rossii said in the statement that economic output was
close to its potential, meaning prices weren’t being driven
upward by demand. The current unemployment and retail lending
trends will support domestic demand, while policy makers said
slower industrial growth doesn’t appear to pose risks to the
economy.  China ’s “very disappointing trade balance” and Russia’s
narrower trade surplus in June show that slower global growth
could hurt the economy by eroding demand for exported
commodities, 4Cast’s Matys said.  Slowing Growth  Russia’s economy probably grew 4 percent in the second
quarter, down from 4.9 percent in the first three months of the
year, according to the median estimate of 18 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The Moscow-based Federal Statistics Service
will report the number today at 4 p.m.  The central bank held its key rates “based on an
assessment of inflation risks and the prospects for economic
growth, taking into account the continued uncertain external
economic situation as well as tighter monetary conditions in the
economy.”  The  three-month MosPrime  rate, which the biggest Moscow
banks say they charge one another for loans, peaked at 7.31
percent this month, the highest level since 2009. The rate may
ease 22 basis points in the next three months, according to
forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg.  Bank Rossii has left borrowing costs unchanged since
December, when it lowered the refinancing rate by a quarter-
point and raised the deposit rate by the same amount.  Food, Utilities  Consumer-price growth  accelerated to 5.6 percent in July
from a year earlier, the fastest this year and up from 4.3
percent in June. The increase was driven by the government’s
decision to delay annual increases of utility costs to July 1 as
well as by rising food prices.  Droughts that damaged crops from the U.S. to Russia helped
drive up global food costs 6.2 percent last month, the most
since 2009 in July, according to the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agricultural Organization.  “Worsening conditions on the global and Russian food
markets, as well as forecasts for the main agricultural crops
this year, are a significant source of inflation risks,” policy
makers said in the statement.  After a similar global food-price shock in 2010, policy
makers began raising borrowing costs in February 2011 amid signs
domestic demand was improving, Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief
economist at Otkritie Capital in Moscow, said in a note to
clients yesterday.  “A persistent 30 percent increase in wheat prices could
add around 1.5 percentage points to headline inflation in 2012,
with a subsequent increase later in 2013,” Tikhomirov said.
“The question is what the central bank will do to maintain its
credibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  