-- Russia’s Economy Expanded 4% in Second Quarter, Slowest in Year
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-08-10T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/russia-s-economy-expanded-4-in-second-quarter-slowest-in-year.html
Russia ’s  economic expansion  eased in
the second quarter to the slowest pace in a year as weaker
growth in  China  and  Europe ’s debt crisis curbed demand for its
commodities exports.  Gross domestic product rose 4 percent from a year earlier,
the weakest pace since the same quarter of 2011 and down from
4.9 percent in the January-March period, the Federal Statistics
Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed statement. That
matched the  median estimate  of 18 economists in a Bloomberg
survey, with forecasts ranging from 3.6 percent to 5.6 percent.  Russia is relying on domestic demand to propel expansion as
the debt crisis in Europe and slowing growth in China sap demand
for raw materials. The central bank today remained on the
sidelines of a global round of monetary stimulus, saying slower
industrial growth posed no risk to the broader economy.  “A slowdown in the second quarter and further in the
second half is certainly on the cards,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief
economist for Russia and  Kazakhstan  at ING Groep NV in Moscow,
said before the release. The contribution of foreign sales to
economic growth “looks less certain with exports hit by
faltering demand from the EU.”  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks has gained 2.1 percent this
year, lagging behind the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s advance
of 6.5 percent. The ruble-denominated benchmark gauge traded
down 1.7 percent, the most since July 23, to 1,431.72 as of 3:06
p.m. in Moscow.  Euro Crisis  The European Union, which accounts for 49 percent of
Russian trade, is battling to stanch a debt crisis that’s
threatening to trigger another global slowdown. Euro-area GDP
will probably drop 0.3 percent this year before rising 1 percent
in 2013, the European Commission said May 11.  Russia’s  trade surplus  narrowed in June to the smallest
since November 2010 as exports shrank to $40.8 billion, down
from $45.2 billion in May, the central bank said today.  Economic growth in China, Russia’s largest single trade
partner, eased to 7.6 percent last quarter, the weakest level in
three years, lowering demand for imports such as metals. Chinese
export growth fell to 1 percent in July, missing all 30
estimates in a Bloomberg survey, the customs bureau said today
in Beijing.  Russian industry growth decelerated to 1.9 percent in June
from 3.7 percent the previous month, easing more than economists
forecast. Fixed-capital investment rose 4.7 percent, down from
7.7 percent.  Stronger Currency  “Industry has continued to slow -- this probably reflects
troubles in European export markets, but may also be due to a
strong ruble,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging markets economist
for  Capital Economics  in  London , said before the release.  OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel (MNOD) , Russia’s largest miner, reduced
second-quarter output of nickel by 8 percent from a quarter
earlier, the company said in a July 30 statement. U.S.
steelmaker Alcoa predicted last month that growth would be
slower in Russia as European demand remains uncertain and prices
are low.  Accelerating wage growth, slowing unemployment and consumer
optimism at the highest level in almost four years are driving
private spending, which accounts for half of Russia’s economy.  While “consumption growth is not slowing dramatically,
current growth isn’t enough to boost the second-quarter GDP
figure,” Vladimir Miklashevsky, an economist at Danske Bank A/S
in Helsinki, said by e-mail. “We don’t expect any acceleration
in consumption growth as inflation is speeding up.”  Consumer prices grew at the fastest rate this year in July,
accelerating 5.6 percent from 4.3 percent the previous month,
near the top end of the central bank’s target range of 5 percent
to 6 percent.  Standing Apart  The world’s biggest energy exporter is the last major
emerging economy to keep borrowing costs unchanged this year.
The central bank left the refinancing rate unchanged today at 8
percent, holding it a quarter-point above the record low since
December.  Bank Rossii highlighted “significant” inflation risks
from a weaker harvest and higher interbank rates that constrain
lending growth. The bank dropped wording from last month’s
statement that money market rates were at an acceptable level
for the “nearest future.”  The government may revise up this year’s economic-growth
projection to 3.8 percent to 4 percent, more than the previous
3.4 percent forecast, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said July
20. GDP grew 3.9 percent in the second quarter, the ministry
estimated last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  