-- Russia Stocks Fall Most in Week as Crude Drops on China Exports
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-08-10T16:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/russia-stocks-fall-most-in-week-as-crude-drops-on-china-exports.html
Russian stocks  fell the most in more
than a week as oil, the country’s main export, declined after
Chinese export growth slowed. The benchmark gauge kept losses
after the central bank left its key rates on hold.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 1 percent to 1,441.59 by the close
in Moscow, paring its second weekly gain to 1.5 percent. OAO
Novatek, Russia’s second-biggest gas producer, slid 2.3 percent,
while OAO Federal Grid Co. declined 3.3 percent.  Oil in  New York  slid as much as 1.8 percent to $91.71 a
barrel as a collapse in China’s export growth added to signs the
global economy is weakening. Russia is the only major emerging
economy that hasn’t lowered borrowing costs this year. Policy
makers today decided to leave the refinancing, repo and deposit
rates unchanged at 8 percent, 5.25 percent and 4 percent
respectively, Bank Rossii said in an e-mailed statement.  “China’s export growth was close to zero in July,
confirming the negative trends in the global economy,” VTB
Capital analysts wrote in an e-mailed note today.  OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest oil producer, lost 0.9
percent to 200.6 rubles while OAO Gazprom, the natural gas
export monopoly, retreated 0.8 percent to 153.79 rubles.  The Micex trades at 5.3 times  estimated earnings  and has
increased 3 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has added
6.7 percent this year.  “Russian equities remain cheap, but with Brent at $112 a
barrel and the expectation of a slowing economy in the second
half, it is difficult to see further catalysts,” Peter Szopo,
head of research at  Alfa Bank , wrote in e-mailed comments today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in  St. Petersburg  at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  