-- Samsung, Siemens’ Osram Settle Global LED Patent Fight
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-08-10T19:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/samsung-siemens-osram-settle-global-led-patent-fight-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Siemens
AG’s (SIE)  Osram unit have reached a global settlement of their patent
fights over light-emitting diode technology, according to a
filing with a U.S. trade agency.  Financial details weren’t made public in the filing dated
yesterday with the U.S. International Trade Commission in
Washington. The settlement ends a case that Samsung filed
against Osram and that was scheduled for trial at the agency on
Aug. 13. Osram’s case against Samsung went to trial last month,
and the judge was expected to release his findings in October.  The settlement agreement covers those cases and “other
legal proceedings throughout the world between Samsung and Osram
involving LED technology,” the filing said. The companies have
been fighting in  Germany ,  South Korea  and the U.S. over
technology that is transforming how lighting works in homes,
businesses, cars and electronics.  “We can confirm that we reached a settlement with
Samsung,” Stefan Schmidt, an Osram spokesman, said in a
statement. “Following the agreement, we do not comment on the
details of the settlement. Osram feels comfortable with the
reached agreement.”  LEDs, which reduce power consumption and can last decades,
are being used more frequently in products like street lights
and commercial lighting. Companies are trying to find ways to
lower the cost of the LEDs so they can better compete in the
home lighting market against traditional  light bulbs  or compact
fluorescent bulbs.  Thin TVs  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, the world’s largest maker
of televisions, memory chips and smartphones, is planning to
start selling televisions using organic light-emitting diodes in
the second half of this year. The OLEDs enable TVs to be as thin
as a tablet computer.  Osram is the world’s second-largest lighting company,
behind Royal Philips Electronics NV, and Munich-based Siemens is
considering spinning the company off next year so it can better
capture growth in the LED market.  The ITC cases are In the Matter of Light-Emitting Diodes
and Products Containing Same, 337-798 and 337-785, both U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  