-- SAP’s Chen Challenges Oracle, IBM With Database Advances
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-08-10T14:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/sap-s-chen-challenges-oracle-ibm-with-database-advances.html
SAP AG (SAP) , chasing  Oracle (ORCL)  Corp. and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in the $26.7 billion
database market, is betting on new product features to gain
ground, said the man who helped build the company’s arsenal.  The largest maker of business-management software has a
realistic chance of overtaking IBM in database revenue in the
next three years as it wins customers with new applications,
integration with mobile and real-time technology, and lower
prices, said John Chen, head of Sybase, the database and mobile-
software maker that SAP bought for $5.8 billion in 2010.  SAP’s push into  database software  opens up a battlefield
with archrival Oracle and is giving the Walldorf, Germany-based
company a fresh source of revenue growth. To become a longer-
term threat to its bigger rivals, SAP also needs to plan for
advances further out, such as self-correction mechanisms or
built-in security layers, Chen said.  “I used to run an underdog for a long time, and I never
underestimate competitors,” Chen said in a phone interview on
Aug. 7. “We seem to have something that could mesh well
together. But I would be stupid if I thought that three years
from now the same story holds, without any additions, without
some new features or architecture that we could put in.”  Chen, a Hong Kong native who has run Sybase since 1998, has
served on  George W. Bush ’s export council and is also a board
member at  Wells Fargo & Co . and Walt Disney Co. At SAP, one of
Chen’s challenges is to outsmart Oracle, which currently
provides most of the databases that feed SAP’s  software  for
running tasks like customer management, payroll and accounting.  Not Easy  “They have lofty ambitions, but since they have a good set
of products why shouldn’t they beat their drum?” said Heinz Steffen, an analyst at Fairesearch in Kronberg near Frankfurt,
who advises buying SAP shares. “The fact that they depend on
Oracle databases for most of their installations has been
nagging them for a long time.”  SAP last year severed a partnership with Dayton, Ohio-based
 Teradata Corp. (TDC)  on data warehousing, as it aims to provide more
underlying databases itself. The German company also has to
displace  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. in that market. That’s not easy because
clients have to be convinced that replacing a functioning
database is worth the effort, Chen said.  Market Share  Oracle held 44 percent of the database market last year,
followed by IBM at 22 percent, Microsoft at 18 percent, SAP at
4.1 percent and Teradata with 3.3 percent, according to Gartner
Inc. The market is set to grow an average 6.4 percent a year to
$36.5 billion by 2016 as companies require more storage for and
better access to data, from customer contact information to
videos, the research firm predicts.  SAP shares had gained 29 percent this year before today,
exceeding a 22 percent gain for Oracle and a 7.9 percent
increase at IBM. SAP declined 1.5 percent to 51.79 euros at 4:11
p.m. in  Frankfurt . Oracle slipped 0.2 percent in  New York , while
IBM was down 0.4 percent.  SAP is growing faster than the market by linking Sybase’s
database tools with other software in its portfolio, Chen said.
It’s rolling out its Hana software, which allows faster
transaction and analysis because it lets data bypass slow hard
drives. Sybase’s mobile technology gives employees access to
data even when they’re traveling.  Mars Rover  “We’ll have plenty of opportunities to replace
databases,” Chen said. “It’s not going to replace the one that
they’re running, one for one. It’s to enhance that one and then
maybe surround and finally eliminate it.”  One innovation would be integrating security software into
databases that would help keep out most viruses and trojans, he
said. Data security is one of the main risks companies face, as
focused hackers can potentially breach any external security
barriers physically or via the Internet.  Chen, who is also a trustee at the  California Institute of
Technology , said he took inspiration for future database
technology this month from seeing Nasa’s Curiosity rover touch
down safely in a crater of Mars. A Caltech division designed,
developed and assembled the rover.  Chen said he was impressed by the machine’s self-correcting
functions, which continuously assessed environmental features
like the crater depth and the particularities of the landing
site. It needed such mechanisms because commands from Earth
would arrive minutes too late for them to have any effect.  By contrast, today’s databases suffer problems that result
from commands and queries coming in simultaneously, creating
irregularities in the data which the software cannot resolve by
itself, Chen said.  “If you apply that concept to commercial data management,
you should have a concept that could heal itself,” he said.
“I’d love to work on those.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  