-- Sex Crazed Wolf, Moody Cow Spark ‘Into the Woods’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/sex-crazed-wolf-moody-cow-spark-into-the-woods-review.html
The first words sung in “ Into the
Woods ” are “I wish.”  I wish everyone could experience this exquisitely revived
fractured fairy tale, on a balmy summer night in the bosky
surround of Central Park’s  Delacorte Theater .  Director Timothy Sheader first staged this production
outdoors in  London  after rethinking the 1987 Stephen Sondheim/James Lapine musical.  They’ve added a better framing device and turned an elegiac
musical into something sharper and more updated, the Grimm
brothers as reimagined by the characters from “Doonesbury.”  And yet little of the show’s transcendent power and
dreamlike moodiness have been sacrificed. Notwithstanding some
odd casting choices, the overall effect remains that of a
child’s compendium refracted through the grown-up filters of
memory, experience and regret.  John Lee Beatty and Soutra Gilmour’s arboreal set, with
winding stairs and an owl’s nest for Rapunzel’s aerie seems to
have sprouted directly from the surrounding environs. In the
woods, the Baker (Denis O’Hare, plaintive and appealing) and his
wife ( Amy Adams , looking oddly as though she’d wandered in from
a Henry James novel and singing somewhat perfunctorily)
encounter the Witch (Donna Murphy).  Broken Spell  She tells them that to break the spell that has kept them
childless, they must bring her “the cow as white as milk, the
cape as red as blood, the hair as yellow as corn and the slipper
as pure as gold.”  This leads inevitably to encounters with, and among, Little
Red Ridinghood, Rapunzel, Jack of beanstalk fame, Cinderella and
various princes, step-relatives, the Wolf, a mysterious old man
and, in a fleeting cameo, three little pigs.  Not to mention a Giant, whose appearance is a thrilling
coup-de-theatre. When she snarls and roars, it’s the voice of
 Glenn Close  in her best Cruella De Vil mode.  The lascivious Wolf (Ivan Hernandez, campily smarmy) woos
Red while telling us that “there’s no possible way to describe
what you feel/When you’re talking to your meal.”  But she’s not such a naif and Sarah Stiles, in a red
bicycle helmet, denim shorts and crimson cowboy boots, is at
once terrified and mesmerized by him.  After their unmistakably carnal encounter, she sings, in
one of the show’s most haunting songs, that “we wait in the
dark until someone sets us free...and I know things now, many
valuable things that I hadn’t known before.”  The story is narrated by a boy (the wonderful Noah
Radcliffe the night I saw it, alternating with Jack Broderick).
Chip Zien, a member of the original Broadway cast, returns here
as the mysterious old man. Jack is winningly played by Gideon
Glick, as is his mother, by Kristine Zbornik.  Donna Murphy  At the center of it all is the Witch. Murphy is a sensuous
soprano with the high cheekbones and almond eyes of a Broadway
vamp. But Sondheim likes her wrapped in gnarly twigs, draped in
tangled dreadlocks that look like home to vermin and appended
with spiny fingers you don’t want to be anywhere near.  At least she doesn’t have a giant faux mole, which was the
salient facial feature of her homely Fosca in Sondheim and
Lapine’s “ Passion .”  The star does finally get to shed the threads and look
soignee as she leads the ensemble in a reprise of “Children
Will Listen” (“careful the things you say”), a song that
informs every minute, and every detail, of this captivating
production. And she belts the show-stopping “Last Midnight”
over the turreted towers along  Central Park  West in the
distance.  Sheader and co-director Liam Steel fill the vast set with
action while never losing focus on the story. They push the
loss-of-innocence theme, borrowing from B-movies, video games
and pop psychology in ways that are entertaining and build in
velocity.  Emily Rebholz’s brilliant costumes and the extraordinary
palette of Ben Stanton’s lighting all do some heavy lifting in
creating atmosphere while keeping every character distinct.  Music direction and orchestrations are in the secure hands
of Sondheim masters Paul Gemignani and Jonathan Tunick,
respectively.  Special mention must go to Rachael Canning’s puppetry, for
there can never have been so anthropomorphically moving a Milky
White as the sad, responsive cow Jack tugs around the stage, nor
so comically scary a giant, with her rhinestone specs and
menacing fingers made of red-tipped garden shovels.  The soul of “Into the Woods” is its incomparable score,
in which the ballads have the propulsion of patter songs and the
patter songs are imbued with a torchy sense of loss. These
characters may have sprung from tales meant for children, but
their songs of experience are wholly adult.  Through Sept. 1 at the  Delacorte Theater ; enter Central
Park at E.79th St. or W. 81st St. Information: +1-212-539-8750;
 http://www.shakespeareinthepark.org . Rating: *****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on movies and  Zinta
Lundborg  on  New York  weekend.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 