-- Singapore’s Economy Contracts Less Than Initially Estimated
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-08-10T01:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/singapore-economy-contracts-as-pressure-gains-for-policy-easing.html
Singapore ’s economy shrank less than
initially estimated last quarter as pharmaceutical output
countered declining electronics manufacturing, even as the
faltering outlook led the government to cut growth forecasts.  Gross domestic product  fell an annualized 0.7 percent in
the second quarter from the previous three months, when it
expanded a revised 9.5 percent, the Trade Ministry said in a
statement today. That compares with a July preliminary estimate
of a 1.1 percent contraction and the median prediction of a 0.5
percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 11 economists.  The Singapore government this week trimmed its prediction
for 2012 growth to 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent, from an earlier
forecast for an expansion of as much as 3 percent. Policy makers
across the world are girding for a deeper slowdown from Europe’s
sovereign-debt turmoil, with Asian central banks from  China  to
 South Korea  and the  Philippines  cutting  interest rates  last
month, putting pressure on Singapore to ease monetary policy.  “There is some risk of a technical recession,” said Kit Wei Zheng, a Singapore-based economist at Citigroup Inc. “With
GDP probably weaker than the central bank’s expectations in
April, there’s room to calibrate monetary policy settings but
this is a close call. It very much depends on growth and
inflation data in the third quarter.”  The island’s currency was little changed at S$1.2448 per
 U.S. dollar  as of 9:06 a.m. local time, after rising as much as
0.2 percent earlier. It has gained more than 4 percent this year,
the second-best performer among the 11 most-traded Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Export Gains  Non-oil domestic exports will probably rise 4 percent to 5
percent in 2012, the trade promotion agency said in a statement
today, from a previous projection for shipments to grow 3
percent to 5 percent.  The central bank said in April it would allow faster gains
in its currency to damp price pressures, diverging from most
other regional economies that had left borrowing costs unchanged
or eased monetary policy. Inflation has accelerated, fueled by
rising housing and private transportation costs.  Singapore’s monetary policy stance is appropriate “as it
stands now,” central bank Deputy Managing Director Ong Chong Tee
told reporters in a briefing in the city state today. Consumer-
price gains will ease in the second half, he said. The island
isn’t likely to experience a technical recession in the third
quarter, Ow Foong Pheng, an official at the Trade Ministry, said
at the same briefing.  Outlook ’Choppy’  “The second half will be choppy for Singapore as the U.S.
faces fiscal headwinds,  Europe ’s recession deepens, and China
slows down,” Chua Hak Bin, an economist in Singapore at Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch division, said before the report.
“Domestic demand is sufficient to keep the economy afloat and
Singapore will avoid going into a recession but given the growth
risks, we think the central bank could normalize and ease” its
monetary policy stance, he said.  The monetary authority last month estimated consumer-price
gains will average 4 percent to 4.5 percent this year, compared
with the 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent range it forecast previously.  Singapore guides the local dollar against a basket of
currencies within an undisclosed band and adjusts the pace of
appreciation or depreciation by changing the slope, width and
center of the band. The Monetary Authority of Singapore releases
its next policy review in October.  Manufacturing Expansion  The economy expanded 2 percent from a year earlier, faster
than a July estimate of 1.9 percent and lower than the median
forecast of 2.2 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  Temasek Holdings Pte, the state-owned  investment company ,
said last month profit declined 16 percent in the fiscal year
through March as contributions from units fell amid the global
slowdown.  Manufacturing grew 4.5 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, more than the preliminary estimate of 3 percent.
Construction grew a revised 5.3 percent, while services climbed
a revised 0.8 percent.  Singapore’s growth may fall below 1 percent should the U.S.
and Chinese economies slump and the European crisis worsen
significantly, the central bank said July 25. The island,
located at the southern end of the 600-mile (965-kilometer)
Malacca Strait and home to one of the busiest container ports,
remains vulnerable to fluctuations in overseas orders even as
the government boosts financial services and tourism.  “There continues to be uncertainties and downside risks,”
the Trade Ministry said in a statement today. “Global economic
conditions are expected to remain subdued in the second half of
the year. Given the macroeconomic backdrop, the growth outlook
for the Singapore economy remains cautious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  