-- Slovak Lawmakers Back Pension Change to Narrow Budget Deficit
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-08-10T08:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/slovak-lawmakers-back-pension-change-to-narrow-budget-deficit.html
Slovakia’s parliament approved
changes to the pension system designed to help trim the budget
deficit below the European Union limit next year.  Lawmakers today in Bratislava, the Slovak capital, voted to
cut the amount of pension contributions channeled to private
asset managers to 4 percent of wages from the current 9 percent.
The change will boost annual revenue of the state-run welfare
system by about 500 million euros ($614 million), the Labor
Ministry estimated.  “The move will help address immediate fiscal needs, but it
hurts sustainability of the pension system in a long run,” said
Juraj Valachy, an economist at  Tatra Banka AS (TAT)  in Bratislava.
“The government is aware that these days investors don’t
tolerate any budget overshooting and the pension change with
other measures already approved or in the pipeline should be
enough to meet the budget targets.”  Prime Minister  Robert Fico  is seeking to insulate the
country, which adopted the euro in 2009, from the euro region’s
debt crisis at a time when the economy is slowing. The measure
is a key element of the government’s plan to garner about 2
billion euros in spending cuts and additional revenue by next
year to cut the budget  deficit  below the EU limit of 3 percent
of gross domestic product.  Growth in the export-oriented east European economy is set
to  slow  to 2.5 percent this year from 3.3 percent in 2011 as
export demand wanes. By focusing on pension changes and tax
increases for companies and wealthy individuals, Fico, in power
since April, is seeking to balance the need for austerity
measures with his pre-election pledge to insulate most citizens
from their impact.  The cut in contributions to private funds takes effect next
month as the government strives to ensure that the 2012 deficit
target of 4.6 percent of GDP is achieved. Today’s bill also
limits annual increases in pensions and automatically extends
the  retirement age  to reflect rising life expectancy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  