-- South Korea’s Lee Visits Islets at Center of Japan Dispute
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-08-10T10:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/south-korea-s-lee-to-visit-islands-at-center-of-japan-dispute.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
visited a group of rocky islets today at the center of a dispute
with  Japan , drawing condemnation from the Japanese government.  Lee arrived at around 1:45 p.m. local time to tour the
area, said Chung Young Mo, an official at the Ulleung County
office that administers the islets, becoming the first South
Korean president to make such a visit. Japan recalled its
ambassador to South Korea and summoned the South Korean envoy in
 Tokyo  to lodge a protest.  Tensions over the islets, known as Takeshima in Japanese
and Dokdo in Korean, have damaged ties between  Asia ’s second and
fourth-largest economies. South Korea has bolstered its claims
by stationing coast guard officers there year-round and by
building an offshore research center nearby.  “Takeshima is our territory and today’s visit is
unacceptable,” Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told
reporters today in Tokyo. “I have made efforts with President
Lee to build a forward-looking relationship and in that context
this is extremely regrettable.”  Today’s visit is aimed at improving the standing of Lee and
his New Frontier Party ahead of presidential elections in
December, said Kuni Miyake, research director at the Canon
Institute for Global Studies in Tokyo. Lee, who can’t run for
re-election, has seen his approval rating drop by more than 50
percent since taking office.  “He is in trouble politically and he has to do some kind
of political performance to prove his competence and also for
the future candidate from his party,” Miyake said.  Gas Reserves  The rocks lie 87 kilometers (54 miles) east from the
closest South Korean territory, Ulleung Island, and 158
kilometers from the nearest Japanese land. The area lies in
fishing grounds that have natural gas reserves and may have oil,
according to a South Korean government  website .  South Korea  last year said it will spend 400 billion won
($355 million) building a breakwater, a power plant, an
underwater observatory and a tunnel on the islets beginning in
2013. The dispute almost provoked a clash in April 2006, when
South Korean gunboats went on alert to block a planned Japanese
Coast Guard survey.  Lee’s visit comes six weeks after South Korea postponed an
agreement with Japan to share military intelligence hours before
it was to be signed because of opposition over the deal with the
country’s former colonial occupier. Along with the territorial
dispute, the countries remain divided over compensation for
women who served as sex slaves during Japan’s 35-year
colonization of the Korean peninsula.  Territorial Spats  Japan is also mired in a territorial spat with  China  over
islets in the  South China Sea  and one with  Russia  over four
islands between the two countries.  “All of us are trying to strengthen our own positions and
individually that’s fine, but the negative consequences that
could create could be pretty substantial in the long run,” said
Narushige Michishita, director of the Security and International
Studies Program at Japan’s National Graduate Institute for
Policy Studies in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  