-- Spurs Make Modric Train Alone as Real Bid Stalls: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-10T07:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/spurs-make-modric-train-alone-as-real-bid-stalls-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Solo at Spurs  Luka Modric is practicing in isolation at Tottenham
Hotspur’s training base, an indication that manager Andre Villas-Boas doesn’t expect the Croatian midfielder to be at the
club at the start of the season, the  Daily Mail reported .  Discussions between Spurs and Real Madrid over the transfer
of Modric are continuing, with the Spanish champion unwilling to
move from its latest bid of 30 million pounds ($47 million) plus
8 million pounds in add-ons, the newspaper said.  ‘Great Addition’  Wayne Rooney  urged  Robin van Persie  to join him at
 Manchester United , which is trying to negotiate the transfer of
the Netherlands striker from Arsenal, the  Sun reported .  “He’s a player I admire,” the Sun cited Rooney as saying.
“If he does come here, he’d be a great addition to the squad.”  CEO’s Step In  Manchester United Chief Executive Officer David Gill is
stepping in to try to broker a deal after Arsenal rebuffed bids
of 10 million pounds and 15 million pounds for van Persie, the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  If United increases its bid above 20 million pounds, an
agreement is likely to be reached this weekend between Gill and
Arsenal CEO Ivan Gazidis, the newspaper added.  Sinclair Switch?  Manchester City  is trying to complete a deal for Swansea
City winger  Scott Sinclair  with an offer of as much as 8 million
pounds, the  Mail reported .  City faces competition from Tottenham, Liverpool and
Manchester United to sign the 23-year-old, the Mail added.  De Jong Bid  Inter Milan  is planning a 7 million-pound bid for
Manchester City midfielder Nigel de Jong, the  Sun reported .  The Netherlands international has one year on his contract
remaining, and the Premier League champion is open to letting
him leave, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  