-- Swire Properties Underlying Profit Rises on Rental Income
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-08-10T08:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/swire-properties-underlying-profit-rises-on-office-mall-rents.html
Swire Properties Ltd. (1972) , the  Hong Kong 
commercial landlord whose tenants include Time Warner Inc., said
first-half underlying profit rose 3.8 percent on rental income
growth from its office and shopping malls in the city and
mainland  China .  Swire Properties’  profit  excluding real estate revaluation
rose to HK$2.44 billion ($315 million), from HK$2.35 billion a
year earlier, the company said in a statement to Hong Kong’s
stock exchange today. That is in line with the HK$2.44 billion
median estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Hong Kong’s retail rents may gain 12 percent over the next
12 months after increasing 18 percent in the first half from a
year earlier, as international brands continue expanding in the
city, a major shopping destination for wealthy mainland Chinese,
according to Colliers International. Swire Properties, which
owns the most shopping spaces in the Admiralty and Quarry Bay
areas, is also growing in Chinese cities including  Guangzhou ,
Beijing and Chengdu.  “Aside from some small differences on the booking of
apartments sold in Hong Kong, the result is more or less in line
with expectation,” said Lee Wee Liat, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at BNP Paribas Securities  Asia . “They’re also quite upbeat
about retail, despite concerns in the market about a slowing
down in the second half.”  Share Rally  Shares of Swire Properties, spun off from its parent Swire
Pacific Ltd. in January, have  gained  37 percent since they first
traded, compared with the 2.3 percent gain of the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  over the same period. The stock rose 1.3 percent to
HK$23.60 at the close in Hong Kong.  Swire Properties owns about 10.5 million square feet of
prime office space and 2.4 million square feet of retail space
in the city, including the Pacific Place and Island East
commercial complexes. The company is expecting to complete two
new office buildings on  Hong Kong Island  in the fourth quarter.  Turnover from office rental at Swire Properties, whose
tenants also include property broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) ,
rose to HK$2.46 billion in the first half from HK$2.22 billion a
year earlier, Swire said.  Prime office rents in Hong Kong, the world’s most expensive
place to lease commercial space, fell for a third consecutive
quarter in the three months ended March and may decline another
4 percent over the next 12 months, according to Colliers.  ‘Uncertain Market’  “Demand for the group’s  office space  in Hong Kong is
likely to be affected by uncertain market conditions,” Chairman
Christopher Pratt said in today’s statement. Swire’s office
portfolio “is expected to be relatively resilient due to high
occupancy levels and limited new supply,” he said.  Turnover from the company’s shopping malls fell to HK$1.76
billion from HK$1.81 billion after it lost contribution from the
Festival Walk shopping mall sold last year.  “Retail sales and the demand for retail space in Hong Kong
continued to be good,” said Pratt.  Including revaluation gains and deferred taxes, Swire
Properties’ net income fell to HK$9.86 billion from HK$20
billion a year earlier, the company said.  Swire Properties will pay an interim dividend of 22 Hong
Kong cents.  The developer is scheduled to open a 6.4 billion  yuan 
($1.01 billion) retail and office project in the western Chinese
city of Chengdu in early 2014, a joint development with Sino-
Ocean Land Holdings Ltd.  Sanlitun Village  Including the Sanlitun Village retail complex in Beijing,
the 99-room luxury hotel Opposite House in the capital’s
Chaoyang district and Taikoo Hui in the southern city of
Guangzhou, projects in mainland China will account for about a
third of Swire’s total assets, the company has said.  In a separate statement, Swire Pacific, which also controls
 Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , the city’s biggest carrier, said
net income for the group fell 65 percent from a year earlier to
HK$8.44 billion. The company will pay an interim dividend HK$1
for each of its A shares.  Created as a trading company in  London  in 1816,  Swire
Pacific (19)  also bottles Coca-Cola in China and supplies offshore
oil rigs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  