-- U.K. Slump May Be Smaller as Construction Drop Revised: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-10T11:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/u-k-second-quarter-slump-may-be-smaller-as-building-revised-1-.html
Britain’s economy  may have shrunk
less than previously estimated in the second quarter after the
statistics office reported a smaller slump in construction.  Building output fell 3.9 percent in the three months
through June, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London
today. That compares with a 5.2 percent drop in the first
estimate of gross domestic product on July 25, which showed the
economy shrank 0.7 percent. The revision on its own would mean a
0.1 percentage point upward revision to GDP, the statistics
office said.  The Bank of England cut its U.K. forecasts this week and
Governor  Mervyn King  said growth in the near term will be
“subdued.” The central bank, which left its bond-purchase
target unchanged at 375 billion pounds ($585 billion) this
month, left the door open to more stimulus if needed, with King
saying policy makers will do all they can to spur a recovery.  “These revisions do little to change the overall size of
the renewed recession,” saidSamuel Tombs, an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “What’s more, the smaller
than expected drop in GDP in the second quarter is likely to
mean that the bounce-back in the third quarter will be weaker
than otherwise.”  The central bank said in a report this week that “erratic
factors” exaggerated the weakness in second-quarter GDP.  “Much of the contraction in the first half of this year
reflects unusually large declines in measured construction
output,” it said. “Falls of that magnitude appear out of line
with industry surveys and seem unlikely to persist.”  Industrial Output  Today’s construction report follows  industrial production 
data earlier this week that the ONS said would lead to a 0.07
percentage point upward revision to GDP. Statisticians said the
combined effect of the new figures means GDP for the three
months through June may be about 0.2 percentage point higher
than initially estimated.  Building output accounts for about 7 percent of the U.K.
economy. Updated data on services, which account for about three
quarters of GDP, will be published on Aug. 24.  In a separate report, the ONS said  factory-gate prices  were
unchanged in July from June and were up 1.7 percent from a year
earlier. The annual rate of inflation is the lowest since
October 2009.  Core output prices , which exclude the costs of
food, alcohol, tobacco and petroleum, were also unchanged on the
month and increased 1.3 percent from July 2011.  Input prices jumped 1.3 percent in July from June, the
first monthly increase since March, and dropped 2.4 percent in
the year.  Price Pressure  A decline in the price of some commodities has eased
pressure on factories’ margins and helped contain inflation.
Crude oil has fallen about 16 percent from the year’s high
closing price reached in late February.  Consumer-price growth 
was 2.4 percent in June and the  Bank of England  sees it falling
below its 2 percent target next year, indicating a need for more
stimulus in the economy.  “Moderation in input price pressures as commodity costs
fell bought some breathing space for producers and helped bring
output prices down,” said Victoria Clarke, an economist at
Investec Securities in London. “The central bank will add to
stimulus because they’ve taken the view that they need insurance
against everything that’s going on in the euro area.”  Price pressures also eased in the euro region, with German
inflation unexpectedly slowing in July as the sovereign debt
crisis curbed growth. The inflation rate, calculated using a
harmonized European Union method, eased to 1.9 percent from 2
percent in June, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said
today. That’s the first drop below the  European Central Bank ’s 2
percent limit since December 2010.  Drought Damage  Still, there may be upward pressure on food prices as
droughts damage crops from the U.S. to  Russia . An  index of 55
food items  tracked by the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization jumped 6.2 percent to 213.15 points in July from
200.8 points in June, the Rome-based agency reported. That
marked the biggest increase since November 2009.  The global economy remains under pressure. In  China , export
growth collapsed and imports rose less than estimated in July,
adding to signs the global economy is weakening and raising the
odds the government will step up measures to support expansion.
Singapore said its economy shrank an annualized 0.7 percent last
quarter, less than the preliminary reading of a 1.1 percent
contraction.  Russia’s central bank refrained from raising borrowing
costs for an eighth month, highlighting “significant”
inflation risks from a weaker harvest and higher interbank rates
that constrain lending growth. Bank Rossii’s main refinancing
rate was left at 8 percent, a quarter-point above the record
low, the Moscow-based central bank said in a statement on its
website today.  -- With assistance from Svenja O’Donnell,  Mark Evans  and Harumi
Ichikura in London. Editors:  Patrick Henry , Fergal O’Brien  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  