-- U.K. Inflation Probably Slowed to 2 1/2-Year Low of 2.3% in July
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/u-k-inflation-probably-slowed-to-2-1-2-year-low-of-2-3-in-july.html
U.K. inflation  may have slowed in
July to the least in 2 1/2 years, moving closer to the  Bank of
England ’s target as weak demand helped contain price pressure.  Consumer prices rose an annual 2.3 percent last month,
compared with a reading of 2.4 percent in June, according to the
median forecast of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
That would be the lowest since November 2009.  The Bank of England cut its gross-domestic-product forecast
this week and sees inflation easing to below its 2 percent goal
next year, indicating there may be a need for  more stimulus .
Still, wheat, corn and  oil prices  have risen in the past month,
which may slow the pace of price declines.  “Inflation should trend lower over the coming months,
although the scope for further falls in the near term may be
limited,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global
Insight in  London . “Crucially though, underlying price
pressures are expected to be held down over the coming months by
appreciable excess capacity, extended muted economic activity,
and on-going wage moderation.”  The  Office for National Statistics  in London will publish
the inflation data at 9:30 a.m. on Aug. 14. A day later, the
Bank of England will release the minutes of this month’s policy
meeting, showing how officials voted when they kept their  bond-
purchase target  on hold at 375 billion pounds ($584 billion).  The ONS also publishes unemployment data that day and
retail sales figures on Aug. 16.  Retail sales  probably fell 0.1
percent in July from June, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Inflation Outlook  The Bank of England forecast on Aug. 8 that inflation will
slow to 2 percent by about the middle of next year and to about
1.6 percent in two years.  Producer-price inflation  cooled to 1.7
percent in July, the slowest since October 2009, the statistics
office said yesterday.  Still, there may be upward pressure on food prices as
droughts damage crops from the U.S. to  Russia . An  index of 55
food items  tracked by the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization jumped 6.2 percent in July from June, the biggest
increase since November 2009.  While crude oil has fallen about 16 percent from the year’s
high closing price reached in late February, it has risen about
19 percent since June 28, the lowest close this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  