-- Most U.K. Stocks Fall as China Exports Slide; Bunzl Drops
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-10T16:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-heading-for-weekly-gain.html
Most  U.K. stocks  fell, halting the
longest winning streak for the FTSE 100 Index since March, as a
collapse in Chinese export growth added to concern the global
economy is slowing.  Bunzl (BNZL)  Plc dropped 4.6 percent as UBS AG recommended
investors sell the shares.  Flybe Group Plc (FLYB)  led airlines lower,
sinking 14 percent, after the regional carrier reduced its
revenue forecast.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  paced advancing shares after the
lender appointed a new chairman.  The benchmark FTSE 100 fell 4.4 points, or 0.1 percent, to
5,847.11 at the close in London, snapping five days of gains and
paring the gauge’s advance this week to 1 percent. Of the
gauge’s 101 members, 55 declined, while 40 gained. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index also slipped 0.1 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.4 percent.  “Data from  China  overnight dented sentiment today and
prompted a bout of profit taking,” said Ishaq Siddiqi, a
London-based market strategist at ETX Capital. “Overall,
trading has been subdued given the seasonally low volumes.
Markets are stuck in a narrow trading range.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  was 29
percent lower today than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese export growth plummeted in July, with  outbound
shipments  up 1 percent from a year earlier, the customs bureau
said. That compares with the 8 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey and 11.3 percent in June. Imports and new
 yuan  loans also trailed forecasts.  Bunzl Falls  Bunzl tumbled 4.6 percent to 1,113 pence after UBS
downgraded the company to sell from neutral, citing a 32 percent
advance in the shares this year through yesterday.  The “share price has historically been sensitive to its
organic sales growth trend, which we expect to slow after
peaking in the fourth quarter of 2011,” London-based Shang Liew
wrote in a note to clients.  Flybe sank 14 percent to 64.5 pence after  Europe ’s biggest
regional airline said full-year sales will grow no more than 2
percent, less than previously predicted, clipped by a sluggish
European economy.  Flybe revised its outlook after demand for business flights
from Britain to continental Europe showed “signs of weakness”
in the first quarter, it said in a statement. After four years
of declines, the U.K. domestic market showed evidence of
stabilizing before slipping back into a 3 percent fall in June
versus a year earlier.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , the parent
company of British Airways, retreated 1.1 percent to 149.7 pence
while  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  declined 0.3 percent to 555.5 pence, paring
losses of as much as 1.9 percent.  Barclays Gains  Barclays rallied 2.5 percent to 183.4 pence after the
lender, which was fined a record amount for interest-rate
manipulation, named former  Bank of England  executive director
 David Walker  as chairman, its first move to replace leaders
ousted in wake of the Libor scandal. He will start on Nov. 1,
succeeding Marcus Agius.  Analysts at Bank of America Corp. said the appointment was
positive for investors and paved the way for the bank to hire a
new chief executive officer.  In Dublin,  Bank of Ireland Plc  tumbled 3.1 percent to 9.5
euro cents after the nation’s biggest lender more than doubled
its pretax loss in the first half to 1.26 billion euros ($1.55
billion). Chief Executive Officer Richie Boucher said the Irish
bank’s target of rebuilding net interest margins to over 200
basis points by the end of 2014 “looks very challenging” as
central bank interest rates remain low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  