-- U.S. Beats World With Most Offerings Since March: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-08-10T15:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/u-s-beats-world-with-most-offerings-since-march-credit-markets.html
Sales of company bonds in the U.S.
soared to the fastest pace since March this week, five times
quicker than global issuance, as cash-flush investors push
yields to record lows.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the biggest snack-food maker, and Richmond,
Virginia-based  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  led dollar-denominated sales
this week of at least $37.3 billion, up 45 percent from the
period ended Aug. 3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales worldwide increased 9 percent to $64 billion.  U.S. financial assets, and corporate bonds in particular,
are seen as the safest place to invest in a slowing global
economy with default rates below historic averages and cash on
company balance sheets at about record highs. Investors have
poured a record $43 billion this year into high-yield mutual
funds, according to EPFR Global in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “People have money and the market is rallying,” Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS Investments in  New York  who
oversees $3 billion in fixed-income funds, said in a telephone
interview. As an investor, “you don’t want to fall behind.
There’s all these incredible amounts of issuance and that’s
what’s behind it: there’s cash to buy it,” he said.  Yields on bonds from the most creditworthy to the riskiest
borrowers reached a record low 3.902 percent on Aug. 2, before
climbing to 3.946 percent as of yesterday, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. The yield investors demand to own
corporate bonds rather than government debentures has declined
76 basis points to 267 basis points from this year’s high of 343
on Jan. 3.  Commercial Paper  The ratio of cash to total assets at Standard & Poor’s 500
companies stands at about 9.8 percent, after reaching a record
10.2 percent in October 2011, Bloomberg data show. Five years
ago, the ratio was 5.6 percent.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose for a second day,
with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, adding 0.5 basis point to a mid-price of 103.5
basis points as of 11:39 a.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, decreased 0.13 basis point to 20.5 basis
points as of 11:39 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as company debentures and widens
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint Nextel Corp.
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 148 trades of $1 million or
more as of 11:40 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  The third-biggest U.S. wireless carrier sold $1.5 billion
of 7 percent, eight-year debt yesterday at par. The securities
rose to 100.125 cents on the dollar for a yield of 6.98 percent
as of 11:37 a.m. in New York, Trace data show.  ‘Optimistic’ Sentiment  Bond sales in the U.S. are up from $25.7 billion in the
five days ended Aug. 3 and compare with a 2012 weekly average of
$26.1 billion, Bloomberg data show. Sales reached a record $60
billion in the period ended March 9 as credit rallied on reports
that  Greece  was closing in on a deal with creditors for a debt
restructuring.  “ Cash flow  is excellent, refinancing is easy,”  James Kochan , chief fixed-income strategist at Wells Fargo Fund
Management LLC in  Menomonee Falls , said in a telephone
interview. “You’re in the phase of the business cycle where you
should be optimistic about corporates.”  While worldwide  sales  are up from $58.6 billion last week,
they’re below this year’s average of $73.2 billion for the
fourth straight period, Bloomberg data show.  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its 2013 global
growth forecast to 3.9 percent from the 4.1 percent estimate in
April as  Europe ’s debt crisis prolongs Spain’s recession and
slows expansions in  emerging markets  from  China  to  India .  In the U.S., fewer Americans filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, with jobless claims dropping by
6,000 to 361,000 in the period ended Aug. 4, the Labor
Department figures released yesterday show.  Earnings Reports  “There’s a gradual improvement on the layoffs side,” said
 Peter Newland , an economist in New York for Barclays Plc, who
projected claims would drop to 360,000. There will be “a bit of
a rebound in the second half. It’s not going to be spectacular,
but it should be better than the first half,” he said.  About 72 percent of S&P 500 companies which reported
second-quarter results have  beaten  analysts’ earnings estimates,
though 59 percent missed sales projections, Bloomberg data show.  The global default rate for speculative-grade debt this
year will hold at least 1.7 percentage points below its
historical average, Moody’s said in an Aug. 7 report. The
trailing 12-month rate was 2.8 percent in July, compared with a
historical average of 4.8 percent since 1983.  Cash ‘Flowing’  “It’s been a mistake to be away from the corporate
markets,” Kochan said. “There’s still very strong demand for
both high-yield and investment grade. They are the two best
year-to-date performers by a significant margin,” within the
fixed-income arena, he said.  PepsiCo, based in Purchase, New York, sold $2.5 billion of
debt on Aug. 8, including $1 billion of 1.25 percent, five-year
securities that yield 63 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries; $900 million of 0.7 percent, three-year notes at a
spread of 33 basis points; and $600 million of 3.6 percent, 30-
year bonds at 95 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  “Cash is flowing into the markets, companies are being
opportunistic and  interest rates  are so low,” said Gross of RS
Investments. “Everything seems clear, at least for now, and
everybody is jumping back in.”  Investment-grade bond funds had inflows of $733 million and
high-yield bond funds took in $402 million last week, according
to JPMorgan research.  Junk-bond funds received $9.32 billion of inflows in July,
the most since February, sending the 2012 total 30 percent
higher than the previous full-year record, according to EPFR.  Altria, the largest U.S. seller of tobacco, issued $2.8
billion of securities, including $1.9 billion of 2.85 percent,
10-year bonds. Proceeds will be used to help the company fund
its $2 billion tender offer for higher-coupon debt.  “You don’t know when the money’s going to stop flowing or
when the  market sentiment  is going to change,” Gross said.
“It’s always a game of musical chairs. Someone always get stuck
with the last bad deal. But, right now, the music is still
playing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  