-- S&P 500 Caps Longest Rally Since 2010 on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-10T20:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-on-chinese-trade-data.html
U.S. stocks rose, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its longest advance since December
2010, as optimism the Federal Reserve will act to stimulate the
economy helped the market recover from an earlier decline.  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  rose 5.9 percent as Chief Executive Officer
 Ron Johnson  said his overhaul of the department-store chain is
“on track.” Facebook Inc. added 3.8 percent as Chief Financial
Officer  David Ebersman  is said to be meeting with investors in
New York days before the lifting of a ban on stock sales by some
of the company’s biggest shareholders.  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  gained 3
percent as the maker of chips that help mobile devices connect
to the Internet was raised at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  rose 0.2 percent to 1,405.87, reversing a loss
of as much as 0.5 percent and rising for a sixth day. It capped
a fifth  weekly  advance, the longest streak since March. The Dow
Jones Industrial Average added 42.76 points, or 0.3 percent, to
13,207.95. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 5
billion shares, 24 percent below the three-month average.  “The weaker the data the higher the likelihood of
stimulus,” said  Alan Gayle , a senior strategist at RidgeWorth
Capital Management in Richmond, Virginia, which oversees about
$47 billion. “The weakness in China is likely to prompt a move
there. While the Fed has been clear it will do anything to
support growth, some people tend to think it’s inevitable.”  Stocks rebounded after the San Francisco Chronicle reported
that Fed Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said the
lack of progress in reducing the unemployment rate and the slow
economic recovery have convinced him it’s time to move ahead
with a third round of asset purchases. Earlier losses were
driven by a worse-than-expected Chinese trade report which
intensified concern that global economic growth is slowing.  ‘Worldwide Slowdown’  “The market is looking at the worldwide slowdown,” said
Nick Sargen, chief investment officer at Fort Washington
Investment Advisors in Cincinnati, which oversees about $40
billion. “China is slowing down, Europe is in a recession.
Everybody realizes that we’re on a tough situation. The question
is -- can it get weaker or not?”  Bets on global central bank action to stimulate the economy
have driven the  S&P 500  up 10 percent since June 1. The index
rose for five straight days through yesterday amid better-than-
estimated corporate profits and data on the jobs market. About
72 percent of the S&P 500 companies which reported second-
quarter  results  so far have beaten earnings estimates, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  David Bianco , Deutsche Bank AG’s chief U.S. equity
strategist, cut his 2012 earnings estimate for S&P 500 companies
amid lower commodity prices, weak capital markets, a stronger
dollar and a “midyear stall” in global manufacturing. His
forecast was cut to $102 a share from $105.  Biggest Gains  Eight out of 10 groups in the S&P 500 rose today as phone,
industrial and health-care shares had the biggest gains. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which measures
the cost of using options as insurance against S&P 500’s
declines, slid 3.5 percent to 14.74, the lowest since March.  J.C. Penney rallied 5.9 percent to $23.40. Johnson, the
former Apple Inc. retail chief who joined as CEO in November, is
tweaking his pricing strategy after the previous plan confused
customers by reducing sales events and coupons.  Facebook (FB)  gained 3.8 percent to $21.81. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Microsoft Corp. and other large investors that bought
equity before the initial public offering will have freedom to
sell their stakes starting Aug. 16. That’s after the lifting of
limits imposed by underwriters on the sale of shares for a
preset period after an IPO. A person with knowledge of the
meetings declined to elaborate on the plans, which are private.  Broadcom Rallies  Broadcom rose 3 percent to $35.35. The company was raised
to  outperform  at Sanford C. Bernstein.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  jumped 6.3 percent to $8.29. The
company’s enterprise-services  unit  has attracted the interest of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , according to two people
familiar with the situation.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  lost 5.4 percent to $15.15. Chief Executive
Officer  Marissa Mayer  has embarked on a strategy review that may
result in a reversal of plans to restructure operations and
return billions of dollars in cash to shareholders.  Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST)  tumbled 11 percent to $54.27. The
largest U.S. energy drink maker by volume sales said an
unspecified attorney general is investigating the company’s
flagship drink and ingredients.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  slid 3.1 percent to $19.68. The
second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer received a subpoena in
June from the antitrust division of the U.S. Justice
Department’s Midwest Field Office.  Cisco Drops  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  retreated 0.9 percent to $17.54. The
outlook for the biggest maker of computer-networking equipment
may be worse than estimated, said Ryan Hutchinson, an analyst at
Lazard Capital Markets LLC.  Big Lots Inc. (BIG)  dropped 7 percent to $38.44. The discount
retailer was downgraded to underweight from neutral at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. by equity analyst Matthew Boss. The 18-month share-
price estimate is $34.  Manchester United Plc (MANU)  was unchanged at $14. The English
soccer club with a record 19 championships raised $233.3 million
in its U.S. initial public offering, less than first sought. The
134-year-old team and the Glazer family that bought it in 2005
sold 16.7 million shares for $14 each yesterday.  Investors put $356 billion into U.S. checking and savings
accounts in the first six months of this year, almost double the
$188 billion they deposited into bond mutual funds and
exchanged-traded funds, according to TrimTabs Investment
Research.  Net Deposits  Equity mutual funds and ETFs attracted $6 billion in net
deposits, Sausalito, California-based TrimTabs said in a
statement yesterday. Retail money-market funds lost $21.3
billion to withdrawals in the first half, according to the firm.  “People are risk-averse in a risky world and don’t trust
the powers that be to manage the economy and the markets,”
 Charles Biderman , chief executive officer of TrimTabs, said in a
telephone interview. “When that happens, you hunker down and
put money away for better times.”  Some investors are avoiding equities even as stock markets
have rallied this year. The MSCI All-Country World Index rose
7.9 percent and the S&P 500 increased 12 percent through
yesterday. Europe’s crisis has sent some investors into the
perceived safety of bonds.  Economic indicators may need to change for the better by
October in order for U.S. stocks to sustain this year’s gains,
according to Myles Zyblock, chief institutional strategist at
RBC Capital Markets.  Most Affected  Shares of companies most affected by the pace of economic
growth have been out of favor for months, according to data
tracking the ratio of Morgan Stanley indexes for  cyclical  and
consumer-product shares since 2009, when a bull market began.  “We see one of two likely scenarios” unfolding for
stocks, Zyblock wrote two days ago in a report. The first is
that the economic gauges will rebound during the next month or
two to confirm the gains in stocks. The second is that share
prices will decline as the indicators fall further.  The cyclical-consumer ratio, cited in the Toronto-based
strategist’s report, rose only 0.2 percent for the year through
yesterday as the S&P 500 gained 12 percent. The contrast became
more pronounced in the past two months as the S&P 500 rebounded
from its second-quarter low.  Rather than tracking the S&P 500, the cyclical-consumer
ratio tended to move in lockstep with the Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index, as the report showed. ISM readings
for June and July were less than 50, pointing to a contraction
in manufacturing.  Based on the backdrop, Zyblock wrote, higher stock prices
can be attributed to “fast money investors who’ve been caught
short, corporations with excess cash, and international equity
investors running away from their home markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  