-- U.S. Regulators to Examine Forced-Place Insurance
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2012-08-10T15:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/u-s-regulators-to-examine-forced-place-insurance.html
Regulators in three U.S. states said
they may examine the market for insurance that covers property
when homeowners allow coverage to lapse, amid allegations that
rates are too high and two firms dominate the business.  Florida’s insurance commissioner, Kevin McCarty, said
yesterday that he plans to look at premiums and insurers’
business practices. Kentucky’s top regulator, Sharon Clark, said
her office will evaluate rates. James Donelon of Louisiana
called the market a “monopoly” and said stronger regulation
may be needed.  State regulators attended a hearing in Atlanta yesterday on
rates charged for so-called force-placed coverage, which
protects mortgage lenders from storm damage and vandalism when
homeowners stop paying for policies.  Assurant Inc. (AIZ)  and  QBE
Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE)  control at least 90 percent of the market,
McCarty said.  “What we’re dealing with and have been dealing with is the
potentially excessive rates,” said McCarty, who’s president of
the  National Association of Insurance Commissioners , which held
the hearing. “We’re certainly going to continue to look
critically at the business practices.”  Assurant fell 1.6 percent to $35.65 as of 11:54 a.m. in  New
York . The insurer declined 12 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with an 11 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Premiums Triple  Force-placed premiums more than tripled to $5.5 billion in
2010 from $1.5 billion six years earlier, according to New York
Department of Financial Services Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky .
The insurers often pay out less than 25 cents for every dollar
in premiums they collect, he said, compared with about 63 cents
on a typical homeowner’s policy.  The surge in premiums has been driven by a rise in
foreclosures and other market forces, said John Frobose,
president of American Security Insurance, the force-placed
business owned by New York-based Assurant. Providers of the
coverage face greater risk than insurers in other markets, so
the cost can be higher, he said.  “If the big companies wanted back in, they could come back
in,” Frobose said yesterday.  QBE, the Sydney-based insurer, pays “tens of millions of
dollars” for technology to administer its policies, said James
P. Novak, senior vice president of the QBE First unit. He
declined to comment on criticism from Donelon, the Louisiana
regulator.  “This business keeps people in their homes,” Novak said.  The market for the coverage will contract as foreclosures
drop and the  U.S. economy  improves,  Robert Hartwig , president of
the  Insurance Information Institute , said at the hearing.  “Premiums have peaked,” Hartwig said, referring to the
coverage as lender-placed insurance. “The LPI market will
shrink, probably dramatically.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Beasley  in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley4@yahoo.com ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  