-- U.S. May Help Create Syrian ‘No-Fly’ Zone, Cohen Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/u-s-may-help-create-syrian-no-fly-zone-cohen-says.html
The U.S. and allied forces probably
will impose a “no-fly zone” over Syria and take other “more
aggressive action” against the Syrian regime, former Defense
Secretary  William Cohen  says.  While the U.S. has been leery of another military
intervention after a decade of wars, “We’re coming to the
point, however, where the violence is getting so severe, I
think, that you’ll see a movement towards setting up those no-
fly zones,” Cohen said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  The former Pentagon chief and Maine senator, now chairman
and chief executive officer of the Cohen Group consulting firm
in  Washington , said any U.S. military action would depend on
participation and support from allies.  “I think that the  United States  is not going to go into
this alone,” said Cohen, who served as defense secretary during
the NATO air strikes in the Kosovo conflict during the Clinton
administration. “That’s why we’ve been working with the Gulf
states.”  John Brennan , President  Barack Obama ’s top homeland
security and counterterrorism adviser, said on Aug. 8 the
administration is studying the option of a no-fly zone with air
protection “very carefully, trying to understand the
implications, trying to understand the advantages and
disadvantages of this.”  Cohen, a Republican, also criticized the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney , for promising to
issue an executive order on his first day in office labeling
China a currency manipulator.  Romney Credibility  “We have to be careful, not deferential, but be careful
how we use language and what policy positions we stake out
during a campaign because you may have to end up really
rejecting your own stand,” Cohen said. “And that will
undermine the credibility of  Governor Romney  should he become
president.”  Cohen also suggested Romney should flesh out his foreign
policy positions more clearly as he strikes a more aggressive
tone against Russia, Iran and China.  If he adopts an overly aggressive posture, Cohen said,
“then I think we’re going to find ourselves in a situation
where everything is going to be very competitive and
antagonistic. That doesn’t necessarily work to our benefit.”  On Iran, Cohen said the odds are increasing that  Israel 
will strike the Islamic regime’s nuclear facilities to prevent
the Persian Gulf state from being able to produce a nuclear
bomb.  Iran Strikes  “I would say it’s a little bit better than 50-50 that the
Israelis would take action,” Cohen said. “The rhetoric is
starting to get ratcheted up,” he said, though the sharp
language may be a “tactical” move to pressure Russia and China
to sanction Iran.  Cohen also faulted both political parties for failing to
come up with a deficit-reduction plan that would avoid $1.2
trillion in automatic, across-the-board spending cuts -- known
as sequestration -- over a decade.  “I blame both parties, both the president and the
Congress, for failing to come up with that,” Cohen said. “I
think we’ll end up there eventually, but we’ll do some damage to
our credibility in the international, the  capital markets  and
our rating agencies.”  He said the solution could have come from a deficit-
reduction package proposed by a bipartisan commission led by
former Republican Senator  Alan Simpson  of Wyoming and former
White House chief of staff  Erskine Bowles , which offered a mix
of defense and domestic spending cuts and revenue increases.  If sequestration is allowed to take effect in January,
national security would be harmed, Cohen said.  “There’s a way to avoid that, and that’s to take the exit
ramp off this highway that we are rushing down, traveling down
with no one driving, and we’re going down the wrong way,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  