-- U.S. Hits Syrian Oil Company, Hezbollah With Sanction
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-08-10T18:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/u-s-hits-syrian-oil-company-hezbollah-with-sanction.html
The Obama administration imposed new
sanctions today against the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and Hezbollah, the militant Islamist group with close
ties to Iran.  On the eve of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s meeting
with Syrian opposition members and Turkish leaders in Istanbul,
the U.S. targeted the Syrian state-run  oil company , Sytrol,
under the Iran Sanctions Act. The action, which effectively cuts
off the Sytrol’s access to the international banking system, was
triggered by the company’s shipments of gasoline to Iran,
according to a statement by a State Department spokesman,
Patrick Ventrell.  The administration also designated Lebanon-based Hezbollah,
which is already on the U.S. terrorism list, for providing
support to the Syrian government. Since the uprising in  Syria 
began in March 2011, Hezbollah has given training, advice and
extensive logistical support to the regime’s “increasingly
ruthless efforts to fight against the opposition,” a statement
from the Treasury Department said.  The sanctions are part of a shift in U.S. strategy from
working on diplomacy through the  United Nations  to a focusing on
supporting the opposition. They also reflect administration
efforts to do more in response to the carnage in Syria as calls
for more assertive action grow, said  Aaron David Miller , a
senior fellow at the Wilson Center, a Washington policy group.  ‘Every Tool’  “The administration is looking for every tool and
instrument it can to add to the pressure and, from a political
point of view, also demonstrate there are still things they can
do,” Miller said in a telephone interview.  More than 21,000 people have died since unrest broke out 17
months ago, according to the Syrian Observatory for  Human
Rights .  Clinton will meet Saturday with  Turkey ’s leaders to consult
and coordinate on aid to the Syrian opposition, as well as on
planning for Assad’s departure, according to a State Department
official traveling with Clinton.  The official, who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record,
said the talks would also explore transition plans for the
country after Assad falls. Clinton will also meet with activists
and opposition members, and announce some additional aid for the
growing number of Syrian refugees, the official said.  Clinton plans to discuss possible further steps in Syria
with her European counterparts next week as well as planning for
another multi-nation “Friends of Syria” meeting, the official
said.  ‘Destabilizing Presence’  The Treasury designation also named  Hassan Nasrallah ,
Hezbollah’s secretary-general, and said he has overseen the
group’s efforts to help the Syrian regime crack down on its
population. He is also on the U.S. terrorism list.  “Hezbollah’s extensive support to the Syrian government’s
violent suppression of the Syrian people exposes the true nature
of this terrorist organization and its destabilizing presence in
the region,” Undersecretary for Terrorism and Financial
Intelligence David S. Cohen said in a  statement .  Though Hezbollah has been designated a terrorist
organization since 1995, Cohen said that the point of today’s
announcement is to “expose” its activity in Syria.  “The designation, the information that underlies that
designation serves a very, very important purpose,” Cohen said
in a call with reporters. It makes clear to countries around the
world “the true nature of Hezbollah’s activities.”  Cohen said and the U.S. wants those countries to “limit
the amount of space Hezbollah has to operate.” Cohen didn’t
specify what countries the U.S. is seeking to influence or what
the administration wants them to do.  Hezbollah has directly trained Syrian government personnel
inside Syria and has facilitated the training of Syrian forces
by  Iran ’s terrorist arm, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps,
according to the Treasury statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  