-- U.S. Women Secure Third Straight Soccer Gold Medal at Olympics
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   S o p h i e   C a r o n e l l o
-- 2012-08-10T00:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/u-s-women-secure-third-straight-soccer-gold-medal-at-olympics.html
The U.S. beat Japan to win its third
straight Olympic women’s soccer title and set up a victory tour
at a time the sport needs a boost in  North America .  U.S. midfielder Carli Lloyd scored two goals to secure a 2-
1 victory in front of a crowd of 80,203 at  London ’s Wembley
stadium last night, the biggest to watch a women’s soccer match
at the Olympics. Yuki Ogimi got Japan’s goal in the 63rd minute
to set up a tense last half hour.  “This is pretty crazy,” Lloyd, 30, said after the game.
“Back in Beijing I scored the only goal against  Brazil , and now
I have scored two goals in the final here. Maybe for my third
Olympic final I’m going to have to score a hat trick.”  The match was a repeat of last year’s Women’s  World Cup 
final, which Japan won in a penalty shootout. The U.S. players
pulled on T-shirts with the slogan “greatness has been found”
as they celebrated on the pitch after the final whistle.  “I guess after we had our dreams snatched away from us
last year, we’ve snatched their dreams away from them this year
so it evens itself out,” U.S. midfielder Megan Rapinoe, 27,
told reporters.  The U.S. team, led by Swedish coach Pia Sundhage, will
split a $1.5 million bonus from U.S. Soccer for winning the gold
medal, said  Sunil Gulati , the governing body’s president. In
addition, each player will receive a $25,000 bonus from the U.S.
Olympic Committee.  League Collapses  The financial boost comes at a critical time for the U.S.
players, who have no professional teams to join back home. The
Women’s Professional Soccer league folded in May after three
seasons and a legal battle with former team owner Dan Borislow,
Chief Executive Officer of  MagicJack Vocaltec Ltd. (CALL)   Another professional league, the Women’s United Soccer
Association, also ceased operations after three seasons in 2003.
Efforts to create a new competition starting in 2013 are ongoing
and some players are looking abroad because of the uncertainty.  The U.S. has appeared in all five finals since women’s
soccer first appeared at the Olympics in 1996. Its only defeat
in the gold-medal match was at the 2000 games in Sydney, where
Norway took the title.  The Americans took the lead in the eighth minute last night
when Lloyd stooped to head home a cross from Alex Morgan.  Japan  was unable to turn 58 percent of first-half
possession into goals, twice hitting the frame of the goal. U.S.
goalkeeper Hope Solo, 31, dived to her left to push a shot from
Ogimi onto the crossbar in the 17th minute.  ‘Clear Handball’  The Japanese coaching staff were on their feet eight
minutes later when German referee Bibiana Steinhaus missed a
handball in the penalty area by Tobin Heath.  “It was a clear handball,” Lloyd said. “It hit her arm.
That’s just how it goes.”  Lloyd made it 2-0 in the 54th minute when she drove a
right-foot shot from outside the penalty area into the bottom
left corner.  Japan’s pressure was rewarded in the 63rd minute when Ogimi
tapped home from close range after the U.S. defense failed to
clear. As Japan pressed upfield in search of a tying goal, Lloyd
had a chance to score on an 82nd-minute counterattack, though
shot over the bar.  U.S. captain Christie Rampone, 37, who became the first
player to win four Olympic soccer medals, almost gifted Japan a
goal a minute later when she lost the ball to Mana Iwabuchi in
the penalty area. She was rescued by a save from Solo.  “I felt we could come back, but unfortunately we couldn’t
get the result in the end,” Ogimi, 25, told reporters.  U.S. Tour  The champions have been told there will be a tour of the
U.S. involving as many as 10 matches as a result of their
success at the London games, where a total of 661,796 spectators
watched the women’s soccer tournament.  Two matches have so far been confirmed, against  Costa Rica 
on Sept. 1 in Rochester,  New York , hometown of forward  Abby Wambach , 32, and against  Australia  on Sept. 16 in Carson,
 California .  The lack of league soccer made preparation for the Olympic
tournament difficult, Sundhage told reporters on Aug. 8. The
team had to use exhibition matches and games against men’s teams
to tune up, the coach said.  “This year has been trials and tribulations,” Wambach
said. “We lost to Japan a few times, and this win feels like
everything has come full circle. I’m so proud of this team for
never giving up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in Wembley Stadium at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Caronello in Wembley Stadium at 
 scaronello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  