-- Consumer Bureau Proposes New Rules on Mortgage Servicing
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-08-10T19:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/u-s-consumer-bureau-proposes-new-rules-on-mortgage-servicing.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau today proposed new  regulations  that would
revamp how American homeowners interact with mortgage servicers.  One set of rules aims to provide homeowners with clearer,
timelier information about changes to  interest rates  and options
for avoiding foreclosure. A second set requires servicers to
credit payments promptly, correct errors, stay accessible and
limit foreclosures if homeowners are working on loan
modifications.  “Millions of homeowners are struggling to pay their
mortgages, often through no fault of their own,” CFPB Director
 Richard Cordray  said in an e-mailed statement. “These proposed
rules would offer consumers basic protections and put the
‘service’ back into mortgage servicing.”  Cordray summed up the policy underpinning the rules as “no
surprises and no runarounds.” The bureau is seeking public
comment on the proposals by Oct. 9, and will finalize them by
January 2013.  The proposal would cover major bank servicers, such as  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , as well as smaller non-bank players like  Ocwen
Financial Corp. (OCN)   Isaac Boltansky, an analyst with Compass Point Research &
Trading LLC in  Washington , said in a research note that the new
rules would support a “secular shift in the mortgage servicing
industry” away from big banks toward specialty servicers like
Ocwen.  “We expect the big bank servicers to offload a sizable
portion of their servicing assets,” Boltansky wrote.  Secondary Market  Tom Deutsch , executive director of the American
Securitization Forum, said the new rules aimed at consumers
should also take the secondary market into consideration.  “Servicing standards must strike the appropriate balance
between providing meaningful protections for borrowers and
ensuring the contractual certainty necessary for the  capital
markets  to fund sufficient mortgage credit for American
consumers,” Deutsch said in an e-mailed statement.  Bob Davis, an executive vice president at the  American
Bankers Association , lauded the bureau’s goals while warning
that some rules could create hurdles.  “We want to make sure servicing doesn’t get tangled in so
much red tape that high quality, responsive servicing is no
longer viable,” Davis said in an e-mail.  Beyond Settlement  The new regulations go beyond the standards for mortgage
servicing that state attorneys general wrote into a court
settlement reached with major banks on March 12, according to a
senior CFPB official who briefed reporters on condition of
anonymity. For example, the CFPB proposal requires servicers to
acknowledge receipt of complaints or information requests within
five days, and respond to the borrower about the inquiry within
30 to 45 days.  Margot Saunders, an attorney with the Boston-based National
Consumer Law Center, criticized the proposal for not compelling
lenders to attempt loan modifications. Instead, it states that
lenders must follow procedures they have in place for averting
loan losses, Saunders said.  “There is procedure here, but there is no substantive
requirement that a consumer gets an evaluation for a
modification that might save the home from foreclosure and save
the investor money,” Saunders said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  