-- U.S. Women Break Relay World Record as Men Settle for Silver
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-08-10T23:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/u-s-women-break-relay-world-record-as-men-settle-for-silver.html
American women upstaged the men on
the track yesterday at the London Olympics when they made relay
history by breaking a 27-year-old world record.  Tianna Madison, 200-meter champion Allyson Felix, Bianca
Knight and Carmelita Jeter ran a time of 40.82 seconds in the
400-meter relay at the Olympic Stadium, breaking a mark of 41.37
set by East  Germany  in 1985.  “The world record is older than I am,” Knight, 23, told
reporters after the race. “In the warmup area I said we’re
going to break the world record today, not because I knew, but
because we’d run so fast in the heats.”  Jamaica, with two-time 100-meter gold medalist Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce running the first leg, finished second in 41.41
seconds. Ukraine won bronze in 42.04. The Jamaican and Ukrainian
teams set national records.  The 0.55-second margin by which the Americans broke the
mark is the biggest improvement ever on a women’s 400-meter
relay record. It’s also the first time the U.S. has won gold in
the event since the 1996 Atlanta Olympics.  “I knew that these girls were going to run their hearts
out,” Jeter told reporters. “I knew we were running fast. I
was already pointing at the clock, saying ’there it is’. There
was a cloud hanging over us, with people saying ’they can’t do
this, they’re going to drop the stick,’ but we did it.”  Jamaican team members said they looked forward to a rivalry
with the U.S. to match the one between the two nations’ male
sprinters.  “Everybody talks about Usain Bolt,” Fraser-Pryce told
reporters. “But now we can talk about the ladies who are
running some really wonderful times. It keeps the fire burning
and the rivalries are healthy for the sport.”  Streak Ends  About 40 minutes later, the U.S. men’s 1,600-meter relay
squad had a long streak broken as it settled for silver for the
first time since the 1972 Munich Games when Ramon Miller
overtook Angelo Taylor to clinch the Bahamas’ first relay gold.
 Trinidad & Tobago  was third.  The U.S. was two-time defending champion in that relay. The
Americans also won in 2000, only to have their gold medals
stripped when relay member Antonio Pettigrew admitted he had
been using performance-enhancing substances at the time.  American teams won that relay in the previous four Olympics
as well. Russia triumphed at the 1980 Moscow Games boycotted by
the U.S., and Americans won in 1976. The U.S. was shut out of
the medals in 1972, when Kenya took gold.  Members of the Bahamian team, all of whom trained at U.S.
universities, won in a time of 2 minutes, 56.72 seconds, one-
third of a second better than the U.S.  The U.S. team had lost three runners to injury, including
Manteo Mitchell, who ran 200 meters in the semifinals with a
broken left leg.  Team Injuries  “We were very short of men, we probably could have got a
discus thrower out there,” Mitchell, who was on crutches and
wearing a protective boot, told reporters after watching the
final. “We’ll bounce back, we’ll heal up these injuries. Even
though we got second tonight, we are still the team to beat and
we’re going to come back hungry.”  Taylor, 33, said the Bahamas team was too strong and
benefited from running together over three or four years.  “It was a tough race, my hat goes off to the Bahamas, we
took a hit this year,” Taylor told reporters. “We gave our
best today.”  Oscar Pistorius , who ran the final leg for  South Africa ,
had been trying to become the first track and field athlete to
win medals at both the Paralympic and Olympic games. His team
finished eighth in the final.  Pistorius, 25, who was born without fibulas in both legs,
is nicknamed the “ Blade Runner ” for his J-shaped carbon fiber
legs. He won a silver medal with South Africa’s 1,600-meter
relay team at last year’s world championships.  “It has been a great achievement for me to come here and
compete,” Pistorius told reporters. “I never set out to prove
a point, but I do feel I have made the point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny at London’s Olympic Park at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh at London’s Olympic Park at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 