-- Intesa Drives Europe Bank Rise in Holding of Italy Swaps
-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h
-- 2012-10-05T15:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/u-s-money-funds-boost-euro-area-bank-holdings-from-june-low.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s derivative
contracts with the Italian government almost quadrupled in value
during the first half of 2012, driving European banks’ growing
swap exposure to the euro region’s second-most-indebted nation.  The increase comes at a time when U.S. banks have been
reducing derivative positions with Italy, according to filings
compiled by Bloomberg Brief: Risk Newsletter.  Intesa, which is based in Milan, had contracts with Italy
worth 3.9 billion euros ($5 billion) as of June 30, up from 1
billion euros at the end of 2011, data from the European Banking
Authority show.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  had 2.5 billion euros,  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  2.3 billion euros and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  1.5 billion
euros, according to EBA stress test results published on Oct. 3.  The four European banks had 10.1 billion euros in combined
derivatives exposure to the Italian state on June 30. By
contrast, the four U.S. banks with the largest swap holdings
reduced their combined derivative counterparty exposure to Italy
by $2.7 billion to a total of $3.5 billion, according to second-
quarter filings by  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   “The nexus between banks and sovereigns isn’t weakening as
policy makers had desired,” said  Alberto Gallo , head of
European credit research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London. “Markets are becoming more localized and banks more
exposed to governments’ funding costs, affecting lending.”  The majority of the U.S. reduction came from so-called
netting hedges, such as credit-default swaps, that offset the
total.  Largest Exposure  Intesa, Italy’s second-biggest bank, held 71.4 billion
euros of Italian sovereign debt as of June 30, the most among
banks covered by the EBA data. According to Gallo, Intesa
increased its holding of Italian debt in relation to total
assets in the period.  An Intesa official declined to comment, while BNP and
Unicredit didn’t respond to requests seeking comment. Deutsche
Bank declined to comment beyond the published figures. An
official for Italy’s Treasury in  Rome  declined to comment.  European banks have used part of the European Central
Bank’s 1 trillion euros of three-year loans to invest in
government securities, particularly in Spain and Italy.  The European data show an increase of 2.7 billion euros for
the four banks since the last stress-test results at the end of
December.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  had been one of the five largest bank holders
of Italian swaps last year, and was not included in the latest
stress test since it was nationalized by  Belgium  at the end of
last year.  Unwinding Bets  Overall, European banks’ direct exposure to Italy stood at
10.9 billion euros, the largest positive amount for any European
country included in the test.  Governments enter into interest-rate derivative trades with
banks to reduce borrowing costs and guard against volatility. As
the European sovereign-debt crisis worsened and Italian bond
prices plunged, U.S. banks cut back on their derivative
positions with the nation.  In January, Italy paid Morgan Stanley $3.4 billion to
unwind interest-rate derivative bets that went sour, helping the
bank reduce its exposure to the country.  Direct sovereign exposure figures reported by the EBA refer
only to derivative contracts between the banks and sovereign
entities, including central and local government counterparties.
State-backed companies are included. Separate data for indirect
exposure to  Italy  through contracts such as credit-default swaps
with other banks was also provided, showing much lower exposure.  Creditworthiness Perception  The Italian government held derivatives on about 160
billion euros of debt, Education Undersecretary Marco Rossi Doria told the nation’s Parliament on March 15. The majority of
the swaps, with notional value of about 100 billion euros, were
interest-rate swap contracts. The disclosures by the EBA and
banks refer to the fair value of derivatives with Italy, not the
notional amounts.  The market perception of Italy’s creditworthiness has
improved since the last EBA stress test was carried out, after
the European Central Bank rolled out plans to increase purchases
of euro-area government bonds. Italy’s five-year CDS have become
146 basis points cheaper since the stress test was conducted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in  London  at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nicholas Dunbar at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 