-- Hungary’s Forint Slides to Week Low on Global Slowdown Concern
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-08-10T15:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/hungary-s-forint-slides-to-week-low-on-global-slowdown-concern.html
The forint depreciated to the lowest
in a week as worse-than-expected Chinese trade data and French
industrial output signaled the global economy is slowing,
curbing appetite for riskier emerging assets.  The forint slid as much as 0.8 percent to 279.09 per euro,
the weakest since Aug. 3, and traded at 277.07 at 5:21 p.m. in
Budapest. That pared the forint’s weekly advance to 0.3 percent,
making it the third-worst performer among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  China  reported exports growth of 1 percent in July from a
year earlier, missing all estimates in a Bloomberg survey of 32
economists. French industrial output stagnated in June from May
compared with analyst estimates for 0.1 percent growth, data
from the statistics office Insee showed. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  will cut its domestic corn-crop forecast to the
lowest in six years as the country faces its worst drought since
1956, economists said before a report today.  The forint has “disproportionately more room” to weaken
from current levels than to add further gains as “all the good
news” has been priced in by the market, Roderick Ngotho, an
emerging-market strategist for Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note today. “The key bit of
news that is not yet out -- a successful completion of
negotiations with the  International Monetary Fund  -- has been
taken by the market as a foregone conclusion.”  Hungary will resume negotiations with the IMF and the
European Union in September as the country signaled it was ready
to change a financial-transaction tax criticized by the  European
Central Bank , government chief negotiator Mihaly Varga told
HirTV on July 26. The Cabinet may reach an agreement with
international lenders “by the end of the autumn,” Varga said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  