-- Univision’s ‘One Who Couldn’t Love’ Rises to Most-Watched
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-10T13:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/univision-s-one-who-couldn-t-love-rises-to-most-watched.html
Univision  Communications Inc., the
biggest U.S. Spanish-language broadcaster, broke into the top 25
most-watched shows for the first time with “La Que No Podia
Amar,” drawing viewers not interested in the Olympics.  Three episodes of the telenovela, which translates into
“The One Who Couldn’t Love,” ranked among the most-watched
prime-time shows in the week ended Aug. 5, according to Nielsen
data. The top seven slots went to Olympics coverage on  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC. The series finale airs tonight.  NBC’s Olympics telecast has pulled viewers from the other
English language networks, opening the door for Univision and
Spanish-speaking audiences not keen on sports. Since the London
Games began, Univision is the only broadcaster other than NBC to
gain share among the younger viewers marketers target, the
company said in a statement, citing Nielsen.  “They are closing the gap,” said  Brad Adgate , head of
research at  Horizon Media , a New York-based advertising company.
“They are more apt to be a stronger contender in the summer
when the English language networks are airing repeats.”  The network’s telenovela was produced by Mexico City-based
Grupo Televisa SAB, a major program supplier and investor in
Univision, and has aired on the network since February. Set on a
cattle ranch, the soap opera stars Jorge Salinas, Jose Ron,
Susana Gonzalez and Ana Brenda, according to  Univision .  Over five episodes last week, Univision drew an average
4.87 million viewers a night, Nielsen data show. That compares
with an average prime-time audience of 3.61 million nightly for
the full season. That placed Univision third in total audience,
behind NBC and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  The network ranked second in the 18-
to-49-year-old group that advertisers target.  Audience Surge  Univision, based in New York, was acquired in 2007 for
$12.6 billion by Saban Capital Group Inc., Madison Dearborn
Partners LLC, Providence Equity Partners Inc., TPG Capital and
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP.  In the last two weeks, the total audience for “La Que No
Podia Amar” has surged by 509,000 viewers compared with the
average during the program’s seven-month run, Univision said in
the statement.  The show has also ranked as the highest non-Olympic
program, or the second-highest behind NBC’s broadcasts, on
weeknights among viewers ages 18 to 49, a group targeted by
advertisers, Univision said.  Latinos represent 16 percent of the  U.S. population , a
number that may almost double to 30 percent by 2050, Univision
said in May when it unveiled plans to start an English-language
network for Hispanics with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC News. The
company faces competition from new entrants, including  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Mundo Fox and Comcast’s El Rey, along with established
rivals like Telemundo, also part of Comcast.  “Their audience will become more fragmented,” Adgate
said. “The ratings will flatten out a little bit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  