-- Bolt Sprints Into Olympic Record Books With a Regal Wave
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-10T13:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/usain-bolt-sprints-into-olympic-record-books-with-a-regal-wave.html
Usain Bolt gave the crowd a wave in
the manner of  Queen Elizabeth II  of Britain before racing to the
finish line of the 200 meters to seal a historic sweep of the
track sprints at the  London  Olympics.  Bolt won in 19.32 seconds at the Olympic Stadium to lead a
Jamaican medals sweep. Yohan Blake got the silver in 19.44 and
Warren Weir took bronze in 19.84.  “I’ve done it, this is what I wanted; I’ve wanted to
become a legend,” he told reporters after his race. “You can
bask in my glory now.”  Bolt, 25, looked over to his friend Blake on his left side
as he approached the finish line. He placed his finger over his
lips as he became the only man to successfully defend both the
100- and 200-meter titles at an Olympics.  His triumph also made him the first runner to retain two
titles since  Finland ’s Lasse Viren won the 5,000- and 10,000-
meter races at the 1972 Munich Olympics and the 1976 Montreal
Games. Bolt set an Olympic record of 9.63 seconds in his 100-
meter victory on Aug. 5.  “For me, that was for all the doubters, all the people
saying I wasn’t going to win,” Bolt said. “They can stop
talking now, I’m a legend.”  Carl Lewis, the former U.S. track star whose achievements
Bolt surpassed by defending both sprint titles, questioned the
Jamaican’s rapid improvement at the 2008 Beijing Games, and also
said the Caribbean country’s drug-testing regime wasn’t as
rigorous as it should be.  No Respect  “I’m going to say something controversial right now.  Carl
Lewis , I have no respect for him,” Bolt said when asked to
compare himself to the American. “It was all about drugs.
Talking about drugs, about drug stuff for me. For an athlete to
be out of the sport to be saying that, that’s really upsetting
for me. As far as I’m concerned, he’s just looking for
attention, that’s all.”  Bolt said he may not be back for the Rio de Janeiro
Olympics in four years when he’ll be 29, and is considering
skipping next August’s world championships in Moscow.  “It’s going to be a hard mission,” he said, pointing at
silver medalist Blake and bronze medalist Weir. “These guys are
running extremely well right now.”  The sprinter’s success was celebrated late into the night
in  Jamaica , where his win, and the medal sweep, brought
thousands of flag-waving fans to the streets.  Marley Like  Preston Gordon, 75, a Jamaican who moved to London when he
was 19, said Bolt’s impact on his birth country matched that of
reggae legend  Bob Marley .  “It’s just amazing what he’s done for such a small
country,” said Gordon, who was inside the stadium. “It’s out
of this world. I don’t think what he’s done will ever happen
again.”  Bolt had come to London with some question marks about his
form and fitness after losing in both the 100 and 200 meters to
Blake, his 22-year-old training partner, at the Jamaican trials
in June and July.  “Blake kind of knocked on my door and said, ’Usain, this
is the Olympic year, you’ve got to get serious. You’ve got to
remember that I am here and I am ready to go.’ That was good for
me, it really opened my eyes to what was really going on,” Bolt
said.  Training Partners  He recalled telling Blake, whom he’s nicknamed “The
Beast” for the intensity of his training, that he didn’t have a
chance of usurping him when they started working out together.  “I said to Yohan Blake in 2010 that you came around at the
wrong time because this is my time,” Bolt said. “These next
two years are mine. After that you can go on and do what you
have to do.”  Before the start, wearing a yellow cap back to front, Bolt
shared a fist bump with both a beaming volunteer standing behind
his blocks and Blake, clapped to the crowd and then looked up to
the sky. He got the biggest roar from the capacity crowd of
80,000 when he finished his pre-race rituals with a wave in a
manner akin to that of the British monarch.  Bolt said he’d come up with the idea for his impersonation
when he talked to Blake and Weir before the race.  “We wondered, what are we going to do?” Bolt said.
“Blake was saying I’ve got something new, and Weir was going to
do something, so I was left alone and I was like: ‘What am I
going to do?’ So I did the wave.”  Relay Remaining  Bolt led the field from the start, with Blake pushing him
at the end as he finished in a time that equaled the mark set by
 Michael Johnson  when the American won gold at the Atlanta Games
in 1996.  Bolt is the only person to have run below 9.60 in the 100
meters and under 19.20 in the 200 meters. He broke his own world
records in both distances at the 2009 world championships in
Berlin, where he ran 9.58 to win the 100 and 19.19 to take the
200.  Although Bolt said he’s not been “100 percent” fit and
that he’d felt a strain in his back during the 200, he’s aiming
to break the 400-meter relay world record with his teammates
tomorrow. Jamaica is the defending Olympic champion and set a
world mark at last year’s world championships in Daegu,  South
Korea .  “It’s a possibility,” Bolt said. “It would be a good way
to close the show again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  