-- Usain Bolt’s Autographs Boost Stanley Gibbons Olympic Revenue
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-08-10T10:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/usain-bolt-s-autographs-boost-stanley-gibbons-olympic-revenue.html
Signed photographs of Jamaican
runner Usain Bolt sold out at dealer  Stanley Gibbons Group Plc (SGI) 
this week as he became the only man to successfully defend both
the 100- and 200-meter titles at an Olympics.  The 25-year-old Jamaican runner set an Olympic record of
9.63 seconds when he cruised to his 100-meter victory on Aug. 5.
The following day, the 156 year old St. Helier, Jersey-based
stamp and collectibles trader ran out of autographed pictures.
Bolt won the gold medal in the 200-meter race yesterday.  “We more than doubled the price to 250 pounds, and then we
bought more and sold them all as well,” Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Hall  said today in a phone interview. “It was a good
investment.”  The Olympics will boost Stanley Gibbons’s annual revenue by
5 percent, Hall said. The company said it also sold more stamp
sheets than expected because of the high Team Great Britain
gold-medal count, the country’s best performance since 1908.  Stanley Gibbons reported today that first-half pretax
profit rose 8 percent to 1.8 million pounds ($2.8 million).
Demand related to the games also translated to half a million
pounds worth of commemorative-item sales, such as gold coins, to
Chinese customers, according to Hall.  The shares rose to a two-month high in London trading at
218.5 pence as of 11:40 a.m. Earnings per share were 6.39 pence,
up 13 percent, according to the regulatory statement.  Stamp Collecting  The company aims to further expand in the $10 billion
stamp-collection market by aiming at lower-value collectors and
moving away from retailing, according to Hall. He said the risk
of higher  interest rates  in the long term means the business
wants to hold less inventory and evolve into a service provider
with higher commission rates.  The strategy includes building an online trading community
similar to  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , Hall said.  “It’s a collector market that’s rising,” Hall said.
“They are building a collection but they also see it as a store
of wealth, and the ease of access to buying online has made the
market more liquid.”  The Stanley Gibbons 100 Stamp  Price Index , which lists the
world’s most frequently traded stamps, rose 5.4 percent last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  