-- Vale Weighing Nickel Means Iron Focus: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-08-10T15:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/vale-puts-nickel-on-hold-after-prices-drop-corporate-bra.html
Vale SA (VALE3)  forecasts it will miss base-
metals output targets for a second year, fueling calls from
analysts for the company to sell at least part of the business
plagued by strikes and sinking prices.  Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira, who led Vale’s
$18.2 billion takeover of Canadian nickel producer  Inco Ltd. (PCTN)  in
2006 as head of base metals, said last month the Rio de Janeiro-
based miner is studying options for the unit. Vale, the world’s
second-largest mining company, is refocusing on its more
profitable iron-ore business, said Rogerio Zarpao, an analyst at
Banco J Safra SA.  “Vale will become a company with contained growth in those
business areas,” Zarpao said in a telephone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “The diversification will continue, but is not the
priority that it used to be.”  Vale’s base metals assets may be worth as much as $30
billion, Bank of America Corp. estimates. The unit contributed
less than 5 percent to second-quarter adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Ferreira said
the unit isn’t for sale on a July 26 earnings conference call.  “Divesting base metals could generate significant value
for Vale,” Bank of America analysts led by Felipe Hirai in Sao
Paulo said in a July 26 note to clients. “We believe these
assets are not currently up for sale, but we think continued
weak results could prompt management to revisit this strategy.”  The analysts declined to comment further through Bank of
America’s press office in  New York .  Strategic Review  “ Vale  is challenged to present a better value for the
business and, because of that, we are doing a strategic
review,” the company’s press office said in a statement
yesterday.  Vale, whose profit missed analysts’ estimates in four of
the past five quarters, dropped 0.3 percent to 37.45 reais at
12:17 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading, extending its decline in the
past 12 months to 2.8 percent. It trades at 5.97 times estimated
earnings for this year, compared with 11.02 times for  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, and 8.17
times for Rio Tinto Group, the third-largest, as of yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vale’s profit  will drop to $15.2 billion this year from
$22.9 billion in 2011, according to the average of 19 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Ferreira took over from  Roger Agnelli  in May 2011 saying
the company is interested in “any asset” in the iron-ore,
fertilizer, nickel, coal and copper markets. On the July 26
call, Ferreira said Vale is unlikely to invest in new base-
metals projects.  ‘Strong Priority’  “We have a very strong priority in iron ore, coal and
fertilizers,” Ferreira told analysts. “Base metals still has
to deliver the results not presented in the past.”  Nickel prices have declined by about 50 percent from an
average of $31,200 per ton in November 2006, when Vale acquired
Inco. Nickel for delivery in three months fell 1.5 percent to
$15,500 a ton in  London  yesterday, extending this year’s decline
to 17 percent. Nickel is a key element for the production of
stainless steel.  Vale, the world’s second-largest nickel producer, this year
halted operations at two of its base metals projects following
production ramp-up incidents.  Vale declared force majeure in its VNC New Caledonia nickel
operations after a plant accident, according to a May 10
statement. The plant, which in the first half of 2012 produced
4,000 metric tons out of a 60,000-ton capacity, is expected by
the company to resume operations in the fourth quarter.  Onca Puma  In northern  Brazil , Vale’s Onca Puma nickel plant stopped
producing in the second quarter after furnace problems and will
probably be out of operation for a few months, according to a
July 18 company statement. Onca Puma, which the company said has
an estimated capacity of 58,000 metric tons, had output of 6,000
metric tons of nickel in the first six months, according Vale.  As a result, Vale produced 124,000 metric tons of nickel in
the first half of 2012, 41 percent of its annual target,
prompting the company’s executive officer of base metals, Peter Poppinga, to say on July 26 the annual goal won’t be met. Vale
will also miss its copper output target this year, he said,
after completing 42 percent of this year’s objective.  “The numbers will be reviewed for a lower” target,
Poppinga said on a conference call with reporters. “We are
living a challenging moment now,” he said, without providing
new targets or a timetable.  Nickel, Copper  Vale sold its nickel at an average $17,761.90 a metric ton
in the second quarter, 30 percent less than last year and the
lowest realized prices in three years. The average selling price
for copper declined 15 percent in the period to $7,566 per ton,
Vale said.  Production of the metal used to prevent corrosion in
stainless steel reached 242,000 metric tons last year, missing
the company’s 2011 target by 18 percent and still below the
annual record of 275,000 tons in 2008.  Vale missed the targets due to delays in the VNC and Onca
Puma ramp-up, together with operational problems in its
Indonesia mines and difficulties in resuming production in
 Canada  after the strike, the company said in yesterday’s
statement to Bloomberg News.  “Our expectation is that the production recovery will
occur in the next 18 months to take full advantage of our nickel
operations,” Vale said.  Lower profit and margins in the nickel unit are prompting
the company to increase focus on  iron ore  and fertilizer units,
where it has higher returns and lower execution risks, Safra’s
Zarpao said.  Inco Acquisition  Vale snapped up the Canadian miner Inco in 2006 to build a
global nickel business from Toronto after a takeover battle.
About six months after Ferreira left the Canadian company in
2008, about 3,000 steelworkers at Vale’s Canadian nickel
operations in Sudbury and  Port Colborne  went on strike.  The industrial dispute, which reduced output at Sudbury to
zero in the first quarter of 2010 from 22,400 metric tons a year
earlier, lasted more than a year until July 2010.  While former CEO Agnelli said in 2010 Vale would become the
world’s largest nickel producer the following year, the company
says now overtaking OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel (MNOD)  is not likely to
happen until at least 2014.  Vale is unlikely to exit the base metals business and may
eventually decide to sell a specific asset as it did earlier
this year with a thermal  coal mine , Zarpao said.  “What is under Vale’s control would be a reduction in the
investment levels in this area and may be an isolated
disinvestment,” he said. “There is a revision to have a more
focused strategy in a more adverse global context. It’s a new
global dynamic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  