-- Venezuela Gets Good Sign From Repsol on YPF Dispute, Chavez Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-08-10T23:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/venezuela-gets-good-sign-from-repsol-on-ypf-dispute-chavez-says.html
Venezuela  has received a
“positive” letter from  Repsol SA (REP)  about its efforts to resolve
a dispute with Argentina over the nationalization of its YPF
unit, President  Hugo Chavez  said today.  Venezuela is “friends” with Repsol and maintains good
relations with the company, Chavez said on state television,
adding that he received a letter from Repsol Chairman  Antonio Brufau  yesterday that contained a “good signal.”  The self-professed socialist on July 23 warned Repsol to
“think carefully” about taking action against Argentina after
it nationalized a 51 percent stake in its YPF unit in April. The
company has said that it would seek as much as $10.5 billion in
compensation and consider international arbitration.  “We’re going to fix all of this as allies. That’s what we
propose,” Chavez said. “I’m not going to disclose the contents
of a private letter, but it makes me happy that we can
contribute and help make sure that things keep advancing in
 Latin America .”  Repsol,  Spain ’s largest oil company, and Italy’s  ENI SpA (ENI) 
signed an agreement yesterday with  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  for
the Rafael Urdaneta natural gas project in the South American
country, Chavez said.  “Repsol would not have signed a new agreement in the
country if their investments in Venezuela were at risk,” Chavez
said. “We are friends with Repsol.”  Perla Field  Eni and Repsol are joint operators of the Perla field that
is part of the Rafael Urdaneta project and located 50 kilometers
(31 miles) off Venezuela’s western coast. PDVSA, as the Caracas-
based company is called, has a right to take a 35 percent stake
in the field, which is estimated to hold 17 trillion cubic feet
of gas, during the development phase, which would reduce the Eni
and Repsol shares to 32.5 percent each.  PDVSA said in June that it would begin early production of
80 million cubic feet of natural gas a day at the Perla field
along with partners Eni and Repsol in the first quarter of 2013.
The block will produce 300 million cubic feet a day of gas in
2013 and reach maximum capacity of 1.2 billion cubic feet in
2019, PDVSA said.  “We are also also friends with  Argentina ,” Chavez said.
“What I’ve done is send a message to Repsol that I don’t agree
with an international suit against Argentina. That would send a
bad signal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  