-- WellPoint CEO Faces Ire of Investor Who Says She Must Go
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-10T20:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/wellpoint-ceo-faces-ire-of-investor-who-says-she-must-go.html
WellPoint (WLP)  Inc.’s Angela Braly chided
 Barack Obama  for spreading “false information” about health
insurers two years ago. She’s now facing tough questions about
her own performance from investors calling for her ouster.  WellPoint, the second-biggest U.S. insurer, reported
earnings last month that missed analyst estimates. The company
predicted it would lose 900,000 members and cut its 2012
forecast. Now two investors, citing a litany of complaints, say
Braly is the problem.  “There’s a universal view that the CEO is the wrong CEO to
lead the business,”  Leon Cooperman , one of two investors to
speak publicly about Braly’s tenure, said in a telephone
interview. Omega Advisors Inc., Cooperman’s New York-based hedge
fund, held 2.1 million WellPoint shares, or about 1 percent, as
of March.  Similarly, Orbimed Advisors, which held 1.25 million shares
in March, attributes “management missteps,” to WellPoint’s
poor performance, said Kuhn Tsai, an analyst at the New York-
based investment fund.  Omega and Orbimed may be just the tip of the iceberg.
Seeking time to forge a response to  investors ’ complaints,
Indianapolis-based WellPoint canceled a previously scheduled
management session today with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
according to two investors who spoke on condition their names
not be revealed because they’re not authorized to discuss
individual stocks or don’t want to lose access to the company.  WellPoint is now arranging a series of meetings to hear out
disgruntled investors. The company’s  shares  rose 2 percent to
$57.91 at the close in  New York , the best performance among
health insurers today.  Board Support  Braly, 51, a lawyer by training who became CEO in 2007 and
is one of 20 women now running Fortune 500 companies, has the
support of her board, lead director Jacquelyn Ward, 73, said in
a statement released after the July 25 earnings report.  The  board  is “fully involved in the strategy WellPoint is
pursuing and is supportive of the strategy and our management
team,” Ward wrote in an e-mail.  Critics cite a long list of complaints with WellPoint’s
management, including well-publicized difficulties forecasting
medical costs and setting premium prices as well as executive
ousters under Braly that some contend gutted the company of
valuable expertise.  Investors are critical of Braly and WellPoint for spending
billions of dollars on share buybacks in recent years with no
gain in the  stock value . The company bought back $493.7 million
in shares at an average price of $68.53 in the second quarter,
17 percent above yesterday’s closing price of $56.79.  Political Conflict  Capping it was Braly’s role in allowing the company to
become a lightning rod for the  Democratic Party  in its 2010
drive to pass the U.S. president’s health-care overhaul.  In early 2010, WellPoint withdrew proposed rate increases
of as much as 39 percent for customers in  California  after state
regulators found the company had overestimated expenses. The
confrontation drew wide news coverage, with Democrats citing the
increases as a reason to pass the health-care law at a time when
public support was flagging.  “If you’re CEO, and you’re going to take on the California
insurance commissioner, that’s going to play out in the press
across the country,” said  Robert Laszewski , an industry
consultant based in Alexandria, Virginia. “The first thing you
ask your staff is ‘Can we double check this? Are we going to get
caught with our pants down?’”  President Obama  Even Obama took on WellPoint, following a news report that
the carrier had dropped coverage for some breast-cancer
patients. The president, without naming the insurer, said in his
weekly radio address that his administration had asked a certain
health plan to stop singling out cancer victims.  The company denied the reports and Braly fired back in an
open letter to the president, writing that she was
“disappointed to hear you repeat false information.”  Since Braly took on the added role of chairman in March
2010, the company has lost $9 billion in market value as its
stock fell 8.5 percent through yesterday, a decline not lost on
analysts who have also been critical of Braly after the earnings
report. By comparison, the shares of  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,
the only U.S. health plan that is larger than WellPoint, have
soared 53 percent during the same period.  The results “put an exclamation point on the differences
between United and WellPoint,” Carl McDonald, a Citigroup
analyst in New York, wrote in a note to clients following the
earnings report. “Time may be running out for WellPoint’s
management team.”  Value Comparison  WellPoint traded at a 2 percent premium to an S&P500 index
of the top six health insurers when Braly took over as chairman
on March 1, 2010. As of yesterday, it changed hands at a  14
percent discount , suggesting investors’ waning confidence.  Braly declined a request for an interview through Kristin Binns, a WellPoint spokeswoman. “These are challenging times,
but we believe we have the right long-term strategy in place to
win in the market,” the company said in an e-mail.  Braly came to WellPoint with a reputation as “a deal-
maker,” not an insurance expert, said  Dave Shove , a BMO Capital
Markets analyst in New York who downgraded the shares after the
quarterly report.  “If you’re running an insurance company, it’s all about
operations and execution and she just doesn’t have that
background,” Shove said in a telephone interview.  With medical costs no longer slowing and the economy
sputtering, WellPoint needs “better organic growth and clean
execution,” Shove wrote in a note to clients after the earnings
report. “It has become less clear to us if we can expect to see
either component.”  Braly’s Fate  Braly’s fate rests with a board that hasn’t seen much
change. Ward is one of nine directors who have served for at
least eight years. Aside from Braly, it’s only new addition in
that time is Robert Dixon, the chief information officer at
Purchase, New York-based  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , who joined last year.  WellPoint declined to make Ward available for an interview.
Efforts to reach the board members separately were unsuccessful.  WellPoint may bear the biggest bullseye in an industry in
transition.  The company owns Blue Cross plans in 14 states and is the
nation’s largest seller of policies to individuals and small
businesses. Both markets have been losing customers, and are
expected to become less profitable because of new rules in the
health-care law.  Braly, true to her billing as a deal maker, has tried to
diversify ahead of the law’s 2014 implementation.  WellPoint Acquisitions  In June, the insurer agreed to  buy  eye-wear provider 1-800
Contacts for about $900 million. Last month, it announced the
$4.9 billion purchase of  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  to become biggest
private provider of Medicaid plans to low-income customers.  “We are investing significantly in our businesses to
continue enhancing our future growth opportunities,” WellPoint
said in its statement. “And we’re adding experienced new talent
to the team to execute on these growth opportunities.”  WellPoint’s hardly the only insurer battling  enrollment
declines  amid the uneven economy and medical costs that have
defied projections.  Humana Inc. (HUM)  cut its profit outlook last week
after the Louisville, Kentucky-based company said it saw
spending increase. Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth fell
even after raising its forecast last month when executives
talked of risks to its profit margins.  Corporate Climb  Braly, a mother of three, earned her law degree from
Southern Methodist School of Law in  Dallas . She joined WellPoint
in 2005 after the company bought a Missouri Blue Cross plan
where she had risen to chief executive officer.  After heading government affairs and serving as general
counsel for WellPoint, she was tapped for the top spot two years
later by retiring CEO Larry Glasscock.  It’s not clear whether the company has a replacement within
its ranks, said Thomas Carroll, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst
in Baltimore. Chief Financial Officer Wayne DeVeydt, 42, is seen
as talented but inexperienced by some investors and too
associated with WellPoint’s miscues by others, he said in a
phone interview.  Carroll said he also fielded calls from angry investors
about the company last month.  For the CEO, he said, “this probably is her last chance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  