-- Twitter Threat to New York Theater Resolved Without Arrest
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-10T01:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/twitter-threat-to-new-york-theater-resolved-without-arrest-1-.html
A probe into threats to kill patrons
of a Broadway theater posted on the Twitter social-networking
service was resolved without an arrest, New York City police
said.  The NYPD on Aug. 3 discovered the messages threatening
audience members at the Longacre Theater on West 48th Street in
 Manhattan , where “ Mike Tyson : Undisputed Truth,” a one-man
show featuring the boxerand directed by Spike Lee, is currently
running.  Police interviewed the holder of the account, who is in
 West Virginia , and the threat was “resolved without arrest,”
 Paul Browne , a spokesman for the department, said today in an e-
mail. The holder of the account is the person who made the
threats, said Browne, who didn’t respond to inquiries about why
police decided not to make an arrest.  The threats were posted under the Twitter name
@obamasmistress, the New York Post reported, citing unidentified
 law enforcement  sources. Browne declined to comment on that
report.  Police initially asked the social-networking service to
identify the holder of the account and Twitter refused, saying
the case didn’t fall under its disclosure policy, according to
the NYPD. The department then asked Manhattan District Attorney
Cyrus Vance Jr.’s office to request a subpoena compelling
Twitter to release the information. A judge signed the order and
the company complied.  Twitter last month appealed a  New York  state judge’s order
to give prosecutors information about an  Occupy Wall Street 
protester’s posts. The company has said the case will determine
when and whether it must respond to subpoenas for its users.  National Implications  The  American Civil Liberties Union  said in a May 31 court
filing that the litigation has national implications as law
enforcement becomes more aggressive in seeking information about
what people do and say on the Internet.  Twitter, based in  San Francisco , has declined to comment on
the theater threats. Carolyn Penner, a spokeswoman for the
company, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail after regular
business hours seeking comment on the police department’s
resolution of the case.  One of the messages threatened that people at the theater
were going to “die like Aurora” -- a reference to last month’s
mass shooting at a Colorado movie theater where 12 people died
and at least 58 were injured. The NYPD posted extra officer at
the Longacre in response.  The Twitter account wasn’t accessible late today.  Twitter provides real-time messaging and allows users to
make posts that are broadcast to people who sign up to follow
them. Tyson’s show began July 31 and is scheduled to run through
Aug. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  