-- Tyco Settles Suit Against Jailed Ex-CEO on Eve of Trial
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-08-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/tyco-settles-suit-against-jailed-ex-ceo-on-eve-of-trial.html
Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  and its
convicted former chief executive officer, L.  Dennis Kozlowski ,
settled a 10-year-old lawsuit in which the company sought the
return of money, stock and loans.  Kozlowski, 65, was found guilty in 2005 of New York state
charges that he stole from the company through unauthorized
bonuses and inflated stock gains. He is serving a sentence of 8
1/3 years to 25 years and is currently on work release from a
state prison in  Manhattan . The trial of the company’s lawsuit
was set to begin next week in federal court in Manhattan.  In Kozlowski’s criminal trial, prosecutors regaled jurors
with tales of how he spent the money he looted from the company.
The government pointed to luxuries paid for with Tyco funds that
included a $30 million Fifth Avenue apartment, a $6,000 shower
curtain and a $15,000 umbrella stand.  “An agreement in principle was reached today by the
parties,” Ira Gottlieb, a Tyco spokesman, said yesterday in a
statement. He declined to comment further.  Tyco, based in Schaffhausen,  Switzerland , makes security
and fire-detection systems. Robert Shwartz, a lawyer
representing Kozlowski, and Marshall Beil, a lawyer for the
company, didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking comment
on the settlement or its terms. Terms of the agreement weren’t
disclosed.  Kozlowski and Mark Swartz, Tyco’s former chief financial
officer, were convicted in June 2005 of  securities fraud , grand
larceny and falsifying business records. Jurors found that they
stole about $137 million in unauthorized bonuses and other pay
and made $410 million from the sale of artificially inflated
stock. Kozlowski was denied parole in April.  An earlier trial resulted in a mistrial after a juror
received threats.  The case is Tyco International Ltd. v. Kozlowski, 02-
CV-7317, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  