-- ThyssenKrupp Posts Profit as Europe Steelmakers Struggle
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-08-10T16:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-10/thyssenkrupp-posts-profit-as-europe-steelmakers-struggle.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest
steelmaker, gained the most this year in  Frankfurt  after posting
profit that beat analyst estimates and affirming annual targets.  ThyssenKrupp  rose  5.1 percent to 16.45 euros by the close,
the biggest jump since Dec. 20 and was the biggest gainer on the
German benchmark DAX index. Adjusted earnings before interest
and taxes, used by ThyssenKrupp to forecast future results, fell
79 percent to 122 million euros ($150 million) in the fiscal
third-quarter as losses from the Steel Americas unit widened.  The result beat the 83.4 million-euro average of 12 analyst
estimates Bloomberg compiled. ThyssenKrupp affirmed its forecast
for adjusted Ebit “in the mid three-digit million euro range.”  “Earnings were not as bad as feared,” said Marc Gabriel,
a Bankhaus Lampe KG analyst. “The company signaled that it’s
progressing with the sale of its problem child Steel Americas.”  Interested parties in Steel Americas are in double digits,
Chief Financial Officer Guido Kerkhoff said today on a call.  Europe ’s steel companies have seen margins squeezed as the
region’s economic woes curb demand from the car, appliance and
building industries, weighing on prices. Austria’s  Voestalpine
AG (VOE)  reported a 34 percent decline in net income on Aug. 7, and
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  posted a 28 percent drop in earnings last month.  ‘Robust Performance’  “Our capital goods businesses all delivered a pleasingly
robust performance,” Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger 
said in a statement. “Nevertheless, we are noticing the high
level of caution among our customers.” The company isn’t
satisfied with its Elevator Technology operation, he said on the
call. The unit will cut 500 posts, mostly in southern Europe.  ThyssenKrupp said it had agreed to sell its European steel
construction group to Kingspan Group Plc. Kingspan will pay
about 65 million euros for the unit, the Cavan, Ireland-based
company said today in a separate statement. ThyssenKrupp reduced
net debt to 5.8 billion euros from 6.25 billion euros a year
earlier, the Essen, Germany-based company said in the statement.  “At first sight it is positive that net financial debt
narrowed,” Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst at Fairesearch, said
from Kronberg near Frankfurt. “Debt is still much too high.”  The adjusted Ebit loss at Steel Americas widened to 262
million euros from 190 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  