-- Abe Spurs Biggest Yen Drop Since 1982 as Fed Views Stimulus End
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-06-29T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/abe-spurs-biggest-yen-drop-since-1982-as-fed-views-stimulus-end.html
The yen fell the most this year
versus the dollar since 1982 as  Japan ’s Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe implements plans to boost economic growth and rid the nation
of deflation. Federal Reserve discussions of reduced monetary
stimulus also boosted the greenback against Japan’s currency.  The Dollar Index had its best first-half year rally since
2010 as Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke on June 19 outlined the
conditions that would prompt reduced asset purchases. Abe’s
monetary and fiscal stimulus measures spurred a 32 percent rally
in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average this year, damping demand for
the yen as a haven. South Africa’s rand weakened 14.5 percent
against the greenback amid persistent labor unrest. The U.S.
unemployment rate declined to 7.5 percent this month, the
Department of Labor is forecast to report July 5.  “The predominant trend has been toward weaker yen as the
market look forward to the easy picking from Abenomics,” Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak and Co. in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “For the rest of this
year, we will continue to see dollar strength and yen weakness
as investors wrap their arms around the positive prospects from
Abenomics.”  The yen fell 14.3 percent to 99.14 per dollar this year in
New York. Europe’s shared currency declined 1.4 percent to
$1.3010 per dollar. Japan’s currency weakened 11.3 percent
versus the euro to 128.97.  Market Share  Volatility in the $4 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market
as measured by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index
has jumped 36 percent in 2013 and touched the highest in a year
on June 24.  The U.S. dollar made up 62.2 percent of allocated reserves
in the January-March period, compared with 61.2 percent the
prior quarter, according to the International Monetary Fund data
released yesterday. The euro’s share was 23.7 percent, the
smallest percentage since 2004, compared with 24.2 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2012.  Reserve managers around the world held about $194 billion
in Australian and Canadian currencies, according to the first
IMF data on the global holdings of the two currencies.  South Africa’s currency has fallen the most of the dollar’s
16 most-traded peers this year. An equally weighted basket of
so-called BRICS emerging-market currencies has depreciated 4.5
percent in 2013 as traders that had been seeking higher yielding
assets unwind their bets.  Dollar Bull  “We’re still constructive on the dollar, I think the
growth story is going to hold,” Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.
It’s “this concern about the Fed taking the punch bowl away
that’s causing the dollar to gain strength against some of the
higher yielding currencies.”  Former Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman Jim O’Neill
coined the term BRIC in 2001 to describe  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India 
and  China  -- the four emerging powers he estimated would equal
the U.S. in joint economic output by 2020. Those nations invited
South Africa to join their ranks in December 2010.  Markets gyrated even as Fed policy makers have sought to
reassure investors that any changes to their $85 billion a month
asset-purchase program is dependent on how the economy fares.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, has climbed 4.2 percent this year. The gauge
may rise to 85.7 by the end of the year, according to the median
forecast of economists and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yield Gain  Treasury 10-year yields  touched  2.66 percent on June 24,
the highest since August 2011. Gold prices fell to a 34-month
low and had the biggest quarterly drop in at least 93 years.  “The markets have been very volatile and they remain very
sensitive to Fed communication and economic data,” said Gary Pollack, who manages $12 billion as head of fixed-income trading
at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New
York. “The market is not patient as no one wants to be the last
one out the door.”  U.S. payrolls may have increased 165,000 in June after
growing 175,000 the previous month, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The unemployment rate climbed to
7.6 percent in May from 7.5 percent as a surge in the number of
people entering the labor force swamped the number of positions
available.  Deutsche Bank AG’s G10 FX Carry Basket index fell has
fallen 6.8 percent this quarter, the most since third-quarter of
2011. The gauge has declined 3.4 percent in 2013.  The yen has weakened 8.3 percent this year among 10 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
 Australia ’s currency has fallen 7.8 percent, while the U.S.
dollar has rallied 6.4 percent and the euro gained 4.8 percent.  Government Business  “There are some doubts over how quickly -- namely
structural reform from the government -- would be passed and
impact the economy,” Miller Tabak’s Wilkinson said. “That’s
worried traders.”  Under Abe, Japan is rolling out unprecedented monetary
easing and spending $105 billion to reverse more than 10 years
of deflationary malaise, measures that weakened the yen and made
Japan the best-performing major stock market this year.  The prime minister said later this year would be the
soonest his government presents a legislative growth strategy to
accompany monetary and fiscal stimulus -- the first two arrows
of his policies dubbed Abenomics.  The euro has gained against 13 of its 16 major peers this
year as the region’s economy is forecast to shrink 0.6 percent
in 2013, the same as the previous year, according to median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The U.S. may grow
1.9 percent in 2013, a separate survey shows. The European
Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a record-low 0.5
percent in May.  Euro Zone  “Maybe people are a little more anesthetized to the euro-zone crisis than previously, but going forward we think it’s
still going to be a relative growth story,” RBS’s Kim said.
“We think bouts of risk aversion or concern could contribute to
dollar strength throughout the year.”  South Africa’s rand has gained 2.1 percent to the greenback
this month, while Australia’s dollar has declined 4.5 percent.
This quarter, the euro has led all major gainers with a 1.5
percent increase, while the worst-performing Aussie has slipped
12.3 percent.  The dollar will end the year at $1.27 per euro and 105 yen,
according to the median estimates in Bloomberg News surveys of
analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  