-- Afghan Army May Need NATO Support Until 2020, U.K. Official Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-06-29T12:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/afghan-army-may-need-nato-support-until-2020-u-k-official-says.html
A senior British military official
suggested  Afghanistan  will need support from the U.K. through
NATO-led forces for another three to five years, beyond the
planned withdrawal date of British troops at the end of 2014.  Afghanistan’s army still needs work on coordinating close
air support, casualty evacuation and logistics support, the
official, who declined to be identified in accordance with
government policy, told reporters in the Afghan province of
Helmand today.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , who visited troops in
Camp Bastion and Lashkar Gah in the region today, has pledged to
withdraw all combat forces by the end of next year.  “There will be no British combat troops after end 2014,”
Cameron said in Kabul today after visiting Helmand. “British
troops are coming home. We have not made any other commitment,
nor have we been asked to make them.”  NATO handed over security control to the Afghan forces on
June 18. The U.K. has committed to help run Afghanistan’s
Officer Academy near Kabul and provide financial support to
Afghan forces. British troop numbers in the country have already
been cut to 7,900 as of the end of May, down from 9,000 at the
beginning of 2013, and will be reduced to 5,200 by year-end.  “While our combat troops will return home, we have already
committed to support and sustain the Afghan security forces
financially long after 2014,” Cameron said.  Taliban Talks  Lieutenant-General Nick Carter, deputy commander of the
NATO-led coalition, told the  Guardian newspaper  in an interview
published today that western countries should have started
talking to the Taliban a decade ago, after they had been toppled
from power.  “I think you can argue about whether the settlement we put
in place after 2001 could have been better arranged,” Cameron
told  Sky News  in Helmand today. “Since I became Prime Minister
in 2010, I have been pushing all the time for a political
process, and that political process is now underway.”  “We have built up the Afghan army, built up the Afghan
police, supported the Afghan government so after our troops have
left, and they will be leaving under the program we have set
out,” he said. “This country shouldn’t be a haven for
terrorists.”  Cameron today also announced 3.8 million pounds ($5.8
million) of funding for charities that support military families
and programs providing mental health support for veterans.
Levies from banks fined after the Libor scandal will be used to
create a permanent memorial to the 444 British troops killed in
Afghanistan since the start of the conflict.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Afghanistan at  sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Harrison  at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  