-- Asian Stocks Cap Best Week Since April on Growth Optimism, China
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-06-29T00:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/asian-stocks-cap-best-week-since-april-on-growth-optimism-china.html
Asian  shares  rose this week, with
the regional benchmark posting its biggest increase since April,
amid signs the Japanese and U.S. economies are improving. Stocks
in  Hong Kong  rebounded on optimism the recent rout amid concerns
of a Chinese cash crunch was overdone.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker, advanced
2.6 percent in  Tokyo  as the yen weakened against the dollar for
a second week. Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd., the
world’s second-largest lender by market value, rebounded 5.8
percent after tumbling last week. Woori Finance Holdings Co.
gained 5.4 percent in  Seoul  after the government announced plans
to separate the nation’s largest financial group by assets into
three parts.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 2.2 percent this week, its
biggest such increase since the week through April 26 when the
measure rose almost 3 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has
retreated 9.6 percent from the closing level on May 20, which
was the highest since June 2008.  “More growth means equities have a very good fundamental
reason to continue rallying as we look through the noise,”
 Michael Kurtz , Hong Kong-based head of global equity strategy at
Nomura Holdings Inc., said on Bloomberg Television. “China
stocks are starting to look substantially undervalued. Investors
with a medium to long-term perspective should be taking this as
an opportunity to go shopping.”  Week’s Move  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index began trading lower earlier in
the week on concerns the U.S. Federal Reserve would taper
monetary easing and as China’s money markets endured their worst
cash crunch in at least a decade. The measure ended June trading
down 3.2 percent, its second month of losses and capping its
first  quarterly  slump in a year.  Shares advanced through the week’s second half after
Japanese reports showed the economy strengthened in May, amid
assurances the  Federal Reserve  won’t soon end stimulus efforts
and China’s central bank has said it provided liquidity to
financial institutions to steady money-market rates.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent in  New
York  this week.  Consumer spending  in the U.S. rebounded in May,
household purchases and incomes advanced, Commerce Department
figures showed on June 27. Consumer sentiment held close to a
six-year high in June as rising home values gave Americans more
reason to be optimistic about the economy.  Asia’s benchmark trades at 12.7 times average estimated
earnings, compared with multiples of 14.6 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 12.7 for the Europe STOXX 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regional Benchmarks  South Korea’s Kospi Index gained 2.2 percent.  Singapore ’s
Straits Times Index rose 0.8 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index
advanced 3.5 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 1.4 percent.  Kevin
Rudd ’s victory as leader of Australia’s governing  Labor Party 
may boost consumer and company confidence before an election
that could be held as early as August, according to investors,
economists and business leaders.  Japan’s Topix index climbed 3.1 percent to 1,133.84 this
week, its second weekly gain. The gauge rose more than 50
percent in the nine months since the end of September, the
biggest rally across three quarters since 1972. The yen lost 1.3
percent against the dollar, down for a second week. A weaker yen
boosts the outlook for Japanese exporter earnings when
repatriated.  Toyota advanced 2.6 percent to 5,990 yen. Honda Motor Co.,
which gets at least 80 percent of its revenue abroad, rose 2.9
percent to 3,685 yen. Panasonic Corp., which gets almost half
its sales outside of Japan, jumped 8.7 percent to 797 yen.  Japanese Growth  Japanese shares also rose after government data showed the
country’s industrial production rose more than economists
expected last month. The Trade Ministry said industrial output
expanded 2 percent, compared with the median 0.2 percent
increase projected by 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Consumer prices excluding fresh food were unchanged on the year,
leaving negative territory for the first time since October.  The  Hang Seng Index  advanced 2.7 percent, after falling to
its lowest level in nine months on June 24. China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 4.5 percent, closing at the lowest level
since January 2009 on June 27.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, has fallen more than 20 percent from its Feb. 1
high, meeting some investors’ definition of a  bear market . The
measure traded at 6.6 times estimated earnings on June 25, 39
percent below its five-year average and the lowest since October
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge
increased 0.8 percent this week.  China Cash Crunch  Fitch Ratings Ltd. cut its 2013 growth forecast for China
on June 27, saying a jump in interbank rates this month on
tighter monetary conditions is likely to “pose further
headwinds.” The overnight  repurchase rate  of 6.65 percent on
June 24 was more than double this year’s average.  China’s central bank will use various tools to adjust
liquidity, People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
at the Lujiazui forum in  Shanghai  on June 28.  “Hong Kong and Chinese shares are very cheap,” said  Binay Chandgothia , a  fund manager  at Principal Global Investors in
Hong Kong, where he helps oversee $280 billion. “Downside
should be limited for Hong Kong unless you get into a full-blown
financial crisis. Investor sentiment is fairly weak, markets
look oversold short term but for contrarian investors, it’s
probably a good time to get in.”  ‘Some Relief’  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China advanced 5.8 percent
to HK$4.89. The shares rebounded from an 8.9 percent loss the
previous week, its biggest weekly drop since June 2012.  China
Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the largest mainland property
company traded in Hong Kong, on speculation the government will
remove a ban on refinancing for real-estate development to help
ease a credit crunch.  Shanghai Securities News reported the southern Chinese
province of Guangdong may let qualified individuals begin
investing in securities listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange.  “The message from China’s central bank led to some
relief,” said Mari Oshidari, a Hong Kong-based market
strategist at Okasan Securities Group Inc. “Valuations are
cheap. With concern about a short-term credit crunch, the market
was trying to find a catalyst to reverse losses. But worries
about China’s slowdown remains.”  Among stocks that fell Totenko Co., a Japanese restaurant
operator, plunged 26 percent to 189 yen.  Kyodo News  reported
Shin Shin, a giant panda in Ueno Zoological Gardens, which is
near Totenko’s main store, may have shown false signs of
pregnancy. Pandas draw a large number of visitors. Seiyoken KK,
the operator of a French restaurant near the zoo, slumped 34
percent to 620 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  