-- Rudd Overtakes Abbott as Australian Voters’ Pick, Poll Shows
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-30T02:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/australia-s-rudd-boosts-labor-after-return-to-helm-poll-shows.html
Kevin Rudd overtook opposition
leader Tony Abbott as Australia’s preferred prime minister ahead
of an election scheduled Sept. 14, according to a national poll
of voters.  Rudd is the preferred choice for prime minister by 51
percent of voters compared with 34 percent for Abbott, according
to a  Galaxy poll  of 1,002 voters. Support for Labor increased as
much as 10 percent in Sydney and  Melbourne  suburbs including
Blaxland and Maribyrnong, according to a separate  ReachTEL poll 
conducted June 27. Rudd, sworn in as prime minister a day after
ousting Julia Gillard in a party-room vote June 26, has yet to
outline policy specifics.  “Honeymoon is a good term for it,” Norman Abjorensen, a
Canberra-based political analyst at Australia National
University, said by phone today. “The opposition have had a
free run recently and suddenly you have the worst possible
scenario for Abbott -- Rudd returning. It’s a very small sample
poll so we need to bear that in mind for perspective.”  Rudd said he returned to the leadership to avoid a
“catastrophic” election defeat for Labor. He faces the
challenge of uniting his party and building a policy platform on
issues including the nation’s carbon tax and dealing with
illegal entry by asylum seekers, many fleeing war-torn Middle
Eastern and South Asian nations.  ‘Just Chill’  “Those of you good ladies and gentlemen of the press which
expect an avalanche of policy decisions between now and next
Monday, just chill for a while,” Rudd, 55, told reporters in
Canberra on June 28.  Rudd needs to fill Cabinet positions, including treasurer
and climate change minister, vacated by supporters of Gillard.
The Governor General will swear in ministers and parliamentary
secretaries tomorrow at 2 p.m. in Canberra, as Rudd forms his
team.  Jacinta Collins ,  Julie Collins ,  Catherine King  are among
those to be added to the Cabinet, the Australian newspaper
 reported , citing a spokeswoman for Rudd.  Melissa Parke  will also
be named to a ministry, the report said. Voicemail messages left
with two of Rudd’s spokesmen outside of business hours were
not immediately returned.  Gap Narrows  The Galaxy poll, published in the Sunday Telegraph
newspaper today, did not specify the margin for error in the
study conducted June 27-28. The gap between support for Labor
and a Liberal-National coalition narrowed to 2 points, down from
a 10 point gap June 11-13, the poll showed.  No margin for error was given in the ReachTEL poll,
published in the Sydney Morning Herald newspaper yesterday. Rudd
has declined to name a new election date when pressed by
Liberal-National coalition leader Tony Abbott, 55. There won’t
be a “huge variation,” he said, and any announcement would be
consistent with the constitution. Australian law requires the
election to be held by Nov. 30.  Gillard restored Labor’s advantage in opinion polls when
she ousted Rudd in June 2010, surveys by Nielsen and Galaxy
showed at the time.  Rudd must decide whether to support some big-ticket policy
items that Gillard struggled to sell to voters, including the
nation’s first levy on greenhouse-gas emissions and a tax on
mining company profits that will reap A$1.8 billion ($1.64
billion) less revenue than previously forecast for the year
ending today, according to budget documents released May 14.  ‘Not Dividing’  “The government’s about bringing the country together, not
dividing it,” Rudd said. He has challenged Abbott to a debate
over the country’s debt and deficit within the next two weeks.  Illegal immigration will probably be on the agenda when
Rudd visits Indonesia on July 4 and 5 to meet with Indonesian
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, after Abbott promised to
“stop the boats” carrying asylum seekers.  While asylum seekers have been arriving in  Australia  since
the Vietnam War in the 1970s, the issue became more politicized
about a decade ago when then-Prime Minister John Howard’s
Liberal-National government detained refugees, including
children, in offshore processing camps or in detention centers
in remote areas.  Shortly after becoming prime minister, Gillard announced
plans to open a refugee-processing center in East Timor to cope
with a surge in the number of asylum seekers arriving by boat --
without having completed talks with the northern neighbor. East
Timor’s Parliament then voted against the facility.  Hundreds of would-be migrants, seen by some Australians as
unworthy of receiving welfare benefits, have drowned in the
waters between Indonesia and Australia. Rudd has drawn criticism
for seeking to turn immigration policy back on the opposition.  ‘Risk Conflict’  “I really wonder whether he’s trying to risk some sort of
conflict with  Indonesia ,” Rudd told reporters in Canberra on
June 28, referring to Abbott.  Australia’s national interest and sustaining popular
support for an immigration program will determine policies on
asylum, he said.  “It’s the issue that is causing Labor the most pain in the
electorate,” Nick Minchin, finance minister in Howard’s
government from 2001 to 2007, said in an ABC interview
yesterday. “For Kevin Rudd to raise the specter of armed
conflict is ridiculous and over the top.”  Abbott has vowed to scrap the carbon price system
introduced by Gillard should he win, calling it a toxic tax.
Bloomberg New Energy Finance joined RepuTex in Melbourne and
Climate Mundial in  London  in predicting Rudd will try to deflect
attacks on Australia’s fixed carbon price, set to rise next
month to almost four times the European rate, by pledging to
accelerate the shift to a market-based trading system.  ‘Great Weakness’  Rudd has been criticized by colleagues including Wayne Swan
-- who resigned as treasurer and deputy leader -- for an
autocratic style, raising questions over whether Labor can rally
behind him before the election. Swan last year described him as
a man of “great weakness” who demeaned party colleagues during
his tenure as prime minister from 2007-2010.  Former Climate Change Minister Greg Combet, who announced
his resignation after Rudd’s return, said he will quit politics
citing personal reasons, the ABC reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  