-- Barossa Winemaking Pioneer Peter Lehmann Dies in Adelaide at 82
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-06-29T07:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/barossa-winemaking-pioneer-peter-lehmann-dies-in-adelaide-at-82.html
Peter Lehmann, a pioneer winemaker
in the Barossa region of  South Australia , died in an Adelaide
hospital yesterday at the age of 82, according to a  statement  on
his company’s website.  Lehmann, a winemaker for more than half a century and known
to friends as ‘PL’, retired from the company he founded,  Peter
Lehmann Wines , in 2002 when a controlling stake was sold to
Liebefeld, Switzerland-based Hess Family Estates AG.  Peter Lehmann Wines is one of a group of wineries connected
to Hess including Glen Carlou in  South Africa , Bodega Colome in
 Argentina  and Hess Collection Winery in Napa Valley,  California .
The family company, founded in 1844, also owns property and
hospitality businesses and an art collection.  “Every generation creates a few special people who have
the vision, creativity and courage to make a difference,” Jeff Bond, chief executive officer of Peter Lehmann Wines, said in
the statement. “PL was one.”  Lehmann was born in the Barossa town of Angaston in 1930,
became a winemaker first at the local  Yalumba  winery in 1947 and
then at nearby  Saltram  in 1959, where he stayed for 20 years,
according to the company website.  A disagreement with Saltram directors over grape-purchasing
strategy led to him leaving in 1979 to set up an independent
winery, which now sources its fruit from 140 family farmers
throughout the district. The company employs about 100 people in
 Australia , the U.K., Europe and  North America .  His eldest son, Doug, was managing director of the business
from 1990 until he retired in 2010. Since then it has been run
by Bond, formerly global marketing director for Constellation
Wines Australia.  Lehmann produces and sells a range of white and red wines
from the Barossa and Eden Valleys, including a top-of-the-range
Stonewell Shiraz priced at A$100 ($91) at the cellar door.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:  Guy Collins in London on 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe in London at 
 psillitoe@bloomberg.net  