-- Canada Dollar Falls Most in 1st Half Since 1984 as Growth Trails
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-06-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/canada-dollar-falls-most-in-1st-half-since-1984-as-growth-trails.html
Canada ’s dollar had its biggest
first-half drop in three decades amid signs the nation’s
economic recovery is trailing that of the U.S., where talk of
reducing central-bank asset buying has made the greenback the
world’s strongest currency this year.  Slowing growth in Canada’s gross domestic product reported
yesterday extended the currency’s weekly, monthly, quarterly and
yearly declines. It has dropped 2.9 percent since June 18, the
day before the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled it will scale back
this year extraordinary stimulus measures that tend to debase
the greenback. Canada’s economy is forecast to lose jobs in June
after adding the most positions in more than a decade the
previous month.  “It’s a continuation of  U.S. dollar  strength all around,
and the story for the Canadian dollar, as well,”  John Curran , a
senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer, said in a phone interview. “GDP did nothing to
inspire trading.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, had fallen 5.7 percent this
year to C$1.0519 per U.S. dollar Toronto, the biggest half-year
drop since a 5.8 percent fall in 1984. One loonie buys 95.07
U.S. cents.  Curran said the recent drop may extend to C$106.50 this
month.  The currency declined 0.6 percent this week, 1.2 percent
this month and 3.3 percent this quarter.  Economy Underperforms  Crude oil, the nation’s largest export, has gained 5.2 this
year to $96.56 a barrel in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of stocks has added 13 percent.  Benchmark 10-year government bonds fell on the year, with
yields rising 64 basis points, or 0.64 percentage point, to 2.44
percent.  Canada’s economy underperformed that of the U.S. last year
for the first time since 2006, a trend that’s forecast to
continue for the next three years. In 2013, Canada’s growth is
forecast at 1.7 percent, compared with 1.9 percent in the U.S.,
according to the median estimates of separate Bloomberg surveys.  Canada’s output rose 0.1 percent to an annualized C$1.57
trillion ($1.50 trillion) in April compared with a 0.2 percent
gain the previous month,  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa
yesterday.  Canada’s economy is forecast to have lost  5,000 jobs  this
month, according to the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey due July 5, after adding 95,000 in May.  ‘Muddling Along’  “The Canadian economy is still muddling along, trying to
reach 2 percent growth,”  David Watt , chief economist at the
Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, said by phone from Toronto
yesterday. “It leaves us driven by global trends and sentiment,
and the general outlook for the U.S. dollar.”  Signs of faster growth in the U.S. emboldened the Fed to
set a timetable for the end of quantitative easing. In comments
to reporters June 19, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank could start reducing the $85 billion monthly pace of bond
purchases later this year and end the purchases in the middle of
2014, assuming that the economy meets the Fed’s forecasts.  Spillover from the U.S. recovery will work to Canada’s
benefit despite leading to relative weakness of its currency,
according to policy makers.  Poloz’s View  In his first public speech since taking office at the start
of June, Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said stronger
U.S. demand for Canada’s exports is critical. Poloz, the former
head of the government export-financing agency, is expected to
favor a weaker currency to help nurse an export-led economic
recovery in Canada.  “The underlying driver is an ongoing U.S. recovery, and
net-net that’s actually a positive for risk sentiment,”
Emanuella Enenajor, an economist at  CIBC World Markets , said by
phone from Toronto yesterday. “As long as we have the reality
of an ongoing recovery, it favors risk-taking and more exposure
to commodity levered currencies.”  Enenajor said CIBC’s forecast for the Canadian dollar is to
hold steady at about C$1.05 per U.S. dollar through the second
half of the year.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar to the least since
February, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  Net Shorts  The difference in the number of wagers on a decline in the
loonie compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  --
was 10,638 on June 25, compared with net shorts of 26,087 a week
earlier.  The loonie’s 14-day relative strength  index (SPX)  against the
dollar was at 67.2 yesterday after touching 70 on June 25, the
level that some traders see as a signal an asset has risen too
far, too fast and may be due to reverse course.  “Volatility has flushed out quite a few positions recently
-- people will be less likely be short the Canadian dollar at
these levels,” Curran said. “It’s fallen so much so quickly.”
A short position is a best an asset will decline in value.  Canada’s dollar represented 1.57 percent of the $6.05
trillion in official foreign-exchange reserves in the first
quarter, according to the International Monetary Fund’s first
data on global holdings of the currency.  The share of Canadian holdings in the January-March period
was higher than the 1.48 percent share in the final three months
of 2012, the IMF report showed. Yesterday’s figures for the
first time specified official reserves of the Canadian dollar,
as well as its  Australia  peer, which previously had been
indistinguishable in the “other currencies” category of the
IMF’s quarterly report.  The loonie is down 0.3 percent this year against nine
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Index. The dollars of Australia and  New Zealand , fellow
commodities exporters, have dropped 7.8 percent and 1.4 percent.
The greenback added 6.4 percent to lead gainers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  