-- Chinese Police Detain Armed Mob in Xinjiang After Deadly Clashes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-29T02:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/chinese-police-detain-armed-mob-in-xinjiang-after-deadly-clashes.html
Chinese authorities detained
individuals who formed into a mob and caused a public
disturbance in the western province of Xinjiang yesterday, two
days after an attack on police stations and a government
building in the region left 35 dead.  The individuals who formed the mob in the city of Hotan at
about 3:30 p.m. local time yesterday were armed,  Tianshan Net ,
the official news website of Xinjiang’s local government,
reported. No one was kill or injured in the incident, according
to the report, which didn’t give more detail.  The incident in Hotan follows the June 26 violence about
1,500 kilometers away in Xinjiang’s Lukqun township, which
Chinese authorities have labeled a terrorist attack. While about
90 percent of  China  is ethnic Han, more than 40 percent of
Xinjiang’s 22 million people are Uighurs, some of whom have
protested the government’s decades-long policy of encouraging
Han migration to the area. In 2009, almost 200 died in clashes
between Uighurs and Han Chinese in Xinjiang’s capital of Urumqi.  Xinjiang authorities have blamed past violence on religious
extremists trained in  Pakistan  at camps run by the East
Turkestan Islamic Movement. When Premier Li Keqiang visited
Pakistan in May, the two sides agreed that the movement is a
“common threat,” according to Xinhua.  The Tianshan Net report didn’t say if those arrested in
Hotan were ethnic Han or Uighur.  Among those killed in Lukqun, 11 were attackers shot and
killed by police, Xinhua reported earlier. The attackers, who
were armed with knifes, killed 24 people, including two
policemen and 16 ethnic Uighurs, according to Xinhua. The
incident was the deadliest since the Urumqi clashes in 2009.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Liu in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  