-- China Regulator Says Bank Reserves Enough to Weather Cash Crunch
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-29T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/china-regulator-says-bank-reserves-enough-to-weather-cash-crunch.html
China ’s banking regulator, in his
first public comments since the country’s worst cash crunch in
at least a decade, said the operations of its lenders won’t be
disrupted because they’ve built up sufficient cash reserves.  Banks had about 1.5 trillion yuan ($244.4 billion) of cash
reserves as of June 28 that could be used for payment and
settlement needs, more than double what is usually required,
Shang Fulin, chairman of the China Banking Regulatory
Commission, said in a speech in Shanghai yesterday.  “The tight liquidity condition on the interbank market has
been easing in the last few days,” Shang said at the annual
Lujiazui financial conference. “This type of situation won’t
affect the banking sector’s smooth operations.”  Chinese bank stocks jumped June 28 after People’s Bank of
China governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  pledged to maintain market
stability following a cash squeeze that sent money-market rates
to a record. Among buyers of the shares was Temasek Holdings
Pte,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment company, which said June
28 it raised its stake in  Hong Kong  shares of Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. to 8.07 percent from 7.92 percent.  Shares of  ICBC (601398) , China’s largest lender by market value,
gained 2.7 percent in Hong Kong June 28. The stock jumped 5.5
percent in Shanghai, the most since November 2010. ICBC’s
Shanghai shares had fallen 8.9 percent this month through June
27 as higher interbank rates spurred concerns that tighter
liquidity would hurt economic growth.  Liquidity Management  The cash crunch on the  interbank market  exposes
“deficiencies” in commercial banks’ liquidity management and
their business structures, Shang said. The next phase of reform
in the banking sector will focus on supporting the real economy
and risk prevention, he said.  The one-day repurchase rate touched a record 13.91 percent
on June 20 before tumbling on signs targeted injections of funds
were being used to ease the cash crunch.  The slowing pace of  economic growth  in China remains within
a “reasonable” range and the economy is stable, the PBOC’s
Zhou told the same forum June 28 in his first comments since the
cash crunch. Zhou also sought to soothe concerns of a further
deceleration of growth, saying he’s fully confident in China’s
economic prospects and financial system.  China’s banks have been stable and healthy this year, the
CBRC’s Shang said. They had set aside 2.8  yuan  for every one
yuan of soured assets at the end of May as the industry’s non-performing loan ratio rose to 1.03 percent, he said.  Outstanding Loans  The nation’s economy is in a transitional phase and risks
associated with slowing economic growth, loans to local
governments as well as the property sector are “controllable,”
Shang said.  The nation’s banks had 9.59 trillion yuan of outstanding
loans to local government financing vehicles at the end of March
while loans to the property industry stood at 13 trillion yuan
at the end of April, he said. The nonperforming loans ratio was
at 0.14 percent at the end of March, Shang said.  A recent review by the National Audit Office indicated that
total local government direct and guaranteed debt may have risen
13 percent to 12.1 trillion yuan by the end of 2012 from the end
of 2010, according to Moody’s Investors Service, citing its own
calculations based on data in the auditor’s report that showed a
13 percent increase in the debts of a sample of 36 local
authorities.  The banking sector’s non-performing loans climbed by 33.6
billion yuan in the three months ended March 31, to 526.5
billion yuan. That sixth straight quarterly gain marked the
longest deterioration streak in at least nine years, according
to data released by the banking regulator.  Wealth Management  “Some people have compared our local government debt to
European debt, but there’s a big difference -- our debts are
accumulated for production not for consumption -- most of them
have assets as guarantees and the overall risk is
controllable,” Shang said.  The value of  wealth-management  products sold by banks was
8.2 trillion yuan at end of March, Shang said. More than 70
percent of the funds raised through wealth-management products
had been invested in the real economy, he said.  The CBRC will ask banks to isolate their wealth-management
businesses from their loan businesses as it seeks to tighten
control of wealth-management products, he said.  Regulators have sought to curb Chinese banks’ increased use
of interbank borrowing and short-term deposits in the form of
wealth-management products to finance long-term loans and
investment in trusts, some of which are held in off-balance
sheets. The crackdown may damage the economy by shrinking the
non-bank funding that smaller companies rely on, Barclays Plc
said on May 20.  ‘Reasonable’ Liquidity  China’s State Council ordered the CBRC to solicit opinions
from financial institutions on how to make more efficient use of
credit, Hexun.com reported June 25, citing an unidentified
person close to the matter.  There’s a “reasonable” amount of liquidity in the
financial system and banks should control risks from credit
expansion, the PBOC said in a statement dated June 17 and
distributed June 24. Financial institutions, especially large
banks, should work with the central bank in stabilizing the
market, the central bank said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in  Shanghai  at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  