-- Coca-Cola Femsa Targets Brazil Expansion With Fluminense Deal
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-06-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/coca-cola-femsa-targets-brazil-growth-with-fluminense-purchase.html
Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL) , the largest
bottler of the soft drink in  Latin America , agreed to buy
Brazil’s Cia. Fluminense de Refrigerantes for $448 million in
cash to expand in the region’s largest country.  The purchase will bolster  Coca-Cola (KO)  Femsa’s Brazilian
business by linking two other areas it serves, clearing the way
for “the reconfiguration of the supply chain of our combined
operations,” Chief Executive Officer Carlos Salazar said
yesterday in a statement.  The Fluminense deal caps a $4 billion acquisition spree in
the past two years by Mexico City-based Coca-Cola Femsa, which
also has purchased four Mexican bottlers and control of Coca-Cola Co.’s Philippines bottling operation. Fluminense, which was
founded in 1949 in the state of  Rio de Janeiro , posted sales of
about $232 million in the year ending March 31, shipping 56.6
million unit cases of beverages, including beer.  “This acquisition highlights the long-term strategic
importance of the Brazilian market for Coca-Cola Femsa as we
believe in the attractive domestic consumption prospects and
socio-economic dynamics,” Salazar said in the statement. “This
transaction underscores our commitment to continue focusing on
the opportunities that the Latin American Coca-Cola bottling
system presents.”  Coca-Cola Femsa will seek to increase sales by offering a
broader range of products, adding coolers at retailers and
serving more points of sale, according to investor relations
chief Jose Castro.  Beverage Breakdown  The deal is subject to approval by Brazil’s antitrust
regulator, said Coca-Cola Femsa, which is controlled by
Monterrey, Mexico-based  Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB. (FEMSAUBD)  The
bottler also will seek approval from Atlanta-based Coca-Cola.
The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter,
Castro said, and is being funded with the company’s existing
cash balances.  Fluminense had an estimated $40 million in consolidated
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in the 12 months ended March 31, Coca-Cola Femsa said.  With one bottling plant and four distribution centers, it
operates in parts of  Sao Paulo , Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais
states. Carbonated soft drinks make up 86 percent of its
business, with 8 percent coming from beer, 5 percent from non-carbonated beverages and 1 percent from water, Castro said.  Coca-Cola Femsa sold 494.2 million unit cases last year in
 Brazil , up 1.8 percent from a year earlier, the company said
Feb. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  