-- ECB Suspends Cyprus Government Bonds as Collateral
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-06-29T11:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/ecb-suspends-cyprus-government-bonds-as-collateral.html
The European Central Bank said
Cyprus’s government bonds are temporarily ineligible as
collateral after the Mediterranean island nation’s credit rating
was cut by Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s.  The Governing Council “has decided to temporarily suspend
the eligibility of marketable debt instruments issued or fully
guaranteed by the Republic of Cyprus for use as collateral in
Eurosystem monetary policy operations,” the Frankfurt-based ECB
said late yesterday in a  statement .  Cyprus’s local-currency issuer rating was lowered to
restricted default from CCC by Fitch Ratings yesterday after the
nation completed an exchange of government bonds for longer-dated securities. Standard & Poor’s cut Cyprus’s sovereign
credit ratings to selective default.  The ECB said its decision no longer to accept Cyprus’s
government bonds as collateral “takes into account the changes
in the credit rating of the Republic of Cyprus as a result of
the transactions announced by the Ministry of Finance of the
Republic of Cyprus.”  The central bank said it will reassess the potential
eligibility of Cypriot marketable debt instruments upon the
conclusion of the bond exchange.  The settlement date for the exchanged bonds is July 1 and
Fitch said yesterday it will raise the country to a rating
that’s “likely to be low speculative grade” shortly
thereafter. Standard & Poor’s said the ratings could be raised
again as early as next week to CCC+.  Rescue Plan  The bond exchange is part of commitments under a 10
billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout that saved Cyprus’s financial
sector from collapse in March, the Finance Ministry said. Under
the rescue program, deposits above 100,000 euros are taxed after
an initial plan with a levy on deposits of less than 100,000
euros was rejected by the country’s parliament.  As long as the ECB doesn’t accept government bonds as
collateral, banks using such bonds to obtain funding will have
to tap their national central banks’ Emergency Liquidity
Assistance programs.  “Liquidity needs may be addressed by the relevant national
central banks in line with existing Eurosystem arrangements,”
the ECB said in the statement. “We welcome Cyprus’ efforts to
return to growth and prosperity within the framework of the
program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  