-- Mexico Offers Credit Help for Builders Struggling With Shift
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-06-29T04:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/mexico-offers-credit-help-for-homebuilders-struggling-with-shift.html
Mexico ’s government promised to help
increase lending to  homebuilders  to sustain construction as the
industry’s biggest companies slash output and move to
restructure debt.  Deputy Finance Minister Fernando Aportela said  development
banks will provide at least 5 billion pesos ($387 million) of
syndicated credit lines. The lines, issued through Sociedad
Hipotecaria Federal and Nacional Financiera, will produce about
50,000 homes, he told reporters in Mexico City. The government
will also offer guarantees for debt sales of about 5 billion
pesos so that issuances can get higher credit ratings and
attract institutional investors such as pension funds, he said.  The financing announcement was part of the government’s
retooled housing plan, which aims to arrest urban sprawl without
prompting further contraction in the industry or impeding
efforts to lower a housing shortage. While the plan expands a
push toward city development, it also provides some concessions
to help the industry adapt to a shift in subsidies that’s
reduced demand for remotely-located developments, where many
builders already sell homes and own land reserves.  Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) ,  Corp. Geo SAB (GEOB)  and  Urbi
Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*) , Mexico’s three biggest publicly-traded
homebuilders, are scaling back construction and considering
restructuring debt after cash plummeted, partially as a result
of housing policy changes. The companies have been saddled with
reserves of inexpensive rural terrain, intended for the creation
of commuter towns with homes worth as little as $20,000, as the
government insists its subsidies must focus on city development
in areas with pricier land costs.  Cash Drain  Homex, Geo and Urbi all had their cash balances drop at
least 85 percent in the first quarter. All three companies have
been downgrade by ratings agency as they missed interest
payments on bonds.  The development banks plan to start disbursing funds from
the syndicated credit line “over the next few weeks” and the
bond backing program should be ready in about two months, Luis
Madrazo, head of the development banking unit at the  Finance
Ministry , said today in a conference call with investors.  While the government did little to change how it defines
city limits, it created a path to subsidy eligibility for
outlying neighborhoods already under development, said Jorge Carlos Ramirez Marin, minister of urban and agrarian territorial
development, who spoke at the the press conference. He said the
government is increasing subsidies by 26 percent this year.  Housing Shortage  Mexico’s current housing shortage combined with demographic
growth means  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy needs
300,000 to 400,000 new homes a year, according to a document
distributed at the press conference. As of 2015, developments’
location and proximity to jobs and services will also determine
whether home buyers can get credit from state-backed mortgage
lenders to buy a property there, the ministry said.  The government estimates that 68 percent of registered land
reserves will be eligible for subsidies under the new
classification system.  Urbi  shares  have declined 71 percent this year, the
benchmark  IPC (MEXBOL)  equity index’s largest decline over the period.
Homex, down 69 percent, and Geo, losing 63 percent, are the
second- and third-worst performers. The Habita index of
homebuilders advanced 3.1 percent today, paring its decline to
55 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  