-- F&N to Consider Property Business Spinoff to Increase Value
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-06-29T07:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/f-n-to-consider-property-business-spinoff-to-increase-value.html
Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN)  may consider
separating its property arm from its other businesses as it
seeks to offer value to shareholders.  F&N, the 130-year-old real estate and beverage
conglomerate, said it will appoint advisers to study options
available for the company to “unlock shareholder value,”
according to a statement dated yesterday to the Singapore stock
exchange. “This may involve a segregation of its property-related businesses from its non-property related businesses,”
Singapore-based F&N said.  The announcement follows the appointment of  Thailand ’s
richest billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi as company
chairman in February, following his S$13.8 billion ($10.9
billion) takeover of F&N, whose businesses range from milk to
shopping malls. It also comes amid new rules directing how
financial institutions grant property loans to individuals as
Singapore’s government extends efforts to curb speculation.  Charoen’s appointment became effective from Feb. 28 after
he won control of F&N in January, when his offer of S$9.55 a
share gained support from a majority of shareholders and edged
out a proposal from rival  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  F&N’s
 stock price  has fallen 12 percent this year to close at S$8.58
yesterday.  In a separate exchange filing also dated yesterday, F&N
said its proposal to distribute S$4.7 billion of capital to
shareholders, amounting to S$3.28 per share, was approved.  Biggest Contributors  Charoen, who ranks 95th in Bloomberg’s Billionaires Index
with an estimated net worth of $10.6 billion, gained access to
F&N’s property assets after the deal. The company’s development
and commercial property businesses were the  biggest contributors 
to net income in the three months ended March 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Starting today, a new framework requires that lenders in
Singapore take a borrower’s debt into consideration when
granting property loans, the nation’s monetary authority said in
a statement yesterday.  In January, the government unveiled a seventh round of
measures to curb real-estate speculation in about four years
that included an increase in stamp duties for home buyers by 5
percentage points to 7 percentage points. OUE said in a Jan. 21
statement it wouldn’t match Charoen’s offer for F&N, citing the
property measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  