-- Robson Joins Murray in 2nd Week as Kvitova Also Wins
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-29T16:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/former-champion-petra-kvitova-overcomes-makarova-in-three-sets.html
British hopes of having a man and
woman in the second week of  Wimbledon  for the first time this
century were hanging by a thread before  Laura Robson  fought back
to beat Marina Erakovic and join  Andy Murray  in the last
sixteen.  Robson had been a game away from defeat before going on to
win 1-6, 7-5, 6-3 on a packed Court No. 2 at the All England
Club in southwest  London . The last time a man and woman from
Britain moved to the fourth round was in 1998, when Sam Smith
and Tim Henman moved to the second week.  “I was getting my butt kicked, basically,” former junior
Wimbledon champion Robson said in a televised interview after a
forehand winner on match point prompted the crowd to give her a
standing ovation. “I was struggling to return her serve. I
tried to do the best I can, tried to work as hard as I can. Just
stick with it until she gets nervous, and she did.”  Erakovic had been serving for the match at 5-4 in the
second set when she lost the serve and the match turned.
Instead, it was all Robson from then on who dictated play,
winning eight games in a row. After taking the second set,
Robson raced to a 4-0 lead as she forced the 25-year-old on the
defense with her left-handed forehand. The former junior
Wimbledon champion, 19, will face either American wild card
Alison Riske or former quarterfinalist Kaia Kanepi of  Estonia  in
the next round.  Earlier today, former champion Petra Kvitova came back from
a break down in the final set against Ekaterina Makarova to
reach the fourth round.  Kvitova Wins  Kvitova beat the Russian, 6-3, 2-6, 6-3 on Court No. 1.
Makarova’s loss means there aren’t any Russian women in the
fourth round for the first time since 2000.  Kvitova, the No. 8 from the  Czech Republic , is the highest
seed left in the bottom half of the draw after a record number
of top ten seeds exited the event in the first week either
through defeats or injuries, including No. 2 Victoria Azarenka
and No. 3  Maria Sharapova .  Igor Sijsling of the Netherlands, the last serve-and-volley
specialist left in the third round, retired with an injury as he
trailed Croatia’s Ivan Dodig, 6-0, 6-1, 1-0. Dodig has now won
two of his three matches at Wimbledon by retirement, after
Germany’s Philipp Kohlschreiber quit in the opening round,
citing flu. Sijsling’s exit is the 13th retirement or walkover
this week, which equals the Open era Wimbledon record set in
2008.  Delayed Finish  Kvitova’s match has been held over from last night due to
bad light as the left-hander was down a break at 1-2 in the
final set on a rainy day. Kvitova started strong as the sun was
shining today, taking three games in a row, only to drop her own
serve. Attacking the Makarova serve, Kvitova broke back for a
5-3 lead, and moved to the fourth round with a forehand winner.
She’ll play Spanish clay-courter Carla Suarez Navarro next.  “I didn’t have a good night’s sleep,” 2011 champion
Kvitova said. “I finished quite late, I still had on my mind
the match from yesterday. It doesn’t matter -- I came on the
court and tried to fight for every point.”  Just like Kvitova, some rest also worked wonders for Sloane Stephens, the No. 17 seed from the U.S., who beat unseeded Czech
Petra Cetkovska, 7-6 (7-3), 0-6, 6-4. Their third-round match
had been suspended last night at the start of the third set.  “It was a little tricky,” Stephens said in a news
conference. “Just had to go out and play, play hard.”  Stephens, 20, broke through at the Australian Open at the
start of the season, beating  Serena Williams  to reach her first
major semifinal. She plays Monica Puig, an unseeded player from
 Puerto Rico , for a spot in the quarterfinals.  Tomic Advances  Russia’s  Mikhail Youzhny  defeated  Serbia ’s  Viktor Troicki 
in straight sets to set up a fourth-round clash with the second-seeded Murray, last year’s runner-up.  Tomas Berdych, the seventh seed from the Czech Republic,
defeated  Kevin Anderson  of  South Africa , 3-6, 6-3, 6-4, 7-5.  Richard Gasquet , the No. 9 seed from France, was the
highest-ranked player to fall today, losing to  Australia ’s
 Bernard Tomic , 7-6 (9-7), 5-7, 7-5, 7-6 (7-5). Tomic’ dad and
his coach is banned from entering the grounds of the All England
Club because he faces an assault charge later in the year.  France’s Kenny De Schepper upset 22nd-seeded Juan Monaco of
Argentina, to set up a fourth-round match against Spain’s
 Fernando Verdasco , who beat Latvian Ernests Gulbis. Poland’s
Lukasz Kubot, who had moved to the third round after Rafael
Nadal conqueror Steve Darcis of  Belgium  withdrew with an injury,
is into the last sixteen of Wimbledon for the second time in his
career after he beat France’s No. 25 seed Benoit Paire.  Later today, defending champion Serena Williams of the U.S.
plays 42-year-old Kimiko Date-Krumm of  Japan , while men’s top
seed Novak Djokovic of Serbia faces France’s Jeremy Chardy. Sam Stosur of Australia, a former U.S. Open champion, meets
Germany’s Sabine Lisicki.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  