-- Germany’s Kittel Wins Opening Stage of Tour de France in Sprint
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-06-29T16:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/germany-s-kittel-wins-opening-stage-of-tour-de-france-in-sprint.html
Marcel Kittel of  Germany  beat
Norway’s Alexander Kristoff in a sprint finish to capture the
opening stage of the 100th Tour de France.  Kittel, of the Argos-Shimano team, overtook Katusha’s
Kristoff at the end of a 213-kilometer (132-mile) stage from
Porto-Vecchio to Bastia on the island of Corsica that featured
crashes and an incident with a team bus near the finish line.  “It was very hectic, you really had to stay focused,”
Kittel, who finished in a time of 4 hours, 56 minutes and 52
seconds, said in an interview with Eurosport. “The team did an
awesome job to keep me out of trouble. Congratulations to
them.”  Danny van Poppel of the Netherlands was third, with
Britain’s  David Millar  fourth as all the cyclists were awarded
the same time for the stage.  The bus of the Orica-GreenEdge team became lodged under the
banner at the finish line. Race organizers initially moved the
finish line back three kilometers before restoring it to its
original place after the bus was removed.  Two-time Tour de France champion  Alberto Contador  of Spain
and Slovakia’s Peter Sagan, last year’s opening stage winner,
both fell in a crash late in the stage. British sprinter  Mark Cavendish  saw his chances end about six kilometers from the end
as he was forced to stop to avoid a crash.  Defending champion Bradley Wiggins of Britain is not racing
this year because of a knee injury, leaving countryman Chris Froome as the bookmakers’ favorite. Froome finished back in the
pack in 41st place today.  Tomorrow’s second stage is a 156-kilometer ride from Bastia
to Ajaccio. The 3,404-kilometer race ends July 21 on the  Champs
Elysees  in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 