-- Italy, Spain Bonds Rally, Paring Monthly Slump on Fed QE Concern
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-29T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/italy-spain-bonds-rally-paring-monthly-slump-on-fed-qe-concern.html
Italian and Spanish bonds rose for
the first week in eight as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to keep monetary policy accommodative, boosting
the appeal of the region’s fixed-income assets.  Benchmark Italian 10-year yields pared a monthly advance as
demand increased at a sale of five- and 10-year debt. European
bonds were supported as U.S. policy makers sought to downplay
speculation that stimulus in the world’s largest economy will be
withdrawn soon. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s June
19 comments that the U.S. may slow asset purchases this year
before ending them in mid-2014 had sent euro-area sovereign debt
tumbling.  “It always seemed likely that once central bankers started
reassuring the markets that nothing was going to change just
yet, and, in the case of the ECB, that accommodation is here for
the foreseeable future, yields would start to come back in,”
said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  London . “We’ve had a modest but not
insignificant correction over the past week.”  Italian 10-year  yields  dropped seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, in the week to 4.55 percent at 4:54 p.m.
London time yesterday. The rate has nonetheless climbed 39 basis
points in June, adding to a 27 basis-point advance in May.  Spain’s 10-year  yield  slid 15 basis points to 4.77 percent,
trimming its monthly increase to 33 basis points. Germany’s 10-year bund yield added one basis point to 1.73 percent after
climbing 21 basis points in the five days ended June 21.  Stay Accommodative  The ECB’s monetary policy “will stay accommodative for the
foreseeable future,” Draghi told the French National Assembly
in Paris on June 26.  “We have an open mind about all other
possible instruments that we may consider proper to adopt.”  Fed Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said on
June 27 U.S. bond purchases could be prolonged.  Italy sold 2.5 billion euros of debt due in 2023 on June
27. Investors bid for 1.46 times the amount sold, up from a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 1.38 at a sale in May.  The ECB next meets on July 4 in  Frankfurt . Analysts
forecast it will keep its main  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5
percent. Spain plans to sell government debt on the same day.  Italian securities handed investors a return of 1.7 percent
this year through June 27, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. Spanish bonds gained 5.2 percent while German
securities lost 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  