-- Kenyon College Student Was American Killed in Egypt Clashes
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2013-06-29T15:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/kenyon-college-student-was-american-killed-in-egypt-clashes.html
Kenyon College student and American
citizen Andrew Pochter was among at least eight people killed in
clashes that erupted after demonstrations in Egypt, the college
and the  U.S. State Department  said.  Pochter, 21, of  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland , was killed yesterday
in Alexandria in fighting between opposition protestors and
supporters of Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, the Gambier,
Ohio-based college said in a  statement  late yesterday, citing
U.S. embassy officials. The U.S. State Department confirmed
Pochter’s death in an e-mailed statement.  The State Department issued a travel warning urging
American citizens to defer all but essential trips to Egypt.
Some non-essential employees at the U.S. embassy in Egypt and
their families were being allowed to leave the country until the
unrest subsides, the department said in an e-mailed statement.  Pochter was in Egypt on an internship with AMIDEAST,
according to Kenyon. AMIDEAST isn’t a Kenyon program, the
college said. The  New York  Times reported today Pochter was
teaching young children English while improving his own skills
in Arabic, citing his family. His family said he’d planned to
return to the  Middle East  for his spring semester, the newspaper
reported.  The disturbances unfolded two days before hundreds of
thousands of Egyptians plan to stage nationwide protests seeking
Mursi’s resignation, in what may be the biggest challenge to the
Islamist leader since he took office a year ago. Troops have
been deployed in the capital of Cairo and other major cities
ahead of tomorrow’s planned demonstrations.  The New York Times said Pochter was active in Hillel,
Kenyon College’s center for Jewish life, and had lived at the
center for some time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  