-- Kerry Adds Stops to His Amman-Jerusalem Shuttle Diplomacy
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-30T13:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/kerry-adds-stops-to-his-amman-jerusalem-shuttle-diplomacy.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
wound up three days of shuttling between Israeli and Palestinian
leaders today saying the resumption of peace talks was “within
reach” after a three-year impasse.  “We have had very positive discussions, very important
discussions, for the last few days,” Kerry told reporters after
meeting with Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  in Ramallah.
“We agreed we have made real progress, but we have a few things
we need to work on.”  Kerry extended his Mideast shuttle and canceled a planned
visit to  Abu Dhabi  to hold unscheduled rounds of talks with
Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  as he
pressed to bring the two sides back to the negotiating table.  It was his fifth peace mission in the region since taking
office in February, and his most intense yet, with three
meetings apiece with both leaders as he raced among Amman,
 Jerusalem  and Ramallah. He said he would leave staff on the
ground to work on details and would give no details on the
nature of the remaining obstacles.  “I believe that with a little more work, the start of
final-status negotiations could be within reach,” he told
reporters before he prepared to fly out of  Israel . “The gaps
were very broad when we began. They are now, I think, very
narrow.”  ‘Positive Atmosphere’  He set no timetable for restarting negotiations. “We’re
not going to get stuck with artificial deadlines,” he said.
“That’s a big mistake.”  Saeb Erekat, the Palestinians’ chief negotiator, agreed
that talks were held “in a positive atmosphere.”  “We are making progress,” he said. “We still have gaps
to work with. I can’t say we achieved a breakthrough.”  An Israeli government spokesman could not be immediately
reached.  Shortly before Kerry summed up the meetings, Israel and the
Palestinians both repeated longstanding positions.  Azzam al-Ahmad, a member of the  Palestine  Liberation
Organization’s decision-making central committee, told the
official Voice of Palestine Radio that Israel must freeze
settlement construction, release more than 100 Palestinian
prisoners it holds and agree to base negotiations on borders it
held before capturing the West Bank, east Jerusalem and  Gaza
Strip  in 1967, territories the Palestinians want for a state.
Israel withdrew settlers and soldiers from Gaza in 2005.  No Conditions  Netanyahu said his country was ready to enter into
negotiations without delay or conditions.  “We are not putting any obstacles in the way of renewing
continuing talks and a peace agreement between us and the
Palestinians,” he told his Cabinet, adding that Israel would
insist that any agreement guarantee its security.  Israel’s Yediot Ahronot newspaper, citing an unidentified
Cabinet minister, said settlement construction was the sticking
point.  Negotiations broke off before Netanyahu took office in May
2009 and resumed for only three weeks before collapsing again in
September 2010 over settlements. More than 500,000 Israelis live
in the  West Bank  and east Jerusalem, and the Palestinians say
their growing presence on lands they claim for a future state is
a sign Israel does not have good faith intentions toward
reaching a peace deal.  Two-State Solution  Israel has repeatedly said it is committed to a two-state
solution and that the fate of settlements should be decided in
negotiations.  Kerry said on June 26 that some progress toward reviving
the process needed to be made “long before September,” when
the next session of the  United Nations General Assembly  begins.
The assembly recognized a state of Palestine last year, and the
Palestinians have threatened to use this status to pursue war-crimes charges against Israel.  Kerry’s next stop is Brunei, where he plans to participate
in several days of meetings with leaders of Asia Pacific
nations.  While in Brunei, Kerry also plans to meet with Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  to discuss the war in  Syria .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Jerusalem at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  