-- Obama Turns Nelson Mandela’s Legacy Into Economic Message
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-06-29T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/obama-ties-economic-message-to-nelson-mandela-s-legacy.html
President  Barack Obama  is using a
visit to  South Africa  to pay tribute to Nelson Mandela and urge
African leaders to follow the anti-apartheid icon’s example as a
path to international respect and economic growth.  Out of deference to Mandela’s family, Obama yesterday
didn’t visit the 94-year-old leader, who is in critical
condition. Obama and first lady  Michelle Obama  spoke by phone
with Mandela’s wife, Graca Machel, who was at her husband’s
Pretoria bedside, and offered prayers.  Today, Obama is scheduled to travel to Cape Town and visit
Robben Island, where Mandela spent 18 of his 27 years in prison
for opposing white-minority rule. He also plans to visit a
 community center  that focuses on HIV/AIDS prevention with
Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who greeted Mandela the day he was
released from prison in 1990.  Later he delivers an address at the University of Cape
Town, in the same hall where Robert F. Kennedy gave his “Ripple
of Hope” speech in 1966, shortly after Mandela was imprisoned.
 Ben Rhodes , White House national security adviser, said Obama
will again reflect on Mandela’s legacy and the lessons of his
life, especially for a democratic society.  “The struggle here against apartheid for freedom, Madiba’s
moral courage, this country’s historic transition to a free and
democratic nation has been a personal inspiration to me,”
Obama, using Mandela’s clan name, said yesterday in Pretoria at
a press conference with South African President JacobZuma. “It
has been an inspiration to the world.”  Africa Trip  Obama is on the second-leg of an  Africa  trip that began in
 Senegal  and finishes in Tanzania. The president has promoted
trade and investment across the continent and underscored the
importance of democratic values to economic growth. Mandela’s
illness has weighed on the entire trip, yet it has been most
felt in the South African icon’s home country.  Obama met for 25 minutes with two of Mandela’s daughters
and several grandchildren at the  Nelson Mandela  Centre of Memory
in Johannesburg. Later, Machel released a statement saying she
has “drawn strength” from the support of Obama and his family.  Zuma said Obama and Mandela were “bound by history” and
that he hopes Mandela will soon be released from the hospital,
though his stable yet critical condition hasn’t changed. Later
at a dinner the leaders observed a moment of silence in
Mandela’s honor.  Obama called on leaders of African nations to fulfill
Mandela’s legacy by embracing democracy, human rights and the
rule of law. Obama underscored the point by citing the value of
term-limits and saying Mandela, who served just one term as
president, recognized that “the well-being of a country is more
important than the interests of any one person.”  Role of Leaders  “We as leaders, we occupy these spaces temporarily and we
don’t get so deluded that we start thinking that the fate of our
countries depends on how long we stay in office,” he said.  Zimbabwe , where President  Robert Mugabe , in power since
1981, has cracked down on political opponents, used to be one of
the wealthiest countries on continent. But “bad governance has
led to an economic disaster,” Obama said.  Obama praised Zuma’s leadership and said he wants the U.S.
to enhance business ties with South Africa.  South Africa is the 36th largest goods  trading  partner for
the U.S. with a total of $16.8 billion in 2011. Exports totaled
$7.3 billion, up 29 percent from year before, and imports were
$9.5 billion.  The two leaders yesterday differed on a number of issues
including Palestinian statehood and South Africa’s efforts to be
included in the  United Nations Security Council .  Protesters  Protestors in Soweto and in other parts of Johannesburg
opposed the U.S. detention of prisoners in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
the country’s policy toward  Iran  and Obama’s use of drone
strikes in conflict situations.  At a town hall meeting at the University of Johannesburg,
Obama announced an expansion of the Young Africa Leaders
Initiative - a program established in 2010 - by unveiling a new
Washington Fellowship that will join with companies including
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , to bring 500 African students a
year to study in the U.S beginning in 2014. Students will meet
with Obama, other lawmakers and business leaders, the White
House said.  Obama’s trip to Africa sends a message to the world that
the U.S. is paying attention to Africa’ success, Aliko Dangote,
chairman of Nigeria’s  Dangote Group  and Africa’s richest man,
told reporters.  Dangote is the 32nd richest man in the world, worth $19.9
billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaire’s Index.  “We know now that he cares,” Dangote said. “With this
huge potential of Africa I sure he won’t let China take the
day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  