-- Hospitals Threaten Obamacare Savings by Exiting Program
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-29T19:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/hospitals-may-leave-medicare-s-most-ambitious-payment-experiment.html
Almost a third of 32 hospitals and
health systems involved in an experiment aimed at changing the
way medical providers are paid may exit the program, a potential
threat to the Affordable Care Act’s ambitious cost-saving goals.  Medicare’s “ Pioneer ” program is designed to save money by
more efficiently managing care for patients with chronic
diseases, such as diabetes and dementia. The providers agreed to
a three-year plan to forgo traditional fee-for-service payments,
where hospitals charge for every procedure, and instead get a
fixed monthly stipend for individual patients.  Begun in January 2012, Pioneer is one of several programs
involving 252 providers created under the law to experiment with
new payment models. Nine Pioneer members have told the U.S. they
may exit, said  Brian Cook , a Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services spokesman. At least four may join other  accountable-care  programs that carry less financial risk, he said.  Depending on the number of patients involved, “it really
shows a critical cost-containment approach in the Affordable
Care Act is running into real problems,” said Robert Blendon, a
health-policy professor at Harvard University’s School of  Public
Health , in a telephone interview today.  The experimental programs were set up under the law to save
Medicare, the U.S. insurer for the elderly and disabled, as much
as $940 million through 2015. Hospitals were projected to gain
as much as $1.9 billion in  bonus payments  under the law.  Shifting Models  “We fully anticipated that as these programs get up and
running, some groups would shift between models,” Cook said in
an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. He wouldn’t
identify the participants who may leave Pioneer.  Obama administration officials view the experiments as
being among the health-care law’s most promising attempts to
slow the growth of health costs.  The Pioneer program was set up for large hospitals and
health systems that already had some experience coordinating
care for patients, such as Partners Healthcare in  Boston ,
Presbyterian Healthcare Services in  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico , and
Heritage Provider Network in Northridge,  California .  Blendon said that some of the health systems may be
discovering that it is harder to manage financial risk of sick
patients than they anticipated.  Financial Implications  Providers think “they can obviously sort of improve the
way average care is delivered,” Blendon said. “They don’t
realize “there can be some very expensive, difficult situations,
or that they may have groups of patients moving around they
don’t have the clinical control over they thought they’d have.
This can have very serious financial implications for them.”  Presbyterian Chief Executive Officer Jim Hinton, who is
also the chairman-elect of the American Hospital Association,
warned of potential problems in the Pioneer program in an April
30 interview.  Participating hospitals are responsible for controlling
costs for a population of Medicare patients assigned to them,
but their ability to manage the patients’ care is limited,
Hinton said. For example, they can’t forbid the patients from
seeing doctors or other health providers who aren’t part of the
Pioneer system.  Also, Medicare has lagged, by about six months, in
providing the Pioneer systems medical claims data they need to
track spending on their assigned patients, according to Hinton.  ‘Feel the Pain’  Medicare officials “acutely feel the pain of providing
data on this population on such a broad scale with systems that
really weren’t set up to do what we’re asking them to do,”
Hinton said then. “We’re asking for more agility than the
system is really set up to produce.”  A spokeswoman for Presbyterian, Kristen Krebs, would not
say directly whether the hospital system is among Pioneer
participants that may drop out of the program.  “We’re still evaluating our options,” she said in an e-mail last night.  Modern Healthcare, a magazine that covers the hospital
industry, first reported that the health systems may leave the
Pioneer program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  