-- Robson Joins Murray in 2nd Week as Djokovic Cruises
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-29T20:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/robson-joins-murray-in-2nd-week-as-djokovic-cruises.html
Top seed Novak Djokovic cruised
through at  Wimbledon  as  Laura Robson  fought back reach the last
sixteen to give Britain both a man and woman in the second week
of the grass-court tennis major for the first time this century.  Robson had been a game away from defeat against Marina
Erakovic of  New Zealand  before winning 1-6, 7-5, 6-3 on a packed
Court No. 2 at the All England Club in southwest London. She
joins  Andy Murray  in the final week of the tournament, matching
the 1998 achievement of Sam Smith and Tim Henman,  the last
British pair to reach the fourth round.  “I was getting my butt kicked, basically,” former junior
Wimbledon champion Robson said in a televised interview after a
forehand winner on match point prompted the crowd to give her a
standing ovation. “I was struggling to return her serve. I
tried to do the best I can, tried to work as hard as I can. Just
stick with it until she gets nervous, and she did.”  Serbia’s Djokovic moved into the fourth round with a one-sided 6-3, 6-2, 6-2 victory over France’s Jeremy Chardy.
Djokovic is the only Wimbledon winner left in the men’s draw
after  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  lost in the first round, followed by
defending champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  in the second
round.  The 2011 champion has yet to drop a set, and today produced
38 winners and only three unforced errors. His opponent had 18
winners, and 14 mistakes.  “ I neutralized his serve,” Djokovic said in a televised
interview. “Everything turned my way, I had a lot of fun.”  He’ll next play 35-year-old German  Tommy Haas  who beat
 Feliciano Lopez  of Spain 4-6, 6-2, 7-5, 6-4.  Against Robson, Erakovic was serving for the match at 5-4
in the second set when she hit two double faults and gave the
Brit a break back. The 19-year-old took control after that,
winning off eight straight games as she forced Erakovic on the
defensive with her left-handed forehand.  Next Round  Robson plays Kaia Kanepi in the next round after the
Estonian brushed aside U.S. wild card Alison Riske 6-2, 6-3.  Defending women’s  Serena Williams  of the U.S. is playing
42-year-old Kimiko Date-Krumm of Japan, the oldest woman into
the third round of Wimbledon since tennis turned professional in
1968. That match is being played under the roof on Centre Court
as darkness settled in.  Richard Gasquet , the No. 9 seed from France, was the
highest-ranked player to fall today, losing to Australia’s
 Bernard Tomic , 7-6 (9-7), 5-7, 7-5, 7-6 (7-5). Tomic’s dad and
coach, John Tomic, is banned from entering the grounds of the
All England Club because he faces an assault charge later in the
year.  “When I have my time off, when I leave the site, I’m with
my dad,” Tomic said, when asked if he was playing better
without parental support. “He’s helping me at this tournament.
We’re doing the right things. This is why the results are
showing off now. I’m not doing it on my own.”  Tomic plays former finalist Tomas Berdych next after the
seventh seeded Czech defeated  Kevin Anderson  of South Africa
3-6, 6-3, 6-4, 7-5.  Three Sets  Another Australian, former U.S. champion Sam Stosur, was
unable to withstand serves of up to 122 miles-per-hour (196
kilometers-per-hour) by Germany’s Sabine Lisicki in losing in
three sets.  Former champion Petra Kvitova came back from a break down
in the final set to beat Ekaterina Makarova, 6-3, 2-6, 6-3 in a
match halted last night by darkness in the final set.  Kvitova, the No. 8 from the Czech Republic, is the highest-ranked player in the bottom half of the draw after a record
number of top-ten seeds exited in the first week either through
defeats or injuries, including No. 2 Victoria Azarenka and No. 3
 Maria Sharapova .  Sloane Stephens, the No. 17 seed from the U.S., beat Czech
Petra Cetkovska, 7-6 (7-3), 0-6, 6-4 in another match suspended
last night.  “It was a little tricky,” Stephens said in a news
conference. “Just had to go out and play, play hard.”  Stephens, 20, broke through at the Australian Open at the
start of the season, beating Serena Williams to reach her first
major semifinal. She plays Monica Puig, an unseeded player from
Puerto Rico, for a spot in the quarterfinals.  China’s  Li Na , Asia’s first major singles champion two
years ago at the  French Open , overcame Czech Klara Zakopalova,
4-6, 6-0, 8-6.  Lucky Dodig  Igor Sijsling of the Netherlands retired with a fever as he
trailed Croatia’s Ivan Dodig, 6-0, 6-1, 1-0. Dodig has now won
two of his three matches by retirement, after Germany’s Philipp Kohlschreiber quit in the opening round, citing flu. Sijsling’s
exit is the 13th retirement or walkover this week, which equals
the Open-era Wimbledon record set in 2008.  Dodig’s next match may not be so easy as he faces French
Open finalist and No. 4 seed  David Ferrer  of Spain, who
struggled with a toe injury in his five-set defeat of Alexandr Dolgopolov of Ukraine.  Russia’s  Mikhail Youzhny  defeated Serbia’s  Viktor Troicki 
in straight sets to set up a fourth-round clash with the second-seeded Murray, last year’s runner-up.  France’s Kenny De Schepper upset 22nd-seeded Juan Monaco of
 Argentina  and will next play Spain’s  Fernando Verdasco , who beat
Latvian Ernests Gulbis. Poland’s Lukasz Kubot is into the last
sixteen of Wimbledon for the second time in his career after
beating France’s No. 25 seed Benoit Paire.  Kei Nishikori, the No. 12 seed from Japan, lost to 23rd-seeded Andreas Seppi in four sets. The Italian plays former U.S.
Open champion Juan Martin Del Potro, the No. 8 from Argentina
who beat Grega Zemlja of Slovenia in straight sets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  