-- Brazil’s Rousseff May Skip Cup Final as Her Popularity Sinks
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t ,   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-30T17:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/rousseff-s-rating-drops-as-belo-horizonte-s-city-hall-occupied.html
Brazil  President  Dilma Rousseff  may
sit out today’s Confederations Cup final match after the biggest
plunge in popularity since ex-President Fernando Collor
confiscated  savings accounts  in 1990, as protesters take to the
streets for a fourth week.  Rousseff’s approval rating fell to 30 percent, down from 57
percent before protests began three weeks ago and a high of 65
percent in March, according to a survey by Datafolha published
yesterday in the daily newspaper Folha.  In Rio de Janeiro, about 5,000 protesters marched toward
the city’s iconic Maracana stadium, where Brazil and world
champion Spain vie for the Confederation Cup in a dry run for
next year’s  World Cup ,the G1 website said. The two-week
tournament has been magnifying demands for better public
services as Brazil spends 30 billion reais ($13.4 billion) on
stadiums and related projects to host the 2014 soccer event.  A march that at least 18,000 people signed up to attend on
Facebook will be joined by protesters taking aim at billionaire
 Eike Batista , who holds a minority stake in a group that was
awarded last month a 35-year contract to operate Maracana. The
final match at the stadium is slated to start at 7 p.m. local
time.  ‘Rigged’ Auction  “The game was rigged from the start, and we knew who was
going to win” the stadium auction, Renato Consentino, a leader
of the Popular Committee for the World Cup and Olympics, one of
the organizers of the protest, said in an interview in Rio.  About 200 people demanding deeper cuts in bus fares are
camping inside the municipal council building in Belo Horizonte,
the capital city of Minas Gerais state with 2.4 million
residents, Globo News TV said today.  Bus-fare cuts to heed protests will cost  Sao Paulo , the
country’s biggest city, about 200 million reais in 2013 as the
metropolis finds itself “insolvent,” Mayor Fernando Haddad
said in interview published on Folha de S.Paulo’s website today.  Any further tax incentive the federal government may need
to implement to cut the cost of public transportation, such as
tax breaks on diesel used by buses, will have to be followed by
cost cuts or a new tax to balance public accounts, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  told O Globo newspaper in an interview.  Broad Support  Yesterday in downtown Sao Paulo, police blocked roads for a
“March for Jesus,” Marco Feliciano, the head of the
congressional commission on human rights, posted on his Twitter
page from the event. Gay rights activists held protests in the
city June 21 against a proposal approved by the commission to
let psychologists recommend mental treatment for homosexuality.  Eight out of 10 Brazilians said they support the protests,
according to the Datafolha survey of 4,717 people in 196 cities
on June 27-28. Brazilians who say Rousseff’s management of the
economy is good fell to 27 percent, from 49 percent, according
to the poll, which has a margin of error of plus or minus 2
percentage points.  Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  told the daily Folha
that Rousseff is “calm” about her drop in popularity and the
government will keep working to reverse the slide in approval
ratings. A ministry official declined to comment.  Political Reform  In response to the unrest, Rousseff called on June 24 for a
referendum on political reform and pledged another 50 billion
reais for urban transportation after meeting with leaders of the
protest group Passe Livre. In the Datafolha survey released
yesterday, 68 percent of those surveyed said they support the
referendum proposal.  Rousseff, who has struggled to stay ahead of the protests
after being jeered at the tournament’s opening match June 15 in
Brasilia, didn’t include today’s soccer cup final on her
official agenda e-mailed by the presidential press office last
night. Estado earlier reported she wouldn’t attend.  FIFA’s Confederations Cup has been dubbed the
“Demonstrations Cup” in placards and chants as protesters
criticize money spent on stadiums in a nation where 21 percent
of the population lives below the poverty line.  Protests have taken place ahead of almost every match,
sometimes turning violent.  Overpass Death  In  Belo Horizonte , a 21-year-old died of head injuries June
27 after falling from an overpass as police fired tear gas and
rubber bullets on a crowd of 50,000 outside the stadium where a
semifinal match was taking place.  A group led by Odebrecht SA, Brazil’s largest builder,
offered to pay 5.5 million reais annually to Rio’s state
government to manage the near 79,000-seat Maracana, which
reopened this month after a three-year, $500 million renovation.  While Batista’s IMX has just a 5 percent stake, it’s been
the focus of criticism because the company, a joint venture with
IMG Worldwide Inc., first pitched the state on leasing the
facility and then was hired to carry out the financial viability
study. Batista is also a friend of Rio Governor Sergio Cabral,
himself a target of the anti-corruption movement that’s swept
across the country.  IMX, when asked about protesters’ charges that the
privatization process lacked transparency, responded in an e-mailed statement that it has followed all laws. Consorcio
Maracana SA declined to comment, referring questions to the
state government, which said the leasing process has concluded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  