-- Sun Said Poised to Double Money on Sale of Toilet Maker
-- B y   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-06-29T01:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/sun-said-poised-to-double-money-on-sale-of-toilet-maker.html
Sun Capital Partners Inc., the
buyout firm that invested in the struggling toilet maker that
operates under the American Standard brand, stands to double its
money on the sale of the company after a turnaround.  Excluding about $200 million in debt the company has on its
balance sheet, Sun Capital and minority stakeholder  Bain Capital 
LLC are to be paid about $340 million in a sale to Japanese
buyer  LIXIL Corp. (5938) , according to a person familiar with the
matter. That’s about a two times return on the amount the
private-equity firms originally invested, said the person,
asking not to be identified because the information is private.  Sun Capital agreed to sell the parent company of American
Standard, a maker of bath and kitchen products, for $542 million
to Tokyo-based building-products company LIXIL Corp., according
to a statement yesterday. Sun Capital, led by Rodger Krouse and
Marc Leder, manages about $45 billion and seeks to profit by
turning around underperforming companies and buying distressed
assets.  Bain Capital bought American Standard for $1.75 billion in
October 2007 and a month later, sold the Americas business to
Sun Capital for $130 million. Sun Capital paid $25 million in
equity for a 51 percent stake in the business, with Boston-based
Bain remaining a minority stakeholder, according to the person.
Bain, which now holds about an 8 percent stake in the Americas
business, split off American Standard’s Asia business and sold
it to LIXIL in 2009, the person said.  Housing Slump  Bain’s initial investment in Piscataway, New Jersey-based
American Standard came as the housing slump hurt earnings at the
company, which had adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, of negative $34.2
million in 2007, said the person.  Sun Capital invested an additional $50 million in American
Standard over the next several years and merged it with four
similar businesses in its portfolio. The moves by  Boca Raton ,
Florida-based Sun Capital, combined with a housing rebound,
helped drive up demand. Adjusted Ebitda for the 12 months ended
in May was $48.5 million, according to the person familiar.  LIXIL’s public-relations department did not immediately
return an e-mailed request for comment outside normal business
hours. A spokesman for Sun Capital declined to comment on the
transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jodi Xu in  New York  at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  