-- Syrian Jets Attack Rebel-Held Neighborhoods in Homs, Group Says
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-06-29T15:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/syrian-jets-attack-rebel-held-neighborhoods-in-homs-group-says.html
Syrian fighter jets and ground
forces attacked rebel-held neighborhoods in the city of Homs as
forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad pressed their
offensive across the country.  The Syrian army brought in reinforcements during the past
week as it tries to seize areas in the city under rebel control,
the Coventry, U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights 
said on its Facebook page today. The Khaldiya, Qusoor and Jourat
al-Shayyah neighborhoods were under “violent regime
bombardment,” the group said.  Assad, supported by the Lebanese Shiite militia Hezbollah,
dealt the opposition a series of strategic blows this month. His
troops this week captured Tal Kalakh, a town west of Homs,
cutting off another arms transfer route for the opposition.
Rebel forces retreated after more than four days of fighting.
Hezbollah, which the U.S. and  Israel  classify as a terrorist
group, is backed by  Iran .  Tal Kalakh is near to the Lebanese border and the Homs-Tartous highway. Earlier this month rebel forces lost al-Qusair,
a city about 30 kilometers (19 miles) from Homs, cutting their
supplies from Lebanon. After al-Qusair’s fall, Assad’s troops,
backed by Hezbollah militiamen, headed north to the nation’s
commercial capital of Aleppo and to Damascus.  Syrian government forces “continued pursuing armed
terrorist groups” in the Khaldiya neighborhood in Homs “to
restore security and stability to the neighborhood.” the state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  reported today, citing an
unidentified official. The Syrian army also destroyed weapons
and killed and injured rebels in towns and villages in the
Damascus southern countryside, the news service said.  Civilians Die  The U.S. and 10 other nations have pledged to increase
support for opposition forces in  Syria , without saying what
specific steps they would take or how much firepower may be
needed. More than 100,000 people have died since the uprising
against Assad began in 2011, half of them civilians, according
to the Observatory.  Russia  has said supplying weapons to Syrian rebels
threatens peace talks planned for July. It also asked for a
United Nations probe on the reported supply of Libyan weapons to
Syria, Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said today in televised
remarks.  Any movement of arms from  Libya  to the Syrian opposition
fighters would be in violation of the arms embargo, Lavrov said.
He also dismissed “rumors” of Russia closing its embassy in
Damascus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  