-- Wallabies Strike Late to Send Lions Series Into Decider
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-29T23:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-29/wallabies-beat-lions-to-send-rugby-series-into-deciding-match.html
Australia  sent the three-match rugby
series against the British and Irish Lions into a deciding match
by fighting back to win the second game 16-15.  Adam Ashley-Cooper scored the only try with six minutes
left at Melbourne’s Etihad Stadium last night, which fellow
center Christian Leali’ifano converted to put the Wallabies a
point ahead. Leigh Halfpenny booted five penalties for the
Lions, though missed a three-point attempt with the last kick of
the game that would have given the combined team an unbeatable
2-0 lead and its first series victory since 1997.  “All bets are off,” Australia captain James Horwill said
in a news conference. “It’s now one game to win it. It’s like a
grand final, so you don’t worry about what’s happened before.”  The third Test is July 6 in Sydney, where Australia
clinched a 2-1 victory when the teams last met in 2001 after
also rebounding from losing the opener with a victory in
 Melbourne . The Lions, who tour every four years, haven’t won a
series since a 2-1 triumph in South Africa 16 years ago.  After defeating the Springboks, the Lions lost 2-1 to
Australia, were swept 3-0 in New Zealand and were beaten 2-1 by
the South Africans in 2009.  As happened in the Lions’ 23-21 victory in Brisbane last
week, when Kurtley Beale missed a last-minute penalty that would
have won it for the Wallabies, the outcome hinged on the final
kick. Halfpenny’s effort from over 50 meters fell short.  “I’ve seen him kick them from there before,” Lions coach
Warren Gatland said of Halfpenny’s miss. “He just didn’t strike
that one well enough, a chance to be a hero in that moment,
unfortunately he hasn’t hit it quite as well as he’s capable of
doing.”  Turnover Tally  In front of a crowd of 56,771, a record for a sports event
at Etihad Stadium, the Lions took a 15-9 lead into the final six
minutes of a game dominated by defense and riddled with errors
as the teams combined for a total of 31 turnovers. While
Australia made four clean breaks, the Lions didn’t manage any.  The tourists led 12-9 at the half on four penalties from
Halfpenny, who also struck the crossbar with a third-minute
effort, even after struggling to create a solid platform at the
set-piece scrums and lineouts. Loosehead prop Mako Vunipola,
whom the Wallabies had identified as a potential weakness in the
leadup, was twice penalized for scrum infringements.  Leali’ifano, who lasted less than a minute in his Test
debut in Brisbane last week before getting knocked out, slotted
three kicks for Australia before the break.  The start of the second half was played at frantic pace and
both teams continued to commit handling errors and infringe at
the breakdown, although it took 23 minutes for the scoreboard to
change.  Captain Injured  Wales winger George North, who galloped for a 60-meter (55-yard) try in the first Test, drove back Israel Folau in a tackle
with an hour gone. From the next scrum, the Lions sent the
Wallabies back-pedaling to win a penalty and Halfpenny sent it
through the posts to increase the lead to 15-9.  The touring team lost captain Sam Warburton to a hamstring
injury with 14 minutes remaining and Brian O’Driscoll, playing
on his fourth Lions tour, took over as skipper.  The Lions, who will spend four days in Noosa on
Queensland’s Sunshine Coast rather then traveling straight to
Sydney, said today that Warburton is staying in Melbourne to
have a scan and will rejoin the squad tomorrow.  Horwill’s Option  After Australia was awarded a penalty with eight minutes
remaining, home captain  James Horwill  opted for a scrum instead
of taking a kick from in front of the posts. The decision to
keep the Lions under pressure in their own 22 paid off two
minutes later.  With scrum-half Will Genia, who was named the man-of-the-match, prompting the attacks against a tiring defense, the
Wallabies created space out wide for Ashley-Cooper to crash
over. Leali’ifano maintained his composure to convert.  “We just knew that we had to get over the stripe,” added
Horwill, who will miss the decider if he’s banned for stamping
in the opener at a second disciplinary hearing tomorrow. “We
were down by six. I felt that we had to build pressure and I
felt that was a time to take that opportunity.”  Following a succession of surges upfield after the final
hooter, referee Craig Joubert awarded the Lions a penalty just
inside their half and Halfpenny’s attempt to clinch a series
victory fell short of the posts. The Welsh full-back has missed
just four of his 36 attempts at goal on the Lions 10-match tour.  With three points separating the teams in the first two
games, both captains and coaches said they are expecting another
close match in Sydney.  “It’s going to go down to the wire in the third Test as
well,” Warburton said. “Next week is like a cup final, we
forget about the last couple of weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Melbourne at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  