-- Boston Bomb Suspect Friend’s Released on Bail to Mother
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-05-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/accused-marathon-bomber-s-college-friend-seeks-bail.html
The 19-year-old man accused of lying
to federal investigators probing the role of his college friend
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in the  Boston  Marathon bombing was released on
bail into the custody of his mother.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Marianne Bowler in Boston yesterday
allowed Robel Phillipos to be released under “strict house 
arrest.” His mother, Genet Bekele, who moved to the U.S. after 
fleeing a famine in her native Ethiopia in 1982, agreed to act 
as her son’s third-party custodian. A $100,000 bond will be 
secured by a home put up by two supporters.  “The government stands by its allegations and can prove
the allegations in the complaint,” Assistant U.S. Attorney John Capin told Bowler, addressing court filings by some of backers
of Phillipos who questioned the strength of the case.  About 20 people who came to support Phillipos in the
courtroom surrounded the teenager and a decoy as they left the
building using different exits. Several people, including
Phillipos’s former middle school principal, Timothy Groves, used
their hands to block journalists’ cameras. Phillipos jumped into
the back of a red car, which sped away.  “At no time did Robel have any prior knowledge of this
marathon bombing nor did he participate in any of the planning
done by the defendant in this case,” Susan Church, one of his
lawyers, said after the hearing.  Orange Jumpsuit  Phillipos, who attended the  University of Massachusetts
Dartmouth  with 19-year-old Tsarnaev, was also ordered to take a
drug test before he was let out and be subject to later random
testing, Bowler said. Phillipos, shackled and dressed in an
orange prisoner’s jumpsuit, told the judge he understood the
terms of his bail, which also includes electronic monitoring.  Bowler scheduled a hearing for May 17 to determine whether
the government had probable cause to arrest Phillipos and to
proceed with its case.  Phillipos and two other students, Dias Kadyrbayev and
Azamat Tazhayakov, were arrested May 1, about two weeks after
the bombing that killed three people and wounded more than 260.
The other two, both from  Kazakhstan , are accused of disposing of
a backpack containing firework wrappers they found in Tsarnaev’s
dorm room on April 18 after the FBI released pictures of
Dzhokhar and his brother, Tamerlan, 26, identifying them as
suspects.  Electronic Monitoring  Phillipos, who faces as long as eight years in prison if
convicted, argued in court papers that he should be released on
bail because he isn’t a flight risk and hasn’t been accused of
disposing of evidence or aiding in the attack. His bail deal was
reached with U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz in Boston, who revealed
the details in an e-mailed statement before the hearing.  Tazhayakov and Kadyrbayev, who face five-year terms if
convicted of conspiracy to obstruct justice, weren’t in court
yesterday. A preliminary hearing for the men, both 19 years old,
is scheduled for May 14. Tsarnaev is due in court on May 30.  Arkady Bukh, Tazhayakov’s new attorney, said it’s unlikely
his client will be released on bail because he’s in the country
on a student visa and has no family in the U.S. Suspects with no
local ties are often viewed as flight risks when seeking bail.  “We do anticipate quite a difficult bail situation,”
Bukh, of  Brooklyn ,  New York , said in a phone interview
yesterday. Tazhayakov “was cooperating before the arrest and
after the arrest, and is still willing and able to work further
with the government. I don’t think we have much disputes on the
facts.”  Russian-Speaking Lawyer  Bukh said he was hired because Tazhayakov’s father, who
traveled to the U.S., wanted his son to have a Russian-speaking
lawyer. He also said the main elements of next week’s hearing
may be delayed. Bukh replaced Harlan Protass, who declined to
comment on the change in legal representation.  Kadyrbayev and Tazhayakov were arrested on April 20 on
immigration violations, five days after the attack, the U.S.
said. They are being held at the Essex County Correctional
Facility in Middleton,  Massachusetts .  Kadyrbayev’s lawyer, Robert Stahl, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on next week’s scheduled hearing.  In a May 4 court filing, Phillipos’s attorney,  Derege
Demissie , sought to distance his client from the allegations
against his friends.  “Phillipos is not charged with having any knowledge
whatsoever of the  Boston Marathon bombings  of April 15, 2013, or
with helping the surviving suspect after the incident,”
Demissie said in the filing. “Nor is there any allegation that
Mr. Phillipos removed, tampered with, or destroyed any potential
evidence after the bombing.”  Tsarnaev Manhunt  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was arrested after a four-day manhunt in
which his brother was killed, and faces two capital counts of
using a weapon of mass destruction. He’s being held without bail
at a federal prison medical facility in Devens, Massachusetts,
according to the U.S. Marshals Service.  Prosecutors said Phillipos, a U.S. citizen, lied in three
interviews on April 19, 20 and 25. He first claimed to have been
napping and watching television when the dorm-room visit took
place, prosecutors said. He later said that he, Kadyrbayev and
Tazhayakov had visited the dorm and left without entering the
room because no one was there, according to the U.S.  In a fourth interview, on April 26, Phillipos confessed to
the false statements and agreed to sign a statement about what
actually happened, the government said. Details from his
statement appear in the criminal complaint alongside slightly
different versions of events supplied by Kadyrbayev and
Tazhayakov.  Photo Recognition  Prosecutors said Phillipos was the first of the three to
recognize Tsarnaev in images of the bombing suspects after they
were made public by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  on April
18 at around 5 p.m.  Phillipos took a leave of absence for a semester and didn’t
attend school in the spring, his lawyer said in last week’s
filing.  “It was a coincidence that he was on campus to attend a
seminar on April 18,” the lawyer said. “He hadn’t had contact
with Tsarnaev or the other the two friends accused of
obstruction in more than two months.”  Among more than a dozen affidavits filed with the bail
request was one from Phillipos’s mother, who appeared in court
yesterday. In the filing, she said her son is a hard-working and
caring person with a diverse group of friends. Their family
regularly attended the Boston Marathon and cheered for the
Ethiopian runners, she said in the filing.  Lost Lives  “We mourned for those who lost their lives and prayed for
the injured,” Bekele said in the filing. “My son wants nothing
more than the opportunity to clear his name.”  About 30 of Phillipos’s supporters appeared in court
yesterday and talked with Demissie, his lawyer, after the
hearing. Bowler said many of the supporters knew his mother and
didn’t appear to know him as an adult, based on their court-filed affidavits.  “I noted many of the affidavits did not have much
knowledge of the defendant himself,” Bowler said.  Groves, Phillipos’s former middle school principal, said in
an interview after the hearing that the teenager is “a person
of good character.”  “I’m confident as we hear the details emerge of the whole
story, the person I know will be there,” Groves said.  The case is U.S. v. Phillipos, 13-02162, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston federal court
at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 