-- Ailing Spanish Soccer Teams Need a ‘Diet’ From Debt, Tebas Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d g e r t o n   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-06T22:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/ailing-spanish-soccer-teams-need-a-diet-from-debt-tebas-says.html
It was a rough time for Javier Tebas
to take over as president of the Spanish Professional Soccer
League. Real  Madrid  and Barcelona lost to German rivals in the
Champions League semifinals last week, fueling speculation that
Spanish dominance of global soccer is slipping.  Behind the disappointing performance of Spain’s two star
teams is a league whose clubs carried a combined 752 million
euros ($985 million) of debt last year. With the country’s
economy mired in recession, fewer Spaniards can afford the
higher ticket prices and more expensive broadcast rates that
Tebas attributed to a value-added tax, which last year rose to
21 percent from 18 percent.  “We’ve put into place a goal for 2020 that the league will
have paid off its taxes to the state,” Tebas, who took office
April 26, said in an interview in Miami. “We’ve eaten a lot of
cake, we’re fat, and if we try to do a diet in 24 hours we’ll
die. We’ve put on 55 kilos and we’re running a marathon in 2020,
so now we have to lose some weight.”  Tebas said the economic plan, especially for smaller teams
overshadowed by Real Madrid and Barcelona, is to reduce debt and
interest payments so that clubs can invest in talent on the
field.  In November, Spain’s tax agency confiscated income from
several soccer clubs as it chased almost $1 billion of debts
from teams in the country’s top two divisions. A tax agency
official said at the time it recouped 132.9 million euros of
debt from teams since the start of 2012.  Debt Reduction  In April 2012, the European Commission said it was
examining whether Spanish clubs are improperly receiving state
aid under agreements that delay tax payments.  Atletico Madrid  is
paying 15 million euros a year of a 115 million-euro tax debt,
Chief Executive Officer Miguel Angel Gil said in an interview at
the time.  Tebas said the league hasn’t received any government
assistance in two seasons and that teams have reduced their debt
by almost 10 percent.  Tebas said he looking to the English Premier League and the
German Bundesliga for ways to improve stadium attendance, global
appeal and broadcasting agreements. Unlike the Premier League,
which shares its television rights among its teams, Spanish
clubs sell their broadcast rights on an individual basis.  The Premier League next season begins a 3.02 billion-pound
($4.7 billion) three-year domestic rights deal that will be
split among its 20 teams.  In  Spain , Barcelona and Real Madrid get about half of the
country’s annual television income. The U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper reported last month that Real Madrid made 140 million
euros from television last year, while smaller club Granada
earned just 12 million euros.  “What is true is that at the global level the Bundesliga
and the Premier League are doing great work, and not just from a
sports perspective,” Tebas said. “That’s what we’re reflecting
on in our league, and it’s moving very quickly and we’re paying
attention to what’s going on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edgerton in Miami at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  