-- Alarko Drops as Unit Cancels Morocco Project: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-05-06T15:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/alarko-slumps-most-in-2-weeks-on-morocco-project-istanbul-mover.html
Alarko Holding AS (ALARK) , a Turkish group
with interests in construction and energy, slipped for the first
time in three days after a unit canceled a railroad project in
Morocco.  Alarko dropped 0.3 percent to 5.8 liras at the close in
Istanbul after earlier slumping as much as 3.1 percent. More
than 509,000 shares changed hands, about 1.6 times the stock’s
three-month average daily volume, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 index gained 0.7
percent, climbing for a 10th day.  Alsim Alarko Sanayi Tesisleri ve Ticaret AS, Alarko’s
contracting unit, canceled a project that was part of a plan to
build a railroad between the cities of Tangier and Kenitra in
 Morocco , according to a statement after the market closed on May
3. The project was valued at $128 million, representing 7.9
percent of Alarko’s backlog of $1.61 billion as of December, the
company’s website shows.  “The development comes a few weeks after fourth-quarter
earnings missed estimates, so investors have reacted
negatively,” Sercan Uzun, an analyst at Global Securities in
Istanbul, said in a phone interview today. “The loss of 8
percent of the backlog may create question marks for the
future.”  Alarko’s net income in the final quarter of 2012 was 5
million liras ($2.8 million), calculated by subtracting its
nine-month profit reported Nov. 15 last year from full-year
results released on April 12. The company may  report  10.8
million liras in net income for the first quarter, according to
the average estimate of four analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Alarko shares gained 13 percent this year, compared with an
advance of 15 percent in the benchmark index. Eight analysts
recommend buying the stock, while two say hold and one
recommends selling, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  