-- Malaysia’s Vote Is Over But Drama Is Just Beginning
-- B y   S i m o n   T a y
-- 2013-05-06T15:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/malayasia-s-vote-is-over-but-drama-is-just-beginning.html
Judging by their giddy rally today,
markets in  Malaysia  are beyond relieved that the country’s
general elections are over. A win for the incumbent Barisan
Nasional coalition, whose main party has led Malaysia since
independence, appeared to promise continuity and stability.
Prime Minister Najib Razak adopted a humble tone after the
bitterly fought campaign, calling for “national
reconciliation.”  Elections in Asia, however, often prove less than decisive
when the margin of victory is narrow and the stakes are high.
Rather than settling matters, yesterday’s vote could well open
up Malaysia to the kind of gridlock and endless campaigning that
has plagued capitals from Bangkok to  Washington .  Although  Barisan Nasional  won 133 seats for a simple
majority in the national parliament, it failed to win a two-thirds majority. This was its past benchmark and the target
mentioned at party rallies last year. Indeed, the ruling
coalition lost further ground -- securing seven fewer seats than
in the last election. Moreover, the popular vote -- yet to be
known -- may be even narrower.  The thin margin -- the closest since independence -- has
already sparked challenges. Before the polls, election observers
had raised questions about dubious voters being flown into
battleground states and important constituencies. Opposition
leader Anwar Ibrahim, a former deputy prime minister, has called
into question the results in more than two dozen close races.
His followers are angry and only too ready to reject the
legitimacy of  Najib’s victory .  Street Protests  Although Anwar has called on his followers to remain
peaceful, the opposition leader knows that Malaysians are more
likely than ever to take their grievances to the streets. In the
past year, the country has witnessed a series of mass protests
and rallies, focused on issues such as corruption and the
disposal of radioactive waste. These demonstrations have been
sponsored not just by Anwar’s opposition but also by a wide
spectrum of citizens’ groups. It wouldn’t take much to clog the
streets of Kuala Lumpur with protesters and the courts with
provocative electoral challenges.  Street violence can’t be ruled out. At some recent rallies,
government security forces were accused of using excessive
force. In particular, there’s a danger that any demonstrations
could break down along racial lines. Prime Minister Najib has
already blamed his poor showing partly on a “Chinese tsunami”
-- a mass exodus of ethnic Chinese voters to the opposition.
Chinese-led protests could, in turn, set off a backlash among
ethnic Malays, who have benefited from years of affirmative-action policies promoted by the ruling party.  Neither Najib nor Anwar really wants to provoke such a
confrontation. Yet both men are operating from dangerously weak
positions. Surveys suggest that Najib remains more popular than
his party, but insiders may not agree. After similar results in
the last general election, party chieftains ousted his
predecessor, Abdullah Badawi; among the first to back the coup
was Najib’s current deputy. Those hard-liners looking for a
figure to rally around now might well turn to Mukhriz Mahathir,
the son of longtime Malaysian leader Mahathir Mohamed. The
younger man led the ruling party’s successful campaign to
reclaim the state of Kedah from the opposition, and is slated to
become its new chief minister.  For Anwar, the personal stakes are even higher. Ever since
he was dumped as deputy premier during the 1998 Asian financial
crisis and jailed on questionable charges of sodomy, he has been
seeking personal vindication as well as political reform. Now 65
years old, he probably won’t have another chance to come to
power through the ballot box. He has every incentive to try to
destabilize Najib’s coalition by enticing minority members -- in
particular legislators from the eastern states of Sabah and
Sarawak -- to switch sides.  Market Policy  The irony, as several observers pointed out before  the
elections , is that on the questions that matter most to markets,
Najib and Anwar share a great deal. In the last year, the prime
minister has promised and delivered on a number of reforms to
trim privileges reserved for the Malay majority, and has begun
to address corruption and state abuses. Local governments
controlled by the opposition have won plaudits for their
capable, pro-business attitude, with opposition-run Penang
turning in the best results of any Malaysian state.  Perhaps both sides will be able to return to that modus
vivendi, as the markets seem to be indicating, and to improve on
Malaysia’s solid 5.6 percent growth last year. Given the
personalities and the political stakes involved, though, it’s
far more likely that the country is headed for months of
tension, gridlock and uncertainty. The election might be over,
but the fight is just beginning.  (Simon Tay is chairman of the Singapore Institute of
International Affairs and associate professor at the National
University of Singapore Faculty of Law. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Tay at  chairman@siiaonline.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at  nhajari@bloomberg.net . 