-- Malaysia Victory Will Prove Hollow Without Reform
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-06T21:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/malaysia-victory-will-prove-hollow-without-reform.html
(Corrects description of UMNO’s leadership in second
paragraph.)  There is no glory in this victory.
Malaysia’s ruling coalition, led by Prime Minister Najib Razak,
held on to power in this week’s elections, winning 133 seats in
parliament compared with the reformist opposition’s 89. Yet a
closer look at the vote shows how fragile support truly is for
Najib’s United Malays National Organization and argues for the
winner to  change direction .  UMNO, which has led Malaysia since independence in 1957,
narrowly lost the popular vote. Its National Front coalition won
a majority of seats in parliament largely by exploiting
gerrymandered districts, which disadvantage cities, and by
turning out its base of rural Malay voters, whom it has courted
for decades with generous affirmative-action policies.
(Opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  has also alleged rampant
cheating, a claim that should be taken seriously.)  Chinese voters, who make up almost a quarter of the
population and who wield economic clout well beyond their
numbers, deserted the ruling coalition in droves; even urban
Malays, fed up with a system of preferences, largely sided with
the opposition.  Some economic signals are as troubling as the political
ones. Malaysia’s economy has posted admirable gains over the
past decade, growing at 5.6 percent last year. Yet cracks in the
engine are beginning to appear. Facing declining Western demand
for Malaysian-produced  electronics , the country has grown more
dependent on exports of commodities such as oil, palm oil and
rubber. More dynamic neighbors are attracting investors, with
even the  Philippines , a perennial also-ran, mounting a
competitive threat. A budget bloated by subsidies and household
debt approaching 80 percent of gross domestic product have muted
the customary applause from the  International Monetary Fund .  So what’s next for Najib? By exposing widespread
dissatisfaction, the election results present an opportunity for
the prime minister. Having run on a reform platform of his own,
he now has added incentive to make good on his pledges to
address corruption and favoritism. Freeing up the state-owned
press, lifting curbs on public demonstrations and increasing
government transparency would generate goodwill and signal to
both internal opponents and the markets that the reform impulse
is genuine. (A post-election rally suggests the markets believe
it is.)  Some members of the ruling coalition will argue that only
continued handouts will preserve their Malay base. And Anwar
and his People’s Alliance coalition could work to stymie the
government and plunge the capital into gridlock. But if Najib
begins to institute reforms, including providing a timetable for
dismantling racial preferences, he can still lead  Malaysia  to
better days. If he doesn’t, he is almost certain to lose next
time.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 