-- Align Wins Dental Patent Ruling Against ClearCorrect
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2013-05-06T20:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/align-wins-dental-patent-ruling-against-clearcorrect.html
Align Technology Inc., (ALGN)  maker of the
Invisalign system to straighten teeth, won a ruling in its
efforts to block U.S. imports of a competing product made by
ClearCorrect Operating LLC. Shares rose the most since January.  ClearCorrect  violated Align’s patent rights, U.S.
International Trade Commission Judge Robert Rogers in Washington
said in a notice posted today on the agency’s website. The
judge’s determination is subject to review by the six-member
commission, which has the power to block imports of products
that infringe U.S. patents. A final decision in the case is
scheduled to be announced in September.  The Invisalign system accounted for about 92 percent of
Align’s $560 million in revenue last year, the San Jose,
California-based company said in its  annual report . Invisalign
uses a series of clear plastic molds to treat mild or moderate
cases of uneven teeth. Align said more than a third of the
people who seek teeth-straightening are eligible for the system.  “Most people we have talked to feel that Align has the IP
and portfolio to win the case,” Jose Haresco, an analyst with
JMP Securities in San Francisco, said in an interview before the
decision was announced. He has a “market outperform” rating on
the company’s shares.  Align rose $1.82, or 5.6 percent, to $34.42 in  New York 
trading of 2.9 million, more than three times the three-month
daily average. The stock is up 24 percent since the beginning of
the year.  Customized Straighteners  Rogers found Houston-based ClearCorrect infringed six
patents issued from 2001 to 2011 that cover the devices and
treatment plan. In its March 2012 complaint, Align said
ClearCorrect was the only U.S. company other than itself that
made the customized straighteners.  The decision is “an important step in the vindication of
our patent rights against this persistent foreign
infringement,” Align General Counsel Roger George said in a
statement. “We remain committed to protecting our intellectual
property rights. We support fair competition, but competitors
should be required to compete on the basis of their own original
technology.”  ClearCorrect argued Align’s patents are invalid. In
January, the company said Align is claiming legal protection for
“what orthodontists have been doing for decades.” ClearCorrect
told Rogers that most of its work is done in the U.S., with only
the staging of the treatment through different aligners
conducted at the company’s offices in  Pakistan , according to a
transcript of a February hearing.  Officials with ClearCorrect couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment.  Consent Order  Align had won a consent order in 2006 with another
competitor, OrthoClear, which agreed to stop selling its
product. Last year, Align said ex-employees had reformed under
the name ClearCorrect and violated that agreement. The ITC in
January found no violation of the 2006 order. Align has asked
the commission to reconsider that decision.  Even if it were to ultimately prevail, ClearCorrect doesn’t
have Align’s size or sales force, Jeremy Feffer, an analyst with
Cantor Fitzgerald who has a “hold” rating on Align, said in an
interview before the decision. Haresco estimated that
ClearCorrect could capture as much as 15 percent of the market.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Digital Models,
Digital Data and Treatment Plans for Use in Making Incremental
Dental Positioning Adjustment Appliances, the Appliances Made
Therefrom and Methods of Making the Same, 337-833, U.S.
International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net  