-- Anadarko Profit Surpasses Estimates as Output Beats Forecast
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-05-07T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/anadarko-net-income-falls-after-year-earlier-tax-settlement.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the oil
explorer that’s expanding production in  Colorado  and Texas,
reported first-quarter profit that surpassed analysts’ estimates
as the company raised the top end of its 2013 forecast.  Net income fell to $460 million, or 91 cents a share, from
$2.16 billion, or $4.28, a year earlier, The Woodlands, Texas-
based company said yesterday in a statement. The company had a
$1.8 billion tax-settlement gain a year earlier. Profit in the
recent quarter, excluding a loss on derivatives and other one-
time items, was $1.08 a share, topping the 95-cent average of 28
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue increased 13 percent to
$3.89 billion.  Sales volumes climbed 11 percent in the first quarter to
the equivalent of 71 million barrels of oil, which beat a Feb.
20 forecast of as much as 69 million barrels. Anadarko also
boosted its full-year forecast to a range of 279 million to 287
million barrels of oil equivalent, from as much as 285 million
previously.  “It’s a positive report,”  James Sullivan , a New York-
based analyst at Alembic Global Advisors who has an overweight,
or buy, rating on Anadarko shares and owns none, said by phone
yesterday. He called it an “on track” quarter as the company
moves ahead with major projects.  Rising Production  Anadarko has seen rising oil output from projects such as
the Wattenberg field in Colorado and Texas’ Eagle Ford Shale, as
well as gas output from the Marcellus Shale in  Pennsylvania .
Anadarko’s exploration includes work in the  Gulf of Mexico  and
off the coast of  Africa . It is the U.S. oil and natural gas
producer with the biggest market capitalization after
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  among companies that don’t own refineries or a
chemical unit.  The company’s output translated into record sales volumes
of 793,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the first quarter.
Anadarko’s Wattenberg field averaged more than 113,000 barrels a
day. In  Algeria , Anadarko and its partners began producing oil
from the El Merk project. Anadarko said it also has interests in
six deep-water wells currently being drilled around the world.  Brent crude futures, a global benchmark, fell 4.9 percent
from a year earlier to average $112.64 a barrel in the first
quarter. Gas futures traded in New York averaged $3.48 per
million British thermal units in the quarter, a 39 percent
increase from a year earlier.  The earnings report was issued after the close of regular
trading on U.S. markets yesterday. Anadarko climbed 1.2 percent
to $87.62 at the close yesterday in New York.  (Anadarko scheduled a conference call at 10 a.m.  New York 
time. To listen, go to  http://www.anadarko.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  