-- Angola Tax Code, EU Bank Losses, Tax Havens: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/angola-tax-code-eu-bank-losses-tax-havens-compliance.html
Angola,  Africa ’s second-biggest oil
producer, plans to simplify taxation and more than double
revenue from sources other than petroleum to curb the
government’s reliance on crude.  The target is to pass three tax codes this year that will
cut fees and modernize laws, some which date from 1948, Gilberto
Luther, director of the reform project, said in an interview on
April 29 in Luanda, the capital. The changes will increase
receipts from industries including manufacturing and retail to
about 20 percent of gross domestic product by 2017 from 8
percent in 2011, he said. In Nigeria, Africa’s largest crude
producer, non-oil tax was 6.3 percent of GDP in 2011.  Oil-industry tariffs accounted for 79 percent of tax
revenue in 2011. Plans to earn more from other areas come as
Angola rebuilds from a 27-year civil war that ended in 2002 and
as growth excluding oil reached 9.1 percent last year. The $114
billion economy is forecast to expand 7.1 percent this year from
7.4 percent in 2012, according to the government and  budget
documents .  By 2017 or soon after, a value-added tax on finished
products and services will replace a consumption tax that’s
charged on each stage of manufacturing, Luther said. The new
levy will cut the “cascading effect” of the previous tax,
which increased inflation by making prices higher than a lone
tariff on the final product, he said.  Angola has separate tax regimes for petroleum, negotiated
with companies including  Total SA (FP) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  BP Plc (BP/) 
in production-sharing agreements. Tax authorities are guiding
the reforms by looking at South Africa, Ivory Coast,  Morocco ,
Zambia and  Mozambique , Luther said. The International Monetary
Fund  forecasts  Angola’s government revenue this year at 44
percent of GDP, the second-highest in sub-Saharan Africa.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  ECB Bid for Fast Start to Bank Loss Rule Blocked by Nations  The European Central Bank and  Germany  met resistance from
national governments in their bid to bring forward the start
date of European Union rules that would force losses on failing
banks’ creditors.  France  and Spain were among a large group of EU nations to
weigh in against the proposal, which would have seen the start
date of the so-called bail-in rules shunted forward to as early
as 2015 from 2018, at a meeting of national ambassadors May 2 in
Brussels, according to an EU official.  Nations were concerned that a faster timetable wouldn’t
leave banks with enough time to prepare, said the official, who
couldn’t be named in line with EU policy. The deadline is one of
several splits between governments concerning the debt writedown
powers, with France and the U.K. seeking to hand regulators the
ability to exempt some creditors from losses, the official said.  EU leaders have set a June deadline for governments and the
 European Parliament  to agree on the law, aimed at taking
taxpayers off the hook for bank failures. In the absence of such
a system, nations have injected 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2
trillion) into their banking systems since the 2008 financial
crisis.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, proposed
last year that, while most of the provisions in the law should
take effect in 2015, the bail-in rules should be subject to a
longer timetable to avoid spooking investors.  For more, click here.  Money-Fund Rules Will Preserve Product’s Value, SEC’s White Says  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is trying to
preserve the value of money-market mutual funds to investors as
it writes a rule intended to limit risk, the agency’s chairman
said May 3.  Mary Jo White said in a speech at an  Investment Company
Institute  conference in  Washington  that the SEC is “actively
engaged” in writing the proposal, which has been anticipated by
the fund industry since a similar plan failed to advance last
year. White said the proposal, which she declined to describe in
detail, will balance the views of commissioners and fund
investors.  In her first speech as SEC chairman, White mentioned the
need to address “potential redemption pressures and the
susceptibility of these funds to runs,” while preserving the
economic benefits of the product for retail investors.  Regulators have worked to impose tighter restrictions on
the $2.56 trillion money-fund industry since the September 2008
collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund.  In her speech, White also made the case for coordinating
the SEC’s rules and enforcement programs with global financial
regulators. The SEC’s proposal to allow so-called substituted
compliance with overseas swaps rules is an example, she said.  For more, click here.  Spotlight on Offshore Tax Havens With 200-Year History of Wealth  More than 30 percent of the world’s 200 richest people, who
have a $2.9 trillion collective net worth, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , control part of their personal
fortune through an offshore holding company or other domestic
entity where the assets are held indirectly.  Supported by tax treaties and other legislation designed by
governments to entice the wealthy and multinational corporations
with low tax rates, a world of offshore finance was built during
the past 200 years offering a range of financial vehicles that
provided security, secrecy and control.  While island locations are the usual suspects in media
coverage of tax havens and offshore finance, the largest and
most powerful jurisdictions are in the U.S. and U.K., according
to Katja Gey, director of the Office for Financial Affairs in
Liechtenstein. The largest of them is Switzerland, which
established its banking secrecy laws in 1934.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Health Management Receives SEC Subpoena on Payment Records  Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA) , an operator of acute-
care hospitals, said its accounting procedures, including
payments from U.S. government health programs, are being
investigated by federal regulators.  The hospital operator received a subpoena April 25 from the
Securities and Exchange Commission for documents including
records of payments from Medicare and Medicaid, the U.S. health
programs for the elderly and poor. The government also asked for
a variety of other financial records, including data on revenue
from privately insured or uninsured patients, the Naples,
Florida-based company said in a statement.  The company said it’s cooperating with the SEC
investigation and is unable to determine the potential financial
effects.  Health Management operates 71 hospitals in 15 states.  MediaTek China Head Resigns Amid Insider Trading Investigation  MediaTek Inc. (2454) ’s China head resigned May 3 as Taiwan
authorities probed possible insider trading linked to the
company’s planned $3.8 billion merger with  MStar Semiconductor
Inc. (3697) , which would create a business producing 70 percent of the
chips used in televisions.  Lu Hsiang-cheng is being investigated for insider trading
along with four other people and posted NT$1 million ($34,000)
in bail, Taipei Deputy Chief Prosecutor Huang Mou-hsin said May
3. Lu quit for personal reasons, MediaTek Chief Financial
Officer David Ku said by phone. He declined to comment on the
former official’s “personal conduct.”  Shares of the Hsinchu-based chipmakers have surged more
than 30 percent since MediaTek announced the merger agreement
June 22, compared with a 13 percent increase in the Taiwan Stock
Exchange index. The deal would be the fifth-largest
semiconductor acquisition globally in the past decade and would
end competition between the companies as they face stagnating
global demand for televisions.  MediaTek and MStar gave documents to authorities May 2,
they said in separate stock exchange statements. The company
named Aaron Chang as its new head of China operations, it said
in a stock exchange filing May 3.  Courts  Bayer Ordered to Pay Ex-Schering Shareholders More, Lawyer Says  Bayer AG (BAYN)  must pay some former shareholders of Schering AG
more money after a Berlin court ruled that their compensation in
the $17 billion takeover wasn’t sufficient, according to the
lawyer representing shareholders.  The additional payments will cost Bayer more than 300
million euros ($391.7 million), based on 7.2 million Schering
shares outstanding, Peter Dreier, a Dusseldorf-based lawyer for
Dreier Riedel Rechtsanwaelte, said in an e-mailed statement May
3. Shareholders in the 2006 deal who got 89.36 euros a share
will get an additional 46 euros a share, including interest,
Dreier said.  Bayer fought off another German drug and chemical maker,
 Merck KGaA (MRK) , to win Schering. The deal, which formed Germany’s
biggest health-care company, was complete on Dec. 29, 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are not aware of any decision,” Guenter Forneck, a
spokesman for Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer, said May 3 by
phone. “We will evaluate the ruling upon receipt and take legal
action as necessary.”  Bayer said it believes the terms and conditions set at the
time of the takeover were adequate, Forneck said.  Dreier predicted the decision would influence a separate
case pending at the same Berlin court involving Bayer’s later
squeeze-out of remaining Schering minority shareholders.  Commerzbank Admits Defeat in $66 Million Dresdner Bonus Case  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  said it won’t appeal a U.K. court ruling
that paves the way for 104 bankers to recover 50 million euros
($66 million) in bonuses after four years of legal skirmishing.  The bank, which is 25 percent government-owned after
receiving an 18.2 billion-euro bailout in 2009, can put its
resources to better use on current and future activities,
according to Margarita Thiel, a company spokeswoman.  The German lender reduced bonuses by as much as 90 percent
after taking over Dresdner in 2009. Two U.K. courts ruled the
cuts were illegal because of a pledge by Dresdner’s then Chief
Executive Officer, Stefan Jentzsch to set aside 400 million
euros for compensation.  While European banks are facing proposals for some of the
world’s toughest pay curbs, Frankfurt-based Commerzbank has
fought legal battles in Germany,  Italy  and  Japan  to defend the
Dresdner bonus cuts. The bank maintains the reduction was
reasonable because of a 6.5 billion-euro loss at the division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  