-- Tanning Beds Should Carry Skin Cancer Warnings, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/tanning-beds-should-carry-skin-cancer-warnings-fda-says.html
Tanning beds would be required to warn
young people of the dangers of skin cancer and face tighter
oversight under a proposal from U.S. regulators.  The  Food and Drug Administration  proposed that sunlamp
products recommend against use by those younger than 18 years
old and warn frequent users to regularly screen for cancer. The
proposed order would also require sunlamp products seek FDA
clearance before sale, the agency said yesterday in a  statement .  The risk of melanoma, the deadliest type of skin cancer,
rises 75 percent in those exposed to ultraviolet radiation from
indoor tanning, the FDA said. The agency has been reviewing its
oversight of tanning beds since 2010 and still could propose
banning the products for use by young people, said  Jeffrey Shuren , director of the FDA’s Center for Devices and
Radiological Health.  “We view this as a first step,” Shuren said during a
conference call with reporters. “Nothing is off the table.”  The warnings would go on tanning beds as well as in
brochures on the machines, he said. The beds now are regulated
as low-risk devices by the agency, similar to elastic bandages.  An estimated 76,690 people will develop  melanoma  this year
in the U.S. and 9,480 will die from the disease, according to
the  National Cancer Institute . The World Health Organization’s
International Agency for Research on Cancer in 2009 added
ultraviolet radiation from tanning machines to a danger category
of carcinogens that includes radon and plutonium.  The agency said it would accept public comments on the
proposed order for 90 days. The earliest the FDA may issue a
final order is the end of this year and then there would be a
15-month implementation period, Shuren said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  