-- Anthony Says Knicks Outworked by Pacers in Game 1 Playoff Loss
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-06T04:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/anthony-says-knicks-outworked-by-pacers-in-game-1-playoff-loss.html
Carmelo Anthony  said his  New York 
Knicks team was outworked and outplayed in its 102-95 loss to
the  Indiana Pacers , Madison Square Garden’s first second-round
playoff game in 13 years.  The Eastern Conference’s best defensive team during the
regular season, the Pacers grabbed 44 rebounds to New York’s 30
and held the Knicks to 19 three-point attempts, 10 below their
regular-season average.  Indiana  led the entire second half,
becoming the first road team to win a Game 1 during this
National Basketball Association postseason.  “They flat out played harder than us,” Anthony said after
yesterday’s game. “They beat us on the glass, they beat us to
all the loose basketballs out there, the hustle plays, and they
outworked us.”  Anthony scored a team-high 27 points and added 11 rebounds
while battling foul trouble in front of a sold-out crowd of
19,033. The Knicks, who have an 0-5 record in playoff series
when losing Game 1 at home, are scheduled to host Game 2 of the
best-of-seven series tomorrow.  Pacers coach Frank Vogel said after last night’s game that
his team was able to assert its style of play, with a physical
defense, shared offense and a dominant rebounding performance.
The Pacers had six players score more than 10 points --
including all five starters -- and their 102 points were the
most the Knicks have allowed this postseason.  “That’s who we are,” Vogel said. “A strong defensive
effort and offensively guys played with great poise. A complete
team effort, I’m very proud of them.”  Pacers’ Surge  The Knicks closed a tight first quarter on a 9-0 run in
which they forced three turnovers on Indiana’s final four
possessions, opening a 27-22 lead. The Pacers took the lead with
three minutes, 55 seconds remaining in the first half, and did
not trail again.  Anthony, the NBA scoring champion, wore a sleeve over his
sore left shoulder, an injury he aggravated three nights ago
against the  Boston Celtics . He entered the game having hit one
of his previous 21 three-point attempts, and was 1-for-4 from
beyond the arc last night.  Anthony has shot 32 percent in the past four games, 13
percentage points below his regular season average. After the
game, he disagreed with the Pacers’ assessment that the visiting
team’s physicality impacted the Knicks’ offense.  “I’ve been in more physical games than this right here,”
said Anthony, who hit 10-of-28 shots. “The physicality of this
game didn’t do anything to lead to us losing.”  Knicks’ Return  The Knicks advanced to at least the second round of the NBA
playoffs 11 times in the 12 years from 1989-2000. In that
stretch they met Hall of Fame guard Reggie Miller and the Pacers
six times in the postseason -- from 1993-95 and 1998-2000 --
with each team advancing three times.  This series is a match-up between the NBA’s most prolific
three-point shooting team and this season’s best three-point
defense. The Knicks made an NBA-record 891 shots from beyond the
arc during the regular season, while the Pacers limited
opponents to a league-low 32.7 three-point percentage.  While the teams split their four regular season meetings,
Indiana was able to assert its defensive game both last night
and in the regular season. The Pacers handed New York its worst
loss of the season, a 125-91 defeat on Feb. 20, and the Knicks
averaged 91.8 points per 100 possessions against Indiana, their
lowest offensive efficiency against any team they played this
season, according to ESPN.  “We were able to defend the three-point line,”  David West , who led the Pacers with 20 points, said yesterday.
“That’s what our defense is built on, making guys take
contested two-point shots.”  Playoff Experience  The Knicks beat the Celtics four games to two in the
opening round and won Game 6 in Boston three days ago to secure
their first playoff series victory since 2000.  While New York’s second-round drought was the longest in
the Eastern Conference, the Knicks have players with postseason
experience and are the oldest team in the NBA with an average
age of more than 31. Eight members of the 15-man roster have
been to the second round with other teams, including Anthony and
 Jason Kidd , who has been to the conference semifinals seven
times and made three NBA Finals appearances.  The third-seeded Pacers beat the  Atlanta Hawks  in six
games, also clinching their series on the road three days ago.  “There’s a mindset when you win a Game 6 to put that
series to bed and just move on to the next opponent, but we
spent a lot of time looking at that game and talking about what
we did,” Vogel said of the series-clinching win in Atlanta.  Last night’s victory came after the Oklahoma City Thunder
beat the Memphis Grizzlies 93-91 at home to open their Western
Conference semifinal. Game 2 is scheduled for tomorrow, when the
Knicks, who have now sold out 111 consecutive home games, will
attempt to avoid going 2-0 down in the series.  “We still have six games left,” Knicks point guard
 Raymond Felton  said. “We can’t really dwell on it, the game is
over with now. We have to learn from it, watch some film, have a
good practice and be ready to go on Tuesday.”  -- Editors: Erik Matuszewski, Dan Baynes  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  