-- Anwar’s Malaysia Leadership Push Derailed in Rural Heartland
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-05-07T10:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/anwar-s-malaysia-leadership-quest-derailed-in-rural-heartland.html
Malaysia ’s Anwar Ibrahim struggled to
swing voters in government strongholds where his own ethnic
group is dominant, thwarting his ambition to take power from a
ruling coalition he helped lead before his ouster in 1998.  Prime Minister Najib Razak, 59, won a 133-seat
parliamentary majority on May 5, even though he received just 47
percent of the popular vote, Election Commission data showed.
Anwar’s own party and another made up mainly of ethnic Malays
did worse than in the last election in 2008, while his ally, the
mostly ethnic-Chinese  Democratic Action Party , improved, giving
the three-party opposition 89 seats.  Anwar failed to woo enough Malay voters after campaigning
to end affirmative action programs that benefited them and that
had led Chinese voters to oppose Najib’s administration. The
result shows the legacy of the 65 year-old, who has yet to
concede, may be in transforming Malaysia into a competitive
democracy, rather than in enacting policy.  “Whatever happens, Malaysia has been changed,” said  Clive
Kessler , emeritus professor at the University of New South Wales
in Sydney, who has analyzed the nation’s politics for half a
century. “All sorts of new forces have been energized, but on
the other hand the old forces of Malay ethno-centrism have been
given a new lease on life.”  Record Turnout  The election saw a record turnout of 85 percent, with
Najib’s governing Barisan Nasional coalition failing to win more
than 50 percent of the vote for the first time in 44 years.  The political future of Anwar, a former deputy prime
minister who served under former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad
in the 1990s before being fired, hinges on his ability to hold
together his ideologically disparate opposition. The group’s
biggest shared goal had been the unseating of a regime in office
since Malaysia’s 1957 independence.  Anwar disputed the election results and called for an
opposition rally tomorrow at a stadium in Selangor outside of
Kuala Lumpur. He vowed to stay in politics until the electoral
process becomes fairer.  “There is clear evidence of fraud,” Anwar said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday. “Malaysia must
mature as a vibrant democracy. We cannot continue with this
semi-authoritative government.”  Malay Competition  The Anwar-led People’s Justice Party won 30 seats, one less
than in 2008, while the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party took 21, two
short of its previous tally. Both are Malay-dominated parties
that competed with Najib’s  United Malays Nasional Organisation 
in many constituencies they contested.  In declaring victory yesterday, Najib said he came to power
largely on the back of ethnic Malay support after a “Chinese
tsunami” moved against his coalition. Ethnic Malays account for
about half of the country’s 29 million people, while Chinese
make up roughly one-quarter and the rest are mostly ethnic
Indians or indigenous groups.  “Despite the extent of the swing against us, Barisan
Nasional did not fall,” Najib told reporters.  The biggest vote swing occurred in Kedah, one of peninsular
Malaysia’s poorest northwestern states. Three in four voters
there are Malay or indigenous, collectively known as Bumiputera.
Najib’s party took 10 of 15 seats in the state, up from four in
2008.  District Breakdown  In other states where Bumiputera make up more than 70
percent of the population -- Perlis, Pahang, Terengganu,
Kelantan and Sarawak -- Najib’s coalition won 67 percent of
seats. In Selangor, Penang and Kuala Lumpur -- districts that
have the smallest proportion of Bumiputera -- Anwar’s group took
78 percent of seats.  “The only thing Anwar failed to do is to make further
inroads into the rural Malay heartland,” Mohamed Nawab Mohamed
Osman, research fellow at  Singapore ’s  S. Rajaratnam School of
International Studies , said by phone. “If it was anyone else I
would’ve said his political future is finished, but it is Anwar
Ibrahim. He already came back from the political dead.”  Anwar was seen as Mahathir’s heir apparent until the 1997
Asian financial crisis. As finance minister, Anwar gave speeches
citing Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter’s theory of creative
destruction. In the case of Southeast Asia, that meant countries
would emerge stronger from the crisis, Anwar said.  Anwar Fired  Mahathir disagreed. In 1998 he fired Anwar, pegged the
currency and imposed capital controls. Within a month, Anwar was
arrested. He spent the next six years in prison on convictions
for abuse of power and sodomy, only to be released in 2004 after
Mahathir retired and a judge overturned the guilty verdict for
having sex with a man.  Anwar, who then taught at  Georgetown University  and the
 Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies , both in
 Washington , won back his parliamentary seat in 2008 when he was
again eligible to run. He vowed to lead the opposition to power
within a month by winning over defectors from the ruling
coalition. That effort failed and he fought off a second sodomy
charge, on which he was acquitted last year.  Najib’s victory sent stocks and the currency soaring. The
ringgit yesterday had its biggest one-day jump since June 2010,
and further strengthened 0.5 percent to 2.9656 against the
dollar as of 9:27 a.m. local time, earlier reaching a 19-month
high, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Market  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI) , which had lagged behind
other Southeast Asian benchmarks this year, jumped as much as
7.8 percent to a record before finishing 3.4 percent higher
yesterday. It closed up 1.4 percent today.  Government-linked shares led yesterday’s gains, with  UEM
Land Holdings Bhd. (ULHB)  leaping as much as 17 percent and  Malaysian
Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  rising as much as 26 percent.  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , a lender headed by the prime minister’s brother,
 Nazir Razak , advanced as much as 14 percent.  Anwar, who focused his campaign on cronyism in the ruling
group, had associates split away from him in the past decade,
said Chandra Muzaffar, a former deputy president of his party.
Chandra, who supplied Anwar with books when he was imprisoned in
the 1970s as a student activist fighting rural poverty, said he
abandoned the opposition leader over his shifting views.  “He was capable of presenting himself as the most liberal
among certain audiences, while at the same time he’s quite
comfortable hobnobbing with individuals who are more inclined
toward jihadist type of politics,” said Chandra.  Even so, he praised Anwar for pushing Najib’s alliance to
loosen restrictions on the media and public gatherings.  While Anwar may not have another shot at bringing down his
former colleagues, he’s already made a “tremendous impact” on
the country, said  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economics
research at HSBC Holdings Plc.  “He can already be pretty proud,” Neumann said yesterday.
“He’s broken open the political discussion in Malaysia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  