-- Apollo First-Quarter Profit Rises 76% as Holdings Gain
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-05-06T20:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/apollo-says-first-quarter-profit-rises-76-on-performance-fees.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , reported first-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as the value of its fund
holdings climbed.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of earnings
excluding some compensation costs tied to Apollo’s 2011 initial
public offering, increased 76 percent to $741.3 million, or
$1.89 a share, from $422.3 million, or $1.10, a year earlier,
New York-based Apollo said today in a statement. Earnings beat
the $1.23 average estimate of 11  analysts  in a Bloomberg survey.  A 10 percent gain in U.S. stocks during the quarter and a
rebounding real estate market helped lift the firm’s fund
holdings, boosting fees for managing them. Among Apollo’s
biggest holdings, Charter Communications Inc. rose 37 percent in
the three months and brokerage owner  Realogy Holdings Corp. (RLGY) 
increased 16 percent. Apollo sold shares in Charter and chemical
maker  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  in follow-on deals.  Apollo had a “healthy level of capital raising, deployment
and distributions to investors,” said  Roger Freeman , an analyst
at Barclays Plc in  New York .  Apollo rallied before  falling  0.3 percent in the final
minutes of New York trading to close at $26.50. The shares have
gained 53 percent so far this year, outpacing the 21 percent
increase in the 20-member  Standard & Poor’s   index  of asset
managers and custody banks.  Net Income  The firm’s economic net income differs from U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. The net gain under those
standards, known as GAAP, rose to $249 million, or $1.59 a
share, from $98 million, or 66 cents, a year ago.  The value of Apollo’s private-equity holdings increased 14
percent in the quarter, outpacing the 7.9 percent gain at
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the largest so-called alternative-asset
manager.  KKR & Co. (KKR)  said last month its portfolio appreciated 5.9
percent in the first three months of the year, and Fortress
Investment Group LLC said last week its buyout holdings gained
5.2 percent.  “We think it’s a fabulous environment to be selling,”
Black said during a panel discussion last week at the Milken
Institute Global Conference in  Beverly Hills ,  California , adding
that Apollo has sold about $13 billion of assets in the past 15
months. “We’re selling everything that’s not nailed down in our
portfolio, and if it is nailed down, we’re refinancing it.”  Assets Rise  The value of a private-equity firm’s buyout holdings
affects economic net income, or ENI, because the metric relies
on quarterly “mark-to-market” valuations of those investments.
Accounting rules require the firms to value their portfolio
holdings each quarter.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  Assets under management at Apollo were $114.3 billion as of
March 31, a 0.8 percent increase from the end of 2012 as the
firm raised $1.2 billion and distributed $3.4 billion.  Flagship Funds  Apollo, like competitors Blackstone and KKR, has sought
investment opportunities  outside  of traditional leveraged
buyouts to attract more capital and reduce reliance on volatile
private-equity earnings. Blackstone and KKR, both based in New
York, reported first-quarter profits that beat analysts’
estimates as the value of their buyout portfolios rose.  Apollo joins KKR and  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  in raising large
buyout funds this year. Apollo is preparing to hold a first
close on more than $5 billion by the end of May for Apollo
Investment Fund VIII LP, which is seeking $12 billion, according
to two people with knowledge of the matter. KKR is targeting $8
billion for a pool focused on  North America , and Washington-
based Carlyle is planning to raise $10 billion for a U.S.
flagship fund.  Apollo’s current flagship pool, Fund VII, was generating a
28 percent net internal rate of return as of March 31, the firm
said today. That fund started in 2008 with $14.7 billion. The
$10.1 billion Fund VI, which started investing in 2006, was
producing a 10 percent return.  The firm said it will pay a  distribution  of 57 cents a
share on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  