-- Argentine Farmers May Increase Wheat Acreage on Government Plan
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-05-06T17:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/argentine-farmers-may-increase-wheat-acreage-on-government-plan.html
Argentine wheat farmers, who reduced
acreage for the past two seasons, may increase sowing areas as
the government proposes reimbursing grain export taxes, said
analysts from the three largest grain exchanges and the
spokesman for  Argentina ’s largest wheat farming group.  Argentina,  South America ’s largest wheat producer, is
poised to disclose today a proposal to reimburse as much as 23
percent export tax for the 2013-14 season, according to a grain
exporting official, who can’t be named as the plan will be
announced by President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  during a
speech scheduled to start at 7 p.m. local time tonight.
Argentine wheat exports slid to a record low after the country
halted grain exports in December to ensure domestic supply.  “A few farmers may believe in this promise and may return
to planting wheat,” Aldana Ferradas, analyst from Bahia Blanca
Grain Exchange, said in a phone interview from the city 687
kilometers (426 miles) south of Buenos Aires. “The government
announcement will arrive right on time to convince them as
planting is expected to begin late this month and in June.”  Argentina’s barley, which isn’t taxable, soared to 1.2
million hectares (3 million acres) last season from 273,000
hectares in the 2005-2006 season, according to an April 8 report
from the grains exchange in  Bahia Blanca , known as the country’s
wheat belt. Ferradas thinks a 10 percent increase in wheat
acreage may be triggered by the reimbursement plan.  Government Revenue  “The promised reimbursement may tempt a few farmers,”
Raul Maestre, a spokesman for farmers association  Aaprotrigo ,
said in a phone interview from Bolivar, Argentina, 358
kilometers southwest of Buenos Aires. “A key element will be if
the plan comes with a decree rather than just a verbal promise
as the government is expected to lose $500 million in taxes.”  Argentina’s Trade Secretary Guillermo Moreno, who created
the plan to boost wheat planting, didn’t reply to a phone call
and an e-mail seeking comment.  President Fernandez and her predecessor and late husband
 Nestor Kirchner  have been limiting exports of wheat and corn
since 2006 to avoid local food shortages, a policy that has
curbed wheat output. Argentina harvested 15.9 million tons of
wheat in the 2010-2011 season, 14.5 million in 2011-2012 and 9.4
million in 2012-2013, according to figures published on the
website of the  agricultural ministry . Argentina’s planted area
was reduced by 29 percent to 3.28 million hectares last season.  “Weather conditions to plant wheat are very good, soil
humidity is perfect,” said Tomas Parenti, an analyst for the
Rosario Grains Exchange, located in the largest grain and
oilseed Argentine port exporter. “These conditions will indeed
motivate more wheat planting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  