-- Arrowgrass Said to Snub Freeport’s Bid After Buying Plains Stake
-- B y   J o d i   X u   a n d   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-05-06T22:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/arrowgrass-said-to-snub-freeport-s-bid-after-buying-plains-stake.html
Arrowgrass Capital Partners LLP is
opposing  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s takeover of
 Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP)  after amassing a stake in
the energy company, according to a person with direct knowledge
of the matter.  Arrowgrass, which owns about 4.6 million Plains shares,
views the Freeport proposal as too low, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the process is private. Investors
are scheduled to vote on the takeover on May 20. Phoenix-based
Freeport agreed in December to acquire Plains and  McMoRan
Exploration Co. (MMR)  in a $9 billion cash and stock deal.  Arrowgrass also has met recently with other large Plains
shareholders such as  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  to press them to
oppose the deal, the person said. Franklin is the fourth-largest
shareholder of Plains, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
with about 6.2 million shares, or a 4.8 percent stake, as of
March.  A representative for Arrowgrass declined to comment. A
message left for a representative of Franklin didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Eric Kinneberg , a spokesman
for Freeport, didn’t immediately respond to phone calls or an e-
mail seeking comment on Arrowgrass’s position and whether
Freeport expects the deal to be approved by Plains shareholders.
Hance Myers and Scott Winters, spokesmen for Houston-based
Plains, didn’t immediately respond to phone messages and e-mails
seeking comment.  Growing Resistance  Arrowgrass, based in London, joins fellow Plains
shareholder CR Intrinsic Investors LLC in rejecting the deal. CR
Intrinsic said it owns 3.8 percent of the common stock including
shares underlying call options, according to a letter to the
Plains board dated today.  The mounting investor push-back is threatening the deal,
said  Mark Hanson , an analyst at Morningstar Inc. in Chicago.
CR’s rejection of the deal is symbolically powerful because the
firm is not a traditional activist, he said. Plains executives
also own less than 5 percent of the company.  “I could see this certainly being a rallying cry” for
other investors, he said. “You’ve got two weeks, which is
forever in an investment horizon.”  If shareholders reject the deal, private equity could make
a play for Plains, he said.  “It is a mature, cash-flowing asset,” he said. “Private
equity has certainly taken out bigger firms than this.”  Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by billionaire  John Paulson , is Plains’s biggest holder, with about a 10 percent
stake, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A spokesman for Paulson
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jodi Xu in  New York  at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  