-- Lauryn Hill Gets Three Months for Not Filing U.S. Taxes
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-05-06T23:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/lauryn-hill-gets-three-month-sentence-for-failing-to-file-taxes.html
Lauryn N. Hill, the Grammy-winning
singer, was sentenced to three months in prison followed by
three months of home confinement for not filing U.S. tax
returns.  Hill’s sentence came today in federal court in  Newark , New
Jersey, where she pleaded guilty June 29 to three misdemeanor
counts, admitting she didn’t file returns for 2005, 2006 and
2007. Hill, 37, was also fined $60,000.  “She is talented, she is inspirational, and up until this
case, she was a role model to many,” U.S. Magistrate Judge
Madeline C. Arleo said. “Whatever the reason for not doing so,
it does not explain, justify or excuse the failure to file tax
returns. She was clearly aware of her tax obligations.”  Arleo rejected Assistant U.S. Attorney Sandra Moser’s call
for a term of three years in prison for failing to pay federal
and state taxes of $1.01 million on income of $2.3 million. The
judge should send a strong message that Hill “doesn’t deserve a
get-out-of-jail free card,” and the system can’t allow “the
rich to buy their way out of prison sentences,” Moser said.  The judge had postponed the sentencing at a hearing on
April 22 after expressing her displeasure with Hill’s failure to
keep her promise to make a criminal restitution payment of
$504,000. At today’s hearing, Hill attorney  Nathan Hochman  said
she paid more than $900,000, covering restitution and back
taxes.  Hochman urged Arleo to sentence her to probation, citing
her charitable works and family circumstances of raising six
children between the ages of 20 months and 15 years old. The
judge said those factors weren’t “extraordinary” under
advisory guidelines calling for a sentence of 30 to 36 months.  Home Confinement  Still, the judge elected to give her only three months,
followed by a year of probation that will include three months
of home confinement with electronic monitoring.  Hill won two Grammy awards in 1996 as a member of the
Fugees. “The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill,” which sold 19
million copies, won five Grammys in 1999, including album of the
year, best new artist, best rhythm and blues album, best R&B
song, and best female R&B vocal performance. Hochman said she
released a new single over the weekend, her first in 15 years.  Hill spoke to the judge for 13 minutes, speaking of her own
“sacrifice and contributions,” and her “energy and courage.”  “I’m a voice for people who don’t necessarily have a
voice,” Hill said. “For that reason, I’ve been met with
resistance.”  After signing a record deal as a teenager, she was
“ushered into a system that I didn’t really understand,” she
said. “It’s violence. It’s a need to squeeze every dime out of
a talent such as myself.”  ‘Cash Cow’  In the years she didn’t file tax returns, she had to
“separate myself completely” and “take stock of my life, heal
my life,” she said. “I was being conceived as a cash cow, not
a person.”  “I extend myself,” she said. “Music is not something I
do from 9 to 5. It’s a state of being. Like a doctor who
delivers babies, I’m on call all the time.”  She said she “didn’t make music for celebrity status. I
made music for artistic and existential catharsis. I carried an
enormous burden. When it became overwhelming, I had to look
away. When people seek to capitalize on a persona, they forget
there’s a person there.”  She said she sold “50 million units” in her career.  ‘Likened to Slavery’  “I sit here trying to figure out how to pay taxes,” she
said. “If that’s not likened to slavery, I don’t know how.”  She lived a life of sacrifice, she said.  “I am a child of former slaves who had a system imposed on
them,” she said. “I got to an economic paradigm and had them
imposed on me.”  Hill said “it wasn’t a matter of if I was going to pay
taxes, it was a matter of when.”  Outside the courthouse, Hochman said he won’t appeal.  “The judge imposed a fair and reasonable sentence,”
Hochman said. “Miss Hill is looking forward to getting on with
her life and putting this matter behind her.”  Hill lives in South Orange,  New Jersey .  The case is U.S. v. Hill, 12-mj-06081, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 