-- Australian Bank Regulator Keeps Tighter Timetable for Liquidity
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-06T03:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/australian-bank-regulator-keeps-tighter-timetable-for-liquidity.html
Australia ’s banking watchdog will
stick with its timetable to implement new liquidity rules and
won’t widen the range of permissible assets, declining to follow
global peers who have softened their stance.  The  Australian Prudential Regulation Authority  will impose
the so-called liquidity coverage ratio starting Jan. 1, 2015,
the regulator said today after concluding a review. The list of
high-quality liquid assets that banks can hold to meet the
requirements remains unchanged, APRA said.  The stance contrasts with global central bank chiefs, who
in January agreed to loosen the rules after warnings that the
proposal would strangle lending and stifle the economic
recovery. Australian banks didn’t require bailouts during the
global financial crisis, which drove financial institutions to
raise $1.6 trillion of capital and spurred the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  to revamp global rules.  The nation’s lenders are “well-placed to meet the new
liquidity requirements on the original timetable and doing so
will send a strong message about the soundness of the Australian
banking system,” APRA Chairman John Laker said in an e-mailed
statement.  The rule requires banks to hold easy-to-sell assets to
survive a 30-day credit squeeze. Under the deal struck in
January, global banks will only have to meet 60 percent of the
LCR obligations by 2015, with the full rule phased in through
2019. Those lenders may also use assets including some equities
and securitized mortgage debt to meet the requirements.  While banks in most countries will meet the LCR
predominantly through holding  government bonds , Australia’s
A$271 billion ($279 billion) sovereign  debt market  isn’t big
enough to meet the requirements. The central bank is providing a
standby funding facility to help lenders meet the gap.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  