-- Australian Retail Sales Decline as Job Outlook Weakens: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-05-06T05:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/australia-retail-sales-fall-in-march-as-households-turn-cautious.html
Australian retail sales unexpectedly
fell in March and job advertisements dropped for a second month,
sending the currency lower as traders see a 50-50 chance the
central bank will resume cutting  interest rates  tomorrow.  Sales declined 0.4 percent to A$21.9 billion ($22.5
billion) from a month earlier, when they rose 1.3 percent, the
Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. That was the first
drop of the year and compared with economists’ estimates for a
0.1 percent gain. An  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
report showed help-wanted notices fell 1.3 percent in April.  “The retail data and the decline in job ads should be
consistent with an interest rate cut from the  Reserve Bank 
tomorrow,” said  Joshua Williamson , a senior economist at
Citigroup Inc. in Sydney who predicted the 0.4 percent drop and
expects the central bank to lower borrowing costs.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , whose  Labor Party  is 10
percentage points behind the opposition in public polls ahead of
a Sept. 14 election, faces an economy weighed by sustained
currency strength. Weakness in  China’s economy , as shown by a
services index today, is damping commodity prices and curbing
returns from Gillard’s new tax on mining profits.  The local dollar traded at $1.0283 at 3:23 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0297 before the release. Traders are pricing in a 53
percent chance the  Reserve Bank of Australia  will reduce the
benchmark rate to a record-low 2.75 percent tomorrow, according
to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stimulate Industries  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board cut rates six times
from November 2011 to December 2012 to buttress the economy. The
rate is at 3 percent, matching a half-century low, as policy
makers aim to stimulate industries outside of mining, while the
sustained strength of the currency is a drag on growth.  Today’s report showed spending on clothing, footwear and
personal accessories fell 4.2 percent, and consumers spent 1.5
percent less on household goods. Food retailing rose 0.8
percent, it showed.  Retail sales, adjusted to remove inflation, jumped 2.2
percent in the three months through March from the previous
quarter. Economists had forecast a 1.7 percent increase.  “While retail volumes surged in the March quarter, today’s
data highlights that the sustained high dollar and competitive
pressures are weighing on prices across the economy,” a
spokeswoman for Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an e-mailed
statement. “There’s no doubt that the persistently high dollar
continues to have an acute and widespread impact on prices and
profitability across the board, which has been one of the key
drivers behind the recent hit to government revenues.”  Rate Cuts  The central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total of 50
basis points late in 2011 and a further 125 basis points in May,
June, October and December last year to help stimulate the
economy. It has held borrowing this year, saying there’s
evidence rate reductions are beginning to take effect.  Gillard’s ruling Labor party faces a A$12 billion slump in
tax receipts that forced the government in December to abandon a
commitment to return  Australia ’s budget to surplus.  Her 30 percent tax on  iron ore  and coal profits will reap
A$800 million in revenue for the year to June 30, down from an
October estimate of A$2 billion, according to a Parliamentary
Budget Office document released by the Greens party today. In
the following four fiscal years, the tax will raise A$3.5
billion less than earlier forecast, it said.  Treasury is working on the assumption of 2.75 percent
economic growth for 2012-13 and 2013-14, the Australian
Financial Review reported today, without citing anyone. That
compares with a forecast in October of 3 percent for both years.
Treasury declined to immediately comment on the report.  One of Eight  Australia, one of only eight nations with stable top-level
grades from ratings companies  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s
Investors Service, and  Fitch Ratings , would see its stable AAA
grade threatened if the government is forced to weaken its
commitment to returning a balanced budget, according to S&P.  Today’s retail report showed sales in  Western Australia , a
hub of the mining investment boom, rose 0.2 percent in March
after gaining 1.7 percent in February. In Queensland, a second
resource state, retail sales slumped 0.8 percent, it showed.  China’s  services activity  slowed in April, according to a
report compiled by Markit. The HSBC China Services PMI fell to
51.1 last month, compared with 54.3 in March. An index above 50
indicates an overall increase in services activity.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s economy grew at the slowest pace in
more than two years last quarter as weaker exports and
 government spending  countered gains in consumption and
investment. Euro-zone retail sales for March and PMI services
for April will also be released.  Australia’s currency, which didn’t rise above 85 U.S. cents
between 1990 and 2006, hasn’t dropped below that level in almost
three years.  A TD Securities Inc. inflation gauge for April released
today showed a 0.3 percent increase from a month earlier and 2.1
percent from a year earlier. The central bank targets inflation
of between 2 percent and 3 percent on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  