-- Bailed Carrier Gets Fuel Discount in State Aid: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-06T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/bailed-carrier-gets-fuel-discount-in-state-aid-corporate-india.html
Air  India  Ltd., which has received
about $1.7 billion in the past four years in government
bailouts, is now finding support from state-owned fuel suppliers
in its fight for market share.  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s biggest refiner, has agreed
to sell jet fuel to Air India at an 8 percent discount, said an
aviation ministry official familiar with the matter. The company
is offering the rebate to the state-controlled carrier after
discussions initiated by the ministry, an official at the
refiner said separately, with both of them asking not to be
identified citing rules.  The government discounts may help Air India undercut
competitors struggling with fuel prices that are as much as 60
percent higher than in  Singapore . The country's aviation
industry has reported $6.6 billion of losses in the past five
years, and increased benefits for the state carrier may deter
foreign airlines from investing, said P. Phani Sekhar, a Mumbai-
based trader at Angel Broking Ltd.  “You’ve just caught the tail of the elephant,” Sekhar
said. “The larger issue is the bailout of Air India. The
government does its best to ensure that this industry doesn’t
function in a competitive manner.”  Fuel Rebate  Air India has won a discount of 5,300 rupees ($98) per
kiloliter of jet fuel from Indian Oil, the aviation ministry
official said. Hindustan Petroleum Corp. and Bharat Petroleum
Corp., both state-owned, are offering a rebate of 5,500 rupees a
kiloliter, according to the official.  The fuel rates are applicable retrospectively from Jan. 1,
Civil Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said in an interview in New
Delhi on April 29, without elaborating.  Indian Oil’s commercial deals “are always specific to a
customer” and the refiner doesn’t comment or share details of
agreements they sign with buyers, Executive Director N. Srikumar
said in a text statement. Spokesmen for Hindustan Petroleum and
Bharat Petroleum didn’t reply to e-mails seeking comments on the
discount.  Air India, which has lost at least 281 billion rupees since
April 1, 2007, has been getting state support. The government
last year pledged 300 billion rupees worth of bailout for the
state-owned carrier through 2020, besides backing its loans with
sovereign guarantee. Still, the former monopoly’s  market share 
has slipped to the fourth among India’s five airlines this year,
according to data from the aviation regulator.  Cut-Rate Fares  Air India is selling a New Delhi-Mumbai ticket for as low
as 3,981 rupees for July 8, according to its website. That’s
lower than the 4,115 rupees  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  charges on the sector
the same day.  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s biggest
listed carrier, offers tickets for 4,584 rupees.  IndiGo, the nation’s biggest discount carrier, offers
tickets for 4,116 rupees. Airlines need to charge fares of at
least $112 on that route to break-even, according to a Boeing
Co. estimate in February.  The government-controlled airline has “a level of
influence that I’m never going to have,” Neil Mills, chief
executive officer of SpiceJet, said in an interview on April 23.
The Chennai-based carrier will negotiate with refiners for
discounts, he said.  Fuel costs accounted for 60 percent of total expenses for
SpiceJet in the year ended March 31, 2012, according to its
annual report, compared with 34 percent for Air India in the
previous year, according to the latest available data.  Share Performance  Air India owed 43.2 billion rupees to fuel suppliers as of
Feb. 28, Panabaka Lakshmi, junior minister for petroleum and
natural gas, said in parliament on March 22. Air India will
clear dues to refiners of about 30 billion rupees soon, Aviation
Minister Singh said Apr. 29.  SpiceJet  shares  rose 2 percent to 41.30 rupees in  Mumbai 
yesterday, paring this year’s loss to 6 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Jet Airways climbed 0.9 percent to
612 rupees, extending this year’s advance to 9.4 percent,
compared with a 1.3 percent gain in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex
index.  Sakshi Batra, spokeswoman for IndiGo, declined to comment,
while Ragini Chopra, spokeswoman at Jet Airways, didn’t
immediately respond to two calls to her mobile phone and an e-
mail seeking comments on fuel discounts.  Etihad, AirAsia  Fuel costs and cut-rate fares have pushed Indian carriers
into losses even after passenger traffic more than doubled in
the past seven years. India’s airlines have lost more than 360
billion rupees since the year ended March 2007, according to
government data.  Kingfisher Airlines (KAIR)  ended operations in October after years
of losses and mounting debt. Jet Airways hasn’t made an annual
consolidated profit in five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Mumbai-based company last month agreed to sell a
24 percent stake to Etihad Airways PJSC as it seeks funds to
pare debt. That is the only deal signed by a foreign carrier
since India changed rules in September to allow a maximum of 49
percent investment by an overseas airline.  Malaysia’s  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  won approval in March from the
nation’s Foreign Investment Promotion Board to hold a 49 percent
stake in a new airline venture with Tata Sons Ltd. The company
aims to start its Indian operations in September.  “Asking refiners to extend discount to Air India actually
explains why despite opening 49 percent FDI in aviation, not
many are interested in coming,” said  Angel Broking ’s Sekhar.  Making Difference  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government last year
allowed airlines to directly import the fuel to help them save
on local taxes that are as high as 30 percent. Still, airlines
including SpiceJet have been holding back on plans to import jet
fuel because of lack of storage facilities. Prior to the rule
change in February 2012, only state trading agencies were
permitted to import the fuel.  The price of jet fuel has risen 132 percent in the past
four years in India. Indian Oil sells jet fuel for 64,625 rupees
a kiloliter in Mumbai as of May 1, according to the company’s
website.  “Any easing of pressure on fuel cost makes a lot of
difference to operational economics,” said Harsh Vardhan,
chairman of New Delhi-based  Starair Consulting  that advises
airlines. “For operators who are paying a higher price for the
fuel, it certainly puts additional pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  