-- Fourteen Dead in Bangladesh as Police Clash With Protesters
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-05-06T09:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/bangladesh-police-use-plastic-bullets-to-end-blasphemy-protests.html
Clashes between Bangladeshi police and
members of an Islamic group demanding the introduction of
blasphemy laws left 14 people dead and 250 wounded in Dhaka and
surrounding districts.  Police in combat gear patrolled the capital while armored
vehicles were stationed in the main business district, footage
from local television stations showed. Streets were littered
with burned tires and broken bricks.  The clashes, the latest between conservative Islamic groups
and security forces in  Bangladesh  this year, prompted police to
ban rallies in the capital. They come as the country seeks to
recover from its worst industrial disaster, the April 24
collapse of an eight-story building that killed 640 garment
workers.  “Enough is enough, the government will not tolerate this
mayhem,” Syed Ashraful Islam, a cabinet minister, said in
televised comments yesterday. “The government will deal with
any further violence aggressively.”  Hefajat-e-Islam, a radical group based in the southern
seaport city of Chittagong, rallied as many as 200,000
supporters in Dhaka yesterday.  Hefajat’s protest is backed by
the Jamaat-e-Islami, whose leaders are on trial for alleged war
crimes committed during the country’s independence struggle in
1971.  Ten of those killed in the clashes, including three
security officers, died in Narayanganj, 15 kilometers (nine
miles) from Dhaka, police inspector Mozammel Hoque said by
phone.  Current Violence  The war crimes hearings sparked the current violence. As
the first verdicts were delivered this year, online activists
and youth groups, gathering in the capital’s Shahbag square and
through postings on Facebook and other social media, called for
those found guilty to be sentenced to death.  Jamaat and Hefajat took to the streets demanding new
blasphemy laws to punish bloggers they accused of maligning
Islam and the  Prophet Muhammad . Hefajat is seeking the release
of Islamic scholars and madrassah students detained by police
since deadly protests erupted over the tribunal’s rulings.  The protests began with with Hefajat activists blocking
main roads in and out of Dhaka. As the protests turned violent,
gunfire broke out. Police used plastic bullets and tear gas to
break up the demonstrations.  Dhaka Metropolitan Police banned all rallies and
processions in the capital, according to a statement. Both
ruling and opposition parties called off events scheduled for
this afternoon.  ‘Evil Force’  “It’s an evil force in society that attacked the police,”
Hassan Mahmood Khandker, inspector general of police, told
reporters in Dhaka today. “We must bring them to justice.”  The government of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed has
rejected the groups’ demands and their accusations that the  war
crimes  hearings are politically motivated.  The European Union is considering trade sanctions after the
building collapse, which drew attention to the unsafe conditions
of garment workers in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  