-- Barclays Says GCC Refinancing Spurs Mideast Syndicated Loans
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-05-07T13:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/barclays-says-gulf-debt-maturities-spur-mideast-syndicated-loans.html
Middle East syndicated lending is
rebounding from a three-year low as companies seek to lock in
cheaper funding costs to repay debt maturing this year and in
2014, according to the regional head of  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Regional loans surged nearly 50 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier to $15.2 billion, led by borrowings
from the United Arab Emirates, John Vitalo, chief executive
officer for the Middle East and North  Africa , said in a May 2
interview. Full-year syndicated loans should be “meaningfully”
higher than 2012 as companies refinance debt, he said.  “Market conditions now are conducive to borrowing,
reducing loan margins leading to an overall reduced cost to the
borrower,” Vitalo said at the Barclays office at the Dubai
International Financial Centre. “There’s also a hunt for yield
by the international banks given their demand-starved markets”
and interest from regional companies to borrow, he said.  Some $30 billion of Middle East loans need to be refinanced
between now and the end of the year, according to estimates of
Barclays, which ranks as the 14th biggest arranger of MENA
syndicated loans this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Abu Dhabi government-run Mubadala Development Co.
raised $2 billion in March from a three-year revolving credit
facility to replace an older loan due in May, the data show.  Lower Rates  Interest rates have declined as competition intensifies
among banks and lenders look to park extra cash in loans as Gulf
Arab governments plough billions of dollars into infrastructure
and industry. Mubadala is paying 45 basis points above the
London Interbank Offered Rate on its loan, down from 75 basis
points on the same credit facility three years ago.  “Clients are doing some forward thinking to take out these
maturities while the conditions are good,” Vitalo said. Current
“client dialogue would indicate that this trend will
continue.”  Investment Corporation of Dubai plans to lower its spread
to 215 basis points on the $2 billion five-year syndicated loan
it’s raising to repay an older loan due in August, a banker
familiar with the matter said in March. The Dubai government
paid a 325 basis-point spread on a six-year securitization deal
backed by road toll receipts in 2011, according to a banker.  MENA syndicated lending is recovering from a drop of 4
percent last year to $42 billion, the lowest in three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. So far in 2013,  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s biggest bank, and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,
the U.K. bank which earns most of its profit from Asia, are the
top-ranked Middle East loan arrangers, the data show.  M&A Activity  Middle East mergers and acquisitions business is also
“bouncing back” after the fee pool from advising on regional
deals dropped 80 percent between 2007 and 2011, Vitalo said.
Barclays has advised on six consolidation deals valued at $12.6
billion this year, making it the top-ranked M&A bank in the
Middle East and Africa, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a multi-year road before we get back to the 2007
kind of levels,” he said.  The lender is helping  Egypt ’s Orascom Construction
Industries transfer its shares to Amsterdam, as well as advising
on “around half a dozen” transactions involving regional
sovereign wealth funds and state-owned enterprises, Vitalo said.  Gulf Cooperation Council banks, including Qatar National
Bank SAQ and Emirates NBD PJSC, have also acquired lenders in
Egypt since December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  