-- Benghazi Military Aid Spurned in Attack, Diplomat Says
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-05-07T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/benghazi-military-aid-spurned-in-attack-diplomat-says.html
A U.S. diplomat in  Libya  told
congressional investigators he sought in vain for fighter jets
to fly over Benghazi to scare off terrorist attackers who killed
the ambassador and three other Americans last year.  Gregory Hicks, the second-ranking U.S. diplomat in the
country, also told House investigators that four U.S. special
forces troops were ordered not to board a Libyan military
transport plane that flew to Benghazi in the hours after the
attack on Sept. 11, 2012, according to an excerpt of Hicks
comments and a congressional committee aide who spoke on
condition of anonymity in advance of a hearing on the issue.  Hicks said he repeatedly asked about a flyover of U.S.
fighter jets and was told Benghazi is “too far away” and
“there are no tankers” to provide refueling. That’s in keeping
with congressional testimony in February by then-Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta , who said the inability to send aid
“was, pure and simple, a problem of distance and time.”  Excerpts from the staff interview with Hicks were released
yesterday by the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee. Hicks is among witnesses scheduled to testify before
the panel tomorrow.  The panel’s chairman, Republican Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , has said President  Barack Obama ’s
administration “has offered the American people only a
carefully selected and sanitized version of events from before,
during and after the Benghazi terrorist attacks.”  ‘Leaked Snippets’  The release of the excerpts drew an objection from the
panel’s top Democrat, Representative  Elijah Cummings  of
 Maryland , who said in a statement that  House Republicans  “have
leaked snippets of interview transcripts to national media
outlets in a selective and distorted manner to drum up publicity
for their hearing.”  Virginia Democratic Representative Gerald Connolly, another
committee member, said Hicks was being called to testify as part
of “another Republican witch-hunt.”  “Is it going to prove that there were failures that a
tragedy occurred? Yes,” Connolly said in an interview. “If he
wants to assert it could have been prevented, it’s going to be a
very uphill climb to prove that.”  Hicks said in an excerpt that he thought “a fast mover
flying over Benghazi at some point” as “soon as possible might
very well have prevented some of the bad things that happened
that night.”  The panel is investigating whether the Obama administration
adequately protected the mission. Ambassador Christopher Stevens
and the three other Americans died in the attack blamed on
militants, including some with links to al-Qaeda.  Libyan Offer  Hours after the initial assault that killed Stevens and one
of the other Americans, Hicks said, the Libyan military offered
to transport the special forces unit from an air base near
Tripoli to Benghazi aboard a C-130 transport. They were ordered
not to board the plane by U.S. commanders, he said.  “We fully intended for those guys to go, because we had
already essentially stripped ourselves of our security presence,
or our security capability to the bare minimum,” Hicks said.  Hicks told committee investigators he was informed by the
unit’s commander that “they were on their way to the vehicles
to go to the airport to get on the C-130 when he got a phone
call from” commanders and was told “‘you can’t go now, you
don’t have authority to go now.’ And so they missed the
flight.”  As events unfolded, the C-130 didn’t arrive until after a
second attack on a CIA annex in Benghazi that killed the other
two Americans.  ‘Spared No Expense’  According to a Pentagon timeline released in November, less
than three hours after the initial attack on the mission Panetta
authorized the deployment of Marine Corps anti-terrorism teams
to Benghazi and Tripoli from Rota,  Spain , as well preparation of
a Europe-based special operations team. He also ordered a U.S.-
based special operations force to prepare to deploy to a staging
base in southern  Europe .  Armed drones, “AC-130 gunships, or fixed-wing fighters
with the associated tanking, armaments, targeting and support
capabilities were not in the vicinity of Libya and, because of
the distance, would have taken at least 9 to 12 hours if not
more to deploy,” Panetta said in Feb. 7 testimony before the
Senate Armed Services Committee.  “The  Department of Defense  and the rest of the United
States government spared no expense to save American lives,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  