-- Best Buy, Bridgestone, Time Warner: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-06T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/best-buy-bridgestone-time-warner-intellectual-property.html
Retailers including  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  and
 JC Penney Co. (JCP)  lost a bid in court to invalidate patents owned by
a  Texas  licensing company over prepaid electronic gift cards.  A federal jury in Marshall, Texas, on May 3 upheld two
patents owned by closely held Alexsam Inc. The other defendants
in the case were  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , Gap Inc.,  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD) , Toys R Us Inc. and Home Depot Inc. Later trials will be
held to determine whether the patents were infringed by the
companies.  Patents 6,000,608, issued in 1999, and 6,189,787, issued in
2001, cover systems to activate and recharge stored-value cards,
such as gift and phone cards. The trial focused only on the
validity of the patents, with the retailers arguing that they
didn’t cover a new idea and that Alexsam isn’t entitled to
enforce the patents because of misstatements during the
application process.  Alexsam first sued the companies in 2010, and the retailers
joined forces to invalidate the patents. Separate trials will be
held on infringement because each company has made slightly
different arguments to back up their claims that they don’t use
Alexsam’s inventions.  The licensing company has had mixed success in its other
litigation over the same patents. It’s challenging a jury
verdict of non-infringement won by  Pier 1 Imports Inc. (PIR)   IDT Corp. (IDT) 
is appealing a $10.1 million judgment lodged against it.
Arguments in the IDT appeal were heard in March in Washington.  The case is Alexsam Inc. v. Best Buy Stores LP, 13cv2, U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  Bridgestone Sues Schrader Over Tire-Pressure Monitor Patents  A unit of  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the biggest tire maker, sued
Schrader-Bridgeport International Inc., claiming it’s violating
patents for electronically monitoring tires.  Schrader, which makes systems that monitor tire pressure,
violated three Bridgestone patents, according to the complaint
filed by Bridgestone Americas Tire Operations LLC May 2 in
federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The “infringement has caused irreparable injury to
Bridgestone and will continue to cause irreparable injury,”
according to the filing.  Schrader, which does business as Schrader International,
bills itself as “the leading global manufacturer” of tire-
pressure monitoring systems. The closely held company is based
in Englewood, Colorado. Bridgestone, which has about 143,000
employees, is based in  Tokyo .  The case is Bridgestone Americas Tire Operations LLC v.
Schrader-Bridgeport International Inc., 13-cv-00763, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Tata Defeats Swiss Watch Company’s Indian ‘Jaguar’ Trademark  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  has persuaded India IP authorities to
overturn the award of the “Jaguar” trademark to a Swiss watch
manufacturer, the Indian Express  reported .  The  Intellectual Property  Appeal Board said Des Montes
Jaguar had incorrectly been granted the right to the mark, and
that the previous decision was full of infirmities and bias,
according to Indian Express.  Counsel for Tata had argued that the watch manufacturer was
using the Jaguar name to trade on the reputation of the luxury
car, Indian express reported.  The watch manufacturer said it has been making and selling
watched under the “Jaguar” name since 1945, and argued that
both companies have had co-existing marks in more than 20
countries, according to the publication.  U.K. Bookseller Seeks Cancellation of ‘Keep Calm’ Trademark  A bookseller from the north of England is seeking to
overturn the trademark registration for a World War II phrase
from U.K. government propaganda, the  Los Angeles  Times  reported .  The bookseller unearthed a World War II poster bearing the
“Keep calm and carry on” slogan and began selling copies from
the bookshop, the newspaper reported.  A former U.K. television producer then registered the
phrase as a trademark in all 27 countries in the European Union,
according to the newspaper.  The bookseller, which has now sold as many as 200,000
reproductions of the original poster, wants to keep the phrase
from being in private ownership, according to the Times.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Time Warner Unit Accused of Infringing ‘Keyboard Cat’ Copyright  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Brothers Entertainment unit was
sued for copyright infringement by the owner of the piano-
playing “Keyboard Cat,” whose  video  on Google Inc.’s You Tube
video-sharing site has received more than 30 million hits.  Charles L. Schmidt filed suit in federal court in Los
Angeles claiming a Warner Brothers video game makes unauthorized
use of both the “Keyboard Cat” video and an animated video --
“Nyan Cat” without authorization.  Schmidt claims the “Scribblenauts” games infringe his
copyrights and trademarks related to the two videos and the
performing cat. The public is likely to assume, falsely, that he
has authorized the use of his rights, or that some relationship
exists between himself and Warner Brothers, according to court
papers.  He asked the court to bar further infringement, for money
damages and awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.
Alleging that the infringement is deliberate, Schmidt asked that
the damages award be tripled and that extra damages be added to
punish Warner Brothers for its actions.  Warner Brothers declined to comment on the case, spokesman
 Paul McGuire  said in an e-mail May 3.  The case is Charles I. Schmidt v. Warner Brothers
Entertainment Inc., 2:13-cv-02824-JFW-MRW, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  Harper Lee Sues Literary Agent Over ‘Mockingbird’ Royalties  Harper Lee, the 87-year-old author of “To Kill a
Mockingbird,” sued her literary agent, claiming he took
advantage of her age and infirmity to deprive her of royalties
from the novel.  Lee, of Monroeville, Alabama, sued Samuel Pinkus, the
agent, and others seeking to ensure her ownership of the
copyright to the 1960 novel and to compel forfeiture of the
agent’s commissions, according to a complaint filed May 3 in
federal court in New York.  Lee, who has failing eyesight and hearing, was residing in
an assisted-living facility in 2007 after suffering a stroke
when she signed a document assigning her copyright to Pinkus’s
company, according to the complaint. While the copyright was
re-assigned to Lee last year after legal action and Pinkus was
discharged as Lee’s agent, he was still receiving royalties from
the novel as of this year, according to the complaint.  “Pinkus knew that Harper Lee was an elderly woman with
physical infirmities that made it difficult for her to read and
see,” Gloria Phares, Lee’s lawyer, said in the complaint.
“Harper Lee had no idea she had assigned her copyright” to
Pinkus’s company.  “To Kill a Mockingbird,” a story of racial injustice in
the American South, won a Pulitzer Prize for fiction and was
made into a film starring Gregory Peck, who won an Oscar for
playing the lawyer Atticus Finch. It is Lee’s only published
novel. The book has sold more than 30 million copies worldwide.  There was no immediate reply to a message left May 3 on the
voice mail of Leigh Ann Winick of Hastings-on-Hudson, New York,
a defendant in the suit and the wife of Pinkus, according to the
complaint. She is listed as the president of Keystone Literary
LLC, a defendant.  The case is Lee v. Pinkus, 13-3000, U.S. District Court,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Findlay Market Rents Remain a Trade Secret, Ohio Court Rules  Ohio’s Supreme Court has affirmed a lower-court ruling that
the amount of rent paid by vendors at Cincinnati’s  Findlay
Market  is a trade secret, Cincinnati.com  reports .  Kevin Luken, the brother of vendor Mike Luken of  Luken’s
Poultry, Fish & Seafood  in the 158-year-old market, had
unsuccessfully sought the rent information through a public
records request, Cincinnati.com reported.  The rental amounts in the contracts were blacked out upon
the city’s request, according to the website.  The market, in Cincinnati’s Over-the-Rhine neighborhood,
has been in continuous operation since 1955, Cincinnati.com
reported.  IP Moves  DLA Piper Expands Patent Practice With Two From Kirkland Firm  DLA Piper LLC hired two patent specialists from Chicago’s
Kirkland & Ellis LLP, according to a DLA Piper  statement . Both
firms are Chicago-based.  The new hires are Paul Steadman and Matthew Satchwell.  Steadman , a litigator, has represented clients in federal
court and state court and before the U.S. International Trade
Commission, a Washington-based body with the power to exclude
imports that infringe U.S. Patents.  His clients’ technologies have included consumer
electronics, high-tech glass, medical products and auto-parts
manufacturing.  Before he practiced law, he served as a judicial clerk to
Judge Patrick Higginbotham of the U.D. Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit.  He has an undergraduate degree in material science
engineering and economics from  Rice University  and a law degree
from the  University of Chicago .  Satchwell  does both patent-acquisition and patent
litigation. His clients’ disputes have involved software,
semiconductor, mobile communications devices, automotive
devices, power electronics, medical device and communications
technologies.  He has appeared in both federal district court and before
the ITC.  Satchwell has an undergraduate degree in physics and
history from Washington University in  St. Louis  and a law degree
from the  University of Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 