-- MBIA Settles 5-Year Mortgage Fight With Bank of America
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-05-06T21:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/mbia-bofa-accord-said-to-end-all-claims-in-mortgage-fight.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and  Bank of America Corp. 
settled a five-year legal battle over soured mortgage debt in a
deal that will pay MBIA the equivalent of $1.7 billion and give
the bank a 5 percent stake in the bond insurer. MBIA shares
surged to the highest since September 2008.  The bond insurer will drop demands that Bank of America’s
Countrywide unit buy back faulty home loans that MBIA
guaranteed, while the bank ends a challenge to a 2009
restructuring of the insurer that was intended to jumpstart its
business of backing municipal bonds, the two companies said
today in separate statements. Bank of America also will provide
the  MBIA unit  that guaranteed the lender’s mortgage debt a $500
million credit line, the firms said.  “This comprehensive and important settlement is a very
positive step forward for both Bank of America and MBIA,”
 Benjamin Lawsky , New York’s superintendent of financial
services, said in a statement. “It resolves significant
exposure and expensive litigation for Bank of America, while
also giving MBIA a path forward.”  The bond insurer had said in February that there was
“substantial doubt” about the ability of its MBIA Insurance
Corp. unit that backed some of Wall Street’s most toxic mortgage
debt to continue as a going concern unless it reached a deal
with the bank. In addition to the soured home-loan securities
the MBIA unit backed, it also guaranteed contracts protecting
BofA and its subsidiaries from losses on commercial-mortgage
debt.  Countrywide Fallout  For Bank of America, the lawsuits were part of the fallout
from its 2008 takeover of Countrywide Financial Corp., whose lax
standards and subprime loans were blamed by lawmakers and
regulators for helping to fuel the housing bubble. Bond insurers
including MBIA have argued they should be reimbursed for claims
they paid on securitized pools of home equity lines of credit
because of Countrywide’s flawed underwriting.  MBIA rose  45 percent  to $14.29 at 4 p.m. in New York and
earlier climbed to as high as $15.45, the biggest intraday jump
on record. Bank of America’s stock climbed 5.2 percent to
$12.88, the highest level since April 2011. The shares had
advanced 5.4 percent this year through the end of last week.  Earnings Charges  Bank of America will revise its first-quarter earnings to
book $1.6 billion in additional pretax charges, of which $1.3
billion stems from the settlement, the firm said today in its
statement. That will slash the period’s net income to $1.5
billion, or 10 cents a share, from the $2.6 billion, or 20
cents, reported last month.  The bank will pay $1.6 billion in cash to MBIA and remit
$137 million of the insurer’s bonds that it bought in December
during a tender offer. The lender bought the debt during an
attempt at blocking bondholder consents to amendments that would
have shielded MBIA from being dragged into bankruptcy by its
cash-strapped insurance unit. Bank of America had filed a
default notice on those bonds, a claim that was dropped as part
of the settlement announced today, MBIA said in its statement.  MBIA first sued Countrywide in 2008 in New York state
Supreme Court in Manhattan for fraud and breach of contract
related to the securitized home loans.  Assured, Syncora  Bank of America has committed more than $40 billion to
settle claims tied to faulty mortgages and foreclosures, with
most tied to loans made by Countrywide.  The bank has already reached settlements with Assured
Guaranty Ltd. and Syncora Holdings Ltd. The deal with Assured
was valued in 2011 at $1.6 billion, and the Syncora agreement
announced last year cost Bank of America about $400 million.  Bank of America, along with Societe Generale SA, had sued
MBIA over its 2009 restructuring, which they say harmed them as
policyholders. In 2009, then-New York Insurance Department
Superintendent  Eric Dinallo  approved the split, allowing MBIA to
move guarantees on state and municipal bonds out of its MBIA
Insurance Corp. unit, which backed some of Wall Street’s most
toxic mortgage debt.  The cost to protect against a default by MBIA Inc. for five
years in the credit-default swaps market plunged the most ever.  The contracts fell 512 basis points to a mid-price of 387.5
basis points as of 4:30 p.m. in New York, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw Hill Financial and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Contracts tied to the MBIA Insurance unit dropped 29.8
percentage points to 9.5 percent upfront, the data show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline as
investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 602825-2008, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at +1-212-617-6186 or
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 