-- Biggest Exodus Since Whitney Ignores May Win Streak: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/biggest-exodus-since-whitney-ignores-may-win-streak-muni-credit.html
Individual investors fleeing the
$3.7 trillion U.S. municipal-bond market at the fastest rate
since 2011 are doing so at their own peril. Local debt has
logged gains for five straight years in the month of May.  Muni mutual funds have lost assets for nine consecutive
weeks, as individuals pulled out $2.5 billion, Lipper US Fund
Flows data show. That’s the longest stretch since mid-2011, when
investors withdrew $26 billion over 24 straight weeks following
a December 2010 projection by banking analyst Meredith Whitney
that local-government defaults would tally “hundreds of
billions of dollars” within a year.  Local debt is still set to gain in May for the sixth
straight year, according to Thomas McLoughlin at UBS  Wealth
Management  and Justin Hoogendoorn at BMO Capital Markets.
Investors will get back 21 percent more cash this month from
maturing debt than in April, according to Citigroup Inc. At the
same time, issuance is poised to drop to the least in a month.  “We have crossover buyers, modest supply and reinvestment
cash,” said Hoogendoorn, a managing director at BMO in  Chicago .
“We could get much better performance in the muni market, in
spite of the fact that it’s already done pretty well.”  May Returns  The municipal market has gained 1.1 percent on average in
May since 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. Yields
on benchmark 10-year munis have already dropped for seven
consecutive weeks, the longest span since 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  With  interest rates  near  generational lows , about 60
percent of debt sales this year have refinanced higher-cost
securities, Bank of America data show. That’s close to the 62
percent pace in 2012, which was the fastest in two decades.  The refunding trend has created an environment where sales
of new state and city debt trail the amount of money investors
receive from bond calls and coupon and principal payments.  Investors will get about $9.1 billion back from maturing
securities this month, up from $7.5 billion in April, Citigroup
data show. In June, the cash wave will grow to $17 billion, the
most this year. Including refunding, bond calls and redemptions
will exceed supply by $8.4 billion through the next three
months, the data show.  Led by  Illinois ’s $300 million offer of sales-tax bonds,
states and cities are scheduled to sell about $4.4 billion of
long-term debt this week, the least since March, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Cash Collection  “We’re still in this tremendous bond-call experience
throughout the marketplace, and that just adds to cash on
hand,” said  John Miller , co-head of fixed income in Chicago at
Nuveen Asset Management, which oversees about $95 billion in
munis.  Localities have sold about $113 billion this year through
April 26, up from $108 billion in the same period of 2012,
Bloomberg data show. They’ve scheduled $8.4 billion of debt
sales over the next 30 days, the smallest wave since April 1,
 data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  “New-issue volume is moderate and manageable,” which
along with maturities and refunding calls creates a favorable
environment for munis, Alan Schankel, head of fixed-income
research in Philadelphia at Janney Montgomery Scott, wrote in a
report last week.  UBS Wealth analysts led by McLoughlin, the firm’s New York-based head of muni research, said in a report last month that
they “suspect a summer rally in munis may recur in 2013.”  Market Hinge  The gains may hinge on demand from individuals, who own
about 70 percent of U.S. local debt.  The 2010 comments by Whitney, chief executive officer of
 Meredith Whitney  Advisory Group in New York, prompted the worst
January losses since 1990 as investors yanked money from muni
funds. Her forecast never materialized, with just $6.5 billion
in muni defaults in 2011, data from Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors show. Last year’s total fell to $1.8
billion, the lowest since at least 2009.  In a Bloomberg TV interview last week, Whitney warned of a
“negative feedback loop from hell,” in which financially
strained states such as  California  that try to raise taxes to
balance budgets lose companies and individuals to other regions.  “People are paying more via taxes and getting less, so
people are voting with their feet,” she said, citing companies
relocating to  Texas  from California. “It’s a very difficult
cycle to break.”  ‘Armageddon’ Risk  Whitney isn’t alone in focusing on threats to the local-debt market.  Dan Gallagher, commissioner of the U.S. Securities &
Exchange Commission, said at a roundtable in  Washington  last
month that municipal bondholders may face financial
“Armageddon” partly because of rising interest rates.  Ten-year Treasury  yields (BVMB10Y)  will climb about 0.5 percentage
point to 2.25 percent by year-end, according to the median
forecast of 67 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The securities
fell in price May 3, with yields touching a three-week high,
after a report showed U.S. employers added more jobs in April
than forecast.  At  1.73 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are
below those on comparable-maturity federal debt for just the
second time since March 12. The  yield ratio  of the two
securities, a gauge of relative value, is about 99 percent, down
from as high as 113 percent last month.  Muni yields eclipsing those on Treasuries spurred demand
for tax-exempt bonds from buyers who typically focus on other
fixed-income assets, such as mortgages, BMO’s Hoogendoorn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  