-- BofA, Wells Fargo Violated Foreclosure Standards, NY Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-05-06T22:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/bofa-wells-fargo-violated-foreclosure-standards-ny-says.html
Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  violated terms of a nationwide settlement reached last
year over banks’ residential mortgage foreclosure practices, New
York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said.  The two banks have failed to comply with standards
established for processing homeowners’ loan modification
applications, Schneiderman said today in a statement. He said he
plans to sue the banks unless a committee set up to monitor the
settlement’s terms takes action.  “Wells Fargo and Bank of America have flagrantly violated
their obligations under the settlement,” Schneiderman said
today at a news conference.  Schneiderman said delays by the banks in processing
mortgage loan modifications have caused  New Yorkers  to incur
fees and fall further behind in payments, putting them at even
greater risk of losing their homes.  Bank of America said in a statement that “through March
we have provided relief for more than 10,000  New York 
homeowners through the national mortgage settlement, totaling
more than $1 billion.” The bank said it will work quickly to
address the customer complaints Schneiderman identified.  ‘Constructive Dialogue’  “It is unfortunate that the New York attorney general has
chosen this route rather than engage in a constructive dialogue
through the established dispute resolution process,” San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo said in a statement. The bank said
it has helped more than 70,000 homeowners throughout the U.S.
under the settlement.  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , and
Wells Fargo were among five lenders that entered into the
settlement with 49 states and the U.S. government. The  deal  sets
standards for servicing  mortgage loans  and provides homeowners
with relief including loan modifications. It followed a probe by
state attorneys general into claims of abusive foreclosure
practices after the housing bubble collapsed.  The accord has resulted in $1.8 billion in mortgage relief
for New York homeowners, Schneiderman said. Citing 339
documented violations related to the timeline for processing
mortgage modifications, Schneiderman said he notified the
settlement’s monitor,  Joseph Smith , and the monitoring committee
of his intention to bring a claim.  Committee’s Option  The committee may pursue its own action against the banks
for the alleged violations, according to the statement.  “Like General Schneiderman, I continue to believe there
are areas in which the banks must improve their treatment of
their customers,” Smith said today in a statement.  A report on the banks’ compliance with the settlement will
be issued next month, he said.  Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial
Inc. were also part of the national settlement.  At Schneiderman’s news conference, Joyce Harden of Far
Rockaway, New York, said her family spent almost four years
trying to apply for a loan modification from Wells Fargo after
her husband lost his job because of an injury. She said they
submitted documents to the bank “over and over.”  “We know that with every month we are getting deeper and
deeper into a hole,” Harden said.  Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who helped lead
negotiations with the banks on the settlement, said his office
has received complaints from homeowners that the mortgage
servicers are “still falling short in some areas.” He said he
would review the information submitted by Schneiderman.  “We all share the same goals of ensuring that the
servicers comply with terms of the settlement,” Miller said in
a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  