-- Boston Bombing Suspect’s Body Rejected by Cemeteries
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2013-05-07T17:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/boston-bombing-suspect-s-body-rejected-by-cemeteries.html
Suspected  Boston  Marathon bomber
Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s body, rejected by cemeteries, may wind up in
his native  Russia  even if relatives can’t pay for shipping.  William Breault, a retired maintenance worker in Worcester,
 Massachusetts , said yesterday he opened a bank account with $500
as a fund to pay for sending the body away. Tsarnaev’s corpse
arrived last week at a funeral parlor near Breault’s home.  “I haven’t slept well since then,” Breault said.  Peter Stefan, the owner of the Graham Putnam & Mahoney
funeral home, which has the body, said he hasn’t been able to
find a nearby cemetery willing to inter Tsarnaev.  “Why should we accept him here?” said Breault.  The April 15 bombing killed three and injured more than
260, the highest-profile terrorist attack on U.S. soil since
Sept. 11, 2001. Prosecutors have said Tsarnaev and his younger
brother, ethnic Chechens who came to the U.S. as refugees a
decade ago, perpetrated the attack.  Breault, 67, said he asked U.S. Representative James P. McGovern, a Democrat whose district includes Worcester, to
appeal to Secretary of State  John Kerry  to arrange shipping the
body to Dagestan, the republic in southern Russia where
Tsarnaev’s parents live.  Family Matter  “We’re unaware of any efforts to coordinate sending his
remains to Russia,” Patrick Ventrell, a State Department
spokesman, said yesterday in a news briefing. “These things are
usually settled by the family.”  Ventrell didn’t respond to a later request for comment on
whether Kerry is trying to help with the disposition of the body
or the fund Breault set up.  The slain suspect’s mother, Zubeidat Tsarnaev, told Stefan
on May 5 that she wants the body sent to Russia, according to
the Boston Globe. The newspaper said Stefan tried to contact
State Department and Russian officials about shipping the corpse
there, without reaching anyone in authority.  Stefan’s business has been the scene of protests since
taking Tsarnaev’s remains. Breault, who lives a 20-minute walk
away, said about 100 people were there yesterday.  Protests Erupt  “They’re yelling and waving flags and shouting U-S-A, U-S-A,” Breault said.  Sergeant Kerry Hazelhurst, a spokesman for the Worcester
Police Department, said Chief Gary J. Gemme met with Stefan
today and spoke at length.  “They are confident there will be a conclusion to settle
this matter in the next few days,” Hazelhurst said in a
briefing outside the funeral home.  Across the street, protesters hung American flags from a
mesh fence and left signs reading “Honk for send him back to
Russia” and “You burn us, we will burn you. Burn in hell.”  U.S. Representative Ed Markey, a Democrat running for
Kerry’s vacated U.S. Senate seat in a June 25 special election,
and Republican challenger Gabriel Gomez, a political newcomer,
both said Tsarnaev shouldn’t be buried in the state.  Gomez, a former Navy SEAL, said the suspect’s body should
be dealt with in the same manner as Osama bin Laden’s. The
instigator of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the U.S. was buried
at sea after he was killed in a May 2011 special forces raid in
 Pakistan .  Homemade Explosives  Tsarnaev, 26, died early April 19 after a shootout with
police in Watertown, just west of Boston. He was shot in the
gunfight before being run over by a vehicle driven by his
younger brother and accused bombing accomplice, Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev, 19, according to police and medical reports.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was captured that day and is being held
in a U.S. prison hospital outside Boston, where he is recovering
from gunshot wounds. He has been charged with using and
conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction and may face the
death penalty if convicted.  The brothers detonated homemade explosives -- pressure
cookers packed with black powder, nails, bolts and BBs -- near
the finish line of the Boston Marathon, prosecutors have said.
Many of those who lived through the attack lost limbs.  A May 30 concert to benefit victims at Boston’s TD Garden
arena sold out within minutes yesterday, according to Tricia
McCorkle, spokeswoman for the venue. The show will feature
performances by Aerosmith,  Jimmy Buffett  and New Kids on the
Block. Proceeds will go to the  One Fund Boston Inc. , which has
raised more than $29 million to be given to victims.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  