-- BOX Exchange Gets SEC OK to Trade Jumbo S&P 500 ETF Options
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-05-06T20:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/box-exchange-gets-sec-ok-to-trade-jumbo-s-p-500-etf-options.html
BOX Options Exchange, the third-
smallest of 11 U.S. options venues, will be the first to begin
trading larger-size contracts on the most-active U.S. equity
derivatives product, according to a company executive.  BOX will list and trade contracts based on 1,000 shares of
the SPDR  S&P 500  ETF Trust starting May 10, according to Ed Boyle, senior vice president for strategy at the Boston-based
exchange. The so-called jumbo options,  approved  May 3 by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, will be 10 times larger than
existing contracts on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index exchange-
traded fund, known by the ticker symbol SPY.  The contract is designed to give institutional investors
another way to trade the S&P 500 at a time when many asset
managers are increasing their use of ETFs as part of their
investment strategies. Institutions often use larger-size
contracts like S&P 500 options that enable them to buy or sell
bigger positions without signaling their intentions and moving
the market.  “We see customer demand for the product because it offers
flexibility to institutions and traders looking for larger
notional size in trades,” Boyle said by phone. “It also
provides additional price competition across indexes and ETFs.”  The contracts, which will be a separate product from the
regular-size options based on 100 shares of the S&P 500 ETF,
also offer an alternative to indexes such as the S&P 500, which
trades exclusively on the  Chicago Board Options Exchange , Boyle
said.  ETF Popularity  Some 18 percent of institutional investors in the U.S. now
have ETFs among their holdings, up from 14 percent in 2012,
according to a report today from research firm Greenwich
Associates.  BOX’s pricing, which will be announced in the middle of
this week, will not be the standard taker/maker structure the
venue uses for many options, Boyle said. The taker/maker regime
pays firms to trade with bids and offers on the exchange and
charges those providing quotes.  If daily average volume exceeds 20,000 contracts by the end
of the year, BOX will consider the jumbo SPY options a success,
Boyle said. The exchange may ask the SEC for permission to
introduce jumbo options on other actively traded ETFs including
those based on the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  and Nasdaq-100
Index, he said.  Other options exchanges are likely to list and trade jumbo
 SPY (SPY)  options, Boyle said. BOX, owned by the operator of the
Toronto stock market and a group of brokers, asked permission to
trade the product in January. The SEC approval came over
objections by  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc.  BOX had 2.2 percent of U.S. volume in April, according to
 data  compiled by Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 