-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall as Slower Output Growth Seen; Real Drops
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-05-06T21:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/brazil-swap-rates-fall-as-slower-output-growth-seen-real-drops.html
Brazil ’s swap rates dropped as
analysts lowered their forecast for industrial output growth,
spurring speculation that a lackluster economy will limit
increases in borrowing costs.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 declined
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.24 percent.
The real fell less than 0.1 percent to 2.0096 per dollar, the
weakest closing level since April 24.  The median forecast of about 100 analysts in a central bank
survey published today for growth in industrial output by the
end of 2013 fell for a third straight week, dropping to 2.39
percent from 2.83 percent.  “The growth that we were expecting for industrial
production looks like it’s not coming,” Flavio Serrano, senior
economist at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento SA in Sao
Paulo, said in a telephone interview.  The national statistics agency reported last week that
 industrial production  expanded 0.7 percent in March, missing the
1.3 percent median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Output contracted 3.3 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
drop since December 2012.  Brazil’s central bank board voted 6 to 2 on April 17 to
raise the target lending rate by 25 basis points to 7.50 percent
from a record low 7.25 percent, saying in its statement
accompanying the decision that “external uncertainties”
required “monetary policy be managed with caution.”  The real weakened against the dollar after a drop in U.S.
unemployment last week buoyed growth prospects and prompted
wagers that policy makers will be able to curtail stimulus
measures.  Trade Deficit  The real’s decline accelerated on speculation that a
widening trade deficit will dim prospects for inflows into the
country, Serrano said. Brazil reported on May 2 a trade deficit
of $994 million in April, compared with the $950 million
forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “From the point of view of fundamentals for the Brazilian
currency, the environment is no longer so positive,” Serrano
said. “The current account deficit has increased and direct
investments are falling.”  The central bank has swung between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly to contain
inflation and offering reverse currency swaps to protect
exporters by reining in gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  