-- Brazilian Government Considers Ban on Soccer Transfer Investors
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-05-06T17:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/brazilian-government-considers-ban-on-soccer-transfer-investors.html
The Brazilian government is planning
to propose banning soccer teams from selling player-transfer
rights to investors, a key source of revenue for many of the
country’s cash-strapped clubs.  The plan is part of a wider bill that will be sent to
Congress to improve the financial state of Brazilian soccer, the
sports ministry said in an e-mailed statement. Clubs have unpaid
tax debts of about 4 billion reais ($2 billion), according to
Vicente Candido, a member of the ruling Workers’ Party on the
lower house sports Committee.  A group of 21 Brazilian teams have joined to fight any ban
on so-called third-party ownership plans which allow investors
to loan clubs money in return for a stake in the future transfer
rights of players. Soccer’s global governing body, FIFA, said it
is discussing rules to stop the growth of the practice around
the world. The European soccer federation,  UEFA , has said it
will wait to see what  FIFA  decides, and if that body fails to
introduce a ban, the European group will do so.  Europe  is
soccer’s biggest market and accounts for the majority of trades
in the sport’s annual $2.5 billion transfer market.  “The ban -- as proposed by UEFA -- could impact the
finances of the Brazilian and South American clubs negatively,
as well as the flow of the international transfers of players
between South America and Europe,” a public letter sent by the
21 Brazilian teams to FIFA on April 24 states.  “The Brazilian and South American clubs cannot remain
silent in relation to this adverse scenario, otherwise they will
once again be affected by a unilateral and sudden change of
rules,” according to the letter.  Traffic Report  About 90 percent of players in the country’s top league
“are somehow linked to investors,” according Jochen Loesch,
president of international business at Sao Paulo-based Traffic
Sports.  Traffic has invested more than $75 million in the rights of
about 60 players since it was founded in 2007.  Soccer is split over whether action should be taken against
player investment, which has mushroomed since emerging in South
America in the 1990s. Although banned in France and  England , the
practice is now common in Europe as clubs look for alternative
sources of income. Investment funds say they are stepping in
place of banks, and their arrangements should be seen as loans.  “The club in  Brazil  doesn’t have 100 percent of any
player,” according to Amir Somoggi, a management consultant to
many of Brazil’s top teams.  “It’s impossible to put a good
team to play without investors. They always use money they don’t
have.”  Most Popular  The new board at Brazil’s most-popular team, Flamengo,
revealed this year that the team had debt of 750 million reais,
most owed in federal taxes linked to player salaries.  The team’s president, Eduardo Carvalho Bandeira de Mello,
said he opposed the proposed legislation.  “I don’t think it’s a case of changing the law,” de Mello
said in an interview.  “It’s a case of managing your club
better and to use this kind of partner in a way that’s good for
both parties. But many times the club is in such a weak position
that they don’t make good deals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 