-- Buying Insurance Should Be as Easy as Using an IPad
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-05-06T22:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/buying-insurance-should-be-as-easy-as-using-an-ipad.html
As a central part of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, Americans will soon be able to obtain
insurance through federal exchanges. But how, exactly, will
people apply for coverage?  In March, a  draft  of the Obama administration’s application
form was released online. Unfortunately, the form was complex,
long and immensely difficult to navigate. Skeptics asked a
reasonable question: How can the law possibly work, if people
can’t understand the forms they need to fill out to get
insurance in the first place?  Last week, the  Department of Health  and Human Services
 released  a radically revised application form, and there’s
excellent news. It’s much simpler. For single people, it
consists of just five pages -- and only two of those pages have
a lot of questions on them. The form shouldn’t take much more
than five minutes to fill out. An online option should be faster
still.  For people with families, the form is a bit longer (11
pages), yet the questions are straightforward, simple and
jargon-free. Remarkably, the new federal applications compare
favorably with those used by the private sector, which has a
strong economic incentive to make it easy for people to enroll.  Although the tale of the streamlined health-insurance
application form has a happy ending, it also offers three
general lessons. In the future, regulators need to take account
of them.  Three Lessons  The first lesson is that complex forms and requirements can
seriously undermine federal and state programs. Consider the
Free Application for Federal Student Aid, completed by 14
million households every year. The Fafsa, as it is called,
 includes  more than 100 questions. It is almost as long as the
 Internal Revenue Service ’s Form 1040. Evidence demonstrates that
the student-aid form has had a substantial, negative effect on
college attendance, merely because it is so difficult to
complete.  In fact, a simplified process for receiving federal aid has
been shown to produce a large increase in college attendance --
comparable to the increase that would be produced by giving
applicants several thousand additional dollars in aid.
Fortunately, the federal government has taken steps to fix the
problem. Recent efforts to reduce the complexity of the Fafsa
are having a major impact.  Application forms may seem like a trivial matter, but
complexity can make it less likely that small businesses will be
able to get loans, that developers will be able to obtain
permits, that poor children will qualify for free meals, and
that citizens will understand (and comply with) the law.  Complexity can also impose significant costs -- as
reflected in the stunning fact that Americans spend more than 9
billion hours on federal paperwork requirements every year.  The second lesson is that federal forms should be carefully
 tested  in advance, to ensure that people can understand them and
to ferret out undue complexity.  Have you ever visited a new town and asked a local how to
get to the nearest gas station? You might well receive
incomprehensible instructions, ending with a terrifying phrase:
“You can’t miss it!” Regulators can be a lot like that.  In such cases, the local usually isn’t being cruel or
mischievous. The problem is that he knows his own town. What he
doesn’t realize is that outsiders don’t.  Those who produce federal forms tend to be specialists, and
they have no trouble understanding what they produce. All too
often, they fail to gauge whether ordinary people will also be
able to understand them. The results can include unnecessary
complexity, confusion and frustration. In testing the forms,
there is no substitute for asking people to fill them out and
learning whether the paperwork is simple and navigable.  Experience Matters  The third lesson is that with respect to the  health-care
law , what matters is people’s actual experience, not the length
and detail of underlying law. Many critics of the law note that
it is 905 pages, full of detail and jargon. Isn’t that a
horrible problem?  Not necessarily. Consider modern smartphones and tablets.
The underlying technology is far from simple. On the contrary,
it is so complex that it could have been barely imagined as
recently as a decade ago. A lot of pages went into its creation.
For consumers, however, the underlying  complexity  doesn’t much
matter, because the user’s experience is easy and intuitive.
Even small children can use iPads.  True, Obama’s health-care law isn’t exactly an iPad, but it
can be carried out in a way that minimizes confusion and
complexity. Its central goals will be achieved only if it
succeeds in doing so. There is a very long way to go. Last
week’s announcement was a big step in the right direction.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University Professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 