-- California Grid Operator Says Extreme Summer to Cut Reserves
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-05-06T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/california-grid-operator-says-extreme-summer-to-cut-reserves-1-.html
Power reserve margins in  Southern
California  may narrow to 6.2 percent this summer under
“extreme” conditions, above the 3 percent cushion at which
outages may occur, the state’s  grid operator  said.  The region’s operating reserve margins may shrink to less
than a third of normal during severe heat and other extreme
conditions, the California Independent System Operator Corp.
 said in a report  on its website today. Margins in Northern
California may narrow to 7.1 percent from 21 percent during such
circumstances, the ISO said.  California is facing its second summer without  Edison
International (EIX) ’s 2,200-megawatt San Onofre nuclear power plant,
shut since January 2012 because of damaged steam generators. The
grid will also be running without generation from two natural
gas-fired units in  Huntington Beach  and on below-normal
hydroelectric output. Power use typically peaks in summer when
temperatures rise, increasing demand for air conditioning.  “Reliability concerns in specific areas of Southern
California are expected to be marginally more challenging,” the
ISO said in the report. “If critical high-voltage transmission
lines are out of service, due to wildfires or other conditions,
deficient voltage levels may occur under peak load conditions
that could trigger localized customer outages.”  Highest Level  Southern California electricity for July through September
is at the highest level for the season since 2008 on the outlook
for a shift to costlier, more volatile fossil fuels.  Snowpack levels measured May 2 were 83 percent below
average statewide and 91 percent below normal in Southern
California, according to the ISO.  Electricity demand is expected to peak at 47,413 megawatts
this summer, 2.3 percent higher than last year’s top level. The
all-time high was 50,270 megawatts in 2006.  The ISO expects 51,068 megawatts of power plant capacity to
be available on the grid this summer. The operator calculated
its reserve margins for “extreme” conditions assuming low
power imports from outside the state and a higher probability of
unplanned generation outages and more-than-expected demand.  The ISO and utilities in Southern California have been
working on transmission projects to shore up grid reliability in
the  San Diego  and south Orange County areas before summer.  Reconfiguration Planned  Edison will install devices at three substations near the
San Onofre plant and reconfigure a set of lines from two
circuits to four for grid support by June, the report shows.  Condensers being installed at  AES Corp. (AES) ’s mothballed
Huntington Beach Units 3 and 4 will offer voltage support in the
area of San Onofre, the report said. That project is expected to
be completed by June 26, the ISO said. Air permits for the
Huntington Beach units were transferred to another plant in
October, cutting the system’s net generating capacity during the
2013 summer peak by about 450 megawatts.  California  will also have 3,393 megawatts of new generation
by this summer compared with last. The 500.5-megawatt Walnut
Creek power plant began operations on March 21, according to the
ISO’s assessment.  Edison may decide this year to shut one or both units at
the San Onofre plant permanently if the utility isn’t able to
resume operations at Unit 2, the company said in a filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission April 30. Edison, based
in Rosemead, California, doesn’t expect the  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission  to issue a decision by June 1 on restarting Unit 2,
as it requested, the filing showed.  Edison has asked the NRC for permission to restart Unit 2
at reduced capacity to avoid shaking damaged pipes. The other
unit at the site, Unit 3, would require more extensive repairs.  Costs for repairs and inspections at San Onofre, 60 miles
(97 kilometers) south of  Los Angeles , have climbed to $109
million while the price for replacement power since the shutdown
through March 31 reached $444 million, Edison said in an
investor slide presentation last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  