-- Canadian Dollar Gains Versus Most Peers as Building Permits Rise
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-06T21:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/canadian-dollar-fluctuates-as-building-permits-forecast-to-rise.html
The Canadian dollar strengthened
against almost all of its most-traded counterparts after a
government report showed March building permits increased more
than forecast.  The currency rose against peers from commodity exporting
nations such as  Australia  and  New Zealand  as the value of
 permits  issued by municipalities climbed 8.6 percent to C$6.45
billion ($6.40 billion), following a revised 1.5 percent
increase in February,  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa. The
increase outstripped all 12 responses in a Bloomberg economist
survey with a median estimate of a 1.3 percent rise. Canada
posted its first international merchandise trade surplus in a
year in March, and February gross domestic product growth was
0.3 percent compared to a media forecast of 0.2 percent.  “Some of the data is coming out a little bit better than
expected,” Matthew Perrier, director of foreign exchange at
Bank of Montreal, said by phone from Toronto. “ Canada ’s doing a
little bit better -- when it weakened off in the middle part of
last month, it didn’t weaken off quite as far as it did in
March. The weakness is a little shallower with each move so that
seems to be trending in Canada’s favor.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar in known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.1 percent to
C$1.0068 per U.S. dollar at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie
buys 99.33 U.S. cents. The Canadian dollar has risen the last
two months.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s 10-year government bonds fell, with yields rising
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.80 percent.
The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 declined 28 cents
to C$97.27.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, gained 0.2
percent to $95.79 per barrel. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
U.S. stocks added 0.2 percent.  The cost to insure against losses in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart reached their highest point in more
than a week. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal
rate touched 1.1275 percent, its highest point since April 25.
Risk reversals measure the premium on options contracts to sell
Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the
opposite.  The increase in building permits was led by a 19 percent
gain in non-residential construction while residential permits
gained 1.7 percent, with a 4.7 percent drop in single family
housing permits, Statistics Canada said. Finance minister  Jim
Flaherty  tightened mortgage rules last summer to deflate a
potential housing bubble.  ‘Soft Numbers’  “We saw increased building permits in March, but we still
have weakness on the housing side,” said  Dean Popplewell , head
analyst at the online currency trading firm Oanda Corp., by
phone from Toronto. “These soft numbers are not really too much
of a surprise given the change in the mortgage rules and
obviously economic moderation that we’re seeing globally and
obviously slowing  home prices  as well. Put that all together and
there’s nothing to get too excited about.”  The loonie is approaching a technical measure that suggests
it will soon fall in value. The 14-day relative strength index
against the  U.S. dollar  was 63.7 percent, at almost the 70
percent level that signals it will drop.  Canada’s Ivey purchasing managers’ index was 52.2 in April
on a seasonally adjusted basis, following a March reading of
61.6, according to a statement on the website of Western
University’s business school.  Readings of more than 50 indicate purchasing by governments
and companies advanced.  The U.S.  jobless rate  reached 7.5 percent in April, its
lowest point in four years, Labor Department figures showed last
week.  The loonie has gained 1.4 percent in the last month against
nine developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has fallen 1.4
percent while the greenback has gained 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  