-- Casino Gambling Surges Most Since Crisis to Approach Peak
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-05-06T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/casino-gambling-surges-most-since-crisis-to-approach-peak.html
Casino revenue in the U.S. climbed 4.8
percent in 2012, the industry’s biggest annual advance since the
Great Recession hit four years earlier.  Consumer spending on casino gambling reached $37.3 billion
last year, just below the $37.5 billion record haul in 2007,
according to a report released today by the American Gaming
Association, an industry trade group.  The group credits an improving U.S. economy and higher
consumer spending for growth that was strongest in areas with
new casinos, such as Maryland and  Kansas . Some mature markets
struggled, including New Jersey, which shrank 8 percent and lost
its No. 2 ranking to neighboring  Pennsylvania .  “After three years of increasing growth and positive signs
in all sectors of the industry, it’s clear that we have
weathered the recession,” said Frank Fahrenkopf Jr., chief
executive officer of the American Gaming Association, in a
statement.  Fifteen of 22 states with commercial casinos saw increases,
according to the report. New Jersey, squeezed by competition
from its neighbors and  Hurricane Sandy , led declines while
Pennsylvania climbed 4.6 percent to $3.16 billion.  Nevada, the biggest gambling market, registered a 1.5
percent increase in gambling revenue to $10.9 billion.  Casino operators expanded in the mid-2000s as industry
revenue soared, rising 6.4 percent in 2007. Many large operators
were left with too much capacity and burdened with debt when the
industry contracted 8.6 percent over the next two years.  Overbuilding Scare  Large players including  MGM Resorts International (MGM) ,  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , issued stock,
restructured debt or both to weather the industry’s worst
downturn on record.  MGM, the biggest player on the Las Vegas Strip, reported a
surprise profit last week in part due to stronger domestic
leisure travel to  Nevada .  “We’ve been climbing back,” MGM CEO Jim Murren said in a
telephone interview. “You have to put it in context. We’re so
far away from where we were pre-recession.”  The figures released today exclude Indian casinos, a $27.4
billion business in 2011, the most recent year for which data is
available, according to Casino City’s Indian Gaming Industry
Report.  Commercial gambling revenue in Kansas soared sevenfold to
$341.2 million in 2012, while in Maryland it more than doubled
to $377.8 million.  Maryland Live! Casino , among the largest in
the country, opened in the Baltimore suburban of Hanover last
year. New York saw a 43 percent increase to $1.8 billion thanks
to new slot parlors at  New York  City racetracks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  