-- Censorship Feeds Criticism of Chinese Poisoning Case
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-05-06T22:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/censorship-feeds-criticism-of-chinese-poisoning-case.html

(Corrects description of Sun Wei’s grandfather in third
paragraph.)  Why did  China ’s leading social-media
platform recently ban users from performing searches for a woman
poisoned in 1995? Attempts to answer that question -- and to
censor the answers -- have sparked some of the most politically
potent online commentary on Chinese leadership, privilege and
corruption in recent memory.  The details of the almost two-decade-old case are sordid
and murky. In 1995, Zhu Ling was a promising undergraduate at
Beijing’s elite  Tsinghua University  when she came down with a
mysterious illness that was thought to be poisoning via
thallium, a toxic element once used as  rat poison . This finding
 soon led  to a suspect: Sun Wei, a roommate of Zhu’s who happened
to be one of the few undergraduates at Tsinghua to have access
to thallium in a laboratory.  Most important for the politically minded Chinese netizen,
Sun Wei was the granddaughter of a high-ranking official who was
thought to be close to then-President  Jiang Zemin . In 1997, Sun
 was detained  by police for questioning for eight hours but not
arrested. Soon after, the case was closed, and Sun reportedly
fled to the U.S., where it’s rumored she’s married with kids
(enterprising microbloggers have tried to keep tabs).  Meanwhile, Zhu, permanently disabled, lives with two
elderly parents ill-suited to care for someone that  Hong Kong ’s
 South China Morning Post   described as  “a 200-pound, paralyzed,
diabetic, almost-blind woman with the mental capacity of a six-year-old.”  Over the last month, the tale has re-emerged as a populist
cause celebre. The trigger was the early April  fatal poisoning 
of a student at Shanghai’s Fudan University by  another student ,
which evoked memories  of the 1995 incident . Over the course of
April, Zhu’s name became an increasingly popular topic of
conversation and a proxy for anger at official privilege. Few
offenses inspire Chinese online ire like the use of privilege --
especially by  children of those in power  -- to avoid the
consequences of criminal behavior.  It’s not clear that anyone intervened in Zhu’s case, but
that hardly matters in a China accustomed to rumor. Zhu’s angry
and media-savvy supporters -- long-stymied in their efforts to
have the investigation reopened -- quickly rallied online
support.  On April 29, Zhang Jie, lawyer to Zhu and her family,
posted  this tweet  to Sina Weibo (it has subsequently been
deleted):  “In traditional Chinese culture we not only say ‘the same
rules apply to everyone even if he is a prince,’ but we also say
‘senior officials have the privilege of avoiding criminal
penalties.’ This kind of contradiction appears in the Zhu Ling
case. We want to capture the murderer and convict her (or him)
of the crime, but the key fact of this case is that when oral
testimony is needed, senior officials have the privilege to
avoid it; after the prince breaks the law, the fact is there
isn’t enough evidence to prove that he violated the law. These
unspoken rules for protecting officials have existed in China
for thousands of years, and we are challenging them.”  That challenge was soon met by Sina Weibo’s censors, who --
over the past 10 days -- became progressively more aggressive in
managing, and censoring, the conversation about Zhu Ling. It’s
impossible to know for certain whether this was proactive
censorship that anticipated government orders or whether it was
implemented at the explicit direction of the authorities. But
from the standpoint of Sina Weibo’s users, the government
appeared to be involved.  Among the earliest actions was a highly unusual censorship
decision directed at  People’s Daily , the official mouthpiece of
the Chinese Communist Party. On  April 26 , the paper’s official
Sina Weibo microblogging account tweeted,  as translated  by the
blog Offbeat China: “Zhu Ling is 40 years old now, completely
paralyzed, almost blind and with the intelligence of a 6-year-old. What exactly happened 19 years ago? Who was behind the
poisoning?”  Many of China’s microbloggers took this as an explicit
endorsement by the party of a new investigation, reposting the
tweet 70,000 times and generating 30,000 comments, according to
 microbloggers  who saw the comments and reposts.  Then the tweet was deleted by Sina’s censors, along with
tweets that quoted it, posted screen grabs or reposted it
outright. About the same time, People’s Daily deleted its
special online page devoted to Zhu Ling coverage. So, either
People’s Daily or somebody above it decided that the paper
didn’t need to devote any additional coverage to an issue that
was becoming increasingly critical of the party.  On April 29, a microblogger in Jiangsu province  summarized 
the sense of foreboding the censorship of People’s Daily had
brought:  “A powerful force has decided that microblogging related
to Zhu Ling has become worthy of censoring and controlling,
including those tweets written by celebrities and the People’s
Daily. The force is so powerful it can withstand millions of
microbloggers in pursuit of justice.”  Still, the momentum behind a reopening of the investigation
persisted, and the pace of posts on Sina Weibo increased. On
April 30, Zhu Ling was the top trending topic on the service for
much of the morning and afternoon; then, at some point
midafternoon, the name simply disappeared from the list.
Searches still picked up posts including Zhu’s name, but someone
seemingly decided it would be best for the name to appear a
little less popular (though Sun Wei’s name continued to trend).
Perhaps the hope was that such a move would slow the pace of
posts. It didn’t.  Nothing the censors did worked. By late last week, users
were posting tweets every few seconds, demanding justice and a
reopened investigation. On Friday, Sina Weibo began deleting Zhu
posts in earnest and preventing users from obtaining search
results when they put “Zhu Ling,” “Sun Wei” and “thallium”
into the service’s search bar. Sina Weibo’s users, accustomed to
this kind of censorship, quickly invented English language
hashtags and other means to circumvent the search ban.  More critically, several of the site’s celebrity users
began posting on Zhu as well, thereby raising the profile of the
case even further. Saturday night, Wang Ran, the chief executive
officer of  China eCapital , posted an  extraordinary tweet  telling
his almost 3 million followers that the increased level of
censorship proved the rumors of high-level intervention on
behalf of the poisoner of Zhu Ling (his modification of her name
allowed his tweet to get through the censors): “At first, the
speculation surrounding Zhu L was just speculation. We kept
emphasizing the need for evidence, kept emphasizing the criminal
investigative process, kept emphasizing the legal principle of
presumed innocence. We only appealed for an investigation, so
that delayed justice would be found for the victim and family
members. But then as of yesterday it was no longer possible to
search for her. The victim has become a sensitive topic. As a
result we can finally confirm that the basic rumors were true.”  For a Chinese government determined to corral public
opinion in its favor, the failed attempt to shut down the Zhu
debate is nothing short of a spectacular public-relations
failure. On Friday, an enterprising netizen turned to the U.S.
government and posted a petition to the  White House website . It
asks that the U.S. government “investigate and deport” Sun and
pointedly takes note of her “family’s powerful political
connections.” As of Monday afternoon in China, the petition
exceeded the  100,000 signatures necessary  for an official
response from the White House. In all likelihood, that response
will be diplomatic and noncommittal.  But even if there’s no response at all, the effort appears
to have made an impression on somebody in authority in China.
Late Monday afternoon, not long after the petition crossed the
100,000 signature threshold, Sina Weibo lifted its ban on
related searches. Almost instantly, “Zhu Ling” was the top
trending topic on Sina Weibo, followed by “White House.” This
is a stunning, face-losing turnabout that’s unlikely to restore
confidence in Chinese rule of law any time soon. But it just may
result both in justice for Zhu and in providing China’s
government with a powerful lesson in how effective its citizens
have become at circumventing institutions that were designed to
be infallible.  (Adam Minter, the  Shanghai  correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 