-- CEZ May Raise 2013 Profit Targets on Power-Plant Disposal
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-05-06T09:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/cez-may-raise-2013-profit-targets-on-power-plant-disposal.html
CEZ AS, the Czech Republic’s largest
electricity company, may raise full-year profit targets after
clinching the sale of its Chvaletice power plant and concluding
a 50-year contract for supplies of brown coal.  The utility may push up the forecasts for earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization by as much as 2.5
percent and net income by about 10 percent when it releases
first-quarter figures tomorrow, according to an estimate by
Monika Tabanyi, a Budapest-based analyst at Concorde Securities.
Philip Gottschalk, a Paris-based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas,
is predicting increases of 1.9 percent in CEZ’s forecast for
Ebitda and 5.4 percent for net income.  Supplies of lignite to CEZ’s Pocerady coal-fired plant were
jeopardized by a dispute early this year with provider Czech
Coal AS, which threatened to double prices. Prague-based CEZ
forecast in February that Ebitda would total 80 billion koruna
($4.09 billion) and net income would amount to 37 billion
koruna. The utility announced a settlement with Czech Coal on
March 19, the same day it agreed to sell the Chvaletice plant
for 4.12 billion koruna to end a European Union antitrust probe.  “Not raising the full-year guidance would be a negative
signal,” Bohumil Trampota, an analyst J&T Banka in  Prague , said
in a report, predicting that CEZ will raise its 2013 forecasts
to Ebitda of 84 million koruna and net income of 38.5 billion
koruna.  Analysts’ Predictions  CEZ is likely to forecast Ebitda of 82 billion koruna and
net income of 40.6 billion koruna, Concorde’s Tabanyi said in a
report on April 30. Exane’s Gottschalk estimated in an April 29
report that CEZ will target Ebitda of 81.5 billion koruna and
net income of 39 billion koruna.  The supply contract and Chvaletice disposal may offset the
effects of stagnating electricity prices and a plunge in the
price of carbon permits. Earnings may be held back by a dispute
with Bulgaria’s energy regulator, which is threatening to
withdraw the Czech company’s power-distribution license for
allegedly violating rules on public tendering for subcontracts,
according to Petr Bartek, an analyst in Prague at Erste Bank.  CEZ may say first-quarter net income fell 4.7 percent to
14.1 billion koruna, according to the average of seven analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Barbora Pulpanova, a CEZ
spokeswoman, declined today to comment on the analysts’
predictions before earnings are released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  