-- Chelsea Will Offer Lampard New One-Year Contract: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-06T07:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/chelsea-will-offer-lampard-new-one-year-contract-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Lampard Offer  Chelsea midfielder  Frank Lampard  will be offered a new one-
year contract after weeks of talks with the club, the  Daily
Express reported .  Lampard, 34, has told friends that he expects to be at the
London team next season amid speculation that he may move to the
 Los Angeles Galaxy  in the U.S., the newspaper added.  Carragher Replacement  Liverpool is seeking to sign Brazilian defender Douglas on
a free transfer as a replacement for  Jamie Carragher , who is
retiring, the  Daily Mail reported .  The 25-year-old’s contract with Dutch club  FC Twente 
expires after this season, the newspaper said. Newcastle bid 4
million pounds ($6.2 million) for him last year, the Mail added.  Brazilian View  Shakhtar Donetsk midfielder Fernandinho, who has a 42.5
million-pound release clause in his contract, wants to join
 Manchester City  to improve his chances of making Brazil’s 2014
World Cup squad, the  Sun reported .  “My exposure would be better,” the Sun cited Fernandinho
as saying. Playing for City “would help me get back in the
Brazilian national team,” he added.  Redknapp’s Riches  Queens Park Rangers manager  Harry Redknapp , who was hired
on a salary of 3 million pounds a year, said he doesn’t mind
taking a pay cut when the club drops from the Premier League at
the end of the season because he doesn’t need the money, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  “I don’t have to go to work really, it’s because I want
to,” the Mirror cited Redknapp as saying. “I’ve got too much
money to worry about that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  