-- Chile Economy Grew in March at Slowest in Almost Two Years
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-05-06T19:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/chile-economy-grew-in-march-at-slowest-pace-in-almost-two-years.html
Chile’s economy expanded in March at
the slowest annual pace since July 2011 as manufacturing
contracted, the central bank said.  The Imacec index, a proxy for gross domestic product, grew
3.1 percent from the year earlier, the bank said today on its
website, less than forecast by all 16 economists in a  Bloomberg
survey. (CLIMYOYN)  Their median estimate was 4.7 percent. Economic activity
was unchanged from the previous month, the bank said.  Central bank President Rodrigo Vergara said on April 2 that
the economy was showing the first signs of slowing on weaker
internal demand and tighter credit conditions. The mounting
evidence of a slowdown comes after a year when gross domestic
product grew at the fastest pace in South America behind  Peru 
and  unemployment  fell to a 40-year low.  “This adds to evidence that the economy is starting to
slow down and probably implies that the central bank will move
to a less hawkish tone and a more neutral monetary-policy
outlook,” said Felipe Hernandez, an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Manufacturing output fell 3 percent in March from a year
earlier led by declines in tobacco, equipment and base metals,
the National Statistics Institute said on April 30.  The peso gained 0.1 percent to 469.45 per U.S. dollar at
the close in Santiago.  Investment Boom  Economic growth  of 5.6 percent last year was driven by
investment in the mining industry and a consumer spending boom.
The average wage surged 4.7 percent above inflation in December,
the same month in which unemployment in Santiago dropped to 5.2
percent, the lowest since 1973, according to a study by the
Universidad de Chile.  Still, with inflation below the target range for the past
four months, the central bank chose to leave its benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 5 percent in April for the 15th
consecutive month, the highest in Latin America after  Brazil .  All 56 economists in a central bank survey on April 9
expected policy makers to leave the key rate on hold for at
least another 11 months, extending their record pause.  Even as expansion weakened last month, consumers kept
spending, with retail sales leaping 10.2 percent from a year
earlier, according to a report on April 30 by the statistics
agency. Manufacturing output fell by 3 percent over the same
period.  Industrial growth has stagnated, while retail sales soar,
as the peso rises to its strongest level relative to trading
partners for 20 years, curbing the cost of imports and making
Chilean goods more expensive abroad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 