-- China Names Yuan Convertibility Plan as Goal This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-07T04:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/china-names-yuan-convertibility-plan-among-goals-for-this-year.html
China  signaled it will propose plans
this year to allow freer flows of its currency in and out of the
nation as part of measures to loosen control over the yuan and
 interest rates .  The plan on yuan capital-account convertibility will also
include a way to let individuals make overseas investments, the
State Council said in a statement yesterday after a meeting led
by Premier  Li Keqiang  on the focus of economic reforms in 2013.
Other measures include improving controls on risks from local-
government debt, expanding trials of value-added taxes on
companies and pushing forward changes to the country’s
household-registration system.  Future changes may include raising or removing quotas on
foreign investment in the nation’s bond and stock markets and
giving Chinese companies more freedom to borrow overseas, said
Chen Bingcai, a former official with the nation’s foreign-
exchange regulator. Li in March pledged to open the economy to
more market forces and strip power from the government as part
of efforts to restructure growth.  “The general principle of the opening-up is to be gradual,
starting from long-term investment to short-term capital flows
and from a quota-management system to a free flow of money,”
said Chen, now a Beijing-based researcher with the Chinese
Academy of Governance.  The State Council statement didn’t give additional details
on the capital-account plan.  Interest Rates  A March statement by the State Council also said the nation
would roll out measures to promote interest-rate and exchange-
rate liberalization this year. That statement didn’t mention a
plan for capital-account convertibility.  China needs to sacrifice short-term economic growth for
structural adjustments, central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan 
said last month after the nation reported slower-than-forecast
first-quarter expansion.  “It’s a positive sign that the new government under Li
Keqiang is trying to boost growth by reform instead of launching
fiscal stimulus,” Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said by telephone. The
goal of a feasible plan for capital-account convertibility shows
that the “reform ideas promoted by Zhou Xiaochuan have received
endorsement from the cabinet,” he said.  ‘Favorable Conditions’  People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor Yi Gang said last
month there were a “lot of favorable conditions that are
suitable for further liberalization” of the capital account. Yi
said April 17 that China will widen the trading band for the
 yuan  “in the near future,” after doubling it in April 2012.  About 80 percent of capital-account items listed by the
 International Monetary Fund  are convertible or partially
convertible in China, Yi said. Conditions for the opening up of
the capital account include “relatively good” economic
fundamentals, sound public finance and banks, and a flexible
exchange rate, he said.  In January, the central bank said it would proactively
prepare for the trial of its qualified domestic individual
investor program, known as QDII2. The government started the
QDII program in 2006, allowing Chinese individuals to buy
securities in overseas markets through asset managers and funds.  The yuan advanced 0.14 percent to 6.1581 per dollar as of
11:58 a.m. in  Shanghai  today. It fell 0.18 percent yesterday,
the steepest slide this year, after China’s foreign-exchange
regulator said it would step up scrutiny of cash transfers from
abroad by companies and banks.  Economic Growth  China reported  economic growth  of 7.7 percent for the first
quarter, trailing the 8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey and the 7.9 percent pace for the last three months
of 2012. Policy makers set in March a target for expansion this
year of 7.5 percent.  “China’s growth outlook for 2013 to 2014 is more
convincing than that of most other countries and interest rates
are substantially higher than in high-income countries,” Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc economists led by  Louis Kuijs  wrote
in a note dated yesterday. “This should keep net financial
inflows positive, despite efforts by the government to stem
them.”  China’s financial and capital account surplus was $101.8
billion in the first quarter, the most since 2010 and almost
double the $56.1 billion reported for the same period of 2012,
official data show.  Inflow Sign  Yuan positions at Chinese financial institutions stemming
from foreign-exchange transactions, a gauge of cross-border
capital flows, climbed 1.22 trillion yuan ($198 billion) during
the quarter, the third-biggest increase in data going back to
2000. Gains are a sign of inflows and the largest advance was
1.41 trillion yuan in the first three months of 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank of China raised its  daily reference rate 
for the yuan by 0.05 percent today to 6.2083 per dollar,
approaching the record 6.2082 announced on May 2. The fixing,
around which the onshore  exchange rate  can fluctuate a maximum 1
percent, has been raised 1.2 percent so far this year.  “The PBOC’s recent willingness to let the exchange rate
strengthen is potentially in line with a planned movement toward
a more flexible exchange-rate regime,” Kuijs said.  The Chinese currency will be fully convertible within five
years, while a third of China’s trade will be settled in yuan by
2015, HSBC Holdings Plc forecast in a March report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  