-- Christie Raises Record $6.2 Million for Re-Election Bid
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-05-06T20:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/christie-reports-6-2-million-raised-for-re-election-campaign.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie has
raised a record $6.2 million for his re-election effort as the
Republican seeks a second term in November.  The amount collected through May 2 is almost as much as the
$6.8 million Christie raised in the entire 2009 election cycle,
according to campaign-finance data. The 50-year-old has already
garnered more in contributions for the June primary than any
other New Jersey candidate for governor who didn’t fund his or
her own campaign, the data show.  “Governor Christie’s style of strong leadership continues
to resonate and draw an unprecedented show of support for the
governor’s re-election from inside and outside of the state, and
from across the donor spectrum,” William Palatucci, chairman of
the campaign, said in a statement.  Christie led his Democratic challenger, state Senator
Barbara Buono, by 32 percentage points in a poll released April
24 by Quinnipiac University in Hamden,  Connecticut . Buono, 59, a
lawyer from Metuchen, has gained little ground since she
announced her candidacy in December.  The governor’s financial tally is more than triple his
rival’s. Buono  received  about $738,000 in private donations
through April 30 and got $1.1 million in public matching funds,
according to the state Election Law Enforcement Commission.
Christie has opted to forgo public matching funds during the
primary campaign.  Buono ‘Confident’  David Turner, a spokesman for Buono, said he won’t release
any fundraising information beyond what is reported to state
election regulators. He said he’s “confident that Senator
Buono’s message will resonate” with voters.  “We’re going to have the resources to compete and win in
November,” he said. “That fact hasn’t changed.”  Christie’s approval ratings jumped to a high of 74 percent
in February as voters praised his response to  Hurricane Sandy .
In the April 24 Quinnipiac  poll , he had 67 percent support, with
approval from 46 percent of Democrats and 73 percent of
independent voters.  Christie’s calls for smaller government and lower taxes
have made him a national Republican figure. He turned down
requests to run for president in October 2011, saying he
couldn’t abandon his commitment to help New Jersey recover from
the recession. He hasn’t ruled out a 2016 White House bid.  Six Times  The Christie campaign drew 14,260 contributors through May
3, almost six times the number that gave to his 2009 effort.
More than 75 percent of the donors for this election gave in
amounts of $100 or less. Individuals from all 50 states and
 Washington , D.C., have contributed, with 85 percent coming from
within New Jersey, his campaign said.  Christie has more than $3.4 million in cash on hand, even
after accounting for a $1.2 million television advertisement
first broadcast last week, according to his campaign.  Christie raised $17.6 million from private donors and
public funding for his 2009 race, according to data from the
state’s Election Law Enforcement Commission. He ousted incumbent
Democrat Jon Corzine, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. co-chairman who raised $32 million and self-financed most of his
effort to win a second term.  Christie and Buono each face one lesser-known opponent in
the June 4 primary. Troy Webster, a mayoral aide in East Orange,
is seeking the Democratic nomination while the governor is being
challenged by Republican Seth Grossman, a lawyer from Linwood.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  