-- Coca-Cola Femsa, Inbursa, GBM, Grupo Famsa: Mexico Bond Alert
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-06T10:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/coca-cola-femsa-inbursa-gbm-grupo-famsa-mexico-bond-alert.html
Coca-Cola Femsa SAB, Grupo Financiero
Inbursa SAB, Corporativo GBM SAB and Grupo Famsa SAB are among
issuers that plan to sell bonds in Mexico’s debt markets.  COCA-COLA FEMSA SAB: (KOFL)   Latin America ’s largest bottler of the
soft drink plans to sell as much as 7.5 billion pesos ($620
million) in fixed-rate bonds due in 10 years as part of a
program to raise as much as 20 billion pesos through debt
offerings. Units of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria , HSBC
Holdings Plc and Citigroup Inc. are helping manage sale that is
expected to be on May 22. (Added May 6)  GRUPO FINANCIERO INBURSA SAB: (GFINBURO)  The financial unit controlled
by the billionaire  Carlos Slim  plans to sell as much as 6
billion pesos in debt due in three years. The planned offering
is part of a program to raise as much as 30 billion pesos
through debt sales. Units of Inbursa, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria, Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB and HSBC are helping
manage sale. (Added May 6)  KIMBERLY-CLARK DE MEXICO SAB: The consumer-goods company
plans to sell bonds including floating-rate securities due in
five years and fixed-rate bonds due in 10 years as part of a
program to raise as much as 16 billion pesos through debt
offerings. Units of Citigroup and Bank of America Corp. are
arranging the sale. (Added April 29)  COMISION FEDERAL DE ELECTRICIDAD: The state-owned utility’s
chief financial officer, Francisco Santoyo, said in an interview
that the company may sell 10 billion pesos in local currency
bonds. (Added April 22)  CORPORATIVO GBM SAB (GBMO) : The brokerage said in a filing with
the stock exchange that it plans to issue fixed-rate bonds due
in five years and worth as much as 200 million pesos as part of
a program to sell as much as 3.5 billion pesos in long-term
debt. The sale is planned for this week and is being managed by
GBM. (Added April 15)  FOVISSSTE:  The mortgage administrator said in a filing with
the stock exchange that it plans to issue bonds as part of a
program worth as much as 17 billion pesos. Banorte, HSBC, Corp.
Actinver SAB and the local unit of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria are managing the deal. (Added April 8)  GRUPO FAMSA SAB: The retailer said in a filing with the
stock exchange that it plans to sell as much as 250 million
pesos of bonds under a program to raise as much as 2 billion
pesos. Banorte is coordinating the sale, according to the
filing. (Added March 25)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  