-- Coeure Says ECB May Assess Banks’ Balance Sheets to Spur Lending
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-05-06T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/coeure-says-ecb-may-assess-banks-balance-sheets-to-spur-lending.html
The  European Central Bank  may review
lenders’ balance sheets in the next year as it seeks ways to
free up credit and spur euro-area economic growth,  Hospodarske
Noviny  reported, citing Executive Board member Benoit Coeure.  “It’s possible that further adjustments of bank balance
sheets will be needed,” Coeure told the Bratislava, Slovakia-
based newspaper in an interview published today. “In many cases
banks hold assets, such as loans, that have become less
profitable because of the crisis. This constrains their capacity
to provide new loans.”  The ECB may review banks’ balance sheets and “recommend
that the the banks dispose of assets or add capital,” Coeure
said. “This review could be done in the next 12 months, since
the ECB will need to evaluate the quality of banks’ assets” as
it prepares to assume its oversight role for euro-area banks.  Coeure followed ECB President  Mario Draghi  in saying that
“from the technical standpoint,” the central bank is “ready
to introduce a negative rate for one-day sterilization
deposits.” Draghi said in  Rome  yesterday that the Governing
Council had decided to “look openly at the possibility of
reducing the  interest rate  on the deposit facility to less than
zero.”  Coeure said the ECB would weigh the merits of such a move,
“both from the point of monetary-policy transmission as well as
its impact on the financial sector.”  New regulations and levies on the financial sector in
 Europe  must be designed so they don’t harm the economy, Coeure
said.  “The planned financial-transaction tax is an example,” he
said. “While this tax is in principle justified, it must be
ensured that it won’t hurt the financial markets to an extent
that would cause their collapse,” he said. “The ECB will
therefore very carefully assess its impact on financial
markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  