-- Constellation Software Leads Canada Tech Revival
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-05-06T20:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/constellation-software-leads-canada-tech-revival.html
Constellation Software Inc.’s (CSU) 
acquisition strategy has made it the third best-performing stock
in Canada over the past five years, helping to lead a resurgence
in the long-underperforming technology industry once dominated
by smartphone maker  BlackBerry. (BB)   Constellation, based in Toronto, has  surged  483 percent in
the five years through May 3, behind pharmacy services provider
Catamaran Corp. and drugmaker Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. among 237 companies in the benchmark Standard
& Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  It has gained 51 percent in the past 12 months as of May 3
for a market value of C$3.1 billion ($3.08 billion), second in
the S&P/TSX Information Technology Index, which is on track for
its first annual gain in four years. Constellation reached a
record closing high of C$137.50 on April 30. The  stock  fell 0.1
percent to C$134.76 at 4 p.m. in Toronto today.  “They are the best allocators of capital in the Canadian
universe of all the coverage I’ve ever had,” Tom Liston,
director of research at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in  Canada , said in
a telephone interview from Toronto on April 29. “They have a
very disciplined approach. They identify what’s a good business
and they buy it. They pick businesses that are very sticky.”  The company’s success lies in its ability to grow through
smart, strategic acquisitions, said Jason Donville, chief
executive officer of Donville Kent Asset Management Inc., who
holds Constellation as the top stock in his C$70 million DKAM
Capital Ideas Fund.  “What Constellation Software is really good at is not
growing an existing cash cow, but finding other cash cows at
really good prices, that’s what their secret is,” Donville said
in an interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto office April 30.  Staying Small  Constellation buys and operates software developers,
typically with revenues of less than C$25 million, that then
license software for niche markets including governments, health
and leisure clubs and tourist attractions, Donville said.  As of March, it owned about 125 business units across 50
industries, with the largest employing 307 people and with an
average of 44 employees, according to a  letter  addressed to
shareholders on May 1.  “These business units are small for a reason,” Mark Leonard, founder and chairman, said in the letter. “The
advantages of being agile and tight far outweigh economies of
scale.”  Leonard and Jamal Baksh, chief financial officer, declined
requests for an interview. Leonard is the fourth-biggest
shareholder in Constellation with about a 6.7 percent stake,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit Estimates  The company  reported  a 31 percent increase in first-quarter
sales to $256 million on May 1, as it completed seven
acquisitions in the quarter worth $73 million, the company said
in a statement. Profit was $1.57 a share, adjusted for certain
items, short of analysts’ estimates of $1.76, according to a
Bloomberg  survey .  Constellation will double its size and earnings per share
over the next five to 10 years while continuing to pay a
dividend, Leonard said.  “Does Constellation Software have the ability to scale at
the rates which it achieved during the last decade?,” Leonard
said in the letter. “I don’t think we are sufficiently humble
not to try.”  The company is similar to private equity investment firm
Onex Corp., “but maybe a little more predictable,” Liston
said. “Onex restructures a little more, owns opportunities with
a little more upside.”  Emma Thompson, a spokeswoman with Onex, could not be
reached for comment on the company’s strategy.  More Normal  Constellation, along with other technology stocks such as
satellite maker  MacDonald Dettwiler & Associates Ltd. (MDA)  and
information technology services provider  CGI Group Inc. (GIB/A) , are
leading a renaissance in Canadian technology stocks, with the
industry set to snap a three-year losing streak. In that time,
the  index  had slumped 59 percent.  The industry is the best performing group among 10 in the
benchmark  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  this year, rising 27 percent.  “Canada’s technology sector is starting to look more
normal,” said  Andrew Pyle ,  fund manager  with ScotiaMcLeod Inc.,
on the phone from Peterborough, Ontario on April 26. He manages
about C$210 million. “Normal, in terms of how we look at
technology on the  S&P 500 . It’s not dominated by one company.”  Since the demise of former technology giant Nortel, the
dominant company has been Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry. It
has plunged about 90 percent from its 2008 peak while competing
with Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Google Inc.’s open-source Android
platform.  Sadiq Adatia, chief investment officer with Sun Life Global
Investments Inc., is unconvinced companies such as Constellation
will rise to the level of dominance BlackBerry and Nortel once
held.  More Trust  “They’re not global players,” said Adatia, whose Toronto-based firm manages C$6.4 billion. “RIM, which was a dominant
player, had trouble, so some of these smaller companies in
Canada will have even more trouble.”  If Canada’s technology industry is making a comeback,
investors will need to see a longer track record and more
successful companies, Adatia said.  “We still have to wait,” he said. “The world does not
trust Canadian tech companies and that is something we need to
be cognizant of. We may be first to things, and that’s
fantastic, but the world catches up very quickly so we need to
find a way to maintain that dominance.”  By buying smaller businesses, especially in niche markets,
Constellation avoids competing with larger competitors and is
left alone to grow, Donville said.  “They don’t get grown out of their space,” he said.
“They’re a C$3 billion company that still acts like a C$125
million company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  