-- Coors-Led Fund Joins Carlyle in African Private Equity Deals
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-05-06T13:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/coors-led-fund-joins-carlyle-in-african-private-equity-deals.html
John Coors, the great grandson of the
founder of Coors Brewing Co., plans to raise $300 million from
wealthy families in the U.S. and  Africa  for a private equity
fund to invest in Africa.  The One Thousand & One Voices fund will have $50 million to
$100 million by the end of the year to invest in the fastest-
growing African nations, including Kenya, Ghana, Tanzania and
Nigeria, Coors said in a phone interview on May 3. The fund will
seek minority stakes of $10 million to $40 million and target
companies with earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of $2 million to $15 million.  “The foundation of this movement is the realization that
we don’t need more philanthropy, we don’t need more aid” in
Africa, said Coors, who is chief executive officer of CoorsTek
Inc., a Colorado-based ceramics manufacturer. “We need more
investment because we need to create jobs.”  Africa is attracting buyout firms, including  Carlyle Group
LP (CG)  and Abraaj Capital Ltd., seeking higher returns than those
offered in  Europe  and the U.S. Private-equity transactions in
the region jumped by almost a fifth to 43 deals in the first
nine months of last year, compared with a decline of 17 percent
to 179 transactions in China, according to the  Emerging Markets 
Private Equity Association.  The economy of Sub-Saharan Africa will probably expand 6.1
percent next year, the fastest pace of any region in the world
after emerging Asia, fueled by China’s demand for gold, copper
and oil, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Carlyle Deal  Carlyle, the world’s second-largest private equity firm,
opened offices in Johannesburg and Lagos, Nigeria, in the past
two years and was part of a group that paid $210 million for a
stake in Export Trading Group, a Tanzanian commodity company,
since creating its $500 million fund. Dubai-based Abraaj is the
largest buyout firm in the  Middle East .  Coors’s fund will also aim to raise similar amounts of
money for investments in  Latin America , Southeast Asia and
Eastern Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  