-- Corporations Must End Love Affair With Shareholder: Books
-- B y   D a n i e l   A k s t
-- 2013-05-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/corporations-must-end-love-affair-with-shareholder-books.html
The modern corporation is broken, says
 Colin Mayer , an Oxford University business professor whose
provocative new book, “ Firm Commitment ,” is aimed at
overhauling what is in my view the world’s most important
institution.  Mayer’s broadside has failings of its own. He thinks the
corporation has hit rock bottom -- “We are currently at a
nadir” -- but offers little evidence that business today is
more corrupt or corrosive than in the past, or that the
corporation as commercial vessel is more prone to take the form
of a pirate ship than is a family firm or old-fashioned
partnership.  Hey professor, remember the robber barons? How about Willy
Loman?  Yet, ultimately,  Mayer’s critique  of the modern corporation
will resonate with millions who sense that something serious has
gone amiss -- and who will identify with the observation of John
Maynard Keynes, in 1933, that “we have until recently conceived
it a moral duty to ruin the tillers of the soil and destroy the
age-long human traditions attendant on husbandry, if we could
get a loaf of bread thereby a 10th of a penny cheaper.”  Harnessing Money  Let’s be clear: Mayer is no enemy of capitalism. On the
contrary, he recognizes that the limited liability corporation,
by insulating its owners from losses beyond their invested
capital, has been extraordinarily effective at harnessing money
on behalf of progress. But he argues that, shackled to the wrong
ideas and governance structure, it’s proficient at causing harm.  The problem, he says, isn’t the shortchanging of
shareholders by lax boards and overpaid chief executives but the
very opposite. To Mayer the issue is our fanatical focus on
shareholders at the expense of all else.  Corporations are failing socially and morally, he says,
because they feel duty-bound to ignore the vital interests of
the many other parties -- employees, suppliers and citizens, to
name three -- who have skin in the game even though they haven’t
invested capital.  Today’s prevailing business ideology -- that maximizing
returns to shareholders is all that counts -- amounts to a
pernicious dogma, in the author’s view. People take it for
granted, like gravity, yet until we challenge it, Mayer says, we
will remain trapped in a form of capitalism that is neither
ethically nor environmentally sustainable.  It’s not even good for business, which needs long-term
investment.  Low Trust  To Mayer, corporations are really vehicles for commitment.
Investors, employees and others must be able to commit capital,
talent and time, and the corporation must in turn commit to
those who invest in it. Unfortunately, he says, “today’s
corporations are currently locked into ‘a low trust’ equilibrium
in which neither investors nor stakeholders wish to invest for
the long-term and firms duly respond by undertaking short-term
investments.”  Regulation isn’t the answer, since regulations can be
circumvented and regulators co-opted, resulting in “a system
that confuses rules with standards, compliance with compassion
and obedience with integrity.”  New Course  Instead, he suggests that large corporations set themselves
on a new moral course by embracing three principles: first,
declare their values; then hire trustees to serve as custodians
of those values; and finally, give enhanced (or even sole)
control of the company to long-term shareholders while allowing
unlimited short-term investments to maintain share liquidity.  The idea is to acknowledge and balance the interests of the
corporation’s various stakeholders. Can any of this work? It
sounds idealistic, but some European companies, as well as
nonprofit organizations such as the British Broadcasting Corp.,
thrive with such a set-up. Mayer notes, moreover, that
businesses and national economies in most of the world get by
without the kind of dispersed ownership so common in the U.S.
and U.K.  “What is being suggested here,” the author writes,
“requires no riots, no violence, no fundamental changes in our
capitalist system, just modest modifications to the most
remarkable organ we have created to date which will give it an
ethical, not an immoral, heart.”  It would still be a tall order. But Mayer’s book is a good
first step.  “Firm Commitment: Why the Corporation Is Failing Us and
How To Restore Trust in It” is published by Oxford University
Press in the U.S. and U.K. (306 pages, $29.95, 16.99 pounds). To
buy this book in North America, click  here .  (Daniel Akst writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Amanda
Gordon ’s Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Daniel Akst in New York at  danielakst@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 