-- Craig Moffett, ex-Bernstein Analyst, Sets Up Own Firm
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-05-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/craig-moffett-ex-bernstein-analyst-sets-up-own-firm.html
Craig Moffett , the former top-ranked
telecommunications analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., is
returning to the industry with his own independent equity
research firm, Moffett Research LLC.  Moffett, 50, left Bernstein, a division of New York-based
 AllianceBernstein LP , in January after more than 10 years at the
firm. Former colleagues Patrick O’Connell, Ethan Steinberg and
John Towers, who left Bernstein at the same time, will join
Moffett as partners, New York-based Moffett Research said in a
statement today.  Moffett has been ranked No. 1 among U.S. cable and
satellite analysts for seven consecutive years by Institutional
Investor magazine. Prior to working for Bernstein, he served as
president of Sothebys.com, the auction house’s e-commerce site,
and spent 11 years at the  Boston Consulting Group , where he led
the firm’s global telecommunications practice.  “An awful lot has happened in telecom in the short time
I’ve been gone,” Moffett said in an e-mail. “It has only been
three months, but it feels like a lifetime. I can’t wait to get
back into the mix.”  Moffett has long championed cable companies such as  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  for owning the networks that
carry digital information. Moffett has said “distribution is
king,” rather than content, because network owners will always
find a way to get paid.  Star Analysts  Moffett follows other star analysts in setting up their own
research firms, including  Meredith Whitney , the analyst who
correctly predicted Citigroup Inc. would cut its dividend
because of mortgage-related losses and went on to start Meredith
Whitney Advisory Group. Last month, International Strategy &
Investment Group LLC said Nancy Lazar, who co-founded the
brokerage more than 20 years ago, was leaving to start her own
research firm.  Like peers, the task for Moffett will be to make a profit
without the resources that research departments tied to banks
have, according to  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries.  “Craig is well regarded on the street, but the challenge
for these independent research providers is to get paid,”
Sweeney said in an interview. “When you don’t have a trading
operation, it’s a complex process.”  Moffett Research will start cable and satellite research in
June, before the  National Cable and Telecommunications
Association ’s annual show starting on June 10. The firm will add
other coverage areas, including telecommunications, later that
month.  David Cielusniak, an attorney, formerly at New York-based
 Conquest Capital Group LLC , also joins as a partner and will
serve as general counsel, chief compliance officer and chief
operating officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  