-- Inergy to Buy Gas Gatherer Crestwood for $1.61 Billion
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-05-06T23:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/crestwood-and-inergy-agree-to-7-billion-midstream-merger.html
Inergy Midstream LP (NRGM) , the pipeline
partnership that began trading publicly 18 months ago, agreed to
buy  Crestwood Midstream Partners LP (CMLP)  for $1.61 billion in stock
and cash, adding natural gas processing capabilities as it seeks
to capitalize on rising U.S. output of the fuel.  Crestwood Midstream holders will get 1.07 Inergy Midstream
units for each unit they own and a one-time cash payment of $35
million, according to a statement today from the two companies.
The cash portion wouldn’t be paid for units held by Crestwood
Holdings LLC. For the other holders, the deal values Houston-
based Crestwood at a 14 percent premium to the May 3 closing
price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Crestwood Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Robert G. Phillips will run the combined company from Houston, with
operations in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , where Inergy is based. Upon
the deal’s closing, current  Inergy LP (NRGY)  unit holders will own 56.4
percent of the new Inergy LP, Crestwood Holdings LLC will own 29
percent and Inergy management will own 14.6 percent.  “With this combination, we will truly begin to experience
the power of the value chain growth strategy by offering our
customers a more comprehensive and competitive suite of
services,” Phillips said in the statement. The combined company
will have operations in every major U.S. shale play, Phillips
said on a call with analysts.  Need for Size  The deal highlights the need for size and scale in the
pipeline business, which is dominated by master-limited
partnerships, or MLPs, Hinds Howard, a  fund manager  at Guzman
Investment Strategies LLC in Austin, Texas, wrote in an e-mail
today. Bigger companies have lower costs and can afford to make
the large investments needed to connect emerging oil and gas
fields to markets, he wrote.  “In the high growth areas like the Marcellus Shale,
gaining a foothold in a play may require large capital outlays,
for  cash flow  that won’t come online for years,” he wrote.
“That’s difficult for a smaller MLP to do.”  The agreement consists of three transactions. In the first,
Crestwood Holdings will buy Inergy LP’s general partner for $80
million in cash. Crestwood will then contribute assets to Inergy
LP in exchange for units. Finally, Inergy Midstream will buy
Crestwood Midstream’s units.  Crestwood has about 60 million partnership units
outstanding, according to a document provided by the company.  Gas Basins  The last of the transactions is expected to close in the
third quarter, the companies said.  Crestwood processes gas in basins that include the
Marcellus Shale in  Pennsylvania  and the  Barnett Shale  of Texas.
Inergy owns gas storage and has a crude terminal in  North
Dakota , the second-biggest oil-producing state.  Inergy LP  rose  7.9 percent to $23.75 at the close in  New
York , the most since April 26, 2012. Inergy Midstream fell 5.7
percent to $22.78. Crestwood gained 3.6 percent to $24.70, the
most since January.  Citigroup Inc. was Crestwood’s financial adviser and
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &
Feld LLP served as legal counsel. Evercore Partners Inc. and
Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell LLP advised Crestwood
Midstream’s board.  Greenhill & Co. and Jefferies Group LLC advised Inergy LP
and Inergy Midstream. Vinson & Elkins LLP was legal counsel.
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc., Richards, Layton & Finger PA,
Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. and Potter Anderson & Corroon LLP
also advised.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  