-- Cuba Makes First WTO Dispute Targeting Australia Tobacco Rules
-- B y   D a n i e l   P r u z i n
-- 2013-05-06T10:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/cuba-makes-first-wto-dispute-targeting-australia-tobacco-rules.html
Cuba initiated its first dispute at
the World Trade Organization, targeting  Australia ’s plain-
packaging requirements for tobacco products.  Cuba’s request for talks with Australia on the matter came
May 3, according to an e-mail from the Geneva-based WTO today.
If the two sides can’t resolve their differences in 60 days,
Cuba may seek the establishment of a WTO dispute panel to rule
on its complaint, Bloomberg BNA reported.  At issue are new rules that took effect in Australia Dec. 1
requiring all cigarettes sold in the country to be presented in
plain packaging, without producer logos and with standardized
brand-name lettering.  Cuba joins the Dominican Republic,  Honduras  and Ukraine in
complaining that plain packaging violates WTO rules on the
protection of trademarks and is more restrictive than necessary
to achieve Australia’s stated objective of reducing the appeal
of tobacco products, particularly to young people. Tobacco
companies such as  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  and  British
American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  have also challenged the Australian measure
outside the WTO.  Cuba was an original member of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade, the WTO’s predecessor, and maintained its
membership following Fidel Castro’s seizure of power in 1959. It
retained membership when the WTO was established in 1995.  Cuba declined to take part in earlier WTO dispute
proceedings initiated by the European Union against the U.S.
over a 1998 U.S. measure denying trademark protection for the
“Havana Club” brand of rum. The successful case was brought by
the EU on behalf of  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) , which secured global
rights for the brand name from the Cuban government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Pruzin in Geneva at  pruzin@bluewin.ch   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  