-- House Action on Online Tax Seen Less Urgent Than Senate
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-05-06T13:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/demise-of-online-advantage-seen-exaggerated-with-congress.html
The end of tax-free Internet shopping
isn’t here yet.  Retailers and state governments are on the verge of winning
U.S. Senate passage of a bill today that would let states tax
out-of-state retailers, providing up to $23 billion a year in
new revenue. They may lose momentum in the Republican-controlled
House, where the issue won’t get a vote quickly.  Retailers don’t have an outspoken ally in House leadership
as they did in the Senate, where Illinois’ Richard Durbin, the
No. 2 Democrat, helped bypass a committee and take the bill
straight to the floor. Instead, they’ll start in the Judiciary
Committee, where Chairman Bob Goodlatte of Virginia has
expressed concerns about the proposal.  “We’re working diligently in the House to build up
sponsorships and momentum,” said  David French , the chief
lobbyist at the Washington-based  National Retail Federation ,
whose members are coming to Washington this week to lobby
lawmakers. “The House is a different body. There’s going to be
a process.”  Leveling Competition  Retailers, including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Best Buy Co. (BBY) ,
say the legislation would level the playing field between brick-and-mortar stores and their online competitors. The largest
Internet-based retailer,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , also supports the
legislation. It is expanding into more states to speed delivery,
which means it will pay taxes anyway.  They are opposed by a coalition of direct marketers, online
auction company  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , anti-tax groups and lawmakers from
states without sales taxes. These groups say businesses may be
subjected to multiple audits and higher compliance costs.  Advocates on both sides expect the Senate to pass the bill
during a scheduled vote at 5:30 p.m. in Washington. Four
separate procedural votes have attracted at least 63 supporters.
A simple majority is needed today.  The issue has crossed typical partisan lines. On April 25,
in the most recent Senate vote, 15 of the 40 Republicans who
were present voted to advance the bill, along with 48 of the 53
Democratic caucus members.  In the House, the bill is sponsored by Wal-Mart’s hometown
congressman, Republican Steve Womack of  Arkansas . It has
attracted 65 co-sponsors, including Republicans such as  Joe Barton  of Texas,  Spencer Bachus  of Alabama and Ander Crenshaw of
Florida.  Bipartisan Legislation  House Republicans don’t necessarily embrace bipartisan
legislation from the Senate. A Senate-passed reauthorization of
farm programs wasn’t brought up for a House vote. On other
issues, such as aid for storm victims in  New York  and  New
Jersey , the House had to rely on Democratic support to pass
bills following public pressure to hold votes.  Many Republicans will be wary of advancing the bill
quickly.  Grover Norquist , the anti-tax advocate, opposes it, and
House leaders are reluctant to highlight issues that divide the
party. House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor  of Virginia haven’t commented publicly on the
measure’s prospects in their chamber.  “They will try to do something,” said Dan Turrentine,
vice president for government relations at Technet, an
association of technology industry chief executives that opposes
the bill. “I think, though, it’s going to be much more
deliberative.”  Some version of the bill will probably get a vote in the
House this year, said James Valvo, director of policy at
Americans for Prosperity, a small-government group based in
Arlington,  Virginia , that opposes the bill.  Other Priorities  “There’s a lot of pressure from the state-level governors
and lawmakers and those sort of folks to push this thing through
and sometimes that runs up the vote total higher than you
might” see on a purely partisan issue, Valvo said.  In the meantime, House leaders have other priorities,
including revising immigration laws, raising the federal  debt
ceiling  and passing annual spending bills. Immigration bills
also go through Goodlatte’s committee.  Goodlatte told reporters April 25 he was looking for
alternatives to the Senate bill. At the same time, he said he
wanted to address the issue and understood the retailers’
argument that allowing sales made over the Internet to remain
untaxed was unfair.  Some opponents are looking to the House for changes they
say would resolve concerns over the burdens on businesses.  Calculating Taxes  Hamilton Davison, president and executive director of the
American Catalog Mailers Association, said retailers who receive
checks by mail are particularly worried about how to assess
sales taxes properly.  Even though the bill requires states to provide retailers
with free software to calculate the correct  sales tax , that
isn’t easily integrated with retailers’ systems or employees,
Davison said.  “You’re adding a fair bit of additional complexity for all
the customer-facing personnel,” said Davison. He is a co-founder of True Simplification of Taxation, a group urging
changes to the bill.  “If those were picked up and addressed in statute, this
would be a tax change that we could support,” he said. “Not
one that we’re happy about, but one we can support.”  French, the retailers’ lobbyist, said his group is ready to
counter anti-tax sentiment that is likely to be more prevalent
in the House.  “Anybody who looks at it rationally understands it’s not a
tax increase,” he said. “Fairness trumps that irrational
concern and I think over time, the lawmakers that we’ve talked
to are very comfortable that they can articulate the benefits of
a level playing field.”  The bills are S. 743 and H.R. 684.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  