-- DirecTV Spurns Dish’s View That Wireless Is Satellite-TV Savior
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-05-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/directv-spurns-dish-s-view-that-wireless-is-satellite-tv-savior.html
The two largest satellite-television
companies in the U.S., after almost two decades of building
their businesses with similar strategies, are now heading in
almost exactly the opposite directions.  While  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  is seeking a $25.5 billion
takeover of Sprint Nextel Corp. -- a move that would transform
the company into a wireless carrier -- rival DirecTV plans to
keep investing in the traditional satellite business. Mike White, head of DirecTV, sees his current industry as
fundamentally strong, despite facing the same mounting
programming costs and slowing U.S. subscriber growth as Dish.  “Wireless, for us, doesn’t make sense,” White, DirecTV’s
chief executive officer, said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in El Segundo,  California . “We have an amazing
product. It’s in-home theater.”  Entering the U.S. wireless business isn’t worth the effort
because the competition is too entrenched, White said. In
satellite TV, meanwhile,  DirecTV (DTV)  has exclusive programming such
as its NFL Sunday Ticket and can use its market lead to get
better terms from networks, he said. White’s also looking into
more ways to let consumers access programming on mobile devices.  Moreover, millions of viewers are hooked on pay TV, thanks
to higher-quality shows such as “Walking Dead” and “Game of
Thrones.” It’s too desirable a product to vanish, even if
consumers wish they could pay less for it, White said.  “Other than the bill, consumers have to realize this is
the golden age of video programming,” White said. “And it’s
just getting better.”  Buffett’s Support  DirecTV also has a big supporter in  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. The holding company, which held its
annual meeting over the weekend, is the fourth-biggest investor
in DirecTV, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. White says
that Berkshire has endorsed his strategy of sticking with a
television focus.  Still, DirecTV’s video-only strategy -- with no Internet or
phone network -- may leave it vulnerable to competitors with
more variety to offer. The pay-TV industry is also running out
of room to grow, already reaching about 90 percent of U.S.
households. That’s what’s driving Dish’s push into wireless.
 Charlie Ergen , the billionaire who co-founded Englewood,
Colorado-based Dish and serves as its chairman, has spent years
snapping up mobile-phone capacity. He made the offer to Sprint
last month.  More consumers want to view video on mobile devices, so
it’s a natural for a pay-TV company to team up with a wireless
carrier, he argues.  “There’s no one company on a national scale that puts it
all together,” Ergen, 60, said last month during a conference
call. “The new Dish/Sprint will do that.”  Online Shift  DirecTV, like Dish, has examined packaging TV over the
Internet -- a move that would eliminate the cost of installing a
satellite dish for every customer. The primary hurdle has been
getting access to digital rights to deliver television online.
DirecTV last year hired Tony Goncalves to run a brand new
digital entertainment group.  Ergen has described the Internet as a threat to traditional
pay-TV providers, a concern White said he doesn’t share. If Web
companies try to offer services with cheaper packages of
channels, for example, DirecTV can match them, he said.  The CEO sipped a Diet Pepsi during the interview last month
-- an example of his product loyalty. Before joining DirecTV as
CEO in January 2010, White spent about two decades at PepsiCo
Inc., including stints as chief financial officer and vice
chairman. White, 61, also worked at Bain & Co. in the early
1980s alongside the consulting firm’s co-founder,  Mitt Romney ,
whom he backed in last year’s U.S. presidential campaign.  Original Programming  At DirecTV, White oversees a company with more than 20
million U.S. subscribers, second only to Comcast Corp. among the
country’s pay-TV operators. To keep customers loyal, the
satellite provider uses exclusive programming such as National
Football League games and the Audience Network, whose original
shows include crime drama “Rogue” and “Damages,” starring
 Glenn Close .  While DirecTV has continued to add U.S. customers on an
annual basis, growth is more difficult. DirecTV posted its first
quarterly net customer loss ever in the three-month period ended
in June 2012. Since then, it’s returned to growth, though not at
the level of its heyday.  That challenge hasn’t scared off Berkshire, which is run by
the third-richest person in the world. The company, known for
its investments in stable U.S. businesses such as railroads, HJ
Heinz Co. and Coca-Cola Co., owns  6 percent  of outstanding
DirecTV shares.  ‘Overblown’ Concerns  “Berkshire feels that the U.S. business is undervalued
because concerns about technology obsolescence are overblown,”
said White, who said he’s in regular contact with the company.
“They are long-term investors.”  The investment in DirecTV was engineered by Todd Combs and
Ted Weschler, former hedge-fund managers whom Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire hired within the past three years to help
oversee the company’s $87.7 billion stock portfolio. They
declined to comment on DirecTV.  Since Berkshire disclosed its stake in DirecTV on Nov. 14,
2011, shares of the company have risen 27 percent to a record
high. Even so, Dish and broader indexes have performed better.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 29 percent over the same
time period, while Dish has climbed 55 percent.  DirecTV’s relative underperformance may be due to a lack of
bold transactions,  Vijay Jayant , an analyst at ISI Group in  New
York , said in an interview. DirecTV has kicked the tires on
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , Hulu Inc. and  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Brazilian phone and
Internet unit GVT before passing on all three acquisitions.  Mixed Views  Analysts are split on DirecTV’s outlook. While 14 recommend
buying the shares, 11 are neutral and one says to sell.  White said DirecTV’s biggest near-term challenge is rising
programming costs, which jumped more than 10 percent this year.
DirecTV responded by increasing rates 4.5 percent and adding a
regional sports fee of $3 a month in 20 percent of the country.  Customers balked. DirecTV received more e-mails and phone
calls in February and March complaining about the price of pay
TV than White has seen in years, he said. DirecTV’s first-quarter report, due tomorrow, will show whether it was able to
hold on to subscribers.  If the industry can’t work together, consumers may have to
take matters into their own hands, White said. Networks will
continue to increase programming costs -- and operators will
keep passing some of those fees on to customers -- until
subscribers either cancel in large numbers or beg Congress to
intervene, he said.  Hang Tough  One way to avoid that outcome, said White, is if pay-TV
operators stand firm and black out networks as a negotiating
tool to keep increases reasonable. DirecTV took  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  out
of its lineup for 10 days in July to avoid a large rate spike.  “I hope enough of us can take a stand to slow down the
train before we all crash,” White said. “At some point you’re
going to have a revolution, and folks will go to  Washington , and
we’re going to have more government involvement.”  White has another negotiation coming up with big
implications for his customers. DirecTV’s exclusive contract to
carry the NFL  Sunday Ticket  package, which allows viewers access
to most pro football games, expires in 2015.  DirecTV pays the NFL about $1 billion a year for the rights
to the service, which is purchased by about a 10th of U.S.
subscribers. White, who remains in close contact with NFL
Commissioner  Roger Goodell , stepped out briefly during the
interview last month to take a call from him.  Diehard Fans  There’s mutual interest to renew the partnership, White
said. Sunday Ticket viewers are some of the company’s best
customers, and “we wouldn’t want to lose them,” White said.  Still, DirecTV would consider a nonexclusive deal if the
NFL seeks too large of an increase, CFO Pat Doyle said in March.  While the U.S. business focuses on video, the Latin
American  unit  has dabbled in wireless, snapping up airwaves in
government auctions to offer home-phone and Internet plans,
though not yet mobile services. The growth potential there makes
such investments a better option than in the U.S., White said.  There is one way White could get into the U.S. wireless
business -- if he finds himself in a merger with Dish someday.  Ergen said in an October interview that regulators might be
more amenable to a merger of the two satellite companies if they
were also offering a wireless  Internet service , creating a
viable competitor to phone and cable carriers. The  Justice
Department  blocked a DirecTV-Dish merger in 2002.  ‘Different Dynamic’  “You’ve got a whole different dynamic than 10 years ago,”
Ergen said.  White said he hasn’t spoken with Ergen about a merger,
although he agreed a combination would be consumer-friendly.  A deal with a combined Dish-Sprint might be DirecTV’s best
hope at staying profitable and relevant, said Jayant, who
recommends buying Dish and is neutral on DirecTV.  White was quick to compliment Ergen -- who is ranked No. 85
on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , with a net worth of $12
billion -- even while not endorsing his strategy.  “I respect Charlie,” White said. “He’s been a pretty
successful businessman.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  