-- Don’t ’Reset’ With Putin, Crack Down on Him
-- B y   E l i s a   M a s s i m i n o
-- 2013-05-06T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/don-t-reset-with-putin-crack-down-on-him.html
As Secretary of State  John Kerry 
visits Moscow today to try to shore up fraying relations, the
show trial of the dissident Alexey Navalny also should be on the
 agenda .  The anti-corruption  campaigner  led demonstrations against
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  after last year’s elections; he
now faces a judge who has convicted 130 people and acquitted
none in the past two years.  These days, friction between Putin and the West is the
norm, and with good reason. Russia-U.S. relations don’t need
another “reset.” Instead, the U.S. must carry out an honest
recalculation of what it can expect to obtain from Putin -- and
at what price.  Conventional wisdom holds that Russian cooperation on a
range of issues is so valuable -- and U.S. leverage over Putin
so minimal -- that antagonizing officials in Moscow over human
rights isn’t worthwhile. The U.S. should rethink that
assumption, not merely because Putin’s approach to democracy and
human rights is even worse than expected, but also because he
has failed to deliver on critical national-security issues, such
as  Iran ,  North Korea  and  Syria .  On Iran,  Russia  voted for United Nations sanctions in 2010,
but has since cozied up to the Tehran regime.  UN Veto  On Syria, Putin has used Russia’s UN Security Council veto
to give President Bashar al-Assad diplomatic cover. The Russian
president has enabled the Syrian government’s continuing
atrocities by supplying fuel, ammunition, mortar shells, spare
parts for attack helicopters and Russian financial services.  Russian officials would have us believe that the world
would be a safer place if the U.S. would stop reacting to gross
violations of universal rights and “meddling” with their
country’s sovereignty. Yet suppose the U.S. were to capitulate
to Moscow by repealing the  Magnitsky Act , which sanctions
Russian officials involved in heinous human-rights abuses, and
promising not to expand the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Would Putin prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons and
delivery systems, persuade North Korea to warehouse its
missiles, or force Assad to leave Syria? It’s doubtful. Russia
lacks the will or the capability to do so.  Is Russian help on other matters still so vital that the
U.S. should make further concessions to secure it? On most
issues, the status quo should now be acceptable to Russia. The
new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty was finally ratified; the
U.S. has agreed to scrap the last phase of a European missile-defense program that had infuriated Russia; the Jackson-Vanik
amendment has been repealed; Russia has ascended to the  World
Trade Organization , and there is no immediate prospect that
either Ukraine or  Georgia  will join NATO.  True, Russia has helped the U.S. in  Afghanistan , and
Russian hostility could make withdrawal more difficult. But
President  Barack Obama  will bring that conflict to a close in
any case. And Putin would continue to fight a resurgent al-Qaeda
threat on his borders. Russia proved that counterterrorism
cooperation with the U.S. is in its own interest when officials
in Moscow warned their U.S. counterparts about Tamerlan
Tsarnaev, one of the alleged Boston Marathon bombers.  Putin will continue to act in his own interests, and he may
respond to domestic political pressure. The notion that the U.S.
could buy his cooperation by refraining from provoking him on
human rights has been proved wrong during years of friendlier
relations.  U.S. Values  Why would the Russian people like or respect the U.S. more
if it stands silent while Putin crushes his opposition,
abandoning the values that America championed for five decades
during the  Cold War ?  There are better options.  First, as the administration implements the  Magnitsky
sanctions , it should also begin imposing penalties on Russian
and other international banks that finance exports to Syria.
This would require U.S. financial institutions to also cut off
the bank accounts of Syria’s financiers. That would enrage
Putin. But it would hasten an end to the killing, and send an
important signal to Russian oligarchs that arming Assad has
financial consequences.  Second, the administration should re-impose sanctions on
Rosoboronexport, the Russian state-owned arms exporter. Some
members of Congress are already calling for this step. The U.S.
lifted a ban in 2010, and the Pentagon immediately started
buying Russian helicopters for Afghanistan -- the cheapest and
fastest way to rebuild an Afghan  air force  whose pilots were
already familiar with Russian aircraft. It’s time to stop
relying on the Russian defense industry and invest in a Western
helicopter that could be used in “hot and high” environments,
including Afghanistan and other places where they are likely to
be needed in future.  Finally, the U.S. shouldn’t stand by and shrug while Putin
kicks out the Agency for International Development, raids
nongovernmental organizations and intimidates election-monitoring groups. Congress should release the $50 million
reprogramming request for a Civil Society Fund for Russia that
was held over from the George W. Bush administration.  The money could be held offshore, providing technical help
and Internet training to democracy advocates who travel abroad,
if such assistance isn’t possible on Russian territory. It isn’t
a violation of Russian sovereignty to support citizens who seek
to bring about peaceful democratic change by exercising their
universal rights to expression, assembly and association. And it
is in the U.S.’s national-security interests.  Putin could retaliate by using his UN Security Council veto
to thwart further action against Iran, North Korea or Syria, or
by strengthening ties with  China , imposing financial sanctions
against U.S. entities, or even pressuring neighbors such as
Uzbekistan to impede the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan.  These are serious hurdles, but they are manageable.
Retaliation by Putin would only isolate Russia, trigger further
ire in the  U.S. Congress  and erode Putin’s support among his
international business elite, who want access to Western
capitals and markets.  By taking such steps, Obama would signal that a Russia that
violates basic human rights cannot be a strategic partner.  (Elisa Massimino is president and chief executive officer
of Human Rights First. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Elisa Massimino at  emassimino@humanrights.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  