-- Draghi Says ECB Ready to Cut Interest Rates Again If Needed
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-05-06T15:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/draghi-says-ecb-ready-to-cut-interest-rates-again-if-needed-1-.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said policy makers are ready to cut interest rates again
if needed after reducing them to a record low last week.  “We will be looking at all the data that arrives from the
euro-area economy in the coming weeks and if necessary, we are
ready to act again,” Draghi said in a speech in  Rome  today.
“Monetary policy will remain accommodative.”  The euro fell half a cent on the comment to $1.3057 and
European stocks pared losses. The Frankfurt-based ECB on May 2
cut its  benchmark rate  by a quarter point to 0.5 percent, and
Draghi said then that officials have an “open mind” about
taking the deposit rate, currently at zero, into negative
territory.  “The Governing Council has decided for the first time to
look openly at the possibility of reducing the interest rate on
the deposit facility to less than zero,” he said today. “There
are many complications. There are many consequences that we must
take into account and study closely. The Governing Council has
decided to analyze these consequences in order to be ready to
act if needed.”  Draghi said last week’s decision was supported by the fact
that “macro-economic weakness has spread to parts of euro area
where so far the transmission of monetary policy has never been
questioned.”  ECB Measures  To help ensure its low rates are reaching the parts of the
economy that need them, the ECB announced last week that it will
continue to provide banks with as much liquidity as they want
until at least mid-2014, and that it is working with European
institutions to encourage lending.  The ECB’s measures to date “helped to overcome much of the
fragmentation that characterized the funding of the banking
system until mid-2012,” Draghi said.  Still, the creation of a single bank supervisor and a
common resolution framework “are the most effective initiatives
to break the link between bank and sovereign debt that is the
basis of the current fragmentation,” he said.  Draghi also said that “to mitigate the inevitable
recessionary effects of fiscal consolidation, the composition of
such measures must favor the reduction of current public
spending and of taxes, particularly in a context such as in
 Europe  where taxation is already high by international
standards.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  