-- East Timor Claims May Slow Woodside’s LNG Project, Deutsche Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-06T07:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/east-timor-claims-may-slow-woodside-s-lng-project-deutsche-says.html
East Timor’s allegations that
 Australia  engaged in espionage during 2004 talks on a treaty for
the Sunrise natural gas field may lead to further delays for a
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  project, Deutsche Bank AG said.  Woodside and its partners, including  ConocoPhillips (COP) , would
want “fiscal certainty” before making an investment decision
to move forward with the Sunrise liquefied natural gas
development in the Timor Sea, “and the claims raised put doubt
on this,”  John Hirjee , Deutsche Bank’s Melbourne-based energy
analyst, said today in an e-mail response to questions.  East Timor says the 2006 treaty to share the royalties from
Woodside’s Sunrise gas resources in waters between the two
countries is invalid and has started arbitration, Australian
Foreign Affairs Minister Bob Carr said May 3. East Timor also
claims that Australia didn’t conduct the talks in “good faith”
and engaged in espionage, Carr said. Australia considers the
treaty valid, according to the statement.  Woodside, Australia’s second-biggest oil producer, has held
talks with the government of East Timor to resolve a dispute
that stalled the development of the project, about 150
kilometers (93 miles) southeast of East Timor. East Timor wants
the companies to pipe the gas to a processing plant in the
country to spur the economy, while Woodside proposed a floating
liquefied natural gas plant.  Perth-based Woodside is reviewing the announcement made
last week by the Australian government, Laura Lunt, a
spokeswoman for the company, said today in an e-mail statement.  “Woodside will continue to engage with both governments to
further understand any consequences of the proposed
arbitration,” according to its statement.  While the Sunrise resource in the Timor Sea is valuable,
“any development will sit firmly in the ’too-hard’ basket for
what is appearing to be a very long while,” Andrew Williams, a
Melbourne-based oil and gas analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said
yesterday in an e-mail response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  