-- Ecuador Replaces Envoy to Solve Peru Crisis Sparked by Brawl
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-05-07T15:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/ecuador-envoy-s-supermarket-brawl-sparks-crisis-with-peru.html
Ecuador  and Peru replaced their
ambassadors to resolve a diplomatic crisis after a fight between
Ecuador’s envoy and two local women in a Lima supermarket
threatened to disrupt relations between the two Andean nations.  Ecuador’s President Rafael Correa backed off his May 4
threat to freeze relations with Peru over the issue, announcing
last night that ambassador Rodrigo Riofrio asked to be removed
to help resolve the crisis, according to a statement from the
Foreign Ministry. Peru responded today by saying it would change
its ambassador to Quito in recognition of Ecuador’s decision to
accept its request to remove Riofrio, the
Peruvian Foreign Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  Peru’s government last week requested that Correa remove
Riofrio after an “incident” in Lima involving the envoy,
according to an April 30 statement from Peru’s Foreign Ministry.
Correa, who threw out  Barack Obama ’s representative in 2011 and
Colombia’s ambassador in 2010, defended Riofrio, saying he was
the “victim of aggression” and that he wouldn’t respect Peru’s
request to withdraw the ambassador.  “This decision was made following the request by
Ambassador Riofrio,” the Foreign Ministry said in the
statement. “In the coming days Ecuador will designate a new
ambassador who will represent our country” in Peru.  Ambassadors Recalled  Both Peru and Ecuador recalled their ambassadors last week
for consultations and Peru’s government had asked Riofrio not to
return. Correa said May 4 he wouldn’t let Peru’s ambassador back
into Ecuador if Riofrio wasn’t allowed to continue at his post
in Peru.  One of the two women involved in the scuffle with Riofrio
said the altercation began when she and her daughter cut in
front of him as he stood in a  Lima  supermarket check-out line on
April 21, according to a news report by Peru’s DiaD television
station. Riofrio insulted the women and the daughter hit the
ambassador first, according to the report.  Riofrio said in an April 29 statement e-mailed by the
Ecuadorean Foreign Ministry that he was sorry for the “personal
incident” and didn’t provoke the fight. Riofrio denied he
insulted the women and said he only defended himself from the
women’s attacks.  Videos distributed by Peruvian newspaper La Republica show
a man identified as Riofrio  punching  and  kicking  a woman at a
supermarket in Peru’s capital.  The fight has sparked protests outside the ambassador’s
residence in Lima and a lawyer for the two Peruvian women filed
assault charges yesterday, La Republica reported.  ‘Diplomatic Crisis’  Both governments bear some responsibility for escalating
the dispute, Michel Levi, coordinator of the Andean Center of
International Studies at the Universidad Andina, said yesterday
in a phone interview from  Quito .  “It’s important that Correa fights for truth and justice,
but at this point, he’s putting the security and credibility of
the state at risk,” Levi said. “The relevant thing here is
that there’s a diplomatic crisis created by a street fight.”  Ecuador and Peru signed a peace accord in 1998 ending
border wars dating from the 19th century. In August, the two
countries said they are planning a joint venture to explore for
oil on the Ecuadorean side of their shared border.  The two also signed a $300 million agreement last year to
connect their oil pipelines to carry Ecuadorean crude to Peru’s
northern port of Bayovar.  Ecuador’s Foreign Ministry didn’t reply yesterday to a
telephone message seeking comment on Correa’s statements.
Attempts to reach Riofrio through the ministry’s press office
were unsuccessful.  Peru ’s Foreign Ministry didn’t respond to a
telephone message yesterday seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  