-- Medtronic Wins Approval for Device to Resynchronize Heart
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-06T20:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/medtronic-wins-approval-for-device-to-resynchronize-heart.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  won U.S. regulatory
approval for its Viva device used to resynchronize the beating
of the heart and reduce hospitalizations for heart failure.  The permanently implanted device uses an algorithm to
coordinate the heart’s 100,000 contractions each day, adjusting
to varying demands of the body as the user goes through regular
daily activities. The sophisticated system removes the need for
doctors to recalibrate the device at regular visits and improves
the battery life by 25 percent compared with older models,
Minneapolis-based Medtronic said today in a statement.  Significantly more heart-failure patients responded to
treatment and they were 21 percent less likely to be
hospitalized in the first year than those with older devices,
said David Steinhaus, Medtronic’s medical director for cardiac
rhythm disease management. The improvements lead to $1,600 in
cost savings per patient over the life of the device, he said.  “It’s more cost effective than the older technology, and
even the older technology decreases hospitalizations and length
of stay,” Steinhaus said in an interview. “These devices are
designed to provide optimal therapy for patients, while
providing economic benefits through fewer hospitalizations,
fewer inappropriate shocks, and increased longevity.”  Patient Improvement  The  product  cleared for sale by the  Food and Drug
Administration  is the first to make a marked improvement in the
number of heart-failure patients who respond to treatment since
the synchronization devices were approved more than a decade
ago, Steinhaus said. Some doctors don’t refer their patients for
evaluations needed to get the devices, and others don’t often
implant them, for fear they may not help the patients feel
better, he said.  “It’s really the first time we can say we’ve made a
difference in response rates,” he said. “Nobody wants to go
through the procedure and put this in a patient who isn’t going
to feel better, even though we may be helping by stemming the
progression of the disease. We expect this to become the
standard of care in the  United States .” year earlier, the
Minneapolis-based company said in a statement  Medtronic declined less than 1 percent to $47.70 at the
close in  New York . The shares have increased 25 percent in the
past 12 months.  Medtronic is the world’s biggest maker of heart-rhythm
devices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  