-- Telefonica Said to Mull Sale of Madrid’s Iconic Glass Towers
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2013-05-07T16:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/telefonica-is-said-to-weigh-sale-of-madrid-s-iconic-glass-towers.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Europe ’s most indebted
telephone company, is reviving a plan to sell its Madrid
headquarters five years after failing to find a buyer for the
buildings, according to five people familiar with the matter.  The complex, known as  Distrito Telefonica  and opened at the
height of Spain’s property boom in 2008, is valued at about 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion), said one of the people, asking not
to be identified because the deliberations are private.
Telefonica may lease back as much as 90 percent of the project’s
space, including its iconic glass towers, another person said.  Finding a buyer this time won’t be easier after investment
in Spain’s commercial property market dried up because of the
credit crisis. Distrito Telefonica was valued at almost 2
billion euros in 2008 at the peak of Spain’s decade-long
property rally, one of the people said. Since then, the
country’s real estate industry has collapsed, contributing to an
economic slump that’s caused unemployment to breach 27 percent.  “As property prices kept climbing, the real value of those
assets was higher than the actual value in their books, which
helped companies borrow more and at cheaper rates,” said
Antonio Diaz, director of the Nebrija Business School in  Madrid .
“Since the bubble burst, those assets have turned into a
serious threat to those companies’ financial accounts.”  Glass Panels  A Telefonica representative declined to comment on any
potential sale of the company’s real estate.  About 12,000 people  work  at Telefonica’s headquarters in
Las Tablas on the outskirts of Madrid, which was opened by the
King and Queen of Spain in October 2008.  The complex, comprising 16 buildings with about 400,000
square meters (4.3 million square feet) of combined space, was
designed by local architect Rafael de La-Hoz. The structures
resemble a group of ice blocks because of glass panels that have
a total surface area of 60,000 square meters, according to  Arup ,
an engineering company that advised on the property’s
construction.  Distrito Telefonica has 6,000 parking spots, restaurants, a
gym, a nursery and its own subway station, according to the
architect’s  website .  Banco Santander  Telefonica was down 0.1 percent to 11.28 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Madrid, valuing the company at 51.3
billion euros.  Credit-default swaps insuring Telefonica’s debt for five
years fell 4.6 percent to 166 basis points, the lowest since
June 2011 and signaling an improvement in creditworthiness. The
derivatives pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “Real estate developers could be interested in such a deal
because the fact that Telefonica is a solvent company lowers the
potential risk of the investment,” said Ivan San Felix, a
Madrid-based analyst at  Renta 4 Banco SA. (R4)   Telefonica and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the country’s biggest
bank, moved their headquarters to Madrid’s outskirts from the
city center during the property boom as prices for offices in
prime locations surged. At the same time, companies were able to
move employees scattered around the city to one complex.  As the country grapples with record unemployment, spending
on real estate has slumped. Investment in Spanish commercial
property dropped 45 percent to 1.81 billion euros in 2012,
according to a January report by Deloitte LLP.  Nokia’s Sale  Prime rents in Madrid have fallen 41 percent since peaking
in 2008, according to BNP Paribas.  Telefonica isn’t alone in trying to recoup some of its
property investments.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , once the world’s largest
manufacturer of mobile phones, in December sold its headquarters
-- a 48,000 square-meter glass building overlooking a lake in
Espoo,  Finland  -- for 170 million euros to Exilion Capital and
started a long-term lease.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the second-largest U.S.
telephone company, announced a plan today to sell or lease out
about half the space in its Manhattan headquarters, part of a
move to consolidate the company’s operations and cut costs.  Telefonica Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta last year
sold assets including its call-center business Atento and
holdings in Germany and  China , reversing a decade-long strategy
based on acquisitions. The phone company, whose net debt reached
51.3 billion euros at the end of 2012, sold a 40 percent stake
in its Central American assets last month. It has a target to
cut 4.3 billion euros in net debt this year.  Telefonica plans to sell shares of its Colombian division
as early as this year, people familiar with the matter said last
month. Other assets on a list of potential businesses for sale
include the company’s Irish and Czech divisions, as well as a
minority stake in  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762) , people familiar
with the matter have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  