-- EMC Introduces ViPR Storage Software to Manage Multiple Devices
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-05-06T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/emc-introduces-vipr-storage-software-to-manage-multiple-devices.html
EMC Corp. (EMC) , the world’s biggest maker
of storage computers, is introducing software that makes it
easier to manage and automate its own data-storage devices and
those made by competitors such as  NetApp Inc. (NTAP)   Called ViPR, the product uses an idea called software-
defined storage in which the program acts like a universal
remote control, providing a common way to operate different
machines, said Jeremy Burton, an EMC executive vice president.
ViPR will also let users manage so-called object storage, which
is better suited for many new Internet applications.  EMC, which last month reported first-quarter earnings that
trailed analysts’ estimates, is working to find new ways to
profit from the storage market as companies slow purchases,
particularly of more expensive products. Customers who use EMC
machines and also those from NetApp and commodity, unbranded
hardware from  Asia , are looking for software that lets them
easily manage rapidly expanding stores of information.  The company is showing ViPR at its EMC World conference in
 Las Vegas  this month and it will be available in the second half
of the year.  To build ViPR, EMC hired Amitabh Srivastava, who previously
led  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Azure cloud software and oversaw Windows
operating system engineering efforts. ViPR needed to be similar
to an operating system, which allows users to add devices like
printers from various manufacturers in a common and consistent
way, Burton said.  Virtualization Software  It also borrows from the virtualization software technology
dominated by  VMware Inc. (VMW) , which is majority-owned by EMC. That
software allows companies to manage a pool of available servers
and easily assign an application to use certain parts of the
server. Users can also move applications or expand them to more
server space.  It’s a shift for EMC to focus this effort so much on
software, said Burton. Typically EMC has sold programs with
these kinds of capabilities only bundled with its own machines.
Burton said more and more customers have data centers with
multiple kinds of boxes, particularly as companies like Google
Inc. and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  buy commodity machines.  “This is a pretty aggressive move for us to put software
first and foremost in our strategy to manage storage,” he said.
“We think a lot of people will buy the storage and software
together but for the first time you have a choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  