-- Emerging Stocks Rise to Seven-Week High as Malaysia Jumps
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-05-06T21:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/emerging-stocks-advance-to-seven-week-high-as-malaysia-rallies.html
Emerging stocks advanced, sending the
benchmark gauge to a seven-week high, as Malaysian equities
rallied after the ruling coalition won elections to extend its
55-year rule and higher oil fueled gains in energy shares.  UEM Land Holdings Bhd. (ULHB)  surged 13 percent in Kuala Lumpur,
while  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , Malaysia’s second-largest lender
by assets, had its steepest gain since July 2003. The ringgit
climbed the most since 2010. OAO RusHydro, the state-run power
company, jumped 1.3 percent in Moscow. Brazil’s Ibovespa pared
losses as Petroleo Brasileiro SA followed oil higher.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,046.02, the highest level since March 14. Malaysian stocks led
gains among major developing-nation indexes as Najib Razak’s
election may allow him to proceed with plans to narrow the
budget deficit and boost investments. Oil rose as  Syria 
threatened retaliation against  Israel  for an air strike.  “The election results in  Malaysia  were a positive surprise
for investors,” Aldo Perkasa, who helps manage about $2 billion
at PT Mandiri Manajemen Investasi, said by phone from Jakarta.  Eight out of  10 groups  in the emerging-market index rose
today as energy and industrial shares had the biggest gains. The
broad gauge has lost 0.9 percent this year, compared with an 11
percent increase in the MSCI World Index of developed-country
stocks. The emerging-markets measure trades at 10.9 times 12-
month  projected  profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 14.4
times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund gained 0.1 percent to $43.58. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
dropped 1 percent to 18.  The Ibovespa fell for the second time in three days as
planemaker Embraer SA led industrial stocks lower after
economists in a central bank survey cut their forecasts for
growth in  Brazil ’s manufacturing output. Petrobras rallied 1.8
percent. Mexico’s IPC Index retreated 0.9 percent.  Russia’s Micex Index rose to an almost one-month high as
RusHydro, the nation’s biggest renewable energy producer,
extended last week’s gain. Benchmark gauges in  Poland , Czech
Republic and  Hungary  rallied. Turkey’s Borsa Istanbul National
100 index added 0.7 percent in a  10th day  of gains.  TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS, Turkey’s biggest airport
operator, dropped a second day after withdrawing from a
government auction to build and operate a facility in Istanbul.
The stock had the biggest decline on the emerging-market index.  Malaysian Stocks  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index rose 3.4 percent, its
steepest increase since November 2008. UEM Land surged the most
since Jan. 6, 2011, and CIMB advanced 9.7 percent in Kuala
Lumpur after Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a report the stocks
will benefit from the polls results.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong jumped 1.4 percent and the Shanghai
Composite Index added 1.2 percent. The  yuan  fell in Hong Kong’s
offshore market by the most in 15 months and the onshore spot
rate retreated from a 19-year high as  China  stepped up scrutiny
of cash transfers from abroad.  India ’s S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  rose 0.5 percent as Reliance
Industries Ltd. climbed the most since Feb. 20. Korea’s Kospi
Index declined 0.2 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slid three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 267 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  