-- Merkel Hopes Germany to Tackle EU Carbon Market Fix by Autumn
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-05-06T13:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/merkel-hopes-germany-to-tackle-eu-carbon-market-fix-by-autumn.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
slower-than-expected growth in the European Union has dragged
down the price of permits in the bloc’s emissions trading
system.  Merkel said she hoped Germany would be able to tackle a
draft plan to bolster prices in the EU carbon market no later
than the autumn. Merkel made the comments on the EU proposal,
known as backloading, at a climate conference in Berlin today.  On growth rates and backloading:  “Because of falling growth rates, CO2 emissions in Europe
haven’t seen the increase we projected. That’s good on the one
hand, but it’s not good for what we have devised as a market-
based system, for the trade of CO2 emissions certificates. And
now a discussion has started on backloading. Should one now
revise the expectations one has made, or should one, because
it’s a market-based system, let market forces prevail to then
see what price results? I personally say that if you develop a
system for which projected growth rates are a key element, and
the growth rates are totally different from what you projected,
then the question whether one has to revise that can’t be a
taboo.”  On EU leadership in the fight against global warming:  “I think it’s completely inappropriate to say  Europe 
doesn’t lead on climate protection anymore because the European
Parliament decided narrowly against backloading. Europe does a
lot, Europe will continue to do a lot and our problem outside of
Europe is rather why we’re doing everything alone and, at the
same time, are in a difficult economic situation.”  On Germany’s position on backloading:  “Once we have more clarity in Germany how we want to price
CO2 emissions; once we have more clarity as to how the expansion
of renewable energy sources will proceed, what the bill for our
power-grid expansion will be; and once we also have more clarity
on the European level about what will be accepted as exemptions
for our industry and what won’t; then I believe that German
industry’s willingness to move on the issue will grow.”  “I believe that we have a good chance by autumn at the
latest to get to a better solution for our German problems. Then
 Germany  will also have a chance to tackle the backloading issue
as a whole. That’s what I’m hoping for. But at the moment,
that’s not possible against the entire force of the German
economy.”  On the EU carbon market:  “In my view, the only time it’s legitimate to change
something is when assumptions don’t become reality -- in other
words, economic growth. We can start there. But if we were to
arouse suspicion of manipulation, of setting the CO2 price
according to our political wishes, then we’d discredit the
entire instrument.”  “If we arrive at a new design, we’ll have to make clear
that the entire CO2 trading system depends on growth rates. That
means we have to speak more openly about it, the good as well as
the bad. When the economy shrinks we may have to remove more CO2
amounts; when it grows, we may also have to regulate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net 
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  