-- Merkel’s FDP Coalition Ally Draws Election Battle Lines on Taxes
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-05-06T05:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/merkel-s-fdp-coalition-ally-draws-election-battle-lines-on-taxes.html
Germany ’s Free Democratic Party backed
the euro and rejected tax increases, aligning its election
platform with  Chancellor Angela Merkel  in a bid to stay her
junior coalition ally for four more years.  Delegates at a three-day convention in Nuremberg that ended
yesterday heard Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, the party’s
head, endorse a renewed alliance with Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union bloc. Polls suggest the FDP isn’t assured of
returning to parliament in the Sept. 22 vote. Three national
polls show the party’s support at as low as 4 percent, below the
5 percent threshold for seats in the chamber.  “You can see in  France  how a Socialist government sets off
an economic downturn and a dramatic rise in unemployment by
raising taxes,”  Rainer Bruederle , the FDP floor leader in
parliament, said in an interview on ARD television yesterday.
“We don’t want to go down that road in Germany.”  As Merkel seeks a third term on her handling of the euro
area’s debt crisis, the FDP platform indicates ideological
battle lines are being drawn after the opposition Social
Democrats and Greens said they would raise income taxes and
impose a levy on assets in  Europe ’s biggest economy.  FDP convention delegates joined Merkel in rejecting the
Social Democrats’ labor-backed call for a national  minimum wage 
and said it wouldn’t raise taxes if re-elected. That matches
positions laid out by Merkel in an April 26 speech to family
entrepreneurs in which she said the FDP is her preferred third-
term partner.  ‘Strong Europe’  Roesler said the FDP, which flirted with an anti-euro
stance at the peak of the debt crisis, stands behind the 17-
nation currency and wants “a strong Europe.” Germany is the
biggest single contributor to euro-area bailouts.  “To throw out our joint currency out of nostalgia or a
yearning for the allegedly good old times is madness,” Roesler
said in a speech at the FDP convention on May 4.  While Merkel beats Social Democratic challenger Peer Steinbrueck in popularity ratings, polls suggest neither her
coalition nor a Social Democrat-Greens alliance would have
enough voter support to form a government if the election were
held now. That may lead Merkel to seek a rerun of her first-term
coalition with the  Social Democrats  that included Steinbrueck as
finance minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  