-- Merkel Urges Nations to Reach Binding Climate Deal in Two Years
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-05-06T13:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/merkel-urges-nations-to-reach-binding-climate-deal-in-two-years.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
world leaders must do more to come to a binding global agreement
to cut  greenhouse gases  by 2015 as inaction would increase the
costs of  climate change .  Even if industrialized nations were to stop emitting carbon
dioxide tomorrow, the world would miss its target to keep
warming to no more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit) from pre-industrial levels, Merkel said at a climate
conference today in Berlin.  “The path toward a real fight against climate change is
complicated,” Merkel told delegates from 35 countries,
including the U.S., China, the U.K. and  Russia . “Doing nothing
means that we face much, much greater costs.”  Delegates from more than 190 states are working toward a
new pact on limiting emissions in 2015 that would take effect in
2020 in United Nations-mandated negotiations. They’re seeking to
replace the  Kyoto Protocol , which was adopted in 1997 and limits
greenhouse gas pollution from industrial nations.  Nations will meet again later this year for the annual
round of talks involving environment ministers and heads of
state and government, starting in November in Warsaw. Germany
seeks to help the Polish government in its attempt to make
“visible and clear” progress at the Warsaw summit, German
Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  said at the same conference.  Global emissions in 2020 will be at least 52 billion metric
tons of CO2 equivalent, or 18 percent more than the 44 billion-
ton limit needed to meet the 2 degrees target, the UN said in a
report on Nov. 21.  Slowing Deforestation  While  Brazil  has slowed deforestation, Saudi Arabia is
pushing solar energy and  California  introduced a cap-and-trade
program, the many single initiatives should form an
“irreversible stream” that increases the pressure on nations
to reach a deal by 2015, Merkel said.  U.S. emissions and energy costs are falling because of the
country’s shale gas boom, Merkel said.  “The use of natural gas alone, however, won’t be enough in
the very long run regarding the U.S. CO2 emissions,” Merkel
said. “We also need the expansion of renewable energies.”  The European Union should adopt 2030 climate protection
targets and industrialized nations must do more to reach the
$100 billion in aid a year they’ve pledged for climate projects
by 2020, Merkel said. Rich nations and UN organizations should
help  developing countries  file aid applications to get money
flowing, she said.  “It’s a long way from the commitment to give funds to the
point where the money arrives at where projects are being
done,” Merkel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  