-- Terra Firma’s Deutsche Annington Said to Aim for Pre-July IPO
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-05-06T14:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/terra-firma-s-deutsche-annington-said-to-aim-for-pre-july-ipo.html
Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG,
 Germany ’s largest residential landlord, has chosen banks to
market its initial public offering with the aim of listing
shares by the end of next month, three people with knowledge of
the matter said.  The company, owned by  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd., chose  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Kempen &
Co. and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  among its syndicate members, two of
the people said. The precise timing of the share sale hasn’t yet
been set, they said. All three people asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  Terra Firma, which founded Deutsche Annington in 2001, is
trying to take advantage of a German property stock rally that
may be petering out. LEG Immobilien AG, a German competitor
formerly owned by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., raised about 1.3
billion euros in a February share sale that was the largest in
the country’s real estate industry.  Deutsche Annington, based in Bochum, owns 186,000
apartments in cities including Berlin and Cologne. The company
chose  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to manage its IPO,
two people with knowledge of the decision said in February.  Spokesmen for Terra Firma and Deutsche Bank declined to
comment. Deutsche Annington, Commerzbank or Kempen did not
respond to requests for comment.  The  FTSE EPRA/Nareit index of German property stocks  gained
19 percent in the past 12 months. That includes a 1.5 percent
decline since the beginning of the year.  LEG’s Decline  LEG has lost 4 percent of its  share price  since its IPO.
Before that deal, Goldman’s Whitehall Street Real Estate fund
owned about 95 percent of the company.  Annington owns more than twice as many apartments as  LEG (LEG) ,
though its share sale will probably be smaller because of higher
debt, said Torsten Klingner, an analyst at Warburg Research.
Annington’s apartments are valued at about 2.7 billion euros
excluding debt, he estimated.  On March 5, Terra Firma founder Guy Hands said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television the company may sell as much
as 40 percent of the company in the IPO. Terra Firma will
probably sell all of its stock within two years, Hands said in
the interview. A 40 percent share sale would raise about 1.1
billion euros, Klingner said.  In December, Deutsche Annington completed the refinancing
of about 3.8 billion euros of debt used to fund acquisitions. It
was  Europe ’s largest commercial mortgage-backed security
restructuring.  Under the terms of the agreement, 1 billion euros must be
repaid this year and 700 million euros is due in 2014. Deutsche
Annington has already raised 700 million euros toward the 2013
maturity. Deutsche Annington must also repay 1.4 billion euros
of the debt before paying any dividends, a person with knowledge
of the matter said in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  