-- Mersch Says ECB Must Be Mindful About Limits of Monetary Policy
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-05-06T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/mersch-says-ecb-must-be-mindful-about-limits-of-monetary-policy.html
Executive Board member Yves Mersch
said European Central Bank policy makers need to realize they
can’t fix the region’s economic crisis by themselves.  “The Executive Board and the Governing Council need to be
mindful about the limits of what can be asked of monetary
policy, what can be asked of central banks and what must not be
asked,” Mersch said in a speech in Luxembourg today. “Equally
though, other policy areas need to be mindful -– and be reminded
-– of their respective responsibilities for the stewardship of
the euro.”  The ECB cut  interest rates  to a record low of  0.5 percent 
last week to rekindle growth in the 17-nation euro area and
President  Mario Draghi  signaled borrowing costs could decline
further if the economic outlook deteriorates. The Frankfurt-
based ECB started to consult with European institutions on ways
to improve the credit flow to small and medium-sized
enterprises.  “One example of the need for action in the respective
domains to help unclog specific transmission and funding
channels concerns impediments to SME funding and possible
measures to re-activate securitization markets,” Mersch said,
according to the text of his speech distributed by the ECB.  “The latter may be impaired by a combination of
unwarranted stigma due to the fallout from the U.S. subprime
crisis, by stringent regulatory requirements and by a range of
structural and practical factors,” he said. “These have to be
addressed primarily outside the realm of  monetary policy , even
if the latter could potentially perform a catalytical role in
some circumstances.”  Banking Union  Mersch also said that the regulation for a single bank
supervisor “is nearing adoption subject to the necessary
parliamentary approvals in a number of jurisdictions,” and a
draft regulation for a single resolution mechanism is expected
from the European Commission in the coming months.  “While a common fiscal backstop is needed for the SRM,
resolution funds could come from the private sector, namely the
financial industry and the banks eligible for the SRM,” Mersch
said. “To achieve fiscal neutrality this could be done via
private sector pre-funding or via a mechanism that would re-
reimburse any loans from the SRM ex post via a bank levy. In
this way recourse to taxpayer funds could be limited and remain
temporary for the SRM.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  