-- Messi’s Black-Market Rate Seen in Peso Dumping: Argentina Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-06T19:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/messi-s-black-market-rate-seen-in-peso-dumping-argentina-credit.html
The surge in demand for dollars in
 Argentina  that increased the black-market price to a record 10
pesos per dollar is causing banks to ratchet up deposit rates as
they try to lure back savers.  The interest that banks pay for 30-day deposits of more
than 1 million pesos, known as the  badlar , has climbed 0.81
percentage points to 15.69 percent since March 18, when the
government raised a tax on credit-card purchases abroad. The
decision helped propel the badlar rate to the fastest two-month
increase since February.  While the nation’s deposit rates are highest in the world,
the amount of money kept at banks is heading to the first
monthly drop since October 2011 as savers try to skirt President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s currency controls and inflation
estimated at 24 percent. Argentines are paying a 90 percent
premium over the official rate to get dollars, pushing the
black-market rate to 9.98 pesos on May 3 and toward a level
traders are calling the “Messi dollar” after Argentine soccer
player  Lionel Messi , whose jersey number is 10.  “There’s no reason why this will stop at the so-called
Messi dollar,”  Fausto Spotorno , an economist at Orlando
Ferreres & Asociados research company, said in a telephone
interview in  Buenos Aires . “The government’s policy with the
dollar is the same as with inflation. They hope that by not
talking about it, the problem will go away but the effect is the
opposite, it gets worse.”  Inflation Shield  Economy ministry press official Norma Madeo didn’t respond
to a telephone message form Bloomberg seeking comment on the
increase in deposit rates and the black  currency market .  Messi, a 25-year-old striker who has been named the best
soccer player for a record four-consecutive years, plays for the
Argentine national team and Barcelona in  Spain .  In an attempt to curb capital flight, Fernandez in July
banned Argentines from buying dollars except for travel and the
country’s tax agency must approve any foreign exchange purchase.
On March 18, the government raised the tax on credit and debit
card purchases abroad to 20 percent from 15 percent.  Argentines are buying dollars through the black market,
known as the “blue” market locally, or through the blue-chip
swap, a process where investors buy securities locally and sell
them in the U.S., because of the limited investment alternatives
to shield pesos from inflation. The central bank’s administered
devaluation of the official rate has weakened the peso 15
percent over the last 12 months.  Swap Rate  The  exchange rate  implied from the blue-chip swap market,
which is legal, weakened 0.2 percent to a record 9.4365 at 4:40
p.m. in Buenos Aires, according to a Bloomberg index that
calculates the difference in price of Argentina’s eight-most
traded stocks, including  Tenaris SA (TEN)  and YPF SA and their
American depositary receipts in the U.S. The black market rate
gained 0.1 percent to 9.87, according to Ambito.com.  The parallel rates will keep climbing because the
government has signaled it will continue implementing currency
controls to address the declining value of the peso instead of
reducing inflation while losing dollar reserves that are at a
six-year low of $39.5 billion, according to Jose Luis Espert, an
economist who runs Buenos Aires-based research firm Espert &
Asociados.  “It’s clear that people think the dollar is attractive
even at 9 because of the macroeconomic framework in which we
live,” Espert said in a phone interview. “If the government
keeps frightening people the parallel dollar will continue to
rise, reserves will continue to fall and the economy will not
grow.”  ‘Very Speculative’  Vice President  Amado Boudou  said in a May 3 message posted
on his Twitter account that the black-market dollar is
irrelevant.  “How they exaggerate when talking about the informal
dollar,” he  wrote . “It’s a marginal issue, very speculative,
that has to do with very few Argentines.”  No more than 200,000 people trade in the illegal currency
market, Boudou said May 3, according to Ambito Financiero,
citing a radio interview with La Red.  Savers withdrawing their pesos from their  bank deposits , in
part to go to the black market, pushed the badlar last week to a
four-month high of 15.69 percent.  That rate is just half the inflationary expectations of
Argentines surveyed by Torcuato Di Tella University who see
prices rising 30 percent over the next year. The government,
whose statistics have been questioned by the  International
Monetary Fund , says annual  inflation  was 10.6 percent in April.  Low Rates  It’s unlikely that the government will allow the rate to
rise much further as it seeks to boost consumption by keeping
borrowing costs below inflation, according to Former Economy
Minister  Domingo Cavallo , who in 1991 tied the peso rate to the
dollar at one-to-one, a policy that lasted until 2002.  “The government has dismissed monetary policy as a tool
against inflation and wants to avoid at all costs further
cooling of economic activity,” Cavallo posted in his blog May
3. “The government has vowed never to have deposit rates that
are higher than inflation.”  Fernandez says Argentina’s economy is growing even as
economic activity in  Brazil , its biggest trade partner, slows
thanks to increased  government spending  on social programs and
policies aimed at stimulating consumption.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of Treasuries narrowed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1,200 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  No Ceiling  The peso in the official market is forecast to weaken 10
percent by year-end, according to 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, the biggest decline in the world. Still, the gap with
the parallel exchange rates signals the peso is at least 90
percent overvalued.  While an increase in the deposit rates may draw some pesos
into the banking system, the government needs to cut spending,
reduce  money supply  and attract foreign investment for
Argentines to gain confidence in the peso, said  Jorge Todesca , a
former deputy economy minister, who now runs Buenos Aires-based
research firm Finsoport.  “Higher  interest rates  only work in the short term,” he
said in a telephone interview from Buenos Aires. “People
distrust the peso because there’s persistent inflation, peso
printing to finance the deficit and limited supply of dollars.
There’s no way to know what the ceiling is for the dollar right
now, because there is none.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  