-- EU Leaders to Seek Energy-Price Analysis at Summit in Brussels
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-05-06T15:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/eu-leaders-to-seek-energy-price-analysis-at-summit-in-brussels.html
European Union leaders this month will
probably call on the bloc’s regulator to study how energy prices
are affecting  Europe ’s competitiveness and what response is
needed.  Prime ministers and presidents from the 27-nation EU may
ask the European Commission to present an analysis of the
“composition and drivers” of energy costs and prices by the
end of 2014, according to draft guidelines for the conclusions
of a  May 22 summit  in Brussels. Leaders may request a study of
“possible action to help alleviate effects” on European
industry, according to the document.  Leaders are set to discuss issues such as diversification
of energy supplies, including progress in the deployment of
renewable-energy technologies and exploitation of unconventional
sources of energy. Talks are due to raise the issue of internal
energy market legislation, which the bloc aims to complete by
2014, and “urgent” enactment of market liberalization rules
for natural gas and electricity, according to the document.  EU nations may call on the commission to propose rules “in
due time” on climate and energy after 2020, according to the
document. The bloc’s regulatory arm in March began debate on a
framework for renewables, energy efficiency and greenhouse-gas
reduction targets for 2030 and aims to present draft legislation
toward the end of this year.  Tax fraud and tax evasion concerns also are on the leaders’
agenda, with an eye toward revisiting the topic in December, the
document showed. Discussion areas include negotiations with non-
EU countries, automatic international information exchange and
updates to the EU’s savings tax accord.  France and  Italy  want the EU to commit to considering its
own list of non-cooperative jurisdictions on tax issues,
according to a second planning document. This document, prepared
for finance ministers to consider next week ahead of the May
leaders’ summit, said it’s not clear whether the prospect of a
list will win endorsement from other nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  