-- Europe Gauge Shows Contraction as Retail Sales Decline
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-06T09:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/euro-area-services-manufacturing-shrink-less-than-estimated.html
Euro-area services and manufacturing
output shrank for a 15th straight month in April and retail
sales fell in March as the 17-nation economy struggled to emerge
from recession.  A composite index based  on a survey  of purchasing managers
in the manufacturing and services industries increased to 46.9
last month from 46.5 in March, London-based Markit Economics
said in a report today. While above an initial estimate of 46.5
published on April 23, it was still below 50, indicating
contraction. Retail sales declined for a second month in March,
another report showed.  The euro-area economy will shrink more than previously
estimated in 2013 as part of a two-year slump that has pushed
unemployment to a record high, the European Commission said on
May 3. The  European Central Bank  last week reduced its key
interest rate to an all-time low after confidence was shaken by
political turmoil in  Italy  and a bailout of Cyprus.  “The financial markets appear to have  survived  the
government debt crisis, but the leading economic indicators have
recently declined,” said  Joerg Kraemer , chief economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . There is “a significant risk that,
contrary to analysts’ expectations, the economy will not pick up
in the spring,” he said.  Stocks Decline  The euro pulled off its lows against the  U.S. dollar  after
the PMI data. The European currency traded at $1.3107 at 11 a.m.
in Brussels, down 0.1 percent on the day, after trading as low
as $1.3093 earlier. The European stocks fell, with the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index down 0.1 percent.  The euro-area services PMI rose to 47 in April from 46.4 in
March, improving on an initial estimate of 46.6. Still, the
 manufacturing PMI  released on May 2 showed the industry
contracted for a 21st straight month in April, with the gauge
declining to 46.7 from 46.8 in March.  Today’s report “suggests that, having eased in the first
quarter of the year, the euro zone’s economic downturn is likely
to have gathered momentum again in the second quarter,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said in the report. “The
PMI is broadly consistent with GDP falling at a quarterly rate
of 0.4 percent to 0.5 percent in April.”  Retail Sales  Euro-area retail sales fell 0.1 percent in March after a
0.2 percent drop in February, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said in a separate report today.  The euro economy has contracted for  five quarters  and the
trend is forecast to continue into 2013. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey published on April 11 estimated that euro-zone
gross domestic product shrank 0.1 percent in the first quarter.
The GDP data are due on May 15.  Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,  Europe ’s largest airline, said on May
3 that it was operating in a “difficult and uncertain
environment” and refrained from giving an earnings outlook.
Carrefour SA,  France ’s biggest retailer, on April 18 reported
weaker first-quarter sales amid cold weather and slow
consumption in Europe.  Growth in  China ’s  services industry  slowed in April,
according to a separate report compiled by Markit. The HSBC
China Services PMI fell to 51.1 last month from 54.3 in March.
The April reading is the lowest since August 2011.  Asian Data  Elsewhere in  Asia , Australian retail sales unexpectedly
fell in March and job advertisements dropped for a second month,
sending the currency lower as traders see a 50-50 chance the
central bank will resume cutting  interest rates  tomorrow.  Indonesia’s economy grew at the slowest pace in more than
two years last quarter as weaker exports and  government spending 
countered gains in consumption and investment.  In Europe, the Brussels-based commission now forecasts
euro-area GDP will fall 0.4 percent this year, compared with a
February prediction of a 0.3 percent drop. That would follow a
0.6 percent contraction in 2012 and shows the currency bloc
headed for its first back-to-back years of falling output since
the euro made its debut in 1999.  Unemployment is expected to climb to 12.2 percent in 2013
from 11.4 percent last year, according to the commission’s May 3
forecasts.  The weakness in Europe’s economy prompted the ECB’s
Governing Council to cut its  benchmark rate  on May 2 to a record
low 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent, the first rate reduction
since July last year. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the risks
to the economic outlook for the region are “on the downside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  