-- Yen Gains as Traders Bet Recent Selling Overdone; Aussie Tumbles
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-05-07T09:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/euro-holds-loss-versus-dollar-as-europe-s-factories-seen-slowing.html
The yen strengthened for the first
time in four days versus the dollar as investors bet losses that
brought it to within 0.6 percent of 100 against the U.S.
currency were overdone.  The Australian dollar fell against all 16 of its major
counterparts after the central bank cut interest rates to a
record low. The dollar halted its longest streak in more than
two weeks which has been sustained by better-than-expected U.S.
payrolls data. The euro was little changed against the greenback
before data forecast to show factory orders in  Europe ’s biggest
economy declined in March. Sweden’s krona advanced on better-
than-forecast industrial production data.  “We’re around the 100-yen mark again and I think it’s
inevitably forming a lasting line of resistance,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist at Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp.
in  London . “Dollar-yen hasn’t been able to get a foothold above
that level. There’s a very good chance we could get this
oscillation we’ve been seeing since the middle of April for the
foreseeable future.”  The yen gained 0.2 percent to 99.13 per dollar at 10:56
a.m. London time after depreciating 2 percent in the past three
sessions. It reached 99.95 on April 11, the weakest level since
April 2009. The Japanese currency appreciated 0.3 percent to
129.55 per euro. Europe’s shared currency was little changed at
$1.3072 from yesterday, when it slid 0.3 percent.  Japanese markets reopened today following a four-day
holiday weekend.  Labor Report  The yen weakened beyond 99 per dollar for the first time
since April 26 on May 3, when U.S. Labor Department data showed
payrolls expanded by a greater-than-forecast 165,000 workers
last month and the jobless rate unexpectedly declined to 7.5
percent. The currency touched 99.45 yesterday.  “The wall between 99 and 100 yen per dollar is very thick,
and we need some additional drivers to reach 100,” said  Marito Ueda , the senior managing director at  FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a
currency-margin company in  Tokyo . “While last week’s payrolls
report was strong, investors want to know if the  U.S. economy 
will strengthen further from here.”  The yen has fallen more than 20 percent in the past six
months, the most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollar has risen 1.3
percent and the euro has gained 4 percent.  Aussie Rates  The so-called Aussie fell for a second day after the
 Reserve Bank  cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 25 basis points,
or 0.25 percentage point, to 2.75 percent. The move was
predicted by eight of the 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank “judged that a further decline in the
cash rate was appropriate to encourage sustainable growth in the
economy,” Governor  Glenn Stevens  said. “Recent data on prices
confirm that inflation is consistent with the target and, if
anything, a little lower than expected.”  The Aussie dollar fell 0.8 percent to $1.0171 after
touching $1.0165, the weakest level since March 4.  The “Aussie is unsurprisingly under the hammer,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in
 Hong Kong . “We look now to Friday’s statement on monetary
policy to gauge how far inflation and growth forecasts have been
cut.”  Demand for the euro was capped before a report that
economists said will show German  factory orders  fell in March.
Orders slid 0.5 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Separate data showed French  industrial production 
contracted 0.9 percent in March, according to national
statistics office Insee, more than the estimated 0.3 percent
decline forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Draghi Comments  “We will be looking at all the data that arrives from the
euro-area economy in the coming weeks and, if necessary, we are
ready to act again,” European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  said yesterday after the ECB cut its benchmark rate to a
record-low 0.5 percent last week. He said policy makers had an
open mind on a negative deposit rate.  “The euro will probably continue to grind lower,” said
Yuki Sakasai, a foreign-exchange strategist at Barclays Plc in
New York. “As Draghi noted, the economic data will be key going
forward. Europe is likely to underperform the U.S.”  Sweden’s strengthened as reports showed a recovery in
industrial production in March, reducing pressure on the central
bank to lower interest rates. Production was unchanged from a
year earlier, compared with an estimated 0.5 percent decline in
a Bloomberg survey. Orders soared 11.2 percent from a year
earlier.  The krona appreciated 0.3 percent to 6.5307 per dollar. It
also gained 0.3 percent against the euro to 8.5388.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 