-- European Stocks Little Changed Near 2008 High; GDF Drops
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-05-06T16:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-linde-may-move.html
European stocks  were little changed
near a five-year high as services and manufacturing output
shrank for a 15th month while European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said policy makers are ready to cut interest rates
if needed.  GDF Suez SA led a gauge of utilities lower, dropping 1.5
percent. Linde AG rallied the most in eight months after the
German industrial-gas maker reported quarterly profit that beat
analysts’ estimates. Celesio AG climbed the most since 2011
after Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH said it won’t sell its stake in
the drug wholesaler.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped less than 0.1 percent to
300.97 at the close of trading, having earlier fallen 0.2
percent. Volume was 67 percent less than the 30-day average as
markets in the U.K., Ireland and  Greece  were closed for
holidays, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The thing that is crystal clear in the U.K., the U.S. and
in Europe is a rotation into defensive sectors, which is one
clue that the  bull market  itself is a little bit tired and is
looking to pause for breath,” Simon Goodfellow, founder of
Harlyn Research LLP, told Anna Edwards on Bloomberg Television
in  London . “We’re due for an injection of macro-political risk
at some stage in the next few months. I’d be very surprised if
we didn’t get that.”  The Stoxx 600 closed at the highest level since June 2008
last week as the  European Central Bank  cut interest rates and a
U.S. jobs report bolstered confidence in the world’s largest
economy. The gauge has advanced 7.6 percent this year.  European Economy  Euro-area services and factory  output  shrank for a 15th
straight month in April. A composite index based on a survey of
purchasing managers in both industries rose to 46.9 from 46.5 in
March, London-based Markit Economics said today in a final
reading. Figures below 50 signal a contraction.  Retail sales  in the region fell 0.1 percent in March after
a revised 0.2 percent drop in February, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said in a separate report.  Stocks pared losses as Draghi said ECB policy makers are
ready to cut  interest rates  again if needed after reducing them
to a record low last week.  “We will be looking at all the data that arrives from the
euro-area economy in the coming weeks and if necessary, we are
ready to act again,” Draghi said in a speech in  Rome  today.
“ Monetary policy  will remain accommodative.”  Options Market  Bearish options on an exchange-traded fund that derives
most of its value from European equities are trading at the
lowest prices in more than four years, a sign investors are
confident the sovereign-debt crisis will recede.  Puts protecting against a 10 percent drop in the iShares
MSCI EAFE Index Fund cost 5.79 points more than calls betting on
a 10 percent increase on May 3, according to three-month data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest since October 2008.  National benchmark indexes climbed in eight of the 15
western European markets open today.  France ’s CAC 40 lost 0.2
percent, while  Germany ’s DAX declined 0.1 percent.  A  gauge of utilities  sank the most of the 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx 600 as GDF Suez,  Europe ’s largest utility,
lost 1.5 percent to 16.49 euros in Paris trading.  Air France-KLM Group fell 4.3 percent to 7.31 euros for the
biggest decline in the Stoxx 600. Europe’s largest airline sank
4.5 percent on May 3 after reporting a loss.  Rheinmetall AG, the maker of armored military vehicles,
slipped 1.5 percent to 37 euros in  Frankfurt  after Bankhaus
Metzler downgraded the shares to sell from buy.  Linde Gains  Linde rose 2.8 percent to 146.75 euros, the largest gain
since Sept. 6. Operating profit climbed 13 percent to 953
million euros ($1.3 billion) in the first quarter as recently-
acquired Lincare Holdings Inc. doubled sales of gases in  North
America , the German company said. That beat the 935 million-euro
average prediction in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Celesio jumped 7.1 percent to 16.33 euros, the biggest
advance since August 2011. Haniel, the Duisburg, Germany-based
investment company, isn’t selling part of its  50 percent holding 
in the German drug wholesaler, spokesman Dietmar Borchert said
today. Platow Brief had earlier reported a possible sale to CVS
Caremark Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  