-- European Investor Sentiment Rises Amid Italian Government
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-05-06T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/european-investor-sentiment-rises-amid-italian-government.html
European investor confidence rose in
May after a two-month political stalemate in  Italy  came to an
end and the European Central Bank cut interest rates to a record
low, the Sentix research institute said.  An  index  measuring sentiment in the euro area rose to minus
15.6 from minus 17.3 in April, the Limburg, Germany-based
institute said in an e-mailed statement. That’s the first gain
in three months. Economists had predicted an increase to minus
15.2, according to the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg
News  survey . A gauge of economic expectations jumped to 2.8 from
0.5, while a measure of current conditions rose to minus 32.2
from minus 33.5.  Enrico Letta was sworn in as Italy’s prime minister last
month after inconclusive elections in February had left the
country with a hung Parliament. Letta has sealed an alliance
with former premier Silvio Berlusconi, resurrecting the
coalition that stood behind Letta’s predecessor, Mario Monti.  “The improvement in investor sentiment comes against the
background that Italy has been able to form a government,” said
 Sebastian Wanke , an economist at Sentix. Another “decisive
factor for the change in confidence is the continuation of a
loose monetary policy by the European Central Bank,” he said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB last week cut its benchmark
interest rate to a record low of 0.5 percent and President Mario Draghi said the ECB will continue to lend banks as much money as
they need at least through mid-2014.  Confidence in  Germany  fell to 15.2 in May from 17.6. While
sentiment in  Europe ’s largest economy is “much better” than in
the rest of the euro area, the drop points to a “long-overdue
narrowing of the gap” between Germany and the rest of the 17-
nation currency bloc, Sentix said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  