-- European Soccer’s Finance Rules Challenged by Bosman Lawyer
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-05-06T17:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/european-soccer-s-financial-rules-challenged-by-bosman-lawyer.html
European soccer ruling body  UEFA ’s
regulation that big-spending teams such as  Manchester City  and
Chelsea must come close to breaking even is being challenged by
lawyer Jean-Louis Dupont, who successfully overturned rules on
player transfers in 1995.  Dupont is representing Daniel Striani, a Brussels-based
player agent who lodged a complaint today with the European
Commission, claiming the rule breaks competition law, according
to a statement from Dupont’s office. The complaint also alleges
that the UEFA rules infringe the right to the free movement of
capital, workers and services.  The financial rule planned by UEFA would decrease the
income of agents by reducing the number of players that clubs
hire, and reducing player salaries, according to Dupont’s
statement. Dupont represented player Jean-Marc Bosman in 1995
when he successfully challenged a soccer rule that had enabled
clubs to demand fees for out-of-contract footballers.  UEFA is introducing “financial fair play” rules to stop
clubs outspending rivals on player transfer fees and salaries to
achieve success and prize money. The commission, the European
Union’s antitrust authority, is likely to give special attention
to the complaint because of Dupont’s reputation, according to
Stefaan Van den Bogaert, a professor of EU law at Leiden
University in the Netherlands.  “My first hunch is that there isn’t a restraint of
competition law,” Van den Bogaert said by phone. “Any effect
on player agents is too remote.”  Soccer ‘Viability’  The UEFA rules “encourage clubs to ‘live within their own
means,’ which is a sound economic principle aiming to guarantee
the long-term sustainability and viability of European
football,” Nyon, Switzerland-based UEFA said in an e-mailed
statement. “UEFA believes that financial fair play is fully in
line with EU law and is confident that the European Commission
will reject this complaint.”  Under the breakeven rule, clubs with a loss of more than 5
million euros ($6.5 million) last season or this season risk
exclusion from next season’s Champions League and Europa League.
Clubs can have a loss of up to 45 million euros a season if
shareholders cover the loss. The UEFA regulations don’t apply to
domestic championships.  In March 2012, EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
backed UEFA’s initiative to stop clubs overspending, saying the
rules were “essential for clubs to have a solid financial
foundation.”  The commission has received the complaint and will assess
it, the Brussels-based regulator said by e-mail today.
Manchester City, the 2012 champion, is owned by Sheikh Mansour
bin Zayed Al Nahyan and Chelsea is controlled by Russian
billionaire  Roman Abramovich . Other big-spending teams include
French league leader Paris Saint-Germain, which is owned by the
Qatar Investment Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  