-- Mexico Battles Brazil for Clout Via WTO Top Job as Economy Grows
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-05-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/mexico-battles-brazil-for-clout-via-wto-top-job-as-economy-grows.html
Latin America ’s two largest nations
are vying for economic and diplomatic clout as their candidates
face off as finalists to head the  World Trade Organization .  The WTO is scheduled to name by May 8 the first director-
general from Latin America in its 18-year history. It will
choose between Roberto Azevedo,  Brazil (BZGDGDP4) ’s representative to the
Geneva-based group, and Herminio Blanco, a former Mexico trade
minister who led the nation’s negotiations for the  North
American Free Trade Agreement  with the U.S. and Canada. The
winner will replace the outgoing WTO chief, France’s Pascal Lamy, in September.  The race is a contest for diplomatic prowess as Mexico
draws on its faster growth and more open economy to fortify its
candidate, said  Michael Shifter , president of  Inter-American
Dialogue  in Washington. Analysts polled by Bloomberg forecast
Mexico will  outgrow  its southern peer for the third straight
year in 2013, reversing a trend that allowed Brazil to pull
ahead as the region’s largest market in 2005.  “There’s rivalry and competition there,” Shifter said by
telephone from Washington. “Mexico is feeling very confident.
As they seek to gain more international clout, Brazil is on
their mind.”  The two have opposed each other before as  emerging markets 
push for more say in global forums. Mexico has  balked  at
Brazil’s ambition to represent Latin America through a permanent
seat on the  United Nations Security Council , while Brazil in
2011 endorsed France’s  Christine Lagarde  over Mexican candidate
Agustin Carstens to run the  International Monetary Fund .  Increased Clout  Blanco, 62, said by phone on May 3 from Brussels that his
appointment would be a recognition of Mexico’s increased clout
in the world.  Azevedo, in a telephone interview from Geneva on May 4,
said his long experience in WTO talks would make him
“immediately operational” in helping the group’s members
pursue trade liberalization. “I think I am trusted by members
at all sides of the negotiating table,” said the 55-year-old
diplomat.  Blanco’s selection would give Mexico leadership at two of
the world’s biggest economic groups.  Angel Gurria , the nation’s
former finance minister, became head of the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in 2006.  Opposing Models  Clinching the WTO job would represent not only world
recognition of regional leadership but also a choice between
opposing economic models, said  Christopher Garman , Latin America
director at New York-based consulting firm Eurasia Group, in a
telephone interview from Washington.  While Mexico has cut  import duties  by joining Nafta and the
Pacific Alliance with Chile, Colombia and Peru, Brazil last year
boosted tariffs on 100 goods to protect its manufacturers.
Brazil is a member of Mercosur, a trade zone that includes
Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay and Venezuela and has closed only
minor deals elsewhere, said  Tony Volpon , head of research for
the Americas at Nomura Holdings Inc., in a telephone interview
from New York.  The average tariff applied by Brazil to countries with
most-favored-nation status was 13.7 percent in 2011, compared
with 8.3 percent for Mexico, according to a report published
last year by the WTO.  The U.S. has criticized Brazilian tariff increases, saying
they would “significantly hit” exports to the South American
nation.  Trade Spat  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  rejected the criticism as
absurd, saying “the U.S. has adopted many more protectionist
measures than Brazil.”  Multiplying trade barriers have accompanied slower economic
expansion in Brazil, where growth eased to 0.9 percent last year
from 2.7 percent in 2011. Mexico’s economy expanded more than
four times faster last year, by 3.9 percent, and will outpace
Brazil in 2013 by 3.5 percent to 3.1 percent, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Equity markets tracked the reversing economic fortunes.
Mexico’s IPC stock exchange index gained 43 percent in dollar
terms in the past three years, while Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  index
dropped 20 percent.  Brazil, whose gross domestic product totaled $2.5 trillion
last year, compared with Mexico’s $1.2 trillion, runs the risk
of losing its spot as Latin America’s largest economy by 2022 if
its growth continues to lag that of its rival, said Nomura’s
Volpon.  Middle Class  From 2005 to 2010, Brazil grew at more than double Mexico’s
pace, spurred by spending from a growing middle class. Now the
stimulus once provided by  consumer spending  is under threat as
faster inflation reduces purchasing power. Over the three years
through March, Brazil’s  inflation rate  rose 1.4 percentage point
to 6.59 percent, while Mexico’s  dropped  72 basis points to 4.25
percent.  Traders in the credit-default swaps market also have
reversed their bets on the two countries, as the cost of
insuring Brazil’s sovereign bonds has overtaken the price of
insuring Mexico’s since 2010. The swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Insuring Brazilian debt against default for five years in
the swaps market now costs 30 basis points more than insuring
Mexican bonds. At the close of 2010, it cost two basis points
less to insure Brazil sovereigns.  Lobbying Campaigns  Governments from both countries have lobbied for their
candidates. Brazil President  Dilma Rousseff  promoted Azevedo in
her meetings with African presidents during a tour in February,
and her Mexican counterpart, Enrique Pena Nieto, in January
touted Blanco during a summit with European and Latin American
leaders in Santiago. Azevedo can help the WTO relaunch
multilateral trade negotiations, one of its founding principals,
Brazil’s Foreign Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  The decision will be made by the WTO’s General Council
based on consultations with the group’s 159 members.  Both candidates said they would promote a global rather
than Mexican or Brazilian agenda.  A key challenge facing the new WTO head will be deciding
the future of the Doha Round of talks that have been pending for
more than a decade. While discussions initially snagged over
 farm subsidies  in rich nations, the U.S. and the EU have in
recent years demanded that India, China and Brazil reduce
tariffs on manufactured products.  Bond markets probably will have a muted reaction to the WTO
decision and may react slightly more favorably to Blanco given
Mexico’s commitment to free trade,  Enrique Alvarez , head of
Latin America for fixed income research company IDEAglobal, said
by phone from New York.  While having finalists from Latin America says much about
the region’s advances over the past decade, cooperation between
Brazil and Mexico could multiply such gains, Shifter said. “If
they ever got together and had a free-trade agreement, that
could be very powerful,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  