-- Fate of $10 Billion Bank Deals Turns on Indonesia’s DBS Call
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-05-07T01:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/fate-of-10-billion-bank-deals-turns-on-indonesia-s-danamon-call.html
Choi Chang-Sik, the head of  Hana
Financial Group Inc. (086790) ’s Indonesian banking unit, says a takeover
in Southeast  Asia ’s most populous country would be worth paying
top dollar for.  South Korea’s third-largest lender could become one of
 Indonesia ’s 20 biggest banks through a purchase, he estimated,
up from 69th now. “If we pay a big price to acquire a good
bank, I think it pays off,” Choi said in an April 12 interview
in Jakarta, adding that the sentiment reflects his personal
opinion.  Right now, though, there’s one big hurdle to Choi’s
thinking. Indonesian ownership rules introduced last year
stipulate that foreign lenders may be limited to minority
investments in a market where loans are the most profitable
among the 20 biggest economies.  That’s why foreign lenders like Hana are closely watching
an Indonesia central bank ruling on  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ’s
proposed $6.8 billion takeover of PT Bank Danamon Indonesia.
Should the central bank restrict Singapore-based DBS to buying a
40 percent stake rather than the full takeover it is seeking,
other overseas banks may cool on acquisitions in Indonesia, said
Mark Young, the head of Fitch Ratings’ financial institutions
group in the Asia-Pacific region.  “It would make banks sit back and think more carefully
about it,” said Young.  A decision could come within days, Bank Indonesia Governor
Darmin Nasution told reporters in Jakarta yesterday.  Door Left Open  At stake is an estimated $10 billion of deals targeting
Indonesia, according to three investment bankers who asked for
anonymity because they’re not authorized to discuss the matter
publicly. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,  Japan ’s largest
bank by market value, and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the
country’s second biggest, are among lenders that have studied
acquisitions there.  Bankers will be studying the DBS ruling because while
Indonesia’s  central bank  limited initial purchases to 40
percent, it left the door open for buyers who meet criteria for
capital strength to increase their investments over time. The
new regulations came after DBS’s April 2012 announcement of the
Danamon takeover, the biggest-ever bank deal in Indonesia.  ‘No Shortage’  The central bank may approve the DBS deal in full to avoid
hurting Indonesia’s banking industry by choking off foreign
investment, according to Jonathan Foster, Singapore-based
director of special situations at Religare Capital Markets.  “There’s no shortage of people who want to come in, and
there’s potentially no shortage of targets,” said Clifford
Rees, PricewaterhouseCoopers’ head of financial services in
Indonesia. Rees said he gets calls every week from potential
buyers based in Japan,  China ,  South Korea  and  Europe  seeking
deals in the nation of 254 million people.  On March 6, the central bank issued a  circular  signaling a
five-year waiting period before banks can raise their stakes in
rivals above 40 percent, assuming they meet corporate-governance
standards; foreign acquirers must also commit to supporting
Indonesia’s economy by lending to productive sectors, among
other criteria, it said.  Indonesian lenders are the second-most profitable among the
20 biggest economies in the world, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average return on equity is 22.6 percent for the
country’s five banks with a market value of more than $5
billion, the latest available data show. Those lenders boasted
an average net interest margin of 7.3 percent, the best among
the 20 largest economies, the data show.  Sumitomo Mitsui  Potential acquirers are also drawn to an economy estimated
by the  International Monetary Fund  to expand 6.3 percent this
year, the fastest pace in  Southeast Asia . A swelling middle
class and a lower penetration of bank loans than in neighboring
countries like  Malaysia  adds to the attraction. At about 30
percent, Indonesia has the lowest loan to gross domestic product
ratio among major Asian markets, according to a World Bank
 presentation  in February last year.  Indonesia’s attractiveness means some foreign lenders are
unfazed by the new ownership limit. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc., Japan’s second-largest publicly traded bank, is
nearing a deal to buy a stake in Bank Tabungan Pensiunan
Nasional being sold by TPG Capital, people familiar with the
matter said last week.  Financial Crisis  Japanese banks, whose loan margins are the thinnest in
Asia, may be more willing than lenders from other countries to
settle for minority stakes in Indonesia, said Henri Guedeney,
partner at Chicago-based management consulting firm  A.T.
Kearney .  “Some of the Japanese and Korean players are not
necessarily looking at full-fledged ownership, but a strategic
stake to capture the growth or establish joint ventures,”
Guedeney said. “It’s all part of learning the market.”  Until 2012, Indonesia was among few  developing countries  in
Asia that allowed majority acquisitions of local banks, with a
99 percent ceiling. China,  India ,  Thailand  and  Vietnam  restrict
overseas lenders to minority stakes.  Indonesia’s open investment climate was the legacy of the
Asian financial crisis when the nation’s  economy  shrank 13
percent in 1998, and more than 80 banks failed or were
nationalized or recapitalized. Temasek Holdings Pte.,
 Singapore ’s state investment company, Fort Worth, Texas-based
TPG and Farallon Capital Management LLC of  San Francisco  were
among foreign buyers who profited by purchasing local banks that
then multiplied in value.  “In 1998, we simply just sold these banks at a low
price,” Raden Pardede, who was vice president director of the
agency responsible for selling government-held assets, said in
an interview. “The window of opportunity is not always open.”  Capital Ratio  Under the new rules, a foreign acquirer must have at least
a 6 percent Tier 1 capital ratio to qualify for a majority bank
purchase. DBS, Southeast Asia’s largest lender, ended 2012 with
a ratio of 14 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “As a strong financial institution coming from a strong
economy with strong regulators behind it, DBS makes a good
candidate in terms of an acquisition,” said Fitch’s Young. A
decision limiting DBS to 40 percent “would clearly mean that it
may be difficult to acquire majority ownership of an important
bank in Indonesia.”  ‘Punitive’ Deals  DBS is “very reluctant” to buy minority stakes, Chief
Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta  said on May 2, after the bank
 reported  earnings for the three months to March 31. Basel III
rules that require banks to deduct minority investments of 10
percent or more from their capital make such deals “quite
punitive,” DBS finance chief Chng Sok Hui said. By contrast,
majority acquisitions don’t trigger capital deductions.  Buying just a 40 percent stake in Danamon could reduce
DBS’s Tier 1 ratio by 70 basis points, and the deal may take
longer to add to earnings than an all-out acquisition, Krishna
Guha, an analyst at Jefferies Group LLC, wrote in an April 23
research note.  Small Indonesian lenders, meanwhile, are likely to seek
partners as the country introduces stricter capital regulations,
according to Rees of PwC. New rules that take effect this year
bar banks with less than 1 trillion rupiah in capital from
offering electronic banking or conducting foreign-exchange
transactions.  “There are banks out there readying themselves for sale,”
Rees said, adding that there are 10 deals or so of about $100
million each in the works. “All they have to do is wait until
the moment is right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  