-- Fed Loan Officer Survey Says Business Loans Lead Credit Thaw
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-05-06T19:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/fed-loan-officer-survey-shows-business-loans-leading-credit-thaw.html
U.S. banks eased standards and terms
on loans to businesses as commercial lending led a credit thaw,
according to a Federal Reserve survey.  “Domestic banks, on balance, reported having eased their
lending standards and having experienced stronger demand in
several loan categories over the past three months,” the
 central bank  said in its quarterly survey of senior loan
officers released in Washington today. The fraction of banks
easing standards for business loans was described as
“relatively large.”  The Federal Open Market Committee reviewed the report at a
meeting last week before reiterating that economic growth will
probably “proceed at a moderate pace” even against a headwind
from government spending cuts. The FOMC signaled it may step up
monthly bond buying beyond $85 billion if the need arises to
overcome a slump in growth or a decline in inflation.  “The government is tightening its belt but the private
sector is ramping up its borrowing activity,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist for UniCredit Group in New York.
“That’s the reason austerity in the U.S. is not hurting growth
as much as you’d think if you just looked at the fiscal
situation.”  Stock prices and bond yields remained higher following the
report. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,619.21 at 2:45 p.m. in New York, while the yield on the 10-
year Treasury note climbed to 1.77 percent from 1.74 on May 3.  ‘Notably Stronger’  “Bank credit for households and businesses is critical to
continued economic expansion,” Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said in speech on April 8. “It is positive for the recovery
that banks are also notably stronger than they were a few years
ago.”  Demand for business loans increased even as “such reports
were less widespread than in the previous survey,” today’s
report showed. Banks that eased standards for business loans
“generally cited increased competition for such loans as an
important reason for having done so.”  Banks in the U.S. have boosted lending as the economy gains
strength. The total  value of loans  at U.S. banks climbed 4.1
percent in the past year to $7.3 trillion in March, according to
a Fed report last week. Lending to businesses has led the way,
with commercial and industrial loans climbing to $1.54 trillion
in March, an increase of 11 percent from a year earlier.  “On the household side, the survey results were more
mixed,” the Fed said. A “few” banks eased standards on prime
residential mortgages, and demand for prime mortgages rose for
the fifth consecutive time, the Fed said.  Rising Demand  Banks eased standards and saw rising demand for both credit
card and auto loans, while standards and demand for other
consumer loans were “about unchanged.”  The share of banks
easing standards was described as “small.”  The survey of loan officers at 68 domestic banks and 21
U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks was conducted from
April 2 to April 16, the Fed said. The report doesn’t identify
respondents.  A special set of questions asked about lending to European
banks. Banks reported their standards with European counterparts
“remained basically unchanged over the past three months, the
first time there was no additional tightening since the
introduction of this special question in the October 2011
survey.”  Expanded lending has helped U.S. banks outperform the S&P
500 Index. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 financial institutions has
climbed 22 percent during the past year, compared with 18
percent for the S&P 500.  Credit Flow  The central bank has tried to improve the flow of credit by
holding its target interest rate near zero, undertaking three
rounds of bond purchases and increasing its surveillance to
ensure banks could lend during a severe downturn.  In the latest round of stress tests, released in March, the
Fed said 17 of the 18 largest U.S. banks could withstand a deep
recession and maintain their capital levels above a regulatory
minimum.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley said lending for
homes and cars has helped the economy withstand budget cuts in
 Washington .  “We have seen considerable strength in the interest-
sensitive sectors of the economy, including housing, autos and
durable goods, in spite of the uncertainty and drag from fiscal
policy,” Dudley said in a March 25 speech in New York.  Trim Growth  Budget cuts known as sequestration took effect on March 1.
The Congressional Budget Office has estimated the cuts will trim
the nation’s gross domestic product this year by 0.6 percentage
point.  Even with the cuts, the U.S. economy added 165,000 jobs in
April, and the unemployment rate dropped to 7.5 percent, the
lowest level in more than four years, according to a Labor
Department report last week. The economy grew 2.5 percent in the
first quarter, according to a separate report from the Commerce
Department last month.  Wells Fargo & Co., the largest U.S. home lender, posted a
record $5.17 billion profit in the first quarter. Chief
Executive Officer John Stumpf said credit losses declined to the
lowest level since 2006.  “Our credit losses reflected the benefit of a slowly
improving economy and the high quality loans we’ve been
originating over the past few years,” he said on an April 12
earnings call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  