-- FIFA Suspends U.S. Board Member Chuck Blazer Amid Fraud Inquiry
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-06T17:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/fifa-suspends-u-s-board-member-chuck-blazer-amid-fraud-inquiry.html
Soccer’s governing body provisionally
suspended executive committee member Chuck Blazer from the sport
for 90 days for breaches of its ethics code amid a fraud
investigation.  Blazer, 68, an American who served as the executive vice
president of the United States Soccer Federation, has been a
member of the top board of FIFA, the sport’s worldwide
federation, since 1996. Last month CONCACAF, which governs
soccer in North and Central America and the Caribbean, said
Blazer, its ex-general secretary, and  Jack Warner , a former
president, enriched themselves through fraud.  “The chairman of the adjudicatory chamber of the FIFA
Ethics Committee, Hans-Joachim Eckert, has decided to
provisionally ban FIFA Executive Committee member Chuck Blazer
from taking part in any kind of football-related activity at
national and international level for a maximum period of 90
days,” the soccer body said on its website.  Blazer didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail seeking
comment on the suspension.  The Zurich-based body said it made a provisional decision
to sanction Blazer “based on the fact that various breaches of
the FIFA code of ethics appear to have been committed.” A
further decision will be made when FIFA completes its
investigation.  Blazer denies the accusations made by CONCACAF, which said
in a report on its website that he had taken $15 million in
commissions from 1998 onward without having any written
agreement with the body.  Ethics Cases  Blazer is the latest high-ranking FIFA official to be
punished because of accusations of graft. Last week, FIFA said
its former president  Joao Havelange  and two other ex-board
members took “not inconsiderable amounts” in bribes from its
now-bankrupt marketing partner. On April 30, FIFA suspended
another executive committee member, Vernon Manilal Fernando of
 Sri Lanka , for eight years, citing “several breaches” of its
ethics code.  Blazer accused Warner of corruption two years ago. Warner
quit all soccer activity and Blazer resigned from CONCACAF later
in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 