-- Florida’s Cuba Contract Ban Blocked by U.S. Appeals Court
-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2013-05-06T22:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/florida-s-cuba-contract-ban-blocked-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
Florida lost a court bid to reinstate
a law prohibiting state agencies from entering into contracts
worth $1 million or more with companies that do business with
Cuba.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta  said today  that the
Florida measure “reaches far beyond the federal law in numerous
ways and undermines the president’s exercise of the discretion
afforded him by Congress.” A three-judge panel upheld a July
ruling by a lower court in Miami barring enforcement of the law.  The “Cuba Amendment” legislation was signed on May 1,
2012, by Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican, and covers
an estimated $8 billion in annual state contracts, the appeals
court said. The law, designed to apply economic pressure to the
communist regime in Cuba beyond the U.S. government sanctions
already in place, was challenged by Odebrecht Construction Inc.  Since its founding in 1990, Odebrecht has received 35
public contracts in Florida worth almost $4 billion, the appeals
court said.  While Odebrecht Construction Inc. has never conducted
business in Cuba, its parent company in  Brazil , Odebrecht SA,
owns foreign subsidiaries that do business on the island nation,
the appeals court said.  ‘Foreign Parents’  The Florida law “penalizes U.S. companies for the business
activities of their foreign parents or their foreign affiliates,
no matter how remote the connection,” the appeals court said.  Several foreign countries, including Canada,  Norway ,
Switzerland and Singapore, have expressed concern that the
Florida law conflicts with U.S. commitments under World Trade
Organization agreements covering government contracts, the
appeals court said.  John Lucas, spokesman for Florida attorney general Pam Bondi, declined to comment on today’s ruling.  The case is Odebrecht Construction Inc. v. Secretary,
Florida Department of Transportation, 12-13958, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Dunn  in  New York  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  