-- Foreigners Buy Most Indian Stocks Since February on Rates
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-05-07T12:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/foreigners-buy-most-indian-stocks-since-february-on-rates.html
Overseas funds  bought the most Indian
shares last week since February as the nation reduced  interest
rates  for the third time this year and developed markets
maintained or bolstered stimulus programs.  Foreigners bought $802 million more of local stocks than
they sold in the week ended May 3, the most since the period
ended Feb. 8, data from the regulator show. They purchased a net
$171 million of stock yesterday, taking this year’s net inflows
to $12 billion, the second-largest among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg, behind  Japan . The flows have helped the
benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  rebound 9.1 percent from a seven-month
low reached April 9.  The Sensex capped a  third week  of gains May 3, its longest
stretch of weekly advances since December, as the  Reserve Bank 
of  India  cut rates by 25 basis points. Lower borrowing costs
from Europe to the U.S. and Japan have stoked inflows into
India. The  European Central Bank  trimmed rates to a record low
last week and the  Federal Reserve  said it will keep buying $85
billion of bonds a month to stimulate the  U.S. economy .  “India continues to be a big beneficiary of the easy
monetary policy that global central banks are following,”  Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal Research & Investment Services,
said by phone from Mumbai. “So long as global liquidity remains
strong, flows are likely to continue.”  The Sensex rallied 1.1 percent to 19,888.95 today, the
highest close since Jan. 31. While the RBI cut key rates last
week, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV India May 4 that the odds of further easing to spur
growth are “practically non-existent.”  Rate Cut  The RBI lowered the  repurchase rate  to 7.25 percent from
7.50 percent after data April 15 showed that the  wholesale-price
index , a measure of inflation, slowed to a 40-month low in
March. India is the only major emerging nation to cut interest
rates this year.  Expectations of a rate cut were boosted after brent oil
slid last month below $100 a barrel for the first time since
July and gold fell the most since 1983, lowering the cost of
importing the two items that fueled India’s record current-
account gap in the last quarter of 2012. India imports more than
80 percent of its oil and is the world’s largest bullion buyer.  The shortfall in the nation’s current account, along with
elevated prices, has deterred the RBI from easing monetary
policy at a faster pace even as growth in Asia’s third-biggest
economy slowed to a  decade low  in the last fiscal year.  Valuation Multiples  The Sensex has risen 2.4 percent in 2013 and trades at 13.7
times  projected 12-month profits , compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s multiple of 10.6. The Bank of  New York 
Mellon index of Indian company American depositary receipts is
up 2.8 percent this year. It rallied 2.9 percent last week.  Foreigners have been net sellers of Indian stocks in just
two of the past 13 years, based on data compiled by Bloomberg
going back to 2000. Inflows climbed to a record $29.3 billion in
2010, making the Sensex the best performer among the world’s 10
biggest markets that year. The largest-ever outflow in 2008,
during the global financial crisis, triggered the biggest  annual
slump  in the gauge of 52 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 