-- Ghana’s Cedi May Extend West Africa’s Worst Drop
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-05-06T06:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/ghana-s-cedi-may-extend-west-africa-s-worst-drop.html
Ghana’s cedi, West  Africa ’s worst
performing currency this year, will depreciate about 5 percent
in 2013 to a record low on greater demand for imports, according
to the country’s second-biggest bank.  The cedi is projected to trade at 2 per dollar by the end
of this year, John Awuah, chief financial officer at Ghana
Commercial Bank Ltd., said by phone from Accra, the capital, on
May 2. The cedi gained 0.1 percent to 1.9755 per dollar by 8:16
a.m. in Accra, retreating from May 3’s lowest level since at
least June 1994 when Bloomberg began compiling the data. The
cedi started the year at 1.9045.  The currency of the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer
weakened 14 percent in 2012 and is down 3.6 percent this year,
the worst performer among seven West African currencies.  Ghana ’s
debut as an oil exporter in 2010 fueled the fastest economic
growth on the continent and spurred a rise in imports that are
paid for in dollars, adding pressure on the cedi as traders seek
notes to exchange.  The current account deficit, the broadest measure of trade
in goods and services, is projected at 10.2 percent of gross
domestic product this year, according to Fitch Ratings.
Inflation accelerated to to 10.4 percent in March, the highest
in more than 2 1/2 years.  Dependence on imports keeps the cedi “volatile,” which
makes “planning and projections for earnings very difficult,”
Awuah said. Ghanaian exporters haven’t taken advantage of the
depreciation to sell their products abroad in dollars to earn
more cedis, he said.  Bond Sale  The cost of importing raw material, power blackouts and
high credit charges are curbing growth for companies, according
to the Association of Ghana Industries’ survey for the fourth
quarter of 2012.  “We are being whipped from both ends,” Awuah said.  Ghana, which became the first sub-Saharan African country
outside of South Africa to issue dollar debt in 2007, may offer
$1 billion in a second sale this year, two people with knowledge
of the plans said on April 26. While $750 million will probably
be used to restructure the earlier debt, the remainder “will be
used to shore up the cedi if that bond sale takes place,” Awuah
said.  Yields on the bonds due October 2017, rated B by Standard &
Poor’s, fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
4.82 percent on May 3. That compares with yields that were
little changed at 4.05 percent for Nigerian bonds due January
2021, rated BB- by S&P, three levels below investment grade.  Gold Prices  Foreign-currency reserves, which slipped a monthly 3.2
percent to $5.3 billion in February, have declined as prices for
Ghana’s exports fell, Awuah said. Spot prices for gold, Ghana’s
biggest source of international exchange, have dropped 13
percent in the past six months and may mark the first annual
loss since 2000, according to a Bloomberg survey of 38 analysts.  Ghana is Africa’s second-biggest gold producer after South
Africa. The central bank uses its foreign reserves to
occasionally sell dollars directly to lenders to shore up the
cedi when local demand for the U.S. currency is high. A sale of
$24.2 million on May 3 wasn’t enough to stem the cedi’s decline,
said Richard Dei-Tutu, a currency trader at CAL Bank Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  