-- Gillard Faces A$17 Billion Revenue Shortfall as Labor Trails
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-05-06T23:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/gillard-faces-a-17-billion-revenue-shortfall-as-labor-trails.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  faces a
A$17 billion ($17.4 billion) revenue shortfall in next week’s
budget and will scrap plans to boost help for low-paid families
as her Labor party trails in polls before the election.  The government has abandoned a pledge to increase the
means-tested Family Tax Benefit as a high local currency curbs
company tax receipts, Finance Minister  Penny Wong  said in a Sky
News television interview today. Labor fell a further 2
percentage points behind  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National
coalition and is trailing by 12 points on a two-party preferred
basis, according to a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper today.  Labor’s credibility was damaged by the government
backtracking on a pledge to return the budget to surplus and by
internal wrangling over the leadership. Gillard’s bid to woo
voters by boosting spending on education and disability payments
has failed to garner support ahead of the Sept. 14 election.  “We’ve seen a combination of circumstances -- a very high
dollar and the prices of the things we sell to the rest of the
world coming off -- that’s obviously having an impact on company
profits,” Wong said. “That will have an impact across the
budget period.”  The  Newspoll  survey of 1,138 people, taken May 3-5, had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. On the
primary vote, which tallies respondents’ first voting
preferences, Labor fell 1 point to 31 percent while the
coalition rose 1 point to 47 percent. On the question of who
would make the better prime minister, Gillard rose 2 points to
37 percent and Abbott rose 2 points to 42 percent, the poll
showed.  Budget Challenge  With tax receipts declining, Australia’s first female prime
minister last week announced a plan to raise health-care
taxation by 0.5 percentage point to fund a national disability
insurance program. The budget, scheduled for release May 14, is
being put together in “very challenging” fiscal circumstances,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in a May 5 statement.  In last year’s budget, the  government promised  to increase
the maximum rate of its benefit to lower-income families by as
much as A$600 a year.  Australia’s currency, which didn’t rise above 85 U.S. cents
between 1990 and 2006, hasn’t dropped below that level in almost
three years.  The  federal budget  faced a A$24 billion deficit in the
first eight months of the financial year ending in June,
according to Treasury figures released April 12.  Australia, one of only eight nations with stable top-level
grades from ratings companies  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s
Investors Service, and  Fitch Ratings , would see its stable AAA
grade threatened if the government is forced to weaken its
commitment to returning a balanced budget, according to S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  