-- GM's Opel to Offer Car Loans to Bolster Sales in Europe
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-05-06T12:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/gm-s-opel-to-offer-car-loans-to-bolster-sales-in-europe.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel brand is
starting loans for purchases of new cars as the unprofitable
European division of the world’s second-biggest automaker seeks
to increase vehicle sales in its home region.  Opel Financial Services, operating since April, will offer
consumers more attractive financing deals, including zero
 interest rates  with no down payment, Opel Chief Financial
Officer Michael Lohscheller said today at a press conference.  The lending business, which is starting in eight European
countries, “is an integral part of our plan to gain market
share and return to profitability,” Lohscheller said at Opel
headquarters in the Frankfurt suburb of Ruesselsheim.  The new business is part of Detroit-based GM’s resumption
of offering  car loans  after the automaker disposed of the
business now known as  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  starting in 2006. The
Opel lending unit will be part of GM Financial Co., a U.S. car-
loan business which bought part of Ally’s operations in Europe,
 Latin America  and  China  at the beginning of April.  GM’s European operations, which also include Opel’s U.K.
sister car brand Vauxhall, narrowed their first-quarter loss to
$175 million from $294 million a year earlier. GM’s deficit in
the region since 1999 exceeds $18 billion. The  U.S. company  has
laid out plans to invest $4 billion through 2016 to develop 23
new vehicles and 13 new engines to ensure the European
division’s turnaround and succeed in breaking even by 2015.  Peugeot Unit  The auto-lending business of Paris-based competitor  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-largest carmaker, received 7
billion euros ($9.17 billion) in French state guarantees for new
bonds last year. The arrangement is subject a European Union
regulatory probe into whether it meets state-aid rules.  GM’s investment in Ally’s European assets totaled $1.7
billion, Lohscheller said. About 40 percent of Opel’s new car
sales are financed, compared to an average of 50 percent in the
European auto market, the GM unit said. The Opel car-loan
business will operate as Vauxhall Finance in the U.K.  GM is working to maintain market share this year amid a
sixth consecutive industrywide contraction in car sales in
Europe. Combined Opel and Vauxhall first-quarter registrations
in the region fell 7.9 percent, less than the market’s decline
of 9.7 percent, according to figures from the ACEA trade group.  The U.S. company’s moves to restore profit in Europe also
include reducing spending, including the shutdown of a car plant
in Bochum,  Germany , at the end of 2014. Workers at GM’s other
four plants in the country agreed to a wage freezes in return
for GM’s pledge to avoid mass firings through 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  