-- Golden Agri Seen Cheap LBO After Palm Oil Drop: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y ,   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-05-06T09:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/golden-agri-seen-cheap-lbo-after-palm-oil-drop-real-m-a.html
Golden Agri-Resources Ltd. (GGR) , the palm
oil producer with enough plantations to almost cover the Grand
Canyon, is ripe for a buyout by its largest shareholder as the
stock languishes 36 percent below the value of its net assets.  Tumbling palm oil prices left the world’s second-largest
producer of the cooking ingredient trading at 0.64 times its
book value. That’s near the lowest level since 2009 and cheaper
than 97 percent of agriculture products companies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg yesterday.  Indonesia ’s Widjaja
family, whose $8.6 billion estimated fortune includes ownership
of almost half of Golden Agri, could pay a 50 percent premium
for the rest of the stock and still land a bargain, said CMC
Markets  Singapore  Pte.  While  palm oil  fell 34 percent in the year through last
week amid record stockpiles, prices are set to recover as the
pace of output slows in Indonesia, the world’s largest producer,
said RHB Investment Bank Bhd. Singapore-based Golden Agri, with
a S$6.9 billion ($5.6 billion) market value, is  projected  to
rebound to a new revenue high next year, analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “You could easily foresee an attempt to take the company
private,” said Jason Hughes, Singapore-based head of sales
trading at CMC Markets. “If we are currently coming out of a
low point for global demand, then the true future earnings of
these large conglomerates may not be priced in to the current
valuations at all.”  Golden Agri shares gained 1.9 percent to close at 53.5
Singapore cents, compared with the 0.4 percent gain in the
benchmark  Straits Times  index.  Founding Family  Franky Oesman Widjaja, chairman and chief executive officer
of Golden Agri, didn’t respond to a request for comment left at
his office. A representative for Golden Agri declined in an e-
mail to comment on any possible buyout.  The company was  founded  in 1996 by the family of
Indonesia’s richest man, Eka Tjipta Widjaja, now 89, who built
his fortune after arriving in Indonesia from  China  at the age of
7 and selling biscuits as a teenager, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . The family bought more Golden Agri shares
last month and their stake in the company is the most valuable
of all their assets, which also include interests in pulp and
real estate, according to the index.  Golden Agri’s 1.1 million acres (463,400 hectares) of
Indonesian plantations could carpet almost all of  Arizona ’s
 Grand Canyon National Park . In addition to cooking oil and
margarine, Golden Agri last year produced 2.4 million tons of
crude palm oil, about 4.5 percent of global output, according to
its 2012 annual report.  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , based in Kuala Lumpur,
is the largest publicly traded palm oil producer.  Bottoming Out?  The price of the world’s most-used cooking oil declined in
the past year as reserves in  Malaysia  reached a record.
Stockpiles in the country, the second-largest producer behind
Indonesia, have since shrunk, touching a seven-month low of 2.17
million metric tons in March, according to the Malaysian Palm
Oil Board. Prices will gain about 25 percent to 2,810 ringgit
($943) a metric ton between now and 2015, according to analysts’
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are at the bottom of the cycle both for crude palm oil
prices and for stock prices,” Muzhafar Mukhtar, an analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Malaysia, said by phone. A privatization
of Golden Agri “makes sense from a valuation standpoint.”  Golden Agri’s  revenue , set to fall this year for the first
time since 2009, will climb 12 percent in 2014 to a record $6.49
billion, according to the average of 17 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income in 2014 will gain 12 percent
to $528 million, the data show.  Buyout Appeal  “When you privatize a company, you don’t look at just the
current year’s earnings,” Alvin Tai, a Kuala Lumpur-based
analyst at RHB, said by phone. “The long-term appeal is
definitely there. Can you go wrong betting on this industry over
five years? I don’t think you’d go wrong.”  The almost 30 percent tumble by Golden Agri  stock  in the
past year to as low as 52 Singapore cents on May 2 left the
company at its lowest valuation relative to  net assets  since
July 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At last
week’s closing price of 53 Singapore cents, Golden Agri was
cheaper than all but two of 60 peers worldwide with a market
value of more than $500 million, the data show.  Golden Agri was the fourth  most-shorted  stock among the 30
members of Singapore’s benchmark Straits Times Index at the end
of April, according to data compiled by Markit and Bloomberg.
Short interest, as a percentage of shares held by investors
willing and able to trade, was 6.2 percent, the data show.  Widjaja Purchases  “Substantial shareholders and business managers may feel
they can get a better return on their investment by no longer
holding a listed company,” Hughes at CMC Markets said in an e-
mail. “They can potentially pick up a bargain in the process.”  The Widjaja Family Master Trust, through Jesslyne Widjaja,
the daughter of Golden Agri CEO Franky, acquired 250,000 more
shares of Golden Agri on April 22 for S$138,500, or about 55
cents a share, keeping the family’s stake at 49.95 percent,
 filings  show.  Returning Golden Agri to private ownership may make it more
difficult for the family to tap  capital markets  to fund growth,
according to  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  Last year, Golden Agri
sold $400 million of convertible bonds and a further 1.5 billion
ringgit of Islamic bonds to help finance expansion.  “If you want to continue to grow the business, if you’re a
listed company, you have more options,” Ivy Ng, an analyst at
CIMB in  Kuala Lumpur , said in a phone interview. “Privatizing
may limit their options.”  Spending Plans  Gold Agri, which had $669 million of  cash  and equivalents
at the end of 2012, plans to spend about $550 million this year
to help expand plantations and refining capacity.  With palm oil prices set to rise, the chance to take full
control of Golden Agri and run it without having to answer to
public shareholders may tempt the Widjaja family, according to
Kelly Teoh, a market strategist at IG Asia Pte in Singapore.  “There is a lot more freedom becoming private,” Teoh said
in an e-mail. “Palm oil prices will eventually stabilize and
will remain a cash-cow business in the long run.’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  