-- Gold Rises on Bets China Will Expand Economic Stimulus
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-05-06T18:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/gold-advances-for-third-day-toward-highest-price-since-rout.html
Gold futures gained for the second
time in three sessions on expectations that China will announce
more stimulus measures to boost economic growth, increasing
demand for the precious metal as a store of value.  The HSBC Non-Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index for
China fell to 51.1 last month from 54.3 in March. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion. Easing growth this year may be a
“blessing in disguise” because monetary policy might remain
accommodative, Citigroup Inc. said. Gold climbed on demand for a
haven after Syria blamed  Israel  for an aerial strike near
Damascus, increasing the risk of a wider regional conflict.  “People expect more stimulus measures out of China,”
 Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath Trading in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview. “Also, any political tension is good for
gold.”  Gold futures for June delivery advanced 0.3 percent to
settle at $1,468 an ounce at 1:43 p.m. on Comex in New York. The
price climbed 0.7 percent last week as the  Federal Reserve 
raised the prospect of increasing monthly debt purchases, and
the  European Central Bank  announcing a cut in borrowing costs to
a record.  Money managers increased their net-long  position  on Comex
gold by 19 percent to 54,762 futures and options as of April 30,
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed on May 3.  Price Slump  Gold has slumped 12 percent this year after plunging into a
 bear market  in April as some investors lost faith in the metal
as a store of value. Holdings in exchange-traded products backed
by the metal have tumbled 14 percent this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We need to see ETF redemptions slow down in order for the
next leg higher,” said Xiang Nan, an analyst at Citics Futures
Co., a unit of China’s biggest listed brokerage.  Warren Buffett , the chairman and chief executive officer of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said he wouldn’t buy gold after the
slump. Paul Singer’s Elliott Management Corp.,  John Paulson ’s
Paulson & Co. and Threadneedle Investments are sticking with
bullish bets on the metal.  Silver futures slipped 0.2 percent to $23.955 an ounce on
the Comex. The price has dropped 21 percent this year.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
July delivery gained 0.4 percent to $1,507.70 an ounce, the
highest settlement since April 11.  Palladium futures for June delivery rose 0.5 percent to
$697.10 an ounce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  