-- Li Ka-Shing’s Dockers Accept Pay Offer to End Longest Strike
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-05-07T04:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/li-ka-shing-s-dockers-accept-pay-offer-to-end-longest-strike-1-.html
Port workers at billionaire Li Ka- shing’s  Hongkong International Terminals Ltd.  ended the longest
strike at  Hong Kong ’s container terminal as they accepted a 9.8
percent wage increase, resolving a dispute that damaged the
city’s reputation as a trade hub.  The union will discuss arrangements for workers to begin
returning to the port as early as May 9, Chan Chiu-wai,
organizer at the Union of Hong Kong Dockers, said by phone
today. Workers had demanded a 23 percent raise, while employers
offered 7 percent.  The agreement ends the biggest labor action against  Asia ’s
richest man, in which about 450 dock workers, crane operators
and stevedores walked out on March 28 demanding higher wages.
The 40-day strike at the world’s third-largest container port
spurred shipping lines to divert vessels to nearby Chinese ports
and may cost  Hutchison Port Holdings Trust (HPHT)  about HK$100 million
($13 million), according to Citigroup Inc.  “The weak bargaining power and poor  work conditions 
revealed by the strike could deter young people from working in
the industry,” said Geoffrey Cheng, an analyst at Bank of
Communications Co. “It is time for the government to think
about its role and what it can really do for Hong Kong, which is
already under threat amid rising competition.”  The workers, hired by contractors, will get an increase in
wages from HK$55 ($7.09) an hour. The docks were operating at
about 90 percent of capacity in the last week of April after new
employees were hired and some strikers returned to work.  ‘Beneficial’ Resolution  “We are pleased to learn that the striking dockers have
accepted the 9.8 percent pay rise solution for all job types
offered by the external contractors,” Hongkong International
Terminals said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “This is
beneficial for all parties involved: the workers can return to
their posts and the company can focus on restoring the port to
its full operational capabilities.”  Hongkong International Terminals is operated by Hutchison
Port Holdings whose largest shareholder is Li’s  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13)  Hutchison Port, along with partner  Cosco Pacific
Ltd. (1199) , dominates half of the capacity at Hong Kong’s port.
Hutchison Whampoa has interests in 52 ports globally from  Panama 
to the Netherlands.  Hutchison Port rose 1.2 percent to 83.5 cents as of 12:36
p.m. in Singapore trading. Hutchison Whampoa rose 0.2 percent to
HK$85.80 in Hong Kong trading.  ‘Real Concern’  Terminals controlled by Hutchison Port also have a 46
percent market share in Shenzhen,  China , where shipping lines
including  Evergreen Marine Corp Taiwan Ltd. (2603)  diverted vessels
because of the strike in Hong Kong.  The strike may cost Hutchison Port about HK$100 million
because of the reduced volume of container boxes handled by
Hongkong International Terminals, Citigroup analysts led by
 Michael Beer  wrote in a  note  to clients yesterday.  “The real concern is the precedent for ongoing wage rate
increases as well as change in the flexibility that Hongkong
International Terminals enjoys regarding its current
subcontractor labor structure,” the Citigroup analysts wrote.  The dockers were demanding higher wages as rising living
costs and record  home prices  spur discontent in the former
British colony.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , the city’s main
carrier, in December agreed on a deal with the flight
attendants’ union, averting labor disruptions threatened after
disagreements on wage increases and working conditions.  Court Injunction  As the strike lengthened, port workers had surrounded Li’s
office building, Cheung Kong Center, in the Central business
district. Hutchison Whampoa won a court injunction to have the
workers, who earlier led marches with pictures of Li as a
vampire, barred from the building. The workers were allowed to
continue demonstrating outside the building.  The Labor Department will continue to follow up with
Hongkong International Terminals and its contractors on
improving safety and health conditions, Labor Secretary Matthew Cheung said in a statement yesterday, after workers agreed to
accept the pay increase.  Some workers will remain outside of Cheung Kong Center
while they await the government’s help to find new employers as
one contractor company decided to wind up its business during
the strike, Chan said.  The bargaining power of workers, who say their wages are
lower than in 1995, weakened in the past decade as Hong Kong
lost market share to Chinese ports.  Boxes handled by Hong Kong port fell 5.2 percent to 23.1
million last year from 2011, according to Hong Kong Port
Development Council  data . Total volume at Shenzhen rose 1.6
percent to 22.9 million containers, according to Shenzhen Ports
Association. Shanghai and  Singapore  are the world’s two biggest
container ports.  Temporary Workers  Some workers were told last month they will lose their jobs
as Global Stevedoring Service Co., one of the contractors who
employs them, decided to wind up operations because it wasn’t
able to meet the salary demands.  “HIT has proactively communicated with its external
contractors and urged them to recruit ex-Global crane operators
who have yet to finalize new employment arrangements,” Hongkong
International Terminals said yesterday.  The port added temporary workers to help resume operation,
and also offered more money to 300 crane operators who started a
work-to-rule action on April 4 in support of the strike.  Boosting Dominance  The daily financial loss caused by the strike was
“significantly” cut in the last two weeks in April, Hongkong
International Terminals said April 23, without elaboration. The
daily loss narrowed to HK$2.4 million on April 5 from HK$5
million earlier, it said previously.  Li is boosting his dominance at Hong Kong port as Hutchison
Port in March bought a box terminal from DP World Ltd. and a
partner. The deal can happen because there is no antitrust law
in Hong Kong, according to Ronny Tong, a lawmaker and a
barrister specializing in commercial, shipping and company law.  After the deal, Hutchison Port’s share in the city’s port
will be boosted to 64 percent of capacity, up from 55 percent,
according to UOB-Kay Hian Holdings data. The city has nine
container terminals.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  