-- Liberal Anger Only Makes Ted Cruz Stronger
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-05-06T22:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/liberal-anger-only-makes-ted-cruz-stronger.html
Rude, entitled, arrogant and off-putting: That’s how the conventionally wise in  Washington  are
characterizing Ted Cruz, the conservative new senator from
 Texas . It’s a better description of the critics themselves, who
are inadvertently helping Cruz build his national fan base.  I’ll admit to being biased about Cruz, who has been a
friend for almost half my life. But you don’t need to like Cruz
or his politics to see how weightless some of the criticisms
are.  The New York Times columnist  David Brooks  delivered a
common critique of Cruz in a recent public appearance: “If you
mention the name Ted Cruz to other senators, you just get
titanic oceans of eye rolling. Because you’re a freshman, you
don’t go in and take over hearings, you, like, hang around and
learn how it’s done,”  he said . “It doesn’t help that he has a
face that looks a little like Joe McCarthy, actually. I just --
I find him a little off-putting.”  So, in short: You’re trashing the fine traditions of this
great and storied chamber. Plus we don’t like your face.  Dana Milbank, who showcases his snark in the Washington
Post, criticized the senator for microphone-hogging bad manners
in a  column  that started, “Is there nobody who can tell  Ted Cruz 
to shut up?”  Maybe a quieter Cruz would have better relationships with
his colleagues, who would then do more to advance his
legislative goals. If so, that’s more an indictment of the
culture of the Senate than of Cruz. The people of Texas didn’t
vote for him because he promised to keep his head down in
deference to his colleagues. No senator wins election that way.
Presumably voters want senators who will be as effective as they
can be in advocating for the views they campaigned on.  Violating Decorum  Of all the possible critiques of Cruz, this one -- that his
colleagues resent all the attention he’s getting -- has the
least resonance outside the Beltway. Oh wait, except for another
one: He has violated Senate protocol.  Last week, the  New York  Times  reported  that in a breach of
the Senate’s “rules of decorum,” Cruz had given a public
gathering his account of how some closed-door conversations
among unidentified Republican colleagues had gone. (He said they
were “squishes.”) The paper mentioned that it had  already
reported  on those conversations with an account less flattering
to Cruz.  Maybe Cruz was indiscreet. But who really cares about these
“rules of decorum”? Not the Times, which was happy to report on
the off-the-record conversations, with names. And apparently not
the other senators, who don’t seem to mind having their aides
leak to the Times.  The conservative editors of the Wall Street Journal opinion
pages have a more substantive complaint about Cruz. Although
they share his opposition to most gun regulations, they thought
his recent filibuster on the subject was unwise, and they fault
him for treating a tactical dispute as a matter of principle.
They make some reasonable points, but their focus on these
questions seems weirdly disproportionate: On May 3, they devoted
both an  editorial  and a  column  to them.  Cruz has staked out very conservative positions on most
issues, all of which are fair game for criticism. Yet to an
unusual extent his opponents resort to a kind of aesthetic
disdain for him instead of taking on his positions. There isn’t
much more to these criticisms than to Cher’s  Twitter post s that
“the smell of sulphur follows him wherever he goes.”  Most of these denunciations help Cruz: He’ll probably use
Cher in an online ad someday. A lot of conservatives will rally
around anyone under attack from liberals, whatever the merits.
And the insubstantiality of the attacks only makes them more
helpful. They let him send a message to conservatives across the
country: The Beltway wants to put us in our place, and I won’t
let them.  Presidential Aspirations  Cruz’s Beltway critics were horrified anew last week on
 reports  that he is thinking of running for president. If the
past few months are any guide, he would try to build a majority
starting with the most conservative end of the Republican
primary electorate, and argue that the party needs to nominate a
true conservative rather than an establishment favorite.  Many Republicans have tried this strategy since President
 Ronald Reagan  left the scene.  None has succeeded . The right end
of the party invariably splits its support among several
candidates, and voters in the middle of the party usually prefer
someone with more experience than the right’s favorites.  Maybe Cruz has a different strategy in mind, or has a
reason for thinking this time will be different. If he runs, he
will have at least one thing going for him: He has a knack for
making his opponents lose their wits.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Ramesh Ponnuru  at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  