-- Ibovespa Declines on Brazil Slower Industrial Growth Forecast
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-05-06T21:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/ibovespa-falls-as-slower-output-growth-forecast-sinking-embraer.html
The  Ibovespa (BZA)  fell as homebuilders
dropped and planemaker  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  led industrial stocks lower
after economists in a central bank survey cut their forecasts
for growth in Brazil’s manufacturing output.  Homebuilder  PDG Realty SA (PDGR3)  contributed the most to the
gauge’s decline.  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3) , a manufacturer of consumer
health products, advanced after posting earnings that exceeded
analysts’ estimates for a third consecutive quarter.  Brazil’s main equity index dropped 0.1 percent to 55,429.88
at the close of trading in Sao Paulo. Forty-five stocks
retreated while 26 advanced. The real was little changed at
2.0096 per dollar.  About 100 economists in a weekly central bank survey
reduced their median estimate for 2013 industrial output growth
to 2.39 percent from 2.83 percent. Output in March rose 0.7
percent from February, the national statistics agency said May
3. Analysts had estimated a 1.3 percent increase.  “After the disappointing manufacturing production numbers,
the market is reducing expectations for economic growth this
year, so stocks linked to domestic demand such as homebuilders
are also suffering,” Luis Gustavo Pereira, an analyst at
brokerage Futura Corretora in  Sao Paulo , said in a phone
interview.  Embraer sank 1.9 percent to 17.48 reais. PDG fell 4.8
percent to 2.18 reais, the lowest close since December 2008.  Hypermarcas rose 4.4 percent to 16.60 reais. The company’s
adjusted net income almost tripled to 102.1 million reais in the
first quarter from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average estimate of seven analysts was 83.7
million reais.  Quarterly Earnings  Twelve of the 21 companies on the Ibovespa that have
already reported first-quarter earnings beat analysts’
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Data about the Brazilian economy have been very weak
lately, and that’s holding the local stock market back at a
moment when other exchanges are advancing,” Felipe Rocha, an
analyst at brokerage Omar Camargo, said in a telephone interview
from Curitiba,  Brazil . “Those numbers are overshadowing some
pretty consistent results that companies release.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2 percent today
while the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’
equities advanced 0.4 percent.  The Brazilian benchmark gauge pared losses of as much as
1.5 percent today as oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA jumped 7.7 percent.  Relative Value  The Ibovespa has retreated 12 percent from this year’s peak
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and  China 
has lost 5.2 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity  index  trades at 11.3 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.6 for the MSCI’s emerging-market gauge, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.8 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.74 billion reais this year
through May 3, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  