-- Microsoft Takes On BlackBerry, Android in South Africa
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-05-06T15:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/microsoft-takes-on-blackberry-to-android-for-south-africa-growth.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , trying to find growth
markets for its mobile products, is projecting that rising
demand in  South Africa  will help it pass BlackBerry and Android
and pave the way for further gains on the continent.  The company, working with hardware partners such as  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V)  and  HTC Corp. (2498) , plans to become South Africa’s No. 1
smartphone provider by 2016, Gustavo Fuchs, who runs its Windows
Phone business in Africa and Middle East, said in an interview.
The company plans models across a range of prices to lure users
in the continent’s biggest economy, where the average  household
income  is about  $13,500 a year .  Africa will be the fastest-growing market by wireless
subscribers over the next five years, according to consulting
firm  A.T. Kearney . Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft is
seeking areas of growth for its mobile business, which lags far
behind  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google Inc.’s Android that combined
account for about 90 percent of the global smartphone market.  “With a low-smartphone-penetration market, Windows Phone
has a bigger chance to be the first smartphone for users,”
Fuchs said in a phone interview from Johannesburg. “The
smartphone snowball effect has started.”  Africa’s handset ownership will grow to 85 percent of the
population in 2015 from about 73 percent last year, reaching 900
million users, A.T. Kearney estimates. In contrast, in several
developed markets in  Europe ,  North America  and Asia growth has
slowed as penetration has surpassed 100 percent.  Soaring Demand  More than 59 million phones were shipped to Africa and the
Middle East in the three months through December, up 16 percent
from the previous quarter, according to market researcher IDC.  Johannesburg-based  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest
wireless provider, more than doubled the number of active
smartphone users to 4.4 million in the 18 months through June
2012, according to consulting firm Deloitte. Rival  Vodacom Group
Ltd. (VOD) ’s smartphone users almost doubled to 5.8 million from 3.1
million in the two years through December 2012, according to its
financial reports.  South Africa’s smartphone usage has been driven by large
screens, touch interfaces and the high cost of other ways of
accessing the Internet, according to Deloitte.  BlackBerry, benefiting from its free messaging function,
had 51 percent of the South African smartphone market in 2012,
down from 55 percent a year earlier, according to research firm
Canalys. Manufacturers using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software more
than doubled their market share to 34 percent, while Microsoft
boosted its share to 2 percent from nothing in 2011.  BlackBerry’s Challenges  Still, Microsoft’s share has grown rapidly recently, and
the company now has 10 percent of the market, helped by the
introduction of the new Windows Phone 8 software in November,
Fuchs said.  Microsoft is benefiting from challenges that Canada’s
BlackBerry has had with refreshing its product line, Fuchs said.
BlackBerry’s dominance has also been eroded by smartphone
applications such as WhatsApp that emulate its messaging
function, he said.  BlackBerry will continue to introduce smartphones with
 Internet access  in South Africa at affordable prices, according
to El Loubser, a spokeswoman for the company.  “ BlackBerry (BBRY)  Messenger has been a huge success in South
Africa,” she said in an e-mail. The proportion of mobile-phone
users living in towns and cities that use the BlackBerry
messaging function has jumped to 17 percent from 3 percent 18
months ago, she said.  Kenya, Nigeria  Mircosoft slipped 0.2 percent to $33.43 at 11:23 a.m. in
New York. The stock has gained about 25 percent this year.  Microsoft also targets expanding sales in other large
African countries such as  Kenya  and Nigeria, Fuchs said.
Nigeria’s smartphone penetration has doubled every year and is
now 10 percent, he said. Nokia’s Lumia phones running Windows
went on sale in Kenya in February and sold out, he said,
declining to disclose how many devices were available.  “Kenya is important as a hub, not a single market,” he
said. “We might have some challenges in terms of GDP, price
point of devices, but it could be the cultural driver of East
 Africa . Everything that happens in Kenya gets expanded into
Tanzania or Uganda.”  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, had 113 million
wireless subscribers at the end of 2012, while Kenya’s mobile-
phone users increased 11 percent to 31.2 million from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth like that suggests that there is room for several
brands to succeed, as more Africans switch from cheaper, so-
called feature phones to more advanced devices that allow the
user to access the Internet, Fuchs said.  “It’s not about us competing with other smartphones,”
Fuchs said. “It’s about us showing to people that smartphones
are a better choice than feature phones.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  