-- IMF Says Greece Must Move Away From Across-the-Board Budget Cuts
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-05-06T13:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/imf-says-greece-must-move-away-from-across-the-board-budget-cuts.html
Greece (GDBR10)  needs to avoid across-the-board
budget cuts that disproportionately hurt pensioners and
employees as it moves into the next phase of its bailout and
tries to restore growth, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Three years after receiving its first international
bailout, with a debt burden that is still too high, Greece needs
in-depth changes to its economy to both meet its fiscal targets
and attract investors, the IMF said.  “Greece is making progress in overcoming deep-seated
problems in the midst of a very serious and socially painful
recession,” IMF staff wrote at the end of a visit to assess the
country’s economy. “However, insufficient structural reforms
have meant that the adjustment has been achieved primarily
through recessionary channels, with unequal distribution of the
burden of adjustment.”  Greece and the so-called troika of international creditors
-- the IMF, the European Commission and the  European Central
Bank  -- last month reached an agreement on conditions such as
firing state workers to disburse the next payment of aid under
the country’s second rescue package. Making room for better
qualified public servants and fighting  tax evasion  will be key
for Greece to meet its fiscal targets in coming years, the IMF
said in today’s report.  “Very little progress has been made in tackling Greece’s
notorious tax evasion,” IMF staff wrote in the so-called
Article IV consultation of Greece’s economy, the first such
annual review since 2009 according to the fund’s website. “The
rich and self-employed are simply not paying their fair share.”  ‘Mounting Tide’  The Washington-based fund also warned about a “mounting
tide of non-performing loans” in the banking system and called
for a quick re-privatization of the industry after injections of
public capital raised the risk of government interference.  Euro-area finance ministers revamped the country’s second
aid program in November, giving Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
two extra years until 2016 to meet budget-reduction targets.  The IMF also reminded European nations that they committed
“to provide additional relief, if needed, to keep debt on the
programmed path” and “to bring it substantially below 110
percent of” gross domestic product by 2022, according to the
staff report.  “With  Greece ’s debt now overwhelmingly held by the
official sector, such a commitment is essential to assure
creditors that a credible framework for dealing with Greece’s
debt overhang is now in place,” it said.  -- Editors: Brendan Murray, Mark Rohner  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  