-- Linde Profit Beats Estimates as Lincare Takeover Boosts Sales
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-05-06T05:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/linde-profit-beats-estimates-as-lincare-takeover-boosts-sales.html
Linde AG (LIN) , the German company competing
with Air Liquide SA to be the world’s biggest industrial gas
producer, reported first quarter profit that beat analyst
estimates as acquisitions made last year increased revenue.  Operating profit climbed 13 percent to 953 million euros
($1.3 billion), the Munich-based company said today in a
statement. That exceeded the 935 million-euro average estimate
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue increased 10
percent to 3.99 billion euros.  “Despite less than favorable conditions, especially in the
mature markets, we have continued to achieve profitable
growth,” Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Reitzle said in the
statement. “Our newly acquired operations in the health-care
product area made the most significant contribution here.”  The $3.8 billion acquisition of Clearwater, Florida-based
Lincare in August doubled North America gases sales, and Linde
also bought the former home-care business of  Air Products &
Chemicals Inc. (APD)  in January 2012. Reitzle is meanwhile pursuing
savings intended to cut as much as 900 million euros in costs
and boost earnings by almost half by 2016.  “The numbers are clearly better than expected, and the
background is the gases sector,” said Eggert Kuls, a Hamburg-
based Warburg Research analyst who recommends buying Linde
shares.  Profit Target  Linde reiterated this year’s target of at least 4 billion
euros in operating profit, which the company defines as earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and is
seeking a return on capital employed of about 14 percent in
2016. CEO Reitzle is set to step down in May 2014.  Lincare contributed 397 million euros in sales in the
quarter, helping boost revenue in the gases division by 15
percent, while profit in the segment increased by the same
percentage to 942 million euros. Excluding Lincare, currency
shifts and natural gas price effects, the division’s revenue
grew 3.7 percent. Profit at the engineering division fell to 66
million euros from 73 million euros a year earlier.  Air Liquide SA (AI)  has reported sales that missed analyst
estimates in the first quarter, falling 2.1 percent to 3.7
billion euros, with the Paris-based company citing currency
effects and natural  gas prices .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  