-- India-China End Himalayan Border Stand Off as Troops Withdraw
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-05-06T08:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/india-china-end-himalayan-border-stand-off-as-troops-withdraw.html
India  and China ended a three-week
standoff along their disputed Himalayan border as soldiers from
both sides agreed to pull back from positions taken up after an
alleged incursion by Chinese troops.  The two sides are returning to locations held before April
15, Syed Akbaruddin, a spokesman for India’s Ministry of
External Affairs, said in a text message. India accused China of
entering its territory in the Depsang valley in Ladakh, while
China said its troops didn’t cross the so-called Line of Actual
control dividing the countries.  The agreement may ease tensions ahead Indian Foreign
Minister Salman Khurshid’s trip to China on May 9 and a visit to
India by Chinese Premier Li Keqiang expected later this month.
Relations are hobbled by differences over the frontier even as
trade between the two countries, home to more than a third of
the world’s population, has flourished.  “ China  and India, with the larger interests of bilateral
relations in mind, have taken a cooperative and constructive
attitude, exercised restraint, and properly handled the incident
through relevant mechanisms, diplomatic channels, and border
meetings,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told
reporters in Beijing today.  The nuclear-armed countries fought a brief border war in
1962. India accuses China of occupying 38,000 square kilometers
(14,670 square miles) of territory in Jammu and Kashmir to the
west, while the government in Beijing says 90,000 square
kilometers of land in Arunachal Pradesh, in India’s northeast,
belongs to China.  Sitanshu Kar, the New Delhi-based defense ministry
spokesman, declined to comment.  Visa Row  Military relations between the two countries were suspended
in August 2010 after China issued a visa to an Indian army
officer in charge of forces in Kashmir without stamping his
passport, an act seen as questioning India’s rule over the
disputed Himalayan territory. China has a close alliance with
 Pakistan , which has waged two wars with India over Kashmir.  While India and China have been unable to resolve disputes
over part of their 3,500-kilometer boundary after more than a
dozen rounds of discussions since 2005, they have sought to
prevent disagreements from affecting economic ties. China is
India’s second-largest trading partner and two-way trade was
$50.9 billion in the April-December period, according to Indian
government figures. Commerce was $38 billion for the full-year
between April 2007 and March 2008.  China is engaged in a series of territorial disputes, in
the South and East China Seas, with countries including Vietnam,
Malaysia and  Japan . China has sent air and sea patrols and
conducted military exercises across those areas in recent months
as it presses its claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  