-- India Not to Blame for South Africa Security Breach: Zuma
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-05-06T07:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/india-not-to-blame-for-south-africa-security-breach-zuma.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
said India wasn’t responsible for a security breach when a plane
of wedding guests landed at a restricted air force base, and
that lower level officials were to blame.  Guests to the wedding of the Gupta family, which is close
to Zuma, landed at the Waterkloof Air Force base outside the
capital,  Pretoria , on April 30 and were driven to the ceremony
in black BMWs fitted with flashing police lights. The government
said use of the facility wasn’t authorized at the “executive
level” and suspended five officials and arrested 11 police
officers and a reservist.  “I don’t think we need to try and accuse and punish
India,” Zuma said in an interview broadcast on state-owned SAFM
radio today. “The officials, without the political level
knowing, took their own decision. Those are the people we need
to act against.”  The government said last week it would probe whether the
 India  High Commission abused its diplomatic privilege. High
Commissioner Virendra Gupta said May 3 that his country applied
for permission to land the plane at the base because ministers
and senior political figures were on board.  The base is classified as a “national key point” and
access is restricted to government and military officials.  Wedding spokesman Haramath Gosh said the military facility
was used with “with full permission of the authorities.”  The Guptas, an Indian family that has been doing business
in  South Africa  since 1993, own Sahara Computers and The New Age
newspaper. They were part of a group including Zuma’s son,
Duduzane, that sought 800 million rand ($90 million) for a
mining right disputed by Anglo American Plc unit  Kumba Iron Ore. (KIO) 
Members of the family also control Shiva Uranium Ltd.  Zuma has been a friend of the Gupta family for about a
decade, Sahara Computers Managing Director Atul Gupta said in an
interview with the Johannesburg-based Daily Maverick in 2011.  The incident has drawn criticism from the ruling  African
National Congress , the opposition  Democratic Alliance  and the
Congress of South African Trade Unions, an ANC ally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  