-- Indonesia GDP Growth at Slowest in Over Two Years on Exports
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-05-06T05:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/indonesia-gdp-growth-at-slowest-in-over-two-years-on-export-drop.html
Indonesia ’s economy grew at the
slowest pace in more than two years last quarter as slower
exports and  government spending  countered gains in consumption
and investment.  Gross domestic product  increased 6.02 percent in the first
three months of 2013 from a year earlier, the  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said in Jakarta today. That compares with a 6.11
percent pace reported previously for the fourth quarter of 2012
and the median estimate of 6.1 percent in a Bloomberg News
 survey  of 26 economists.  Faltering expansion in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy may
make it more difficult for President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono to
implement a planned cut in fuel subsidies, with  Standard &
Poor’s  last week lowering its outlook on the country’s rating as
it cited a stalling in reforms. At the same time, higher fuel
prices may increase price pressure even as growth eases.  “Exports are still underperforming and government spending
is still not up to speed,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a Singapore-
based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “They could grow much
more if they had some spending on infrastructure and a few other
reform measures,” he said, adding that the data would make the
central bank “even more reluctant” to raise rates.  The rupiah advanced 0.1 percent to 9,734 per dollar as of
11:59 a.m. in Jakarta today, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg. It has gained about 0.6 percent
this year. The Jakarta Composite Index gained 1.2 percent.  Palm Oil  Indonesia’s GDP rose 1.41 percent last  quarter  from the
previous three months, compared with the 1.5 percent median
estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Household consumption grew 5.17 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, while investment rose 5.9 percent,
Suryamin, chairman of the statistics office, said today.
Government spending increased 0.42 percent.  Overseas  shipments  fell the most in seven months in March,
while imports dropped the most since 2009, the statistics
department said last week. The country is the biggest producer
of  palm oil , and its commodity exports include coal, rubber, tin
and cocoa. The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities in
April had its biggest decline in 11 months.  The  International Monetary Fund  last month lowered its
forecasts for global growth in 2013, while  China  and the U.S.
expanded less than analysts estimated last quarter. The euro-
area economy will shrink more than previously estimated in 2013,
the European Commission said May 3.  Fuel Prices  Indonesia’s government may cut its 2013 growth target to a
range of 6.3 percent to 6.5 percent, from 6.8 percent earlier,
Deputy Finance Minister Mahendra Siregar said April 24.  Yudhoyono said last week he will only increase fuel prices
after Parliament approves compensation programs for the poor, a
move that could delay efforts to contain a  budget deficit  that
may be more than twice as much as estimated without subsidy cuts.
Failure to reduce subsidies last year drained government
finances and led to a record current-account shortfall, hurting
the rupiah as foreign investors lost confidence.  Indonesia’s  investment  climbed 30.6 percent to 93 trillion
rupiah ($9.6 billion) in the three months ended March 31 from a
year earlier, M. Chatib Basri, chairman of the Investment
Coordinating Board, said April 22.  Bank Indonesia  will probably hold  interest rates  at a
record-low 5.75 percent when policy makers meet May 14,
according to all economists in a separate survey.  Consumer price 
gains eased to 5.57 percent last month from a year ago.  “The central bank needs to keep its benchmark rate at the
current level and use other tools to curb inflation expectations
as the economy needs stimulus from domestic activities,” said
 Destry Damayanti , chief economist at PT Bank Mandiri in Jakarta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  