-- Intuitive Witnesses Blame Patient Death on Bad Heart
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   G u t h r i e   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/intuitive-witnesses-blame-patient-death-on-bad-heart.html
Witnesses for  Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG) 
testified that heart disease, not a failed robotic procedure,
killed a patient whose widow is suing the company over claims
that overly aggressive marketing caused surgical errors.  Forensic pathologist Eric L. Kiesel yesterday told state
court jurors in Port Orchard,  Washington , that the patient, Fred
Taylor, was a “time bomb ready to go off” due to progressive
heart disease. Kiesel, testifying in the trial’s fourth week,
and at the start of Intuitive’s defense, was one of two
physicians present during Taylor’s autopsy.  Kiesel said in response to questions from Intuitive lawyer
 Jeffrey Johnson  that there’s no medical evidence suggesting
Taylor’s prostate removal surgery or its complications
contributed to his death.  Intuitive, the Sunnyvale, California-based company whose
robots were used in more than 300,000 U.S. operations last year,
is in the middle of the first trial of at least 26 lawsuits from
people alleging injuries tied to its da Vinci system.  Taylor’s wife, Josette Taylor, alleged in her complaint
that Intuitive’s training was simplified to sell more robots,
which led to errors during his operation at Bremerton,
Washington-based Harrison Medical Center. He died of  heart
disease  in 2012, four years after the surgery, at age 71.  Blocked Arteries  Kiesel testified that Taylor’s autopsy showed his arteries
were 50 to 90 percent-blocked, including a graft Taylor received
during 2002 heart bypass surgery. Additionally, Taylor’s heart
was enlarged from pumping harder, weighing 2 1/2 times more than
a normal-size heart, Kiesel testified.  Taylor’s cause of death, listed as “natural” on the
autopsy report, was the result of atherosclerosis and
hypertensive cardiac disease, said Kiesel, who has worked as a
medical examiner in several counties and is now in private
practice.  “He’s got lots of reasons to have cardiac arrhythmia,”
Kiesel said. “He was a time bomb ready to go off. He could have
gone off at any time.”  During cross-examination, plaintiff attorney Richard
Friedman continued his strategy of pointing to post-surgical
complications as the reason Taylor’s heart disease worsened, and
ultimately, led to his death.  Saying that Taylor suffered from depression when he
couldn’t resume his physical and social activities, Friedman
asked Kudenchuk whether depression worsened Taylor’s heart
disease. The cardiologist answered that adding one more stressor
to Taylor’s bad health wouldn’t have made a difference -- he had
already sealed his “death sentence” by not making lifestyle
changes to improve his heart function.  Seven Hours  After seven hours of trouble with robotic surgery on Taylor
in September 2008, surgeon Scott Bildsten and other doctors
turned to traditional surgery and then emergency care to repair
a rectal laceration. While Bildsten had performed 100 successful
prostatectomies using a traditional procedure, he hadn’t used
the da Vinci system on a patient unassisted.  A second witness yesterday,  University of Washington 
cardiologist Peter Kudenchuk, said that Taylor’s health risks
prior to prostate surgery -- diabetes, high  blood pressure  and
high cholesterol, which weren’t adequately controlled --
ultimately caused his heart to stop.  “I would say, in all honesty, Mr. Taylor was lucky to live
until age 71,” Kudenchuk said.  In robotic surgery, a doctor sits at console several feet
from the patient and peers into a high-definition display. Foot
pedals and hand controls maneuver mechanical arms equipped with
surgical tools, guided by a 3D camera that shows the work as it
is done inside a patient.  The case is Estate of Fred E. Taylor v. Intuitive Surgical
Inc., 09-2-03136-5, Superior Court, State of Washington, Kitsap
County (Port Orchard).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net 
Patricia Guthrie in state court in Port Orchard, Washington,
at  freepsg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  