-- Iran’s Presidential Race Opens as Loyalists Favored
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-05-07T09:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/iran-opens-race-to-succeed-ahmadinejad-with-loyalists-favored.html
Iran ’s presidential race got under way
today as nominations opened for a successor to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, with loyalists close to the Islamic republic’s
clerical leaders set to dominate.  Protests erupted after the last vote four years ago, amid
allegations that ballot fraud cheated reformists of victory.
With Iran at loggerheads with the U.S. over its nuclear program
and its economy squeezed by sanctions, analysts say Supreme
Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei will seek to restrict the spectrum
of candidates to avoid a repeat in the June 14 vote.  A new feature of this year’s pre-election maneuvering has
been the emergence of formal coalitions around potential
runners, including former foreign ministers Ali Akbar Velayati
and Manouchehr Mottaki. That suggests a field of like-minded
rivals supportive of Khamenei and unlikely to challenge his core
domestic and foreign policies.  “There is a narrowed political space and the competition
is within the conservative group,” said Henry Smith, Middle
East and North Africa analyst as Control Risks, in a phone
interview from  London . The potential candidates don’t represent
clear movements, “so it’s a case of individuals clubbing
together to try and see who looks like he will have a better
shot at it.”  Nuclear Negotiator  More than 20 politicians have announced their intention to
run, state-run Press TV reported. They have five days to
register. Former nuclear negotiator Hassan Rohani, who served
under ex-President Mohammad Khatami and also has ties to former
President Ali Akbar Rafsanjani, signed up earlier today.
Mohammad Saeedi-Kia, former housing and urban development
minister, and Kamran Baqeri Lankarani, ex-health minister, also
put their names forward, as did Mostafa Kavakebian, a former
member of parliament.  All candidates will be vetted by the Guardian Council,
which usually reduces the field to less than 10. The 12-member
body includes six clerics nominated by Khamenei.  While Khamenei is the final decision-maker on key affairs
of the state, the president is able to set the tone at home and
abroad.  Khatami, a former culture minister, won with a landslide in
1997, ushering in a period of change such as a freer media, an
expansion of social liberties including easing curbs on women’s
clothing, and more engagement with western countries.  House Arrest  In 2009, Mir Hossein Mousavi advocated similar ideas in a
presidential campaign that ended in violent repression of his
supporters as they protested. Since then, Mousavi and some of
his allies have been placed under house arrest.  Authorities have signaled they’ll try to block candidates
who may tap into that vein of discontent.  “Candidates must in their hearts have a belief in the
Islamic Republic system and its constitution,” said Abbas Ali
Kadkhodaei, a spokesman for the Guardian Council, according to
Etemaad newspaper on May 2. “If the Council doesn’t see that,
it will not approve them. Perhaps some errors have been
committed in the past.”  Velayati, Khamenei’s foreign policy adviser for several
years and a lifelong loyalist, is an example of the kind of
technocratic candidate who may be favored this time. He has
vowed to protect Iran’s nuclear achievements while improving
ties with the outside world, Fars news agency reported May 5.  Military Strikes  Israel  and the U.S. have threatened military strikes to
halt Iran’s nuclear program if diplomacy can’t achieve that.
Iran says it’s not seeking to build atomic weapons. Sanctions
have helped push  Iran’s oil output  to the lowest in more than
two decades, and its inflation rate above 30 percent.  The pre-emptive alliances between potential establishment
candidates may help crowd out possible dark horses, as well as
strengthening their bids by pooling networks and resources ahead
of the two-week official campaign.  Velayati has been joined by Tehran Mayor Mohammad-Baqer
Qalibaf and former Parliament Speaker Gholam Ali Haddad Adel in
what they call the “2+1” group. Each has vowed to endorse
whichever among them has the best chance of victory.  A similar understanding drew together a group of five
officials that includes Mottaki in the self-proclaimed
“Majority Coalition.”  ‘Team-Based’  The model may have been encouraged by the ruling elite to
ensure a smooth election, analysts say.  “None of the current presidential hopefuls are voter
magnets at the national level,” said Yasmin Alem an independent
Iran analyst and the author of  Duality by Design: The Iranian
Electoral System . “A shift from a personality-centered to a
team-based campaign could diminish the security risks associated
with national campaigns that are prone to popular outbursts.”  There are potential candidates who could still scupper any
plan to keep the election under tight control.  Local media have hinted at a bid by either Khatami or
Rafsanjani, who has also expressed sympathy with the opposition
movement that supported Mousavi in 2009.  Ahmadinejad, who has fallen out of favor with Khamenei and
squabbled with other top officials, is seen as grooming his
close aide, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, for the post, though
neither has clarified his intentions.  It would make the contest more interesting “if you saw an
outside or atypical candidate be able to make it through the
Guardian Council and other institutional hurdles,” Smith said.
This time, though, “challenges from outside the conservative
establishment would be harder to push through, because of the
hostility they would face.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  