-- Israeli Attacks Show Why Obama Must Step Up In Syria
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-06T22:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/israeli-attacks-show-why-obama-must-step-up-in-syria.html
Last weekend,  Israel  saw a threat to
its interests and acted, staging aerial attacks on Syria’s
military research facilities and on a shipment of Iranian
missiles waiting to be sent from Syria to Hezbollah militants in
Lebanon.  Israel’s action -- which it has yet to acknowledge -- and
the retaliation it might trigger from Syria, Hezbollah or  Iran 
are potent reminders of the dangers posed by Syria’s escalating
conflict. Indeed, unless the U.S. works more resolutely to end
the conflict, it risks a spiral into a wider regional war.  The Israelis had good reason for their Damascus raid.
Hezbollah is intent on the destruction of Israel. During their
2006 war, Hezbollah fired thousands of rockets into Israel, and
has since stockpiled thousands more. The shipment that was hit
reportedly included solid-fueled missiles that can be deployed
quickly and fired precisely to reach targets in  Tel Aviv  from
Lebanon. For the Israelis, such weapons, along with the shipment
of anti-aircraft weapons that it attacked in late January, would
have been a “game-changer,” to use a phrase favored by U.S.
President  Barack Obama .  While Israel moved quickly to respond to this threat, the
Obama administration was caught up in an unseemly  debate  about
what extent of chemical weapons usage, and by whom, in Syria
would constitute a crossing of the “red lines” it set for a more
forcible intervention.  Israel’s Attack  Let’s clarify where things stand: Israel’s attack has
increased the odds that Syria’s conflict will embroil the
region; the U.S.,  France , the U.K. and the  United Nations  have
all acknowledged credible reports of chemical weapons usage;
more than a million Syrian refugees are putting pressure on
Jordan, Lebanon and  Turkey ; and the al-Nusra Front, one of the
more effective members of the Syrian rebel coalition against the
regime of Bashar al-Assad, has declared its loyalty to al-Qaeda.
Facing these realities, the U.S. has to understand that the
situation isn’t going to improve.  On his current trip to  Russia , Secretary of State  John Kerry  should give his hosts one more chance to stop arming and
funding Assad and to support a UN effort to secure a cease-fire,
a heavily armed peacekeeping force and a political transition
that ushers Assad from power.  If the Russians refuse, then the U.S. should commit to
providing the Free Syrian Army with lethal aid, including anti-aircraft weaponry, and stepping up its training efforts.
Ideally, this would be in conjunction with France and the U.K.,
when the European Union’s arms embargo ends this month.  The allies should also establish buffer zones to shelter
fleeing civilians -- along the Jordanian border, for starters,
where a small U.S. force is already in place. This step would
require a  significant deployment  of air power and, inevitably,
some U.S. boots on the ground in  Syria .  With the best of intentions, Obama may not want to take
such risks, and the American public is rightly reluctant to
involve U.S. forces in another Middle Eastern war. Yet as the
latest Israeli airstrikes suggest, continued inaction may be the
surest path to the large-scale intervention the U.S. wishes to
avoid.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 