-- ITC CEO Girding for ‘Ransom’ as States Review $1.8 Billion Deal
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-05-06T21:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/itc-ceo-girding-for-ransom-as-states-review-1-8-billion-deal.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR)  and  ITC Holdings (ITC) , the
largest independent U.S. owner of high-voltage  power lines , face
negotiations “for ransom” as five states and the city of New
Orleans review the planned sale of Entergy’s high-voltage power
lines to Novi, Michigan-based ITC.  The companies are trying to settle differences ahead of
July hearings in Arkansas and Louisiana, where commission staff
members oppose the deal because it will cost state regulators
oversight of line upgrades and capital spending.  “What you’re really dealing with is a hostage situation,
and the hostage in this case is the transaction,” Joseph Welch,
ITC’s chairman and chief executive officer, said in an interview
today at Bloomberg’s New York office. “We have just entered,
finally, into the negotiation phase for ransom.”  ITC Holdings agreed in December 2011 to acquire Entergy’s
transmission system for $1.78 billion in assumed debt. If the
deal is completed, ITC will own more than 30,000 miles of high-
voltage lines from the Great Lakes to the  Gulf Coast .  The transaction isn’t in the public interest, according to
the Arkansas and Louisiana commissions, since it would shift
oversight of Entergy’s high-voltage lines from state to federal
regulators. ITC is regulated by the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission .  Julien Dumoulin-Smith, a New York-based utilities analyst
with UBS Securities LLC, rated the deal’s chances of approval at
less than 50 percent and “near impossible without some sort of
economic concession,” in an April 30 research report. He rates
shares of New Orleans-based Entergy a “sell.”  “In these negotiations, money is an easy thing to
evaluate: Either we can do it or we can’t do it,” Welch said.
“The harder ones are the emotional issues, like loss of
jurisdiction. The states will have more input, more knowledge,
more clarity and more visibility with what’s going on with the
transmission grid with us as an owner than they ever had with
Entergy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  