-- Littler, Edwards Wildman, MoFo, Venable: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/littler-edwards-wildman-mofo-venable-business-of-law.html
A second wave of Ogletree, Deakins,
Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC lawyers, mostly associates, have left
the firm for Littler Mendelson LLP as part of an earlier group
of departures led by Don Prophete.  Prophete, along with six partners whom the firm calls
shareholders, left Ogletree for Littler on April 23. A week
after his move, Reuters reported on an e-mail he sent to
colleagues and clients stating his dissatisfaction with his
former firm’s handling of a discrimination matter involving a
female shareholder on his team. According to Reuters, Prophete’s
e-mail didn’t identify the female shareholder, the shareholder
whom Prophete reported to the firm for the alleged harassment,
the office in which the shareholder is a manager or the type of
discrimination. Prophete didn’t return a call on May 3 seeking
comment.  Ogletree contradicted Prophete’s allegations and said he
hadn’t made any claims about harassment or discrimination to the
firm, Ogletree said in a May 1 statement. Prophete’s claims came
after “the firm voted overwhelmingly for him to leave,” Kim
Ebert, a managing shareholder, said in a statement.  On May 3, Littler said that Atlanta shareholder Tamika
Nordstrom, along with five associates in various offices, joined
Littler. Two associates are from the  Kansas City  office, where
Prophete was based, and an associate from each of the firm’s  St.
Louis ,  New York  and Philadelphia offices also joined the firm.  Littler said in a statement that Prophete, a former vice
president of Ogletree and founding partner of the Kansas City
office, was the “catalyst” for the new hires.  Nordstrom, the most recent shareholder to switch firms,
declined to comment on alleged harassment incident. “I had a
good experience at Ogletree. I don’t leave with any hard
feelings,” she said in a telephone interview. “It’s just that
business opportunities changed for me.”  In a second statement on May 3, Ogletree’s Ebert said while
the firm was disappointed by the departures, they had little
impact on the firm’s clients or growth.  “It is perhaps worthy of note that this is a far smaller
group than Prophete has publicly claimed would follow him,”
Ebert said in the statement. “Only four of the 20 lawyers in
Kansas City (where Prophete was based) have chosen to join him,
and those lawyers who had worked with him the longest have
chosen to stay with our firm.”  Nordstrom has experience representing management in labor
and employment litigation, including noncompetition and trade
secret matters, claims under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act, discrimination and harassment claims, and wage and
hour disputes, Littler said in a statement.  “These recent additions further demonstrate our commitment
to obtaining high-quality talent as we continue to expand our
presence nationally and globally,” Jeremy Roth, co-president
and co-managing director of Littler, said in the statement.  Littler has more than 970 attorneys at 57 offices
throughout the Americas.  Edwards Wildman Reorganizes Florida Offices; Opens in Miami  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP opened an office in Miami in a
reorganization of its  Florida  locations. The firm, which has had
a West Palm Beach location since 1981, will close its Ft.
Lauderdale office and move those attorneys to the Miami and West
Palm Beach offices.  “Miami is a global financial and commercial center, and we
are excited to better serve our clients in private equity,
venture capital and litigation, among other practice areas, from
this dynamic international hub,” Jonathan Cole, partner-in-
charge of Edwards Wildman’s Florida offices, said in a
statement.  Eight of the firm’s Florida-based attorneys will use the
Miami office on a regular basis and the firm expects to grow the
office through the addition of lateral partners and associates,
Heather Fontaine Merton, a firm spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The firm also has had a presence in Gainesville since 2008,
though the office is staffed by attorneys from other offices on
a rotating basis. The firm has 10 lawyers in Florida, seven of
them partners.  Edwards Wildman has 625 lawyers at 15 offices in the U.S.,
 London  and  Asia .  MoFo’s Johnston Moves From London to Head Palo Alto Office  Morrison & Foerster LLP  named trial lawyer Alan Cope Johnston, who has been at the firm for 35 years, managing
partner of the Palo Alto office. Johnston, who was most recently
a resident in London, held the position before, when he opened
the office for MoFo in 1985. He succeeds Christopher Eide, who
led the office for the past two years.  “He has been an invaluable leader in every position he
has held and we are pleased to welcome him home to Palo Alto
where innovation is rooted,” Larren Nashelsky, chair of
Morrison & Foerster, said of Johnston.  Johnston’s practice focuses on disputes involving patent
infringement, trade secret theft and technology licensing. He
previously held leadership positions, including founding and
serving as managing partner of both the firm’s  Washington  and
Palo Alto offices, head of the Tokyo litigation group, managing
partner of the Northern Virginia office and co-head of the
firm’s intellectual property litigation group, the firm said.  “I am delighted to be back in Palo Alto,” Johnston said
in a statement. “The move brings an exciting opportunity to
expand the firm’s core strengths representing both global
corporations and emerging technology companies in tech-focused
corporate and M&A transactions and life sciences work, and
complex IP litigation and counseling.”  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers at 16
offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Moves  Venable Hires CFPB Lawyer Baker as Partner in Washington  Allyson Baker, who helped start the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau’s Office of Enforcement and was lead counsel
on one of the agency’s first enforcement actions, “In the
Matter of Discover Bank,” joined Venable LLP as a partner in
its Washington office, the firm said.  Prior to joining the CFPB in 2011, Baker was a trial
attorney in the Department of Justice’s civil tax division.  “Being present at the creation of the CFPB and handling
one of its biggest enforcement matters to date has given her a
unique perspective,” Geoffrey Garinther, Venable litigation
division chairman, said in a statement. “Allyson figures to be
an invaluable addition to our litigation and enforcement groups,
especially assisting financial services clients facing their
most sensitive and complex matters.”  Venable’s CFPB Task Force is headed by Jonathan Pompan and
Suzanne Garwood, who represent consumer financial institutions
in matters before the CFPB.  Venable has more than 500 lawyers at eight U.S. offices.  Reed Smith Hires Labor and Litigation Partners in Houston  Reed Smith LLP  added two partners to its Houston office.
Mark D. Temple, formerly of  Jones Day , and Leah T. Rudnicki,
formerly of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP bring the
total number of partners in the firm’s new Houston office to 16
and the number of lawyers to 22. Temple is a member of the
firm’s labor and employment practice. Rudnicki is a member of
its commercial litigation practice.  Temple provides general employment litigation and counsel
to employers with an emphasis on non-compete litigation,
protection of  trade secrets , and wage and hour counseling, and
handles broad-based discrimination claims, the firm said.  He
also litigates cases before regulatory agencies and courts on
workplace-related matters.  Rudnicki has experience providing strategic business
counsel on energy operations, including representing, counseling
and advising clients, the firm said. Her practice includes
energy litigation, complex business and commercial litigation,
toxic tort, and product liability defense.  Reed Smith  has more than 1,800 lawyers in 25 offices
throughout the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Jones Day Adds Tax Partner Berger in Amsterdam  Jones Day said Lodewijk Berger will join the Amsterdam
office as a partner in the tax practice. He was previously at
Loyens & Loeff.  Berger focuses on international taxation, particularly for
multinational corporations, banks, and private equity funds.  “Lodewijk’s arrival marks another important step forward
in our growth in Amsterdam since officially opening our doors in
February of this year,” Luc Houben, partner-in-charge of Jones
Day’s Amsterdam office, said in a statement. “The Netherlands’
modern and competitive tax system is attractive to foreign
investors, and therefore high quality tax advisors are important
to providing our clients with full service capabilities.
Lodewijk’s international tax experience is precisely what we
need.”  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers in 36 offices
worldwide.  Nena Bains Joins Kilpatrick Townsend in Silicon Valley  Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP said Nena Bains joined
the firm’s Silicon Valley office as a partner on the medical and
mechanical devices team.  Bains, who worked at Kilpatrick Townsend’s West Coast
predecessor Townsend and Townsend and Crew from 1999 to 2006 as
an associate, has spent the past seven years as in-house counsel
with  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  and Asthmatx Inc. in Sunnyvale,
 California , the firm said.  Kilpatrick Townsend has 620 lawyers at 17 offices in the
U.S. and internationally.  Mintz Levin Adds IP Attorney in San Francisco  Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo PC added Paul
Davis, formerly of Goodwin Procter LLP, as a member in the
firm’s intellectual property practice in  San Francisco .  Davis has more than 25 years of experience working with
Silicon Valley area technology companies, the firm said.  Mintz Levin has 500 lawyers in eight offices in the U.S.
and London.  Communications Industry GC Joins Akin Gump in Washington  Akin Gump  Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP said Douglas I. Brandon
joined the firm in Washington as a partner in the communications
and information technology practice. Brandon was previously
general counsel at TerreStar Networks.  He has almost 25 years of experience in the wireless
telecommunications industry, working with terrestrial providers
and satellite carriers on regulatory and policy matters, the
firm said.  Brandon joined TerreStar Networks in 2007. While there, he
oversaw all of the company’s legal matters, including
collaboration with a team from Akin Gump that navigated the
company through the bankruptcy process, culminating in the sale
of most of TerreStar’s assets to DISH Network, the firm said.  Akin Gump has more than 850 attorneys in offices throughout
the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Real Estate Partner David B. Currie Rejoins Choate Hall  David B. Currie has rejoined Choate, Hall & Stewart LLP as
a partner in its real estate group. Most recently Currie was
general counsel at the real estate company The Davis Companies.  Currie will represent real estate developers and real
estate private equity funds in all aspects of acquisition,
disposition, financing, leasing, and development of real
property. He also has experience counseling real estate private
equity funds in the acquisition of office, retail, industrial
and multi-family properties, the firm said.  Choate has 175 attorneys in its Boston office.  Video  Sullivan & Cromwell’s Cohen: Cyprus Is Not A Template  H. Rodgin Cohen, partner at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, tells
Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia why the recent bailout of Cyprus’s
banking sector was a unique situation and not necessarily a
template for dealing with future sovereign debt crises in the
Eurozone.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  News  Deng Xiaoping’s Duke Law Alumnus Grandson Named County Official  The grandson of late Chinese leader  Deng Xiaoping , a Duke
University law school graduate who later worked for U.S. law
firm White & Case LLP, was named deputy head of a county in
southern  China , the People’s Daily website said.  Deng Zhuodi, in his late 20s, will oversee economic
development, law, agriculture, poverty alleviation and major
projects in Guangxi province’s Pingguo county, the May 3  report 
said, citing local media. Pingguo is part of the city of Baise,
where Deng Xiaoping helped lead a  Communist uprising  in 1929
against the Nationalist government.  Deng Zhuodi’s appointment illustrates  the influence  of
China’s so-called princelings, the descendants of the founding
fathers of Communist China. Chinese President Xi Jinping, the
son of a top party official, held a party post at the county
level in northern China’s Hebei province early in his career.  The younger Deng was born in 1985 while his grandfather
oversaw the country’s economic opening that lifted China out of
poverty and created opportunities for princelings to  get rich .
Deng Xiaoping died in 1997.  Deng Zhuodi is the son of Deng Xiaoping’s younger son Deng
Zhifang, who earned a physics Ph.D. at the University of
Rochester in the 1980s before returning to China to work in
property.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 