-- Japan, Australia Stock Futures Rise as ECB Prepared to Cut Rates
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-05-06T23:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/japan-australia-stock-futures-rise-as-ecb-prepared-to-cut-rates.html
Japanese and Australia stock futures
rose after the  European Central Bank  said it ready to cut
interest rates again, adding to optimism that central banks
around the world will continue to buoy the economic recovery.  American Depositary Receipts of Nissan Motor Co., a
Japanese carmaker that gets 79 percent of its revenue abroad,
climbed 4.4 percent as the yen weakened. ADRs of  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, added 1.1 percent,
leading gains on among companies with earnings closely tied to
economic growth. Those of Toyota Motor Corp. rose 4.1 percent as
the Nikkei newspaper reported the world’s biggest carmaker will
report earnings tomorrow that exceed analyst estimates.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
June traded at 14,195 in Chicago yesterday, up from 13,710 at
the May 2 close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market
at 14,080 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Japanese markets
reopen today after a two-day holiday. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.3 percent before the  Reserve Bank 
of Australia releases its interest=decision at 2:30 p.m. Sydney
time.  “Investors like to be reassured from central banks that we
are on the straight and narrow,” said James Lindsay, an
Auckland-based  fund manager  at Tyndall Investment Management
Ltd., which oversees about $23 billion. “Until economies really
start to fire, I can’t see any pull-back of stimulus.”  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.3 percent. Futures on
 Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index and on the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies trading in Hong Kong
both added 0.2 percent.  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, climbed 8.5 percent this year through yesterday
amid optimism the  Bank of Japan  will deploy more measures to
beat deflation and that policy makers in the U.S., Europe and
China remain on standby to buoy growth.  That left the gauge yesterday trading at 14.1 times average
estimated earnings compared with 14.7 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 13.1 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers are ready to
cut interest rates again if needed after reducing them to a
record low last week.  “We will be looking at all the data that arrives from the
euro-area economy in the coming weeks and if necessary, we are
ready to act again,” Draghi said in a speech in Rome yesterday.
“Monetary policy will remain accommodative.”  Australian Rates  Australian central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  enters
today’s policy meeting facing the strongest pressure this year
to cut the key  interest rate  to a record low as unemployment
rises, swap markets indicate. The contracts show a 51 percent
chance the Reserve Bank of Australia’s board will lower the
overnight cash-rate target to 2.75 percent, below the 2.89
percent record reached in January 1960. Should Stevens stand
pat, traders are pricing a 77 percent chance he will cut in
June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.1
percent. The gauge gained 0.2 percent yesterday to a record, led
by financial shares, after data last week showed American
employers added more workers than forecast in April.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.8 percent in New York
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  