-- JPMorgan, Commerzbank Pondering Turkey Bond Yield Bottom
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-05-06T08:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/jpmorgan-commerzbank-pondering-turkey-bond-yield-bottom.html
Banks from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
Morgan Stanley and Commerzbank AG are weighing the outlook for
Turkey’s two-year note yield after it fell below 5 percent for
the first time amid fading inflation concern.  Two-year yields will drop to 4 percent, according to Tatha Ghose at Commerzbank,  Germany ’s second-biggest lender. Morgan
Stanley says the current low rate isn’t justified, while  Turk
Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  predicts yields won’t fall further. The yield
sank to as low as 4.96 percent on May 3 before rising to 5.14
percent, trimming the drop in the past year to 419 basis points,
the most among 17  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg and more
than twice the slide for Polish notes, the next largest decline.  Turkish inflation slowed more than economists estimated to
a two-year low in April, giving the central bank room to reduce
interest rates. Even with the drop in yields, Turkey still
offers the fifth-highest rate in emerging markets as policy
makers globally rely on stimulus measures to revive growth.  “We may test towards 4.5 percent,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an
economist at JPMorgan in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments on
May 3. “Sounds unbelievable, but this is the reality. Given
ample global liquidity, a strong domestic story, low
inflationary pressures and a dovish central bank, bond yields
could fall further.”  Negative Yields  Swiss, Germany and Finnish two-year yields trade near zero
while  Australia ’s 2.51 percent rate is the highest among 22
developed countries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg at
the end of last week.  India cut interest rates for a third straight meeting on
May 3, a day after the European Central Bank lowered its main
rate to a record 0.5 percent. ECB President Mario Draghi said
last week that policy makers had an “open mind” on reducing
their so-called deposit rate below the current level of zero for
the first time.  The lira weakened for a fourth day, sliding 0.1 percent to
1.7956 per dollar at 11:15 a.m. in Istanbul today. The currency
has depreciated 0.7 percent this year. The two-year note yield
fell three basis points to 5.11 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service rekindled expectations of a
rating upgrade on April 11 when it praised  Turkey ’s peace talks
with the Kurdistan Workers’ Party in an effort to end a conflict
that began in 1984.  ‘Upgrade Story’  “Turkey has a rating upgrade story and funds in the system
are also cheap and abundant,” said Ali Cakiroglu, a strategist
at HSBC Asset Management in Istanbul. “If this euphoria
continues, we can see the benchmark bond yields reach 4.8-4.9
percent.”  Fitch Ratings lifted Turkey to investment-grade status in
November, the economy’s first such ranking in 18 years. Moody’s
and Standard & Poor’s rate Turkey one level below investment
grade. Investors who borrowed in U.S. dollars and bought Turkish
lira debt earned 5.4 percent over the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Turkey’s economy grew 2.2 percent last year, the slowest
pace since a recession in 2009, and down from 8.8 percent in
2011. The economy needs to grow at least 6 percent a year to
meet its goal of becoming one of the world’s top 10 economies by
the 2023 centennial of the Turkish Republic, Economy Minister
Zafer Caglayan said April 1.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 185 today, compared with an average 269
basis points for emerging markets, JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Diversified index showed.  No Logic  “I don’t think there is a clear logic behind yields
anywhere in emerging markets these days,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief
economist for emerging  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa  at
Morgan Stanley in  London , said in e-mailed comments on May 3.
“As long as investors get a tiny amount of carry, they will
pile in.”  Turkey’s central bank reduced all three of its main
interest rates last month, citing an increase of capital
inflows. The Monetary Policy Committee is next scheduled to meet
May 16.  Yields on Turkey’s two-year notes may fall to 4 percent and
then stay there through year-end, while rates on longer-maturity
debt rise, according to Ghose, Commerzbank’s senior emerging-
market economist in London.  Inflation and overheating worries are disappearing around
the world and won’t be back for three years, Ghose wrote in e-
mailed comments. “I would be much more bullish for two-year
bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  