-- Juventus Wins Italian Soccer League; Ajax Secures Dutch Title
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-05-06T01:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/juventus-wins-italian-soccer-league-ajax-secures-dutch-title.html
Juventus secured its record-extending
29th Italian soccer championship with a 1-0 win against Palermo.
Ajax clinched the Dutch title for a third straight season.  Lionel Messi  scored twice in a 4-2 comeback win yesterday
that pushed Barcelona to the brink of the Spanish league title,
while 10-man Paris Saint-Germain drew 1-1 to move to within one
victory of its first French championship since 1994.  Juventus only needed a draw at home yesterday to retain its
Serie A crown, though took all three points with a 59th-minute
penalty by  Arturo Vidal . With three games remaining, Turin-based
Juventus has an unbeatable 11-point lead over Napoli, which beat
Inter Milan 3-1 last night.  “It wasn’t easy for us to reclaim our title this year,”
Juventus manager  Antonio Conte  said on his team’s website.
“Starting out as favorites doesn’t do you any favors.”  Ajax won the Dutch league for a record-extending 32nd time,
and the third straight year, with a 5-0 home victory over the
Eredivisie’s last-place team, Willem II.  Kolbeinn Sigthorsson and Christian Eriksen put Ajax 2-0 up
by halftime and the Amsterdam-based team added goals by Viktor
Fischer, Siem de Jong and Danny Hoesen after the break.  Ajax has 73 points, four more than second-place  PSV
Eindhoven  with one game left. PSV had a 4-2 home win over NEC,
while third-place Feyenoord lost 2-0 at Den Haag.  Three Straight  Frank  de Boer  is the third coach to lead Ajax to three
straight league titles, after Rinus Michels and Louis van Gaal.
De Boer also won the league three times in a row as a player in
the 1990s with Ajax, which automatically reaches next season’s
 Champions League , with PSV set to go into a qualifying round.  “It is a very nice list to be part of,” de Boer told
reporters. “When you are compared with people like that, you
can only feel proud.”  In Spain, World Player of the Year Messi scored twice after
coming on as a substitute to give Barcelona the win against Real
Betis after it twice trailed.  Barcelona has an 11-point lead with four matches remaining
and would clinch its 22nd title if defending champion Real
Madrid fails to beat Malaga on April 8. Real Madrid defeated
Real Valladolid 4-3 two days ago as Cristiano Ronaldo got two
goals at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium.  In France, Ligue 1 leader PSG drew 1-1 at home against
Valenciennes last night after losing  Thiago Silva  to a 43rd-
minute red card. Gael Danic put Valenciennes ahead in the 17th
minute, and Alex tied it for PSG with seven minutes left.  The capital club leads second-place Marseille, which beat
Bastia 2-1 two days ago, by seven points with three games to go.  In Germany,  Borussia Dortmund  and  Bayern Munich  drew 1-1 in
a warmup for their Champions League final on May 25.  Bayer
Leverkusen  beat Nuremberg 2-0 to clinch third place.  Bayern, which secured its 23rd German league championship
last month, is 20 points ahead of second-place Dortmund.  Elsewhere, Galatasaray retained the Turkish league title
after a 4-2 home win against Sivasspor lifted it 10 points clear
of Fenerbahce, while FC Copenhagen was confirmed as Danish
champion for the 10th time following a 0-0 draw with Brondby.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 