-- Kentucky Derby Winner Orb Set to Travel for Preakness Next Week
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-06T04:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/kentucky-derby-winner-orb-set-to-travel-for-preakness-next-week.html
Kentucky  Derby winner Orb will travel
to Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore on May 14 to begin final
preparations for the  Preakness Stakes .  Hall of Fame trainer Shug McGaughey confirmed yesterday
that Orb will run in the middle jewel of horse racing’s Triple
Crown, which is scheduled for May 18.  McGaughey got his first career Kentucky Derby win two days
ago as Orb, ridden by Joel Rosario, beat 18 other horses in
covering the 1 1/4-mile (2-kilometer) track in 2 minutes, 2.89
seconds at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky. It was the
fifth straight victory for the 3-year-old colt, which finished 2
1/2 lengths ahead of longshot Golden Soul on a sloppy track.  “We are tickled to death with the way he ran yesterday and
he seemed to come out of the race well,” McGaughey, 62, said
yesterday from Louisville before traveling with Orb back to
Belmont Park in New York. “I am looking forward to getting
there. We had a great two weeks down here and I am sure our time
at Pimlico will be every bit as good.”  McGaughey’s only previous Preakness starters were Pine
Circle, which was fifth in 1984, and Easy Goer, who finished
second to Sunday Silence in 1989.  At least five horses that challenged Orb in the  Kentucky
Derby  are also set to be at the Preakness, according to the
Maryland Jockey Club. Fifth-place finisher Mylute leads the
group, which also includes Oxbox (6th), Will Take Charge (8th),
Itsmyluckyday (15th) and Goldencents (17th).  Other probable entrants include Illinois Derby winner
Departing, Sunland Derby winner Governor Charlie, Southwest
runner-up Fear the Kitten and allowance winner Bellarmine.  Triple Crown  There hasn’t been a Triple Crown winner since 1978, when
Affirmed swept the Kentucky Derby, Preakness and Belmont Stakes,
which is scheduled for June 8 in New York.  Hall of Fame trainer D. Wayne Lukas, a five-time winner of
the Preakness, will be represented at Pimlico by two of Orb’s
top challengers in Oxbow and Will Take Charge.  “We are all going to have to get better to beat him,”
Lukas said. “The Preakness will be the biggest hurdle for him
for the Triple Crown. If he gets by that, he gets to go back
home to Belmont and run right out of his stall.”  The 139th running of the Kentucky Derby equaled 2010 for
the second-biggest television audience in 21 years, NBC said
yesterday, citing data from Neilsen Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  