-- Kerry Arrives in Moscow to Seek Syria Talks After Strikes
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-05-07T19:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/kerry-to-pursue-boston-bombings-inquiry-on-russia-trip.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
urged Russian President  Vladimir Putin  to heed their countries’
“very significant common interests” in Syria and redouble
efforts to end the war that’s destabilizing the  Middle East .  Speaking at a meeting with the Russian leader in the
Kremlin today, Kerry thanked Putin for  Russia ’s cooperation on
counterterrorism and the investigation into the  Boston Marathon
bombings , which police say were carried out by brothers who
moved to the U.S. from Russia.  Kerry also said the U.S. and Russia can work together
effectively over  Iran , North Korea and economic issues.  “The  United States  believes that we share some very
significant common interests with respect to Syria -- stability
in the region, not having extremists creating problems
throughout the region and elsewhere,” Kerry said. “So it’s my
hope that today we’ll be able to dig into that a little bit and
see if we can find the common ground.”  The U.S. is seeking Russian support to end a civil war in
Syria that has killed about 70,000 people since March 2011 and
risks destabilizing neighboring countries. Putin, who returned
to the presidency a year ago, has opposed any U.S. intervention
in the war-torn country and resisted pressure to denounce Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, while urging peace talks between
government forces and rebels.  Russia and the U.S. are cooperating on the most pressing
questions as they seek solutions to the conflict, Putin said.  ‘Serious Approach’  After meeting with Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , Kerry
said his Russian counterpart was taking a “very serious
approach” to critical issues. While the countries have “some
disagreements,” Kerry said the U.S. and Russia have shown a
“tremendous amount” of cooperation on issues such as strategic
arms,  Afghanistan  and North Korea.  Lavrov told reporters that Russia is “satisfied with the
tone and atmosphere” of the talks and that the countries are
determined to overcome differences and build trust.  Syria has accused  Israel  of carrying out airstrikes on its
territory in the past week, attacks that may increase pressure
on the U.S. to authorize limited use of air power to help oust
Assad. During the conflict, Russia and China have blocked
measures at the  United Nations Security Council  targeting the
Syrian regime.  Syria Options  Before departing for Moscow, Kerry had lunch at the
Pentagon with Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel. Last week, Hagel
said no decision has been made on whether to help arm the Syrian
rebels. President  Barack Obama  said on May 3 that he doesn’t
foresee circumstances that would require putting U.S. troops on
the ground in Syria.  While Obama has been reluctant to have the U.S. drawn into
the conflict, the administration has stepped up a review of
options as it assesses intelligence that Assad’s forces may have
used small amounts of the chemical weapon sarin against the
opposition. The UN yesterday failed to clear up conflicting
claims after a former war-crimes prosecutor said there were
signs that rebels, not government forces, had used sarin gas.  The U.S. is also seeking new ways to cooperate on fighting
terrorism in the wake of the attack in  Boston , according to a
State Department official who briefed reporters in  Washington 
yesterday on condition of anonymity before the private talks.
Russian authorities have provided productive assistance after
the April 15 bombings that killed 3 people and injured more than
200 others, he said.  ‘Enormous Challenges’  “There are enormous challenges today that require” the
strongest cooperation between the U.S. and Russia, Kerry said
today, praising communication between the two sides over the
probe into the attacks.  Robert Mueller , director of the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, was in Moscow today “for productive meetings
with his Russian counterparts on opportunities for growth in
security cooperation between our countries,” according to a
statement from the U.S. embassy in Moscow.  U.S. lawmakers have questioned the FBI’s decision to close
a 2011 inquiry into Tamerlan Tsarnaev, one of two brothers
suspected of detonating bombs at the marathon. Russian
intelligence agencies had told the FBI in 2011 that Tsarnaev had
become radicalized and asked the U.S. for information about him.
The Central Intelligence Agency also was provided with the
information.  Tsarnaev Probe  The Tsarnaev brothers and their two sisters are immigrants
of Chechen descent and came to the U.S. from the Russian region
of Dagestan, after having been refugees from the central Asian
nation of Kyrgyzstan.  The FBI searched U.S. terrorism and crime databases,
conducted interviews and found nothing incriminating, and the
Russians didn’t respond to requests for more information,
according to U.S. officials who asked not to be identified
discussing intelligence matters.  Because of the FBI investigation, Tsarnaev was listed in a
government database maintained by  U.S. Customs  and  Border
Protection  that alerted the agency when he traveled to Russia in
January 2012. Members of Congress have asked how that
information was handled.  Obama said on April 30 that Russia has been “very
cooperative” since the attack. Kerry thanked Putin for his
country’s help in investigating the attack at their meeting
today.  Relationship Improving  “There are still suspicions sometimes between our
intelligence and law enforcement agencies that date back 10, 20,
30 years, back to the  Cold War ,” Obama said at a White House
news conference. “But they’re continually improving.”  Obama said “we want to leave no stone unturned” in a
review to determine whether warning signs were missed by U.S.
authorities before the bombings.  The review of how the information from Russia was handled
is being performed by inspectors general for U.S. intelligence
and law enforcement agencies, according to a spokesman for  James Clapper , the director of national intelligence.  U.S. authorities have said Tsarnaev, 26, and his younger
brother Dzhokhar, 19, detonated two homemade bombs near the
marathon’s finish line. Tamerlan Tsarnaev died after a shootout
with police. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has been charged with two capital
counts, including use of a weapon of mass destruction. He could
face the death penalty if convicted.  “President Obama particularly feels that cooperation
between Russia and the United States with respect to economic
issues is something that would be of enormous benefit to both,
and Russia’s leadership is so key on so many of those issues,”
Kerry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Moscow at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  