-- NY State Senator Latest Lawmaker Charged With Corruption
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-06T22:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/n-y-state-senator-sampson-charged-with-embezzlement-1-.html
New York  State Senator John Sampson
pleaded not guilty to embezzlement charges in the latest
corruption case involving state politicians.  Sampson, a Democrat who represents southeastern Brooklyn,
was accused today of stealing as much as $440,000 from
foreclosure proceedings while acting as a court-appointed
referee. He used some of the money to fund an unsuccessful
campaign to become Kings County District Attorney in “one of
the most extreme examples of political hubris that we have
seen,” Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said at a news
conference.  The legislator faces two counts of embezzlement, five
counts of obstruction of justice and two counts of making false
statements, according to an indictment unsealed today in federal
court in  Brooklyn , New York. U.S. Magistrate Judge Viktor Pohorelsky set bail at $250,000.  The case follows last month’s announcements of bribery-
related charges against New York Assemblyman Eric Stevenson of
the Bronx and State Senator Malcolm Smith of Queens by
prosecutors in Manhattan federal court. Stevenson pleaded not
guilty today in Manhattan. His lawyer, Andrew Patel, declined to
comment.  Shirley Huntley  In January, former state Senator Shirley Huntley, also of
Queens, pleaded guilty in Brooklyn to conspiring to commit mail
fraud in an unrelated scheme. All are Democrats.  “Today, John Sampson has been added to the list of
recently indicted New York elected officials,” FBI Assistant
Director George Venizelos said in a statement. “The people of
New York have a right to demand, at a bare minimum, that their
elected representatives obey the law.”  Sampson, 47, faces as long as 20 years in prison on each of
the most serious charges of obstruction of justice, which
included allegations of witness tampering, according to
prosecutors. The U.S. offered him a deal under which he could
opt to plead guilty to one embezzlement and one obstruction-of-
justice charge and face a possible sentence of 37 to 46 months
in prison, prosecutors told Pohorelsky at a hearing today.  The legislator, formerly leader of the state’s Democratic
Conference of the Senate and minority leader, is accused of
stealing the excess proceeds of foreclosure sales from accounts
he controlled as a court-appointed referee, a role he held from
1998 to 2008 in his capacity as a private attorney.  Prior Owners  The funds belonged to prior owners of the properties or
other parties who had a legal interest, prosecutors said today.  The government contended that he tried to cover his tracks
in part with a purported $188,500 loan from an associate in the
real estate business, who wasn’t named in court filings.  The loan was never repaid and Sampson failed to report it,
as required, on state Senate financial disclosure forms, the
government alleged.  When the government was investigating a mortgage-fraud
scheme involving the associate, Sampson attempted to hinder the
probe by reaching out to an acquaintance working in the U.S.
Attorney’s Office, prosecutors alleged. The legislator asked the
employee to gather information about the probe and identify
potential cooperating witnesses so he could “take them out,”
Lynch said today.  The employee, whose name was also not released, has since
been terminated, she said. Sampson also tried to persuade the
associate not to provide information, Lynch said.  No Risk  In court today, Zachary W. Carter, a lawyer for Sampson,
objected to the bail that prosecutors requested, saying his
client was a notable member of the Brooklyn community and didn’t
pose a risk of flight.  “You will always be able to find where he is,” said
Carter, who served as Brooklyn U.S. attorney from 1993 to 1999.
“I am fully confident that Mr. Sampson will make all
appearances.”  Prosecutors argued that bail was warranted given Sampson’s
alleged previous behavior.  He fits a “pattern of someone who doesn’t follow the rules
and doesn’t obey court orders,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Spector told the judge.  In a statement today, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, current
leader of the Democratic Conference, said Sampson has been
stripped of ranking positions and committee assignments.  ‘Deeply Disturbing’  “These allegations are deeply disturbing,” she said.
“The alleged activity represents an offensive violation of the
public trust for which there is no place in our government.”  Across the river in  Manhattan , Stevenson pleaded not guilty
to charges that he had accepted bribes in exchange for proposing
a bill to limit the opening of adult day-care centers.  Stevenson today was given a court-appointed lawyer after he
told the judge he can’t pay for defense counsel. He was named in
a felony indictment filed in Manhattan on May 3 which charges
him with honest services conspiracy and bribery. U.S. District
Judge William Pauley set a Jan. 6 trial date for Stevenson and
four co-defendants.  The Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s Office said the public-
corruption probe that ensnared Stevenson is “ongoing.”  Last month, New York Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced
proposals aimed at toughening state laws related to public
corruption and bribery. Lynch said today that the bills would
“bring state laws in line with federal laws” in prosecuting
corruption.  Sampson’s arrest “provides more clarity and more certainty
that this is the moment” to act on the bills, Cuomo said in a
radio interview today.  The Brooklyn case is U.S. v. Sampson, 1:13-cr-00269, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The
Manhattan case is U.S. v. Stevenson, 13-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  