-- Najib to Shift Focus to Malaysia’s Finances After Poll Victory
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-05-06T06:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/najib-may-shift-focus-to-malaysia-s-finances-after-poll-victory.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak’s
election victory yesterday gives the 59-year-old leader his
first mandate to push ahead with restructuring of the nation’s
finances to balance the budget.  Najib, who took over the leadership a year after the last
election, led the Barisan Nasional coalition to victory with the
help of a spending spree that swelled the national debt. He may
resume cutting fuel subsidies in the second half and impose a
sales tax in 2014, said Lim Su Sian, an economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in  Singapore . Najib has pledged by 2020 to end the
deficit, which exceeded 4 percent of gross domestic product last
year.  “We will likely see the government pay greater attention
to fiscal consolidation after the string of populist handouts in
the run-up to elections,” said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at
Bank of America Corp. in Singapore.  Stocks surged to a record and the ringgit rallied the most
since 2010 after Barisan Nasional extended its 55-year rule,
affording Najib another five years to move the economy toward
the goal of developed status by 2020. Southeast Asia’s third-
largest economy has reported 15 years of budget  deficits , and
spending has prompted credit rating companies to highlight risks
to government finances even as growth accelerates.  Najib went on a spending binge to woo voters, including
smartphone rebates for youths, household electricity subsidies
and higher wages for civil servants. A thousand taxi drivers
received grants to offset the cost of a new Proton Holdings Bhd.
car, while others got rebates for new tires. Najib said this
year cash transfers to poor households will take place annually.  Standard & Poor’s in September estimated  Malaysia ’s gross
general government debt would rise to 53.9 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012, from 51.9 percent in 2011.  Seeking Clarity  Fitch Ratings said today it is seeking “greater clarity”
on Malaysia’s fiscal and economic policies amid rising public
debt ratios and delays in subsidy reforms. The nation’s central
bank forecasts growth of as much as 6 percent this year, from
5.6 percent in 2012.  Rising growth may help Najib revive efforts to rein in the
deficit and move toward his party’s “Vision 2020” goal, a 30-
year plan laid out by former premier Mahathir Mohamad in 1991 to
make Malaysia a high-income country.  To do that, Najib needs to attract investment and create
jobs. Since taking charge, he has streamlined bureaucracy and
opened up more industries to foreign investors. In September
2010, he unveiled a so-called economic transformation program
that identified $444 billion of private-sector-led projects the
government planned to champion, ranging from mass rail to oil
storage.  Post-Election Focus  “With the election out of the way, policy makers must now
focus on maintaining the healthy economic performance achieved
in recent years as well as persevering with the current economic
transformation,” said  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in Singapore.  Still, the weaker performance of the ruling coalition at
the polls may make it more difficult to implement changes.  Najib’s Barisan Nasional coalition won 133 seats in the
222-member parliament, while opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim’s
People’s Alliance had 89 seats, according to Election Commission
results. The prime minister had sought to secure more than the
140 seats won by his coalition in the last election to avoid a
potential internal party challenge later this year.  The “weaker mandate from the election will essentially put
into question the strength of the political will,” Seah said.
“Expect a bumpy road ahead on this economic transformation.”  Malay Base  The smaller victory margin may also add to pressure on the
prime minister to extend handouts and continue affirmative-
action programs for the Malay majority that led to an erosion of
support from ethnic Chinese voters.  “Changes to affirmative-action policy to be needs-based
rather than race-based appear less likely now, given the
necessity of maintaining the support of the conservative Malay
majority,” said Kit Wei Zheng, a Singapore-based economist at
Citigroup Inc.  Malaysia is vying for investment with other developing
economies in Southeast Asia, including  Indonesia , the
Philippines, Thailand and  Vietnam .  “Encouraging inward FDI is crucial given the structural
outflows Malaysia has seen in recent years,” said Lim of HSBC.
“The outlook for direct investment will remain uncertain until
it becomes clearer whether or not Najib’s reform-minded policies
will continue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  