-- Nielsen to Sell Expositions Unit to Onex for $950 Million
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-05-06T14:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/nielsen-to-sell-expositions-unit-to-onex-for-950-million.html
Onex Corp. (OCX) ,  Canada ’s biggest buyout
firm, agreed to acquire  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) ’s tradeshow unit for
$950 million in cash.  Onex Partners III, Onex’ $4.7 billion private-equity fund,
will put about $350 million of equity into the purchase, the
Toronto-based company said today in a statement. The amount
includes about $85 million from Onex as a limited partner in the
fund.  Nielsen Expositions , based in San Juan Capistrano,
 California , produces more than 65 business-to-business
tradeshows and conferences a year in markets including general
merchandise, sports, hospitality and retail design. The company,
with about 240 employees, had revenue of $183 million last year
and adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of $97 million.  Onex’s “experience and successful track record in
executing similar corporate carve-outs and building those
divisions into industry-leading businesses position it as a
strong partner,” David Loechner, president of Nielsen
Expositions, said in today’s statement.  Nielsen Holdings, the biggest provider of U.S. television
ratings, was working with Credit Suisse Group AG to sell the
unit, people familiar with the process said in March. Onex
expects the deal to close in the second quarter.  Nielsen Holdings rose 1.1 percent to $36.03 by 10:02 a.m.
in New York, bringing gains this year to 18 percent.  2006 Buyout  Nielsen Holdings is controlled by a group of private-equity
firms that includes  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , KKR & Co., Thomas H.
Lee Partners LP,  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , Hellman & Friedman LLC and
AlpInvest Partners NV. The buyout group, which acquired Nielsen
for 8.9 billion euros ($11.7 billion) in 2006, owns 53 percent
of the company’s stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The firms took Nielsen public in 2011, raising $1.89
billion in what was the biggest private equity-backed IPO at the
time. Nielsen’s shares have gained 55 percent since then.  “Divesting the expositions business allows us to focus on
these core areas that provide our clients with a comprehensive
understanding of consumers,” Brian West, Nielsen’s chief
financial officer, said in today’s statement.  Onex, which has offices in Toronto,  New York  and  London ,
has $15 billion of assets under management in private equity,
credit and real estate. The firm’s flagship buyout funds have
returned between 1 times and 2.8 times invested capital with net
internal rates of return between 4 percent and 39 percent,
according to its  website .  Onex was advised by Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson
LLP in today’s deal, according to an e-mail from the New York
law firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  