-- North American Palladium Drops as Outlook Darkens: Toronto Mover
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-05-06T14:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/north-american-palladium-drops-as-outlook-darkens-toronto-mover.html
North American Palladium Ltd. (PDL) , the
operator of a precious-metals mine in Ontario, fell the most in
two years after saying its 2013 output targets will be
“difficult” to achieve and it may seek financing this quarter.  North American Palladium dropped 19 percent to C$1.12 at
10:27 a.m. in Toronto, where the company is based. The shares
earlier plunged 24 percent, the most intraday since May 10,
2011.  Chief Executive Officer Phil du Toit and Chief Financial
Officer David Langille are reviewing the operating plans at its
Lac des Iles mine, the company said today in its first-quarter
earnings statement. Du Toit and Langille both joined the company
this year.  “Preliminary findings identified some negative trends in
operations and  capital expenditures  that are currently being
assessed,” the company said. “Management believes that the low
end of the 150,000 to 160,000 ounce production guidance will be
difficult to achieve, and could potentially decrease by about 10
percent to 15 percent.”  The review, which is expected to be completed by the end of
June, also showed that the cost of completing the first phase of
a new shaft has been underestimated, the company said.  “Recognizing that the anticipated operating cash flows are
not expected to provide sufficient cash to fund capital
expenditures planned for 2013, the company is currently in the
process of evaluating financing opportunities and plans to
access the debt and/or equity markets in the second quarter,”
it said in the statement.  North American Palladium also said today that Chief
Operating Officer Greg Struble has resigned effective May 15 to
pursue a CEO job at another company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  