-- NTT Offers to Buy AccessKenya to Expand in Sub-Saharan Africa
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-05-06T13:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/ntt-offers-to-buy-accesskenya-to-expand-in-sub-saharan-africa.html
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. (9432) ’s
South African unit offered to acquire AccessKenya Ltd. for 3.05
billion shillings ($36.3 million) as part of its strategy to
expand in sub-Saharan  Africa .  The bid for 100 percent of the company at 14 shillings a
share represents a 42 percent premium to its closing  price  on
May 3. Shareholders will also be entitled to receive the
company’s 30 cent dividend for the 2012 financial year,
Dimension Data Plc said in a statement e-mailed today from
Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.  “The growth opportunities and liberal and progressive ICT
regulatory framework within  Kenya  make this market highly
attractive for Dimension Data to establish an even stronger
presence,” said Derek Wilcocks, chief executive officer of
Dimension Data’s Middle East and Africa office.  AccessKenya has about 5,000 corporate customers in Kenya,
East Africa’s biggest economy, through a fiber-optic network in
Nairobi and the port city of  Mombasa . It is Kenya’s only
publicly traded Internet company and the best-performing stock
on the Nairobi Securities Exchange this year.  The shares have more than doubled since Jan. 1, compared
with a 27 percent gain in the Nairobi Securities Exchange  All-
Share Index (NSEASI) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AccessKenya asked the Nairobi Securities Exchange to
immediately halt trading in its shares pending the completion of
the takeover, according to a statement e-mailed by the bourse.  Dimension Data, which operates in 51 countries across five
continents, was acquired by Tokyo-based NTT in July 2010 for 2.1
billion pounds ($3.26 billion). It already has operations in
Kenya, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  