-- Occidental’s Chazen Free for Breakup Swan Song as Chairman Out
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-05-06T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/occidental-s-chazen-free-for-breakup-swan-song-as-chairman-out.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) ,
transformed by longtime leader Ray Irani into a global oil
powerhouse from a hodgepodge of businesses that included movies
and meatpacking, is set to undergo another makeover after the
chairman’s ouster by shareholders.  Investors rebelled against the company board’s surprise
decision in February to replace Chief Executive Officer Stephen I. Chazen. Suspicions about Irani’s involvement in the plan and
years of discontent over his outsized pay packages led investors
to vote on May 3 against his retention by a margin of more than
three to one.  “Occidental is ready for new blood and new thinking -- a
wholesale change,” said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer
& Co. in  New York .  Irani’s departure will allow Chazen to pursue a breakup of
the company that may unlock more than $30 billion of additional
value by selling or spinning off Occidential’s international
assets, chemical and pipeline businesses into separate
companies, said David Neuhauser, a managing director at
Northbrook, Illinois-based Livermore Partners Inc.  Chazen, 66, has advocated a North American focus for the
$73 billion energy company, while Irani wanted to retain
Occidental’s global reach with drilling assets in the Middle
East,  Africa  and  Latin America , he said.  “It’s ripe for splitting up,” said Neuhauser, who helps
oversee $100 million in assets, including Occidental shares.
“If you sold them, you’d get a pretty penny for those assets.
That could be used for buybacks and dividends to reward
shareholders.”  Four Companies  Occidental has the potential to transform into four
separate companies: a U.S. crude producer, an international oil
and gas explorer, a chemicals maker and a pipeline and logistics
concern, Oppenheimer’s Gheit said.  “Each separate and standalone entity would be very
competitive and highly valued in its own sector,” said Gheit,
who rates the stock the equivalent of a buy and doesn’t own
shares.  Chazen said in an April 25 conference call with investors
that the company would weigh breakup options that “move the
needle a lot,” such as selling assets in South Texas and
 Colombia  and splitting the other international businesses into
another company.  Those prospects would allow the CEO to end his career with
“a major cash return to shareholders,”  Paul Sankey , an analyst
with Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said April 30 in a note to
investors.  Governance Improvements  Occidental director  Edward Djerejian , a former U.S.
ambassador to Israel and  Syria , will become chairman and Spencer Abraham will be vice chairman, the company said. Director Aziz Syriani submitted his resignation as of May 2, the company said
in a filing.  In the vote at Occidental’s annual meeting for shareholders
May 3 in  Los Angeles , 478 million investors sided against Irani,
while 150 million voted for his re-election, according to a
company filing. Occidental shares  rose 3 percent  to close at
$90.76 that day.  The board announced a slate of new governance improvements
April 29 after investors questioned the role Irani had played in
the decision to replace Chazen as CEO. Investors, including
First Pacific Advisors LLC, Cambiar Investors LLC and Livermore
Partners, advocated that Irani should leave instead of Chazen.  Year Ahead  The company reassured shareholders Chazen would stay as CEO
through 2014. The governance changes included barring future
CEOs from assuming the role of chairman, declaring that chairmen
after Irani will be independent, cutting board and executive pay
and adding two directors.  Irani is leaving more than a year ahead of the retirement
date he announced following previous shareholder criticism of
his compensation as excessive. The best paid oil industry CEO in
2009, he’s received average annual compensation of almost $80
million since 2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Irani earned more than $45.6 million last year after he gave up
the CEO role.  Irani may be eligible for a severance package of about $38
million, including a $5.7 million life insurance policy and
annual payments of $2.2 million, according to the company’s
 proxy filing . Having to leave under such circumstances may
entitle him to $21.6 million in retirement pay and, if it’s
considered a termination, about $16.8 million more.  Succeeding Hammer  Born and raised in  Beirut , Lebanon, Irani earned a
doctorate in chemistry at the University of  Southern California 
and became president of Occidental in 1984.  He took over as CEO in February 1990, succeeding longtime
CEO Armand Hammer, who died a few months later at the age of 92.
Occidental’s share price was about $13 at the time and the
company was almost “insolvent,” Chazen said May 3, having
become an unwieldy conglomerate with interests as far-flung as
filmmaking, horse breeding and meatpacking.  Irani sold off the unrelated businesses and turned the
company’s focus to oil. He curried favor with rulers across the
 Middle East  and North Africa to beat out bigger rivals for
drilling contracts that helped fuel growth prospects in the U.S.
and return cash to shareholders. Irani made a point to ensure
that oil ministers had his home telephone number to reach him
with any questions, he said in a 2009 interview.  During his time leading the company since 1990, Occidental
saw a  sixfold  increase in its share price and provided returns
more  than double  the gains of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regulatory Morass  The company’s value has fallen 25 percent since shares
touched a $115.74 high on May 2, 2011 -- just days before Irani
handed the CEO reins to Chazen -- as a push to raise output in
 California  was stymied by the state’s regulatory morass and high
costs. Occidental has rallied 18 percent this year as Chazen
executes a plan to cut drilling costs by as much as $400 million
and boost U.S. crude production.  At the May 3 annual meeting, Chazen spoke for several
minutes praising Irani and all he’d done for Occidental. He
didn’t specify what role, if any, Irani may play at the company
in the days ahead.  “I’m not going to tell you every day was a trip to
Disneyland,” Chazen said. “But I’m glad I’m going to be able
to talk to him in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  