-- Offshore Yuan Drops Most in 15 Months on Probe of Inflows
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-05-06T09:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/offshore-yuan-drops-most-since-2011-as-forex-scrutiny-stepped-up.html
The  yuan  fell in Hong Kong’s offshore
market by the most in 15 months and the onshore spot rate
retreated from a 19-year high as China stepped up scrutiny of
cash transfers from abroad.  Warning notices will be sent out to trading companies whose
goods and capital flows do not match, as well as to those that
are bringing large amounts of funds into China, the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange said in a statement dated
yesterday. Chinese lenders must boost foreign-exchange positions
when loan-to-deposit ratios for overseas currencies exceed
reference levels, the currency regulator said.  The offshore yuan declined 0.4 percent to 6.1790 per dollar
as of 5:20 p.m. in Hong Kong, the biggest loss since January
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is still 0.7
percent stronger than at the start of this year and touched a
record 6.1516 today. The yuan weakened 0.18 percent in  Shanghai 
to close at 6.1667, the steepest decline since December,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  “We could see demand for dollars surge on the SAFE
statement,” said  Liu Dongliang , a senior analyst at China
Merchants Bank Co. in Shenzhen. “We can’t tell what the actual
impact is, as the situation could be different for individual
banks. Yet we do see more dollar demand now.”  The onshore rate touched 6.1521 a dollar today, the
strongest level since the government unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993. The currency has rallied 1
percent this year.  B List  Exporters and importers that are issued SAFE’s warnings
have 10 days to explain the need for their transactions and
those who fail to comply or are unable to provide satisfactory
proof will then be placed on the regulator’s so-called B list,
which means their activities will be closely monitored for at
least three months.  SAFE said it will “conduct on-site verifications and
checks for clues of abnormal capital inflows” and will
“severely punish those who use fake documents.” The agency
also told banks to “enhance checks to uncover behaviors such as
forging fake trade deals” among clients.  “If the market perceives that China’s authorities are
clamping down more aggressively on  renminbi  appreciation, then
the positive sentiment that has been building around the
currency could fade,”  Paul Mackel  and Ju Wang, Hong Kong-based
strategists at HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote in a research note. The
increased scrutiny of foreign-exchange flows suggests recent
yuan gains have breached “a level of tolerance,” HSBC said.  The People’s Bank of China set the daily  reference rate 
0.06 percent stronger at 6.2114 per dollar. The currency is
allowed to diverge a maximum 1 percent from the fixing. Twelve-
month non-deliverable forwards slid 0.28 percent to 6.2411, a
1.2 percent discount to the onshore exchange rate.  ‘Dynamic’ Equilibrium  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
declined five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.56
percent. It jumped 18 basis points last week, the biggest
increase since the five days ended Jan. 11.  The debate over the yuan’s exchange rate should focus on
the mechanism by which the currency’s level is set, not its
actual valuation,  China ’s official Xinhua News Agency wrote in
an unsigned commentary on May 3. The goal should be on
“perfecting” the mechanism to guide the yuan to a “dynamic”
equilibrium, Xinhua wrote.  The yuan will gain 0.8 percent in the rest of the year to
6.12 per dollar by end of December, according to the median
forecast of analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  The regulatory change is prompting market participants to
rein in bets on yuan appreciation and this may last for a few
days, said Cliff Tan, East Asian head of global markets research
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in Hong Kong.  “But long-term direction has to do with fundamental
valuations and cyclical needs,” he said. “Going forward, it
still makes sense for Chinese authorities to have a slow
appreciation crawl in terms of the onshore fixing, so spot
appreciation is also still on the cards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  