-- On China’s Menu: General Tso’s Rat and Poison Peking Duck
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-05-06T15:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/on-china-s-menu-general-tso-s-rat-and-poison-peking-duck.html
In  China , it’s often said that a
person who commits fraud is “hanging out a sheep’s head to sell
dog meat.” The meaning is wide-ranging -- and metaphorical. But
recently, thanks to a stream of food scandals,  the folk saying 
has begun to bear an uncanny relationship to the truth.  Last Thursday, China’s Ministry of Public Security
 announced  that  in February  police arrested 63 people involved in
selling rat meat  mixed  with mink, fox, gelatin, red food
coloring and nitrates -- as lamb.  The details of the crime are not pretty -- or appetizing.
According to the official account, police seized more than 10
tons of “semi-finished” products and raw materials, including --
in addition to rodent, fox and mink -- various chemicals. Why
the presumably expensive mink and fox? One expert, quoted by the
Dazhong Daily newspaper,  suggested  that such meat was likely
sold by fur farms that couldn’t sell their skinned carcasses via
legitimate, safe and hygienic means. Worse yet, it turned out
that the rat-mink-fox-gelatin-nitrate lamb-like combo had been
making its way to Shanghai hotpot restaurants since 2009.  On Friday, police in Zhoushan, a small city near Shanghai
that has been unable (or unwilling?) to stem the tide of
 counterfeit meat flowing  into the region’s plentiful hotpot
restaurants, did the next best thing: They  posted  a (truly
disgusting) photo guide to differentiating between real lamb,
and rat-fox-mink-gelatin-nitrate lamb-like compound (the fat
pulls off the red meat in different ways, for example), to Sina
Weibo, China’s most popular social network.  The guide may turn out to be useful. In China, there’s
always another food scandal around the corner. In February,
police in Liaoning province  announced  that they’d seized 40 tons
of fake lamb made from duck dipped in poisonous chemicals. Four
years ago, police busted a gang selling fake lamb manufactured
from duck dipped in lamb urine. It’s not all about lamb, either:
The people of  Shanghai  are barely a month removed from nightly
news of dead pigs -- they  exceeded 16,000 in total  -- floating
in the city’s water supply, and setting off an online stir.  Indeed, what’s perhaps most disturbing about the recent
fake-lamb scandal isn’t that it happened, but that it’s boring.
Elsewhere such incidents might set off riots. The latest fake-lamb episode didn’t even trend on Chinese social media.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 