-- Mongolian Mining to Get $59 Million Compensation for Rail Pact
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-05-06T21:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/mongolian-mining-to-get-59-million-compensation-for-rail-pact.html
Mongolian Mining Corp. (975) , the nation’s
biggest coking-coal exporter, will receive 84.3 billion tugriks
($59 million) in compensation as part of a pact with the
government to terminate a rail-concession agreement.  The company and its units will enter talks with the
government and may convert some of the payment into equity in a
venture that will build a railway line to the Chinese border,
according to a filing by Mongolian Mining to the  Hong Kong  stock
exchange yesterday.  As part of the agreement, the company will be granted
access to 50 percent of the railway’s capacity and state-owned
Mongolian Railway will take over existing construction contracts
and obligations, Mongolian Mining said.  The Mongolian government is seeking a non-state partner to
build a 260-kilometer (160-mile) railway to the Chinese border
from the Tavan Tolgoi coal field, and had accepted bids from 20
companies, the state-run news agency Montsame said in March.  Tavan Tolgoi, one of the largest coal deposits in Mongolia,
has an estimated 6.4 billion metric tons of reserves, 70 percent
of it coking coal for steelmaking. Mining companies at the site,
including Ulaanbaatar-based Mongolia Mining, currently deliver
supplies to the border by truck.  Mongolian Mining is negotiating with the government to take
as much as a 10 percent stake in a unified railway development
project, according to CEO Battsengel Gotov, who spoke in a
briefing in Hong Kong on March 12.  The company’s stock gained 1.8 percent to close at HK$2.28
in Hong Kong trading yesterday, before the announcement. The
shares have slumped 40 percent this year, compared with the 1.1
percent gain in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  