-- Monster Beverage Sued by San Francisco Over Marketing
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-05-06T16:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/monster-beverage-sued-by-san-francisco-over-marketing.html
Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST)  was sued by San
Francisco City Attorney Dennis Herrera, who made good on recent
warnings to take legal action against the energy-drink maker for
allegedly improper marketing to minors.  The lawsuit, which Herrera said was filed in state court in
San Francisco, comes six days after Monster sued Herrera in a
Southern California federal court, claiming his investigations
of the company and threat to sue violate free-speech rights and
attempt to improperly regulate the caffeine content of its
products.  Herrera said his office had been working with Monster in
good faith to negotiate voluntary changes to its youth-targeted
marketing practices when the Corona, California-based drink
maker abruptly sued April 29.  “Monster Energy is unique among energy drink makers for
the extent to which it targets children and youth in its
marketing, despite the known risks its products pose to young
people’s health and safety,” Herrera said today in an e-mail.
As the industry’s worst-offender, Monster Energy should reform
its irresponsible and illegal marketing practices before they’re
forced to by regulators or courts.”  Evan Pondel, a spokesman for Monster, didn’t immediately
respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Court Order  In his complaint, Herrera alleged Monster’s business and
marketing practices violate  California ’s unfair competition and
food and drug laws and seeks a court order blocking the conduct
and fining the company. The filing couldn’t immediately be
confirmed independently in court records.  Monster said its drinks have less than half the caffeine
per ounce of coffeehouse-brewed coffee. The company said that it
exceeds U.S. Food and Drug Administration requirements by
stating on Monster Energy cans the amount of caffeine per eight
ounces and per can and that its labels have included cautions
for children, pregnant women and caffeine-sensitive people for
more than a decade.  The FDA said in November it’s investigating whether energy
drinks may cause harm when consumed in excess or by young people
or those with pre-existing heart conditions. The agency may move
to regulate the drinks’ use or labeling.  The case is California v. Monster, California Superior
Court ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  