-- Los Angeles Gasoline Climbs a Fifth Day on Exxon Crude Unit Work
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-05-06T19:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/los-angeles-gasoline-climbs-a-fifth-day-on-exxon-crude-unit-work.html
Spot gasoline in Los Angeles
strengthened against futures for a fifth straight day as  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Torrance refinery began shutting equipment,
including the crude unit and a coker, for maintenance.  The 150,000-barrel-a-day Torrance plant near Los Angeles
has halted catalytic hydrodesulfurization and sulfur recovery
units for the turnaround, Gesuina Paras, a spokeswoman at the
site, said by e-mail today. Work will also be performed on the
crude unit, the alkylation unit, a hydrogen plant and one of the
cokers, she said.  “The overall duration of the maintenance is expected to
last several weeks,” Paras said. “Although we anticipate
impact to production, ExxonMobil expects to be able to meet its
contractual commitments.”  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob,  in Los Angeles  jumped
3 cents to a premium of 30 cents a gallon versus futures traded
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:29 p.m., the highest
level since Feb. 19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The fuel strengthened 16.5 cents a gallon last week, the biggest
gain since the seven days ended Jan. 25.  Stockpiles of California-blend gasoline are at a record low
as scheduled refinery repairs and unplanned unit shutdowns cut
production. Inventories declined 11 percent in the week ended
April 26 to 4.01 million barrels, data compiled by the state
Energy Commission show.  Valero Wilmington  The fluid catalytic cracker at  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s
Wilmington plant has returned to planned rates following a pump
upset May 1,  Bill Day , a spokesman at company headquarters in
 San Antonio , said by e-mail today.  Carbob in  San Francisco  dropped 6 cents versus futures to a
premium of 22 cents a gallon, the first decline in five days.  Chevron’s 240,000-barrel-a-day Richmond refinery, the
largest in Northern California, reported flaring last week
related to the restart of its crude unit, which had been shut
since a fire Aug. 6, Melissa Ritchie, a spokeswoman at the
plant, said by e-mail May 3. The refinery is bringing other
units at the complex back online, she said.  Carbob in San Francisco  tumbled  9 cents to a discount of 8
cents a gallon against the fuel in  Los Angeles , the lowest level
in two months.  Conventional gasoline  in  Portland ,  Oregon , gained against
Nymex futures for the sixth straight day, rising 3 cents to a
premium of 42 cents a gallon, the highest level since October.  Diesel Prices  Low-sulfur diesel  in Portland  strengthened 0.5 cent to a
premium of 4.5 cents a gallon against ultra-low-sulfur diesel
futures on the Nymex, a two-week high.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in San Francisco rose 2
cents to a discount of 3.5 cents against ULSD futures. The same
fuel in Los Angeles slipped 0.25 cent to 4.75 cents a gallon
under futures.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles widened a fifth
day, gaining 85 cents to $22.15 a barrel at 2:50 p.m.  New York 
time. The spread, a rough indicator of refinery margins, is at
the highest level in more than a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  