-- Most Stocks in Switzerland Decline as Actelion Falls
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-05-06T07:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/most-stocks-in-switzerland-decline-as-actelion-falls.html
Most  Swiss stocks  dropped, after the
Swiss Market Index last week rallied to its highest level in
five years, before a report that may show euro-area retail sales
declined for a second month in March.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  led losses on the benchmark gauge.  The  SMI (SMI)  fell 0.1 percent to 7,928.19 at 9:41 a.m. in
Zurich, as 13 shares in the measure slid and seven climbed. The
gauge rallied 1 percent last week as the  European Central Bank 
cut its benchmark  interest rate  and as U.S. employment picked up
more than forecast in April. The broader Swiss Performance Index
was little changed today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 41 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A report at 11 a.m. Frankfurt time may show euro-area
retail sales declined 0.1 percent in March after a 0.3 percent
drop the previous month, according to a Bloomberg survey of 27
economists.  In France, Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  declared the
era of austerity has ended, while his German counterpart offered
flexibility on deficit cutting.  “We’re witnessing the end of the dogma of austerity” as
the only tool to fight the euro debt crisis, Moscovici said
yesterday on Europe 1 radio. “We’ve been pleading for a growth
policy for a year. Austerity on its own impedes growth.”  Meanwhile, Germany’s Wolfgang Schaeuble said there is a
“certain flexibility” in allowing France, as well as  Spain , to
meet its deficit targets, the Bild am Sonntag newspaper reported
yesterday.  Actelion, the Swiss drugmaker that gets most of its sales
from one drug, led losses on the benchmark measure, falling 1.1
percent to 56.40 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  