-- Motorola Mobility Gets EU Antitrust Complaint Amid Apple Clash
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-05-06T11:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/motorola-mobility-gets-eu-antitrust-complaint-on-key-patent-use.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit
was sent a European Union antitrust complaint for abusing its
dominant position as part of a probe into its control of key
patents in gadgets such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and iPads.  The EU antitrust regulator said it suspects that Motorola
Mobility, which Google bought last year for $12.4 billion, is
abusing its dominant position by “seeking and enforcing”
injunctions against Apple in  Germany  based on its patents that
are essential for products to comply with industry-agreed
technical standards.  “Companies should spend their time innovating and
competing on the merits of the products they offer -- not
misusing their intellectual property rights to hold up
competitors to the detriment of innovation and consumer
choice,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in an
e-mailed statement from Brussels today.  The EU is cracking down on patent abuses as Motorola
Mobility,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Apple and Samsung Electronics Co.
trade victories in divergent court rulings across the world on
intellectual property. Almunia last year sent Samsung a formal
complaint over its patent-use and is targeting “rules of the
game” to prevent companies from unfairly leveraging their
inventions to thwart rivals.  Standard Compliant  The EU opened a formal probe into Motorola Mobility, which
makes smartphones that run on Google’s Android software, in
April 2012, following complaints by Microsoft and Apple. The two
U.S. companies accused Motorola Mobility of seeking injunctions
to block their use of patents they said the Google unit had
declared to be essential for the production of standard-
compliant products and had promised to license on terms that are
“fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory.”  While today’s announcement concerns Motorola Mobility’s
disputes with Apple in Germany, the part of the probe concerning
Microsoft products is continuing,  Jonathan Todd , a spokesman for
the European Commission, told reporters.  “We agree with the European Commission that injunctions
should only be sought against unwilling licensees and, in this
case, Motorola Mobility followed the procedure established in
the German Supreme Court’s Orange Book ruling,” Katie Dove, a
spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Apple had to make six offers before the court
recognized them as a willing licensee.”  The commission said today that “while recourse to
injunctions is a possible remedy for patent infringements, such
conduct may be abusive” in the case of standard-essential
patents owners where “the potential licensee is willing to
enter into a license on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory,
so-called ‘FRAND,’ terms.”  Oral Hearings  Industry-standard technology helps ensure products such as
mobile phone antennas and global-positioning system software can
operate together when made by different manufacturers.  Almunia has said the EU investigation on patents differs
from corresponding parts of the U.S. probe into Google that
ended earlier this year when the company agreed to lift
injunctions for patents it inherited from Motorola Mobility.  After receiving the commission’s objections, companies can
defend themselves in writing or at an oral hearing before the
EU’s antitrust authority decides to impose fines.  An EU settlement avoids any fines and a decision on whether
a company broke antitrust rules. Companies can be fined as much
as 10 percent of their annual revenue if they break the terms of
a legally binding settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  