-- Pakistan Terrorist Attacks Before General Elections: A Timeline
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-05-06T06:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/pakistan-terrorist-attacks-before-general-elections-a-timeline.html
Following is a list of terrorist
attacks before the general elections scheduled for May 11. At
least 81 people have been killed and 369 injured since violence
began last month.  May 6: Three polling stations in Pakistan’s Baluchistan province
are blown up using time bombs.  May 5: Independent candidate Sarfaraz Domki’s convoy is attacked
in Sibi, Baluchistan. Two security guards are killed.  May 5: An explosion near the office of Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam in
Quetta left two workers injured.  May 5: A hand grenade is hurled at a corner meeting of the
Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf in Mardan, injuring at least three
people.  May 4: Two explosions take place near the headquarters of the
Muttahida Qaumi Movement in Karachi, killing two and injuring 35
people.  May 3:  Awami National Party  candidate Sadiq Zaman Khattak and
his six-year-old son are shot dead outside a mosque.  May 2: A bomb explosion at a mosque adjacent to an office of the
Muttahida Qaumi Movement leaves at least nine people injured in
Karachi.  May 2: Two schools designated as polling stations are blown up
in the Naseerabad district of the western province of
Baluchistan.  May 1: A suicide bomber blows himself up near the bulletproof
vehicle of election candidate Mohammad Ibrahim Jatoi of National
People’s Party in the southern province of Sindh, damaging the
car and injuring three people.  May 1: Rockets are fired from nearby mountains at a gathering of
political party Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam-Fazl in the southwestern
city of Quetta, injuring four in the stampede after the attack.  May 1: Militants hurl a grenade at the election office of
candidate Nawabzada Lashkari Raisani of  Pakistan  Muslim League-
Nawaz in Quetta, injuring four workers.  April 30: Abdul Fatah, independent candidate from Baluchistan,
and two others are shot dead and two people are injured in Jhal
Magsi after an exchange of fire with unidentified armed men.  April 29: A bomb explodes near an election office of the Awami
National Party in Charsadda, killing one person and injuring 15.  April 29: A suicide bomber blows himself up near a bus stand in
Peshawar, killing 9 and injuring 43. Two employees of the Afghan
consulate are among the dead.  April 28: A bomb strapped to a bicycle explodes outside the
office of independent candidate Nasir Khan Afridi in  Peshawar ,
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, killing three and injuring 20.  April 28: An election convoy of Awami National Party is targeted
with a remote-controlled bomb, leaving one dead and 13 injured
in Swabi, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa.  April 28: A bomb explodes near election offices of Khursheed
Begum from the Awami National Party and independent candidate
Noor Akbar Khan in Kohat town of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province,
killing five and injuring 23.  April 27: Awami National Party’s local leader Ghazi Gul is shot
dead by gunmen near his residence in Karachi.  April 27: Two attacks within minutes of each other near
Muttahida Qaumi Movement’s office in Karachi leave at least
three dead and 27 injured.  April 27: A bomb explodes at a corner meeting of Pakistan
Peoples’ Party in Karachi killing at least two and injuring 15.  April 26: A bomb attack on an election rally in Pakistan’s
commercial hub of Karachi kills nine people and injures 24.
Attack targets Awami National Party election candidate Bashir
Jan.  April 26: Hand grenades are hurled and rockets fired at a rally
of Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam (F) party in Bolan district, Baluchistan.  April 25: Bomb fitted into motorcycle explodes in front of
Muttahida Qaumi Movement’s office in Karachi, killing 6 and
injuring 8.  April 25: A hand grenade is hurled at the election office of
Pakistan Peoples’ Party in Nushki, Baluchistan, injuring two
people.  April 24: Five bombings in the southwestern city of Quetta in
two days kill six and injure 52.  April 23: Bomb attack in Karachi near a roadside camp of the
Muttahida Qaumi Movement kills 2 and hurts 15.  April 23: Pakistani police find a car packed with explosives
near the Islamabad residence of former military ruler  Pervez Musharraf , where he is being kept under house arrest.  April 17: Awami National Party’s Farooq Khan escapes unhurt
after a bomb blast targeted his vehicle in the northwestern city
of Charsadda.  April 16: A bomb blast near a political rally for the Awami
National Party in Peshawar kills at least eight people and
injures 40.  April 16: A roadside bomb targeting a regional chief from former
premier  Nawaz Sharif ’s party kills at least four, including the
son and brother of Baluchistan provincial president Sardar
Sanaullah Zehri.  April 14: Syed Masoom Shah, an election candidate of the Awami
National Party, is injured along with three other people in a
blast at a rally in Charsadda. In another incident, a local
leader of the same party is shot dead in the northwestern Swat
Valley.  April 11: Fakhrul Islam, a candidate of the Muttahida Qaumi
Movement, is killed in a gun attack in Hyderabad.  April 3: Adnan Aslam, a candidate from the Pakistan Peoples’
Party, is killed in a gun attack in Karachi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naween A. Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  