-- Path to Citizenship Would Cost $6.3 Trillion, Group Says
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-05-06T18:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/path-to-citizenship-would-cost-6-3-trillion-group-says.html
Creating a path to citizenship for
about 11 million undocumented immigrants now in the U.S. would
cost taxpayers $6.3 trillion, according to an estimate by the
Republican-leaning  Heritage Foundation  that opposes such a plan.  The figure is more than double the $2.6 trillion estimate
that Heritage produced the last time Congress attempted a broad
revision of U.S. immigration law in 2007. The potential cost is
part of opponents’ arguments against an immigration bill the
Senate Judiciary Committee plans to begin considering this week.  The Heritage group said legalizing undocumented immigrants
will increase participation in programs such as  Social Security ,
Medicare and Medicaid, along with  food stamps  and public
assistance for the poor.  “No matter how you slice it, amnesty will add a tremendous
amount of pressure on America’s already strained public purse,”
said Robert Rector, Heritage’s senior research fellow in
domestic policy studies. The Heritage Foundation is led by  Jim DeMint , a former Republican senator from  South Carolina .  An argument over costs helped derail the last attempt to
revise U.S. immigration law in 2007. The new proposal would
combine a path to citizenship supported by Democrats with enough
border security improvements to satisfy some Republicans.  ‘The Crib’  “Heritage is trying to kill this in the crib,” said
former Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , a Republican, during
a conference call with reporters. He is now co-chairman of the
immigration task force at the Bipartisan Policy Center in
 Washington , which supports an immigration-law revision.  “We need the labor if we’re going to have economic
growth,” Barbour said. “Those who succeeded in defeating this
the last time are going to try and do it again.”  Advocates of the Senate immigration measure, introduced by
a bipartisan group of lawmakers, say the potential costs are
exaggerated. They cite the economic benefit of legally employing
millions of people.  “What’s left out entirely are the benefits of more rapid
economic growth” and the benefits of a temporary worker
program, including for high-skilled workers, said Doug Holtz- Eakin. He is a former  Congressional Budget Office  director who
is now president of the American Action Forum, a policy group
led by Republican former government officials. He spoke on the
conference call with Barbour.  Over Lifetime  The Heritage report said over their lifetimes, immigrants
would receive $9.4 trillion in government benefits and services
while paying $3.1 trillion in taxes, creating a shortfall of
$6.3 trillion.  Critics of immigration legislation say that because recent
immigrants are typically less skilled and lower paid than others
in the U.S., they will contribute less  tax revenue  while
receiving more in benefits, such as the earned income tax credit
for the lowest-income Americans.  In 2007, the Congressional Budget Office said the measure
that included a path to citizenship for the undocumented would
have had a “small net effect” on the  federal budget  over the
following two decades as new spending would be mostly offset by
new revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  