-- Penn West Rises as Rick George Named Chairman: Calgary Mover
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-06T15:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/penn-west-rises-as-rick-george-named-chairman-calgary-mover.html
Penn West Petroleum Ltd. (PWT) , the Canadian
oil and natural gas producer with the highest dividend yield,
had its biggest gain in 17 months after naming former  Suncor
Energy Inc. (SU)  head Rick George as its chairman.  Penn West climbed 5.6 percent to C$10.04 at 11:21 a.m. in
Toronto, after earlier rising the most since November 2011.
George, 62, ran Canada’s largest energy company until last year
and his appointment at Penn West is effective immediately, the
Calgary-based company said in a statement yesterday. It also
named Allan Markin,  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) ’s chairman
until last year, vice chairman.  George’s appointment is giving Penn West “credibility with
the markets,” Sam La Bell, a Toronto-based analyst at Veritas
Investment Research Co., said in a phone interview today. Penn
West has begun driving down drilling costs, which may prevent a
dividend cut, and “they brought in somebody on the board level
who’s known for running a tight ship.”  The appointments come after Penn West director Jack Schanck
replaced eight-year chairman John Brussa on May 1. Penn West is
the worst performing stock this year among Canadian energy
companies with market values more than C$3 billion ($2.97
billion) after  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) , according to figures
compiled by Bloomberg.  High costs at Penn West were boosting debt relative to  cash
flow  and threatening the company’s dividend, La Bell said. Penn
West’s dividend yield of 11.4 percent is the highest among the
same group of Canadian energy companies. The stock has six buy,
13 hold and four sell recommendations from  analysts .  The dividend continues to be an “ongoing strategic
discussion with the board,” Penn West Chief Executive Officer
Murray Nunns said on a May 2 conference call with analysts.
Clayton Paradis, head of  investor relations  at Penn West, didn’t
immediately return a voicemail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  