-- PokerStars Wins Court Ruling Keeping Casino Purchase Alive
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-05-07T00:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/pokerstars-gains-court-ruling-keeping-casino-purchase-alive-1-.html
PokerStars, seeking to buy the
Atlantic Club Casino Hotel in  New Jersey , won a temporary court
order barring owner Colony Capital LLC from ending their sale
agreement or approaching others to purchase the property.  The order, issued today by New Jersey Superior Court Judge
Raymond A. Batten in Mays Landing, prevents Colony Capital from
terminating the sale to PokerStars until a May 17 hearing.
PokerStars, the largest online poker site in the world, is a
division of Isle of Man-based Rational Group Ltd.  “This step has been taken to protect Rational Group’s
rights and interests under the purchase agreement and reflects
the Group’s desire to complete the acquisition of the Atlantic
Club,” Eric Hollreiser, a spokesman for the company, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for  Tom Barrack ’s Colony
Capital, declined to comment.  PokerStars agreed in December to pay $15 million to buy the
casino, formerly a Hilton, as a way of entering the online
gambling market in the U.S., according to the complaint. An
online gambling bill signed into law by New Jersey Governor
 Chris Christie  on Feb. 26 requires operators to have a physical
presence there.  Colony had difficulty selling the casino because of $30
million in unfunded pension liabilities and declining gambling
in  Atlantic City , according to PokerStars’ complaint. The buyer
agreed to fund operating shortfalls of as much as $750,000 a
week until the deal closed.  $11 Million  Through those payments, Rational had put out $11 million,
according to the complaint. Owners, led by Colony, terminated
the deal on April 26, and have asked for the remaining $4
million of the purchase price as a termination fee, according to
the complaint.  Rational said it believes Colony Capital terminated the
agreement so it could sell the property for a higher price after
New Jersey enacted its gambling legislation in February.  The U.S. casino industry opposes the PokerStars effort to
buy the Atlantic City property. The American Gaming
Association’s protest to state regulators focuses on PokerStars’
prosecution last year for bank fraud and  money laundering .  PokerStars reached an agreement with the U.S. Justice
Department in July 2012, settling charges related to the
company’s offering of online poker in this country after
Congress banned taking such bets in 2006.  The case is Rational Group US Holdings Inc. v. Resorts
International Holdings, ATL-C-43-13, Superior Court of New
Jersey, Atlantic County (Mays Landing).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  