-- Poloz May Keep Canada’s Rate-Increase Bias in Expansion
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-05-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/poloz-may-keep-canada-s-rate-increase-bias-in-expansion.html
An improving economic outlook may ease
pressure on the  Bank of Canada ’s newly appointed chief to
abandon the only tightening bias in the Group of Seven.  A majority of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted Stephen Poloz, who takes over the Ottawa-based
institution June 3 after Bank of England Governor-designate Mark Carney steps down, will retain language about raising  interest
rates  because the nation’s economy is showing signs of gradual
and durable growth.  Economic reports last week suggest output growth probably
accelerated to faster than a 2 percent annualized pace in the
first quarter while quickening U.S. job growth may herald
improving demand from the country that buys three-quarters of
 Canada ’s exports. The central bank has signaled borrowing costs
may rise to contain record household debts, even as G-7
counterparts ease policy to spur growth.  “Their very mild bias will look appropriate for a little
longer yet,” said  Doug Porter , chief economist with Bank of
Montreal in Toronto, who raised his 2013 growth forecast to 1.6
percent last week. “We are transitioning away from a purely
domestically led recovery to one led by the U.S.”  Four of 10 economists surveyed after Poloz’s May 2
appointment said the tightening bias will remain, and another
four said the odds it would be dropped are 30 percent or less.
One respondent said the odds of the bias being removed were
about 50 percent after Poloz takes over, and the other Carney
would remove the bias before he leaves.  Carney makes one more rate decision on May 29, and Poloz
follows up at a July 17 announcement that includes a new
quarterly economic forecast.  Export Slump  An export slump late last year led the central bank’s six-
member policy group headed by Carney to soften language about
raising borrowing costs and reduce the 2013 growth forecast to
1.5 percent from 2 percent.  Poloz said the bank has done “a superb job” guiding the
economy and “laid the groundwork for recovery” when asked if
monetary policy would continue after he takes over. Carney told
reporters May 2 in  Edmonton ,  Alberta , that there is “a bit more
momentum” in the economy than the bank previously thought.  Gross domestic  product  rose 0.3 percent in February,
matching January’s revised pace,  Statistics Canada  reported
April 30, which economists said puts the world’s 11th largest
economy on track for its fastest quarterly growth since 2011.  The Bank of Canada has kept its policy  rate  at 1 percent
since September 2010 in the longest pause since the 1950s.  Looser Policy  Poloz’s decision about the bias “will be driven by the
economy rather than a preference,” said  Craig Wright , chief
economist at Royal Bank of Canada, the country’s biggest bank by
assets. “Barring any deterioration in the economic outlook
between now and the next meeting it would be difficult to
justify a change in bias.”  Poloz may also want to guard against a perception that his
last job as head of Canada’s export financing agency will sway
him to looser policy that supports companies in that part of the
economy, Wright said. “Altering the bias would play into these
expectations,” he said.  Carney has said Canada’s expansion must shift over the next
two years from  consumer spending  fueled by debt to business
investment and exports. Reports last week suggest that is
happening, including the first  trade surplus  in a year in March,
and the faster-than-expected increase in U.S. payrolls in April.  “We view the current forward looking statement as
consistent with the narrative of a gradual rise in economic
growth,” Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at TD Securities
in Toronto, wrote in a research note. “The ever so slight
tightening bias should remain intact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  