-- Threadneedle Maintains Bullish Gold Outlook on Stimulus Programs
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-05-06T08:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/threadneedle-maintains-bullish-gold-outlook-on-stimulus-programs.html
The outlook for gold, which tumbled
into a  bear market  last month, remains bullish as central banks
stick with printing money to weaken their currencies and revive
growth, according to Threadneedle Investments.  The London-based fund has not changed its positioning in
gold after the slump, according to David Donora, a  fund manager 
for commodities at Threadneedle, which managed 84 billion pounds
($131 billion) in assets, including equities and fixed income,
as of March 31. Their top pick is oil-based energy such as Brent
crude, gasoline, gasoil and heating oil, Donora said.  Threadneedle joins  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. and hedge-
fund firm Elliott Management Corp. in staying with bullion,
which has slumped 12 percent this year as  investment holdings 
contracted at a record pace. Prices had the biggest two-day drop
in more than three decades last month. The U.S. Federal Reserve
said on May 1 that it will keep for now the monthly pace of bond
purchases at $85 billion to cut joblessness and boost growth.  “I continue to be bullish gold for the longer term,”
Donora said in an e-mail interview, without giving price
forecasts. “The recent break in prices does not change that
view. The key factor that continues to support that view is the
active role that central banks are taking to weaken their
currencies by printing money.”  Gold for immediate delivery, which touched a two-year low
of $1,321.95 an ounce on April 16, traded at $1,473.50 an ounce
at 4:01 p.m. in  Seoul . Holdings of exchange-traded products
backed by the metal have slumped 369.8 metric tons this year
amid speculation that the Fed will taper its stimulus program.  Monetary Stimulus  Bullion rallied for the 12 years through 2012 as emerging-
market demand increased, led by China and India, and central
banks kept  interest rates  low to boost growth after the global
financial crisis. The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark
interest rate to a record on May 2, while the  Bank of Japan 
announced unprecedented monetary stimulus last month.  John Paulson, the biggest investor in the SPDR Gold Trust,
told investors in a letter last month that he remained bullish
because central-bank stimulus will eventually spur inflation.
 Hedge funds  increased bets on a gold rally by the most in three
weeks as of April 30, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
 data  show, as central banks signaled no end to economic stimulus.  Oil-based energy such as Brent crude and heating oil have
the “strongest fundamentals and structure,” Donora said.
“Additionally, there’s a heightened degree of geopolitical risk
among a number of producing nations, which puts production at
risk. Any significant pullback in the price of products will be
met with significant increase in consumption.”  Brent crude  traded at $104.60 a barrel today, gaining for a
third day as air strikes in  Syria  renewed concern that unrest
will spread in the  Middle East . That narrowed this year’s losses
to 5.9 percent.  The Threadneedle Enhanced Commodities Fund, with more than
$1.2 billion in assets, returned 2.64 percent in 2012, beating
the average of minus 1.87 percent by peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  