-- Renren Climbs as Buffett Sinks Suntech: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-05-06T20:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/renren-climbs-as-buffett-sinks-suntech-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities rose to the highest
level in almost two months in  New York , led by  Renren Inc. (RENN)  and
 Qihoo (QIHU)  360 Technology Co., on speculation the Internet companies’
first-quarter sales will exceed their own estimates.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 0.8 percent to 93.22
yesterday, the highest close since March 11. Qihoo surged to a
record after Maxim Group LLC said its search engine will start
bringing in “material” revenue. Renren, the Beijing-based
operator of a social network, jumped 11 percent, while Suntech
Power Holdings Co. fell after  China  Business News said  Warren Buffett  has no interest in buying the solar company.  Analysts project Renren will post a 41 percent jump in
sales for the first quarter next week, compared with the
company’s forecast of 37 percent to 43 percent. Qihoo’s March
forecast for first-quarter revenue is as much as 1.8 percent
below the mean of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s most-used search engine,
and Sohu.com Inc. reported last month that advertising sales
grew at least 40 percent.  “Qihoo’s first-quarter results are likely to beat its
guidance due to better-than-expected monetization of its search
service, and Renren’s sales may beat as well,” Henry Guo, an
analyst at research firm ABR Investment Strategy LLC, which
focuses on technology and media companies, said by phone from
San Francisco. “Ad sales growth at Baidu and Sohu, reported
earlier, indicated that the ad market for the industry is
good.”  Guo rates Beijing-based Qihoo buy and has a hold rating on
Renren. Search engines in China will get about 34.8 billion  yuan 
($5.6 billion) of revenue from advertisements in 2013, up 36
percent from 2012, according to estimates by Internet consulting
group iResearch collated by Bloomberg.  ETF Advances  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., climbed 0.5 percent to $37.89
in New York, the highest close since March 12. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.2 percent to 1,617.50, advancing for a
third day.  Renren’s American depositary receipts surged to $3.10, the
biggest gain since August. Besides a real-name social networking
website, Renren also offers online games, video and e-commerce.  The company’s sales rose 41 percent in the first quarter
from a year to $45.2 million, the mean of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg show. It  forecast  revenue of $44 million
to $46 million in a March 11 statement. Renren is scheduled to
release the results on May 13 after U.S. markets close.  Sales growth in Renren should mainly come from online ads
and games while its e-commerce business is still losing money,
according to ABR’s Guo.  Search Engine  Qihoo, which started a search tool in August that has
become the second most-popular in China after Baidu’s, jumped
8.4 percent, the steepest rally this year, to a record high of
$37.30.  Ad sales from Qihoo’s new search engine will be reflected
in first-quarter revenue for the first time, Echo He, a senior
analyst at Maxim, said by phone yesterday in New York.  She reiterated a buy recommendation on the stock with a
price target of $42 in a note yesterday, citing “relatively
higher return on investment driven by fast-growing search
traffic” and “reasonable” capital expenditure.  AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. (AMAP) , a Chinese digital map content
provider, jumped 8 percent to $12.99, the highest since August.
Its six-day rally, driving up its price up 25 percent, was the
longest gaining stretch in a year. Beijing-based AutoNavi  plans
to report  first-quarter financial results on May 14 before U.S.
markets open.  Buffett Denial  YY Inc. (YY) , a social-network operator based in Guangzhou,
China, soared 20 percent to $21.98, the highest since its U.S.
listing in November. Deutsche Bank AG raised YY’s rating to buy
from hold yesterday, lifting a 12-month price target to $25.10
from $15.20.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the biggest online book
retailer in China, surged 7.5 percent to $4.16, the highest
close in two months. The e-commerce company, based in Beijing,
said in a May 3 statement it was starting flash sales featuring
deep discounts today.  Suntech, whose main unit in China was forced into
bankruptcy in March after it defaulted on a $541 million bond
payment, slid 1 percent to 61 cents, the lowest close since
April 15.  Billionaire Buffett said he has no interest in Suntech,
denying media reports on his intention to buy the company, China
Business News reported yesterday, citing an interview at
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s shareholder meeting.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.2 percent to a two-week
high of 2,231.17, while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in
 Hong Kong  advanced 1.4 percent to 11,001.77, the highest level
in six weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  