-- Rubio Immigration Sales Job Risks Ire of Key 2016 Voters
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-05-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/rubio-immigration-sales-job-risks-ire-of-key-2016-voters.html
Jane Yoder Blankenship plants a
grandmotherly kiss on Senator Marco Rubio’s cheek and then leans
in to issue a warning.  “You be careful of Schumer and  John McCain ,” the 82-year-old retired guidance counselor says in hushed tones, referring
to  New York  Democrat Senator Chuck Schumer and McCain, an
 Arizona  Republican, who are teamed with Rubio on a revision of
U.S. immigration laws.  “No, don’t worry,” Rubio, a  Florida  Republican, responds
with a boyish grin. “They need to be careful of me.”  It’s a reassurance Rubio, 41, is having to give Republicans
frequently these days, as the first-term senator and prospective
2016 presidential nominee takes a leading role promoting a bill
that would provide 11 million  immigrants  who are in the U.S.
illegally a way to gain citizenship.  His task is to persuade Republicans who have long opposed
granting legal status to undocumented immigrants that doing so
now is the proper course both practically and politically. To
make his case credibly, Rubio must also reassure them that he’s
an independent voice in the negotiations, willing to buck more
senior Senate members who helped write the compromise package.  Rubio’s “conservative bona fides,” cultural background
and rhetorical skills have elevated his role pitching the
immigration measure “at a time when we need someone to clearly
explain to a very difficult conservative constituency as to why
this is in America’s best interest,” said  Al Cardenas , the
Washington-based American Conservative Union’s chairman.
Together, they have rendered Rubio “the essential cog in the
wheel if this thing is ever going to happen,” he said.  Political Risks  That carries risks for a politician with presidential
ambitions, given that the Republican primary process provides
outsized sway to activists who have been among those most
ardently opposed to revising immigration laws.  A Quinnipiac University  poll  conducted March 26-April 1
found Rubio was the presidential primary candidate of choice for
19 percent of Republicans and those who lean toward the party,
beating out other prominent leaders including Kentucky Senator
 Rand Paul , New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , former Florida
Governor Jeb Bush and Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , the
2012 vice presidential nominee.  “I’ve had my doubts about whether he’s all in or not, but
I have to admit, the guy is gutsy,” said  Frank Sharry , the
executive director of Democratic-leaning America’s Voice in
 Washington . “You could even say he’s risking his political
career for the sake of immigration reform and the GOP’s
future.”  No Parade  Rubio has been telling Republican audiences that he knows
he isn’t going to get a parade for becoming involved in the
issue. That’s putting it mildly.  He’s drawing criticism nationally and in his home state
from Republican activists and commentators who say he’s backing
“amnesty.”  During Rubio’s 2010 Senate campaign, “he shook my hand and
looked me in the eye and said that he would never support any
form of legalization,” said Jack Oliver, 63, a hospital worker
from Stuart, Florida who braved pouring rain outside the Polish-American Club in  Port St. Lucie  to register his anger with Rubio
at a May 1 protest. “Now he’s backtracking, trying to redefine
what amnesty is, and that’s an insult to every American.”  Rubio also must manage concerns of friendly constituents,
such as Blankenship, who say their  rising star  with an inspiring
life story may be risking his shot at the White House and
harming the  Republican Party  by throwing in his lot with the
enemy.  2016 Delayed  In between appearances in Florida last week, Rubio said
he’s too busy even to consider a 2016 run, yet he’s aware of the
perils of tackling immigration.  “I get the same polls everybody else does,” he said in a
May 1 interview in Lakeland, Florida. Still, he said it’s his
obligation and a political imperative for his party to at least
attempt to find a solution.  “This gives us an opportunity to show that we are a
serious alternative to the left, and a serious alternative to
the Democrats -- that we don’t have to be about blanket amnesty
in order to solve the illegal immigration  problem  that we
have,” Rubio said.  Conscious of the hostility from his party’s anti-immigration wing, he is emphasizing his desire to alter the
compromise legislation -- slated for debate in the Senate
Judiciary Committee beginning May 9 -- to tighten its border
security and enforcement provisions to build public support.  Website Posts  His office unveiled a  website  April 17 to gather
suggestions on how to “improve the bill.” In the weeks since,
the more than 1,000 comments posted on it contain fewer proposed
legislative fixes than exhortations for Rubio to desert the bill
and stop backing “amnesty.”  Calling the legislation “a great starting point,” Rubio
said in the interview that “people want to see a little bit
more, and I think in order for the bill to actually become a
law, we’re going to have to do a little more” on border
security and enforcement.  In the meantime, the Miami-born son of Cuban immigrants
whose youth, biography and rhetorical talents sometimes draw
comparisons with President  Barack Obama  has taken on the task of
selling the measure to core Republican supporters with almost
masochistic relish.  He has appeared almost daily -- sometimes more frequently -
- on Republican-leaning programs to make his case, only to be
labeled “naive” by  Rush Limbaugh  and “duped” by  Laura Ingraham .  The National Review, a publication that once fawned over
Rubio, is publishing a cover on May 20 that features a picture
of a him, smiling with his eyes squinted shut between Schumer
and McCain, with a headline blaring: “RUBIO’S FOLLY.”  Pitching Constituents  Still, he perseveres. Rubio never missed a chance to talk
about it with constituents last week during a Senate break.  “We’re the party of problem solving, which is frankly why
I’ve taken on this very difficult issue of immigration reform,”
Rubio told 545 diners who paid $250 each April 30 for plates of
roast beef and a foil-wrapped baked potato to hear him speak at
the Pasco County Republican Party’s Reagan Day Dinner. “I want
to take a moment to explain it to you, because I know a lot of
you have mixed feelings about what that means, so I hope you’ll
listen to what I have to say.”  Then he began an eight-minute case for his plan, which for
Rubio goes something like this: The immigration system is
antiquated, offering “de facto amnesty” to people who lack
proper authorization. Republicans want a long and arduous path
to  citizenship , and enough border security measures that such a
move will never be required again. If Republicans don’t step
forward, the issue will be left to Obama and Democrats, who are
only interested in “amnesty.”  Unconvinced Critics  The arguments ring hollow to opponents, who say the plan
will harm American workers and undermine the rule of law. About
two dozen of them gathered in the rain outside a Republican
Party dinner Rubio headlined hoisting signs branding the
senators as the “Amnesty Man” and sporting buttons calling him
a liar. The protesters, many members of a group called
Floridians for Immigration Enforcement, pointed to Rubio’s
rejection during his 2010 Senate campaign of any measure to
grant legal status to undocumented immigrants, and called his
new stance a betrayal.  He “campaigned on anti-amnesty, got elected, and became a
full amnesty leader,” said David Caulkett, vice president of
Floridians for Immigration Enforcement.  Rubio is also taking criticism from the other end of the
political spectrum, with Hispanic advocacy groups singling him
out for being overly punitive.  Hispanic Criticism  “We see Rubio as increasingly representing all that is
wrong with comprehensive immigration reform as it’s currently
proposed, and we see him as a politician that has big
aspirations, but still no pull with Latinos outside of the very
small right-wing groups” in the Miami-based Cuban exile
community, said Arturo Carmona, executive director of
Presente.org, a Latino advocacy group.  Still, some advocates of a broad changes to immigration
laws who were once suspicious of Rubio’s commitment to the cause
say they’ve been persuaded he’ll stay the course and has placed
himself in a position where he has little choice.  ‘See It Through’  “Despite my earlier doubts, I’m pretty sure he’s going to
see it through,” Sharry said. “The only way this turns out to
be a win for him and his party is for immigration reform to
actually pass.”  Some Republicans agree, saying the political risks for
Rubio are outweighed by the upside for his presidential
ambitions and his party’s long-term viability.  “It’s riskier for him to do nothing if he wants to be the
leader that I think we’re so much looking to find in our party -
- he has to distinguish himself,” said Republican
Representative  Dennis Ross  of Florida, who has known Rubio since
the two won election in 2000 to the state’s legislature.
“You’ve got to have a leader that has a vision, and Marco has a
vision on this, and quite frankly, he can communicate it better
than anybody.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Lakeland, Florida at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  