-- Russian Opposition Stages Rally One Year Into Putin’s New Term
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-05-06T17:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/russian-opposition-stages-rally-one-year-into-putin-s-new-term.html
Thousands of Russian opposition
activists rallied in downtown Moscow on the anniversary of a
protest that turned violent last year, calling on authorities to
release people held for allegedly organizing that event.  About 8,000 people gathered on Bolotnaya Square at the
height of the demonstration, the Moscow police department said
on its  website . The rally comes on the eve of the anniversary of
President  Vladimir Putin ’s return to the Kremlin for a new six-
year term after facing down the biggest protests of his 13-year-
rule.  Demonstrators chanted slogans including “Russia without
Putin” and “Freedom for political prisoners” before the event
began with a minute of silence for a worker who was killed in an
accident earlier today while setting up the stage. Organizers
led the protest from a smaller, improvised stage.  “We consider Putin’s usurpation of power a crime,”   Boris Nemtsov , a former first deputy prime minister, said during the
rally.  The protest comes after a crackdown on the opposition. Two
activists have been jailed for participating in last year’s May
6 protests. Several people are accused of organizing and
financing the event. A prominent Putin opponent, Alexey Navalny,
is on trial for fraud charges that he has called politically
motivated.  More than 400 people were detained at last year’s event
after protesters began throwing rocks and flares, police said.
The 2012 event was a “planned provocation,” former Prime
Minister  Mikhail Kasyanov  said.  According to a Levada Center poll published April 11, 55
percent of Russians don’t want Putin to seek a new six-year
mandate in 2018, while only 22 percent would support him. The
survey was conducted March 22-25 among 1,601 people and had a
margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  