-- Saudi Arabia Said to Boost April Oil Output to Five-Month High
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-05-06T14:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/saudi-arabia-said-to-boost-april-oil-output-to-five-month-high.html
Saudi Arabia  raised crude output in
April to the highest in five months while making little change
in the total amount it supplied to foreign and local markets, a
person with knowledge of the country’s production said.  The world’s largest crude exporter pumped 9.32 million
barrels a day in April, about 180,000 barrels more than in
March, the person said, declining to be identified because the
information is confidential. The kingdom produced 9.93 million
barrels daily the previous year, according to oil ministry data.
Output last month was the highest since November, when Saudi
Arabia pumped 9.49 million barrels a day, the data showed.  Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in OPEC, supplied 9.16
million barrels a day in April to both international and
domestic markets, compared with 9.15 million the previous month,
the person said. The country usually stores any unsold crude in
local and overseas inventories, according to Persian Gulf
officials familiar with Saudi energy policies.  Output in April from the  Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries  was the highest in five months, led by gains
in the  United Arab Emirates  and  Kuwait , as well as Saudi Arabia,
according to a Bloomberg survey. The 12-member group pumped an
average of 30.95 million barrels a day last month, or 194,000
barrels more than in March, the survey of companies, producers
and analysts showed. OPEC will meet May 31 to assess its
collective output target, now at 30 million barrels a day.  The Saudi oil ministry forecasts world demand will rise
this year by about 1 million barrels a day and exceed 90 million
barrels “for the first time in history,” Ibrahim al-Muhanna,
an adviser to Saudi Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi , said in Kuwait on
April 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  