-- HSBC to Barclays See Rout in Fees as Banks Chase Deals
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i ,   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-05-06T09:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/hsbc-to-barclays-see-rout-in-fees-as-banks-chase-mideast-deals.html
(Corrects drop in second paragraph.)  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the biggest bond
underwriter in the  Persian Gulf  since 2007, and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
said fees in the region are plummeting because of increased
competition from international and local lenders.  The decline in fees is “unsustainable” and revenue in
some markets outside the Gulf Cooperation Council can be as much
as 10 times higher, said Georges Elhedery, head of global
markets for the Middle East and North Africa at HSBC. Fees are
between 50 percent and 75 percent of what they used to be, said
John Vitalo, Barclays’s regional chief executive officer.  “More banks are coming to this market with limited
investment, but this isn’t sustainable,” Elhedery said in an
interview in Dubai on May 1. “Fees have dropped a lot.”  Competition is intensifying as regional bond sales reached
first-quarter record levels. The share of fees for U.S. and
Western European banks in the  Middle East  fell to 43 percent
last year from 65 percent in 2005, according to Freeman & Co., a
New York-based consulting company. The shift coincides with a 25
percent rise in fees for Middle Eastern banks, the data show.  Suitcase Bankers  HSBC’s Elhedery said that financiers who cover the region
from abroad, known as suitcase bankers, are contributing to the
fall in revenue as they can afford to accept lower compensation
because of reduced overheads.  “More bankers are flying in from  London  and elsewhere,”
he said. “To pay for their flight they think 5 cents or 3 cents
on an issuance is enough. 3 cents pays for the flight.” HSBC
has a team of 12 debt capital market bankers in Dubai that cover
issuance and trading, Elhedery said.  Global banks, including UBS AG, Morgan Stanley and Credit
Suisse Group AG, have relocated investment bankers away from
Dubai because of financial and regulatory pressures at home and
concern about business levels in the emirate after the financial
crisis.  “Bond mandates are very much linked to banking business
overall,” said Abdul Kadir Hussain, Dubai-based chief executive
officer at Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd. “That’s why you have big
commercial banks taking quite a bit of share because they have
the balance sheets needed to have a broader relationship than
just the bond mandate.”  MENA Sales  Bond sales from MENA, which includes  Saudi Arabia , the
 United Arab Emirates  and  Qatar , reached $15 billion in the first
quarter as issuers took advantage of falling yields, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The number of banks advising on MENA debt sales rose to 52
in 2012 from 42 a year earlier as issuance surged 54 percent to
a record $49 billion, the data show. HSBC, Deutsche Bank AG and
Standard Chartered Plc are currently the top three bond
underwriters in MENA and have been since 2011, the data show.  “There are many banks that are willing to come to this
game but whose investment needs are very limited,” said HSBC’s
Elhedery. “When you reach a situation where you’re asking them
to commit more they have to make a decision - either they need
more fees or walk away from the business.”  “We’re fighting for fees on just about every deal,”Vitalo said in a May 2 interview in Dubai. “They’ve come down a
lot. It’s not just shaving them by 5 or 10 percent of what they
used to be. They’ve come down to about 50-75 percent of what
they used to be.”  Barclays is currently ranked fourteenth for bond
underwriting in MENA, down from twelfth a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank’s debt capital
markets team covering the region splits its time between London
and Dubai, Vitalo said.  Local Lenders  Local lenders based in Qatar,  Abu Dhabi  and Dubai “are
typically undercutting fees and offer fees that are lower than
the international norms,” he said. “International banks are
hence forced to lower their fees to stay competitive.”  Seven of the region’s top 20 bond arrangers last year were
banks based in MENA, up from 5 a year earlier, the data show.
 National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , the United Arab Emirates’
biggest lender, climbed 17 places last year to become the
region’s fourth largest adviser last year on $2.9 billion worth
of deals, up from $563 million a year earlier.  The declines are making some banks look elsewhere for
earnings.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s biggest
government-owned lender, is targeting increased returns from
derivatives sales as earnings from arranging debt sales and
lending falls, Jacco Keijzer, the bank’s head of debt capital
markets in the region, said in an interview in Dubai last month.  Earnings for each bank from a transaction is “in single
digits by now,” so that each bank is paid less than 10 basis
points or 0.1 percentage point of the money raised, he said.  Still, HSBC says it’s benefitting from the fact that many
clients are returning to the market for sales.  “Issuers are asking us to go back on deals two or three
times,” said Elhedery. “So they’re paying through time what
they can’t pay us through a single shot fee because the fee
structure is compressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  