-- Schaeuble Says European Bank Resolution Won’t Come From One Pool
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-05-06T12:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/schaeuble-says-european-bank-resolution-won-t-come-from-one-pool.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the money to pay for the resolution of troubled
European Union banks won’t come from a single pool until
decision-making powers in the bloc are more centralized.  Germany  instead seeks a “network” of national resolution
authorities and backstop funds to deal with crisis-hit banks in
the euro area, Schaeuble said in a speech today in Hamburg,
reiterating the government’s position.  The resolution facility “can’t just be a European fund,”
Schaeuble said. “Because the European fund has to be fed by
someone. And if we mutualize liability without fully mutualizing
the decision-making power, we create the wrong incentive again.
Therefore we’ll have to get by with a network in the first
stage, or focus on a network, as long as we haven’t created
further institutional improvements.”  Germany’s policy pits it against the  European Central Bank ,
European Commission, and euro-area governments including  France ,
which have called for rapid steps to push crisis intervention at
failing banks to the EU level, in a bid to help nations repair
their ravaged public finances and restore confidence in lenders.  “The banking union won’t work like many are imagining it,
that we simply say: ‘Everyone, or a European fund, is liable for
all European banks,’” Schaeuble said. “That would be nice, but
it would be such a catastrophically wrong incentive and would
not work. We can’t do that.”  ‘Strong Authority’  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  called last month for
swift progress to put in place a “strong authority” with “a
privately funded European resolution fund at its disposal,” as
well as access to taxpayer money as a last resort.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has said
he will present a proposal along these lines in June, adding
that a euro-area resolution fund for banks is a logical step in
a currency union.  A central authority that is ultimately backed by the
taxpayer “would imply significant legal risk both in terms of
European law and constitutional law,” according to a German
position paper obtained by  Bloomberg News , dated March 13.
“There is not much room left for further centralization” under
the bloc’s current treaties, it says.  A more centralized approach to bank resolution could only
come in tandem with more central coordination of economic and
fiscal policy, according to the document.  “On the longer term issue, i.e. some sort of greater
fiscal and political union, I find -- with all due respect -- a
lot of confusion out there,”  Erik Nielsen , global chief
economist at UniCredit, said in a note to investors. “Confusion
about how much fiscal and political union is needed to make a
currency union work, confusion about what a banking union really
is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  