-- Seattle Issuing Most in 3 Years After Losing Sonics: Muni Deals
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/seattle-issuing-most-in-3-years-after-losing-sonics-muni-deals.html
Seattle , Washington’s most populous
city, plans to sell $146 million of top-rated general-obligation
debt this week in its biggest sale in three years.  Proceeds will fund projects including replacing the  Alaskan
Way Seawall , a 7,000-foot (2,100-meter) structure that protects
the downtown waterfront from waves coming from Puget Sound and
has portions from 1916. Seattle, with $940 million in general
obligations, has the top credit grade from Standard & Poor’s.  Last month, a group of National Basketball Association
owners rejected a bid to make Seattle the new home of the
Sacramento Kings. The decision may curb future liabilities: the
city of 621,000 planned to sell as much as $150 million of
general obligations to help build an arena, said Michael  Van
Dyck , director of debt financing.  The limited debt burden “is one of many factors that plays
into our high  credit rating ,” Van Dyck said.  This week’s offer is the biggest for the city since March
2010. The $50 million of unlimited-tax debt was passed by voters
in November to fund the seawall. Stadium bonds would be limited-tax general obligations, which only need city council backing.  An investment group including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  agreed this year to buy a
majority of the Kings and move them to Seattle, where the
SuperSonics played for 41 years. The team, which left for
Oklahoma City in 2008, won its only NBA championship in 1979.  Ballmer said in a radio interview last month that the group
would discuss possible next steps. NBA Commissioner  David Stern 
has said expanding the 30-team league is unlikely.  “A lot of contingencies need to be met before the city is
going to do any financing with regards to the stadium,” Van
Dyck said. “Obviously, the investor needs to find a team --
that’s the first threshold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  