-- Senate Passes Wal-Mart Backed Bill for Taxes on Web Sales
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-05-07T16:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/senate-passes-wal-mart-backed-bill-for-taxes-on-web-sales.html
The  U.S. Senate  voted to let states
require out-of-state Internet retailers and catalog companies to
collect sales taxes, a victory for brick-and-mortar businesses
that have been lobbying on the proposal for more than a decade.  The measure now goes to the U.S. House, where the issue is
dividing Republicans and won’t receive a quick vote.  The Senate measure, passed yesterday on a 69-27 bipartisan
vote, would end the era of tax-free Internet shopping. It is
backed by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and other retailers that say it’s
unfair that sellers only have to collect sales taxes on
purchases made by residents of states where an Internet company
has a physical presence.  “It’s a rare opportunity for us to have Republicans and
Democrats together on the floor to support a bill that has the
endorsement of business and labor and local officials all across
the United States,” said Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois,
the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat and a co-sponsor of the
proposal.  States lose an estimated $23 billion annually in forgone
revenue from uncollected sales taxes. During yesterday’s debate,
senators offered examples of consumers who examine products in
stores and then shop online for those same items to avoid paying
sales tax. The measure exempts businesses with less than $1
million a year in out-of-state sales.  Republicans Divided  Republicans were almost evenly divided with 21 voting in
favor of the measure, including  Richard Shelby  of Alabama,  John Thune  of South Dakota and  John Hoeven  of North Dakota. Twenty-two Republicans voted no, including Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, Marco Rubio of Florida and  Charles Grassley  of Iowa.  Five Democrats voted no: Ron Wyden and  Jeff Merkley  of
Oregon,  Max Baucus  and Jon Tester of Montana, and Jeanne Shaheen
of New Hampshire. All are from states without sales taxes.  The Republican-controlled House probably won’t act quickly
or pass a bill in the same form as the Senate. Some anti-tax
House members oppose the bill and others support it. To pass a
measure, House leaders may have to rely on Democratic votes and
overcome objections from many of their own members.  Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican and
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said in a statement
after the vote that House consideration will be “more
thoughtful” than in the Senate, which bypassed a committee
vote.  Not ‘Simplified’  Goodlatte said he is “open to considering legislation”
though he said the Senate bill wasn’t “sufficiently
simplified.” He said his panel would look at alternatives to
let states “collect sales tax revenues without opening the door
to aggressive state action against out-of-state companies.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor ,
both Republicans, haven’t taken positions on the legislation,
instead deferring to Goodlatte. Boehner said today that he
hasn’t talked with Goodlatte about the issue.  Michael Kercheval, president of the International Council
of Shopping Centers, said opponents’ concerns about complying
with multiple states’ rules have been overstated.  Level Field  “This simply puts those online out-of-state retailers on a
level playing field with the in-state brick-and-mortar
retailers,” Kercheval said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bottom Line” with Mark Crumpton.  Brian Bieron, a spokesman for online auction site  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) , which opposed the measure, said in a statement, “A lot
more work needs to be done to get the Internet sales tax issue
right,” including protecting businesses with less than $10
million in sales or fewer than 50 employees.  The legislation, supported by the Obama administration,
attracted a coalition of backers including  Best Buy Co. (BBY) ,
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and shopping mall owners. Amazon, the largest
Internet-based retailer, is expanding into more states to speed
delivery, which means it will pay taxes anyway.  States would be required to join an interstate compact with
streamlined rules or provide software to retailers.  Customers who make purchases from out-of-state retailers
currently are required to pay use taxes on those purchases. Few
do, and states have made only minimal efforts to collect those
taxes, instead lobbying Congress for a national solution.  Supreme Court  The bill would in effect reverse a 1992 U.S. Supreme Court
decision that prohibited states from taxing businesses that lack
a physical presence inside their borders.  Opponents maintained that the bill would unfairly burden
small businesses with paperwork and audits, create a tax
advantage for foreign sellers and potentially allow state-level
transaction taxes. Detractors included anti-tax groups, direct
marketers and senators from states without sales taxes.  In the House, the bill is sponsored by Wal-Mart’s hometown
congressman, Republican Steve Womack of Arkansas. It has
attracted 65 co-sponsors, including such Republicans as  Joe Barton  of Texas, Spencer Bachus of Alabama and Ander Crenshaw of
Florida.  During yesterday’s debate, Senator  Ted Cruz , a Texas
Republican who voted no, said the measure would benefit the big
businesses that support it.  “The impact of this bill is to hammer the small-business
online retailers, to make it harder for the little guys to
compete,” he said.  The measure would require businesses in his state to
collect taxes for states like California and New York even
though the businesses couldn’t influence those states’ laws,
Cruz said.  The bills are S. 743 and H.R. 684.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  