-- Shekel Weakens Most in Three Months as Central Bank Buys Dollars
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-05-06T14:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/shekel-weakens-most-in-three-months-as-central-bank-buys-dollars.html
The shekel dropped the most in almost
three months after the  Bank of Israel  bought U.S. dollars for
the third time in a week.  The central bank purchased “small amounts” of dollars,
with the total less than $100 million, said Rony Gitlin, head of
spot trading for Bank Leumi Le- Israel  Ltd. Bank of Israel
spokesman Yossi Saadon declined to comment. The bank confirmed
April 8 that it “acted” in the  currency market . That was the
first intervention in almost two years after the shekel rose as
much as 1.1 percent to 3.5898 a dollar. It also purchased the
currency on April 30 and May 2.  The shekel fell 0.3 percent to 3.5658 a dollar at 5:02 p.m.
in Tel Aviv. The currency earlier slid as much as 0.8 percent,
the most since Feb. 21. It has surged 9.2 percent in the past
six months, making it the best performer among 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Syria  accused Israel of
attacking targets on the outskirts of Damascus, drawing threats
of retaliation.  “The central bank decided to intervene as even the
heightened tension with Syria failed to have a significant
impact on weakening the currency,” said Leumi’s Gitlin. “We
are still seeing investors buying the shekel, which supports the
continuing trend of the direction of the currency.”  The shekel on May 3 completed its longest stretch of daily
gains in more than three decades after billionaire  Warren
Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed to pay $2.05 billion
for a stake in an Israeli company, the latest of almost 150
acquisitions in the country in the past year.  Expensive Exports  The Manufacturers Association of Israel today called upon
the central bank to look into the shekel-dollar exchange
movement in the past six months which its head Amir Hayek said
was “extreme‘‘ compared with other U.S. trading partners.
Export profits are hurt by a weakening dollar, Hayek added.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer , who will step down
at the end of June, is credited by some economists with helping
the nation weather the world financial crisis by buying foreign
currency to curb shekel strength and support exports. Reserves,
which stood at $77 billion at the end of March, more than
doubled as a result of the purchases, which ended in July 2011.  Israel’s base lending rate at 1.75 percent isn’t low enough
to stop capital inflow affecting the  exchange rate , Fischer said
last month. The central bank held the key rate for a third month
in March, giving the nation relatively higher rates than its
main trading partners, the U.S. and Europe. The next scheduled
base rate announcement is on May 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  