-- Slovenia Delays Lawmaker Debt-Limit Debate on Party Dissent
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-05-06T14:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/slovenia-delays-parliament-debt-limit-debate-as-parties-disagree.html
Slovenia postponed a parliamentary
debate over adding a debt ceiling to the country’s constitution
and limiting the scope of a referendum over the amendment after
party leaders last night failed to reach an agreement.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s Positive Slovenia party
withdrew the request for a session to be held today, the Cabinet
said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday. She also called on
the largest opposition party, led by former Premier Janez Jansa,
to withdraw its request for a debate tomorrow.  Slovenia would need to cut budget spending by 1.5 billion
euros ($1.97 billion) to include the so-called fiscal rule into
the constitution by 2015 as demanded by Jansa’s SDS party,
Bratusek said. That would mean reducing pensions and public
wages by about 30 percent and cutting welfare transfers by half,
Bratusek said, according to the statement.  “As a premier, I will not defend measures to cut pensions
for pensioners and wages for teachers, doctors by 30 percent,”
Bratusek said in the statement. “That will leave those that are
on the margins of society with nothing.”  The Adriatic nation is set to present a package of measures
to the European Commission by May 9 as Bratusek works to avoid
asking for a bailout. That concern eased on May 2 after Slovenia
sold $3.5 billion of debt in its first international offering
this year even as its credit rating was cut to junk by Moody’s
Investors Service just before the completion of the transaction.  Yield, Poll  The yield on dollar-denominated notes maturing in 2022 was
5.436 percent at 4:02 p.m. in Ljubljana, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It closed at 5.406 percent on May 3.  Most Slovenians say their country will probably fail to
avoid running out of cash and will eventually require a bailout,
a poll showed.  Fifty-seven percent of respondents said the nation will
have to ask for international assistance, while 36 percent think
a bailout can be avoided, according to a survey of 419 people
conducted April 23-24 by the Ljubljana-based Delo newspaper and
published today. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  