-- SM SAAM Gains to 6-Week High in Chile as Margins Improve
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-05-06T20:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/sm-saam-gains-to-6-week-high-in-chile-as-margins-improve.html
Sociedad Matriz SAAM SA (SMSAAM) , Chile’s only
publicly traded port operator, rose to a six-week high after
reporting profitability gains amid higher tug boat revenue.  The shares advanced 0.9 percent to 55.48 pesos in Santiago,
its highest price since March 22. Volume was more than twice the
daily average of the past three months. The country’s benchmark
Ipsa stock index retreated 0.3 percent.  SM SAAM, spun off last year by the shipping company  Cia.
Sud Americana de Vapores SA , reported net income of $16.8
million in the first quarter, a 7 percent increase from a year
earlier, according to filings posted May 4 on the website of
Chile’s securities regulator. Santiago-based stock-analysis firm
CorpResearch SA wrote today in an e-mailed note today that the
results were in line with its estimates.  “We expect a slightly positive impact on the stock,”
Pedro Letelier, an analyst at CorpResearch, wrote in the note.
“The company posted an improvement in margins mostly due to the
tug boat business, thanks to higher depreciation from the
acquisition of new boats and management efficiencies.”  The company’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization represented 21.7 percent of revenue in the
quarter, 0.9 percentage point higher than a year earlier,
Letelier wrote.  SM SAAM, based in Santiago, owns concessions to operate
ports in  Chile ,  Ecuador , Mexico and the U.S., according to its
 website . It also owns a fleet of tug boats that operate in 10
Latin American countries and provides logistics services in
Chile,  Peru ,  Uruguay , Colombia and Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  