-- South Africa Power Supply-Demand Gap Tightest Since January 2012
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2013-05-06T16:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/south-africa-power-supply-demand-gap-tightest-since-january-2012.html
South Africa ’s power capacity exceeded
peak demand by the smallest amount since at least January 2012
on May 2, said Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the utility that
provides 95 percent of the country’s electricity.  Peak capacity of 32,103 megawatts was 0.1 percent, or 22
megawatts, more than demand, the Johannesburg-based company said
in an e-mailed statement today. Eskom targets spare capacity of
15 percent. The May 2 difference is the narrowest since the
utility started providing twice-weekly data in January last
year. One megawatt is enough to power about 500 to 1,000 homes.  The margin is as thin as when power cuts struck the
continent’s biggest economy five years ago, pushing gold and
platinum prices to records as  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  halted
operations for five days in January 2008.  “We did interrupt power to some of the  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
potlines on Thursday evening to balance the system when a unit
of one of our power stations tripped during peak,” spokeswoman
Hilary Joffe said in an e-mail.  The utility is allowed to interrupt power to BHP’s aluminum
smelter in  Richards Bay  on South Africa’s northeastern coast for
as long as two hours a week without warning or compensation,
according to the pricing arrangements between the two companies,
Joffe said.  BHP Billiton  Eskom sells 9 percent of the power it produces to  BHP
Billiton  below cost, Beeld newspaper reported in March.  BHP Billiton in January 2008 mothballed two lines at the
Bayside aluminum smelter in Richards Bay to help stabilize power
demand, and these remain shut, spokeswoman Lulu Letlape said on
March 22. The utility has asked the country’s energy regulator
to review a power-supply deal with BHP Billiton as it seeks to
raise tariffs set in the 1990s, when it had spare capacity.  Eskom has had to defer some maintenance that it usually
does in summer months to the winter, which runs from about May
to August, because of unreliable power imports from Mozambique,
labor strikes at coal suppliers and a faulty unit at Africa’s
only nuclear power plant.  The utility is taking nine units, or 2,000 megawatts of
generation capacity, out of production because it can’t delay
maintenance on the aging facilities, Chief Executive Officer
 Brian Dames  said on April 22.  Eskom said 8,348 megawatts, or 20 percent of its installed
generating capacity, was out for maintenance today, 51 percent
of that being unplanned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  