-- Steinmetz-Linked Probe Seen Spurring Race for $50 Billion Mine
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-05-06T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/steinmetz-linked-probe-seen-spurring-race-for-50-billion-mine.html
A corruption probe into how a group
run by  Israel ’s richest person secured rights to a Guinea iron
ore project is set to spark interest from rival companies
looking to swoop on one of the world’s most valuable deposits.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the second-largest exporter of iron ore,
may be interested in regaining the ground it lost in 2008 should
licenses held by Beny Steinmetz’s BSG Resources Ltd. and Vale SA
be revoked,  Liberum Capital  Ltd. analyst  Richard Knights  said.
Guinea is seeking a way for Vale to resume work at Simandou,
President  Alpha Conde  said in a Jan. 23 interview.  A joint  U.S. Department of Justice  and Guinea investigation
has led to the arrests of two BSGR executives in the African
country and the detention of a French citizen, indicted to stand
trial in  New York . At stake is untapped ore in the iron-laden
mountains of Guinea’s south east with an estimated value of $50
billion.  “It’s a prize worth fighting for,” Paul Gait, a mining
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd., said by phone. With an
estimated 26.5 billion tons of iron-ore resources the deposit is
one of the most prospective in the world, he said. “All that it
lacks is the infrastructure and the political stability to bring
it to market.”  Vale and Rio Tinto declined to comment for this story.   ``Allegations that there was anything improper about the 
manner in which BSGR obtained mining rights in  Guinea  are
entirely baseless," BSGR said in an e-mailed statement.  ``BSGR will defend its reputation and its mining rights in 
Guinea through whatever legal means prove necessary, including
international arbitration, if the government of Guinea continues
with its illegal efforts to expropriate BSGR's interests.''  Escalating Dispute  BSGR said in March that Guinea is preparing to cancel its
mining rights to the Simandou and Zogota projects. Work at both
sites held by the venture with Vale was frozen last year. Vale 
has said that U.S. and Guinea investigators have assured the
company that it’s not under any suspicion.  Steinmetz, 57, has a net worth of about $8.9 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . His BSGR acquired
rights to part of Simandou in 2008 after  Rio Tinto  was
ordered by Guinea to give up a section of its license. BSGR
subsequently sold 51 percent of its stake in Simandou and Zogota
to Vale in 2010 for $2.5 billion. The venture had planned a $10
billion mining operation before a dispute with the government
started to escalate last year.  Guinea is seeking a way for Vale to resume work at Simandou
and “will find a solution,” Conde said in January. The company
will be one of the big partners of Guinea in iron ore, he said.
The government had also offered Rio “a strategic partnership
for 50 or 100 years,” he said, without providing details.  Rio’s Spending  Guinea’s rich iron-ore deposits have been fiercely
contested since the end of the last decade as mining companies
sought to gain from prices pushed to near records by Chinese
demand.  Rio Tinto has so far spent $2.3 billion on its part of
Simandou, which it describes as having the potential to be
 Africa ’s biggest iron ore mine.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest miner, also has an iron ore project in Guinea.  “The government is wary of perpetuating a situation where
key projects remain stalled,” Roddy Barclay, an analyst at
Control Risks, a London-based business consulting group, said in
an interview. “The BSGR contract is the most contested in the
Guinean mining sector. It’s an unrivaled resource, there are
vast quantities of high-grade iron ore.”  Unlocking the Simandou deposit’s wealth would be
transformational for the economy of Guinea, the world’s largest
bauxite exporter. The country’s gross domestic product per
capita was $498 in 2011 compared with $48,112 in the U.S.,
according to the  World Bank . Its total GDP was $5.1 billion in
2011 when it had a population of 10.2 million people.  Jobs, Agriculture  “The Simandou project is a very crucial project for the
country in terms of size and also in terms of synergy with the
rest of the economy,” Guinean Finance Minister Kerfalla Yansane
said in a phone interview. “When we consider the synergies with
the rest of the economy in terms of jobs creation,
infrastructure, agriculture, the impact may be many-fold. Our
goal is to transform the potential into better  living conditions 
for our people.”  The deposit has attracted the attention of  China , the
biggest buyer of  iron ore  used to make steel. Aluminum Corp. of
China bought into Rio’s share of the project for $1.35 billion
in 2010. Chalco, as the Beijing-based company is known, said in
2011 that Baosteel Group Corp. and China Railway Construction
Corp. will participate in the project.  Guinea Railway  Even so, potential developers must overcome obstacles.
These include the risk of political instability in a country
where legislative elections are due next month, as well as
making the necessary investment at a time of falling iron ore
prices as growth in demand from China loses pace.  A lack of clarity around how any developer would be able to
rail the ore to the coast adds to uncertainty for potential
investors. Simandou’s location makes a route through neighboring
 Liberia  more economically viable than the government’s preferred
path of a railway linking the east with the port of Conakry in
the west.  “It will be very difficult for negotiations on some
contracts to be conducted on purely technical and commercial
considerations given how politicized the process will be,”
Control Risks’ Barclay said. “Suspicions and mistrust in
Guinea’s polarized political environment will continue to
provide scope for hostile scrutiny or forced renegotiations.”  Building Harbors  Berlin-based anti-graft group  Transparency International 
ranked Guinea 154th out of 174 in its 2012 Corruption
Perceptions Index.  Rio, which reported $24 billion of global iron ore sales
for 2012, is part of a working group with the government on
issues including state funding for part of the project,  Alan
Davies , the company’s chief executive officer for diamonds and
minerals, said in an April 29 briefing with reporters.  Rio has said its planned project includes a 650-kilometer
(404-mile) railroad and four-berth wharf.  “You still have this hurdle for which there isn’t an
obvious solution which is incredibly expensive infrastructure,”
said Liberum Capital’s Knights. The cost of building the
necessary ports and railways to get the high-grade Simandou ore
to the export market has been estimated to cost as much as $15
billion to $20 billion, he said.  The price of iron ore has tumbled 19 percent from a 16-month high in February after growth in China unexpectedly lost
momentum in the first quarter. Iron ore with 62 percent content
delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin was $128.10 a dry
metric ton on May 3, according to The Steel Index Ltd.  “If Guinea is expecting somebody big to come in and
develop it in the near term, I think they’re going to be a bit
disappointed,” Matt Fernley, an analyst at GMP Securities Ltd.
in  London , said by phone. “If you look at the majors who could
invest in a project like that, you’re really only talking about
Rio, BHP and Vale.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  