-- Sunac to Exceed Sales Target Countering China Property Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-06T09:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/sunac-to-exceed-sales-target-countering-china-s-property-curbs.html
Sunac China Holdings Ltd. (1918) , the Chinese
developer part-owned by buyout firm Bain Capital LLC, expects to
exceed its sales target this year as demand remains strong even
amid the nation’s property curbs, Chairman Sun Hongbin said.  The Tianjin-based homebuilder in January forecast 45
billion yuan ($7.3 billion) in sales for 2013.  Net income  can
grow this year as Sunac’s adequate cash holdings allow it to
avoid price cuts and maintain gross margins, Sun said in an
interview in Beijing, without giving forecasts.  China ’s accelerated efforts to implement more property
curbs have had limited impact, with March home prices rising in
the most cities tracked by the government since September 2011,
while housing sales jumped 69 percent in the first quarter.
Sunac’s sales surged 147 percent to 10.5 billion  yuan  in the
three months ended March 31, as buyers rushed into the market
before local governments tightened restrictions that pushed up
transaction costs.  “Our first-quarter numbers already exceeded market
expectations because most of our projects are scheduled to enter
the market only in the second half of the year,” Sun said.
“Gross margins should also improve this year as prices are
rising but costs of our projects are not increasing.”  China’s new-home prices jumped 5.3 percent in April from a
year earlier, the biggest gain since housing costs ended eight
months of declines in December,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the
country’s biggest real estate website owner, said on May 2.  Sales Surge  Sunac, which had 12.3 billion yuan in cash and equivalents
as of Dec. 31, the most since at least 2008, focuses on luxury
projects in cities including Tianjin, Beijing and Chongqing. The
main reason for persistent home-price gains is the scarcity of
land, particularly in prime urban locations, Sun said.  Thirty-five city governments issued details of property
measures by an April 1 deadline, a month after former Premier
 Wen Jiabao  ordered the central bank to raise down-payment
requirements for second mortgages in cities with excessive cost
gains. Local governments were also directed to tighten home-
purchase limits and set price-control targets on those with the
biggest price pressures.  Beijing banned single-person households from buying more
than one residence and raised the minimum down-payment for
second homes to 70 percent.  Sunac’s contract sales surged more than 80 percent to 35.6
billion yuan last year, ranking it the 12th-biggest Chinese
developer, up from 18th in 2011, the company said in March. Net
income climbed 11 percent in 2012, while gross margin slipped by
7.8 percentage points to 25.8 percent.  The shares, which are traded in  Hong Kong , rose 3.1 percent
to HK$6.36 at the close of trading, taking their gain this year
to 6 percent, compared with an 8 percent advance in the
Bloomberg Asia Pacific Real Estate Index of which Sunac is a
constituent.  ‘Aggressive Expansion’  “We expect Sunac to maintain its aggressive expansion and
growth appetite over the next two years,” Standard & Poor’s
analyst Bei Fu said in a March 26 report.  S&P revised the outlook on the developer’s BB- long-term
corporate credit rating to stable from negative. The rating
company forecast Sunac’s contract sales this year to be as much
as 31 billion yuan.  Beijing is also resorting to administrative measures to
tame prices. It has been delaying pre-sale approvals for
projects whose selling prices the local government sees as too
high, said Jing Hong, Sunac’s general manager for the Chinese
capital. That is impacting the second phase of a development the
company plans to sell for 38,000 yuan per square meter (10.76
square feet), compared with 30,200 yuan per square meter it was
asking in September for the first phase, he said.  Rising Prices  While high-end homes are the most vulnerable to the
property curbs, administrative restrictions would loosen over
time when local authorities are confident about meeting price-
control targets, Sun said in the April 22 interview. Such
properties will be favored by buyers trying to make full use of
their restricted right to buy a home, he added.  Instead of cutting prices to quicken sales, “we’ll just
wait,” Sun said, also citing rising development costs such as
land. “We’re not under a lot of pressure to sell.”  The average selling price for Sunac West Chateau, a
residential project located near the Old Summer Palace in
northwest Beijing, has risen to more than 50,000 yuan per square
meter this year, from about 44,000 yuan when it was first sold
in June 2011, said Lou Yanqing, deputy general manager for the
project, in the same interview. Sales at the project may exceed
5 billion yuan this year, she added.  Sunac’s average selling price last year of more than 17,000
yuan per square meter compares with 10,900 yuan at  China Vanke
Co. (000002) , the nation’s biggest developer, suggesting high regulatory
risks, Fitch Ratings analysts, led by Andy Chang, wrote in a
March 28 report. China Vanke said April 22 that first-quarter
profit jumped 16 percent as revenue gained 35 percent.  “Sunac’s focus on mid- to high-end segments increases its
exposure to regulatory risks compared with mass-market peers,
given the government’s aim to make housing more affordable,”
the Fitch analysts wrote in the statement, confirming a BB-
rating on the developer’s $500 million bonds due in 2018.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  