-- Sunderland Ties Stoke to Boost Premier League Survival Chances
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-06T23:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/sunderland-ties-stoke-1-1-to-boost-its-premier-league-standing.html
Ten-man Sunderland boosted its chances
of staying in English soccer’s Premier League after coming from
behind to tie Stoke City 1-1.  John O’Shea scored for Sunderland in the 63rd minute at its
Stadium of Light last night after Jon Walters put Stoke ahead in
the ninth minute. For the second straight game, Sunderland was
reduced to 10 men when Craig Gardner was red-carded for a
dangerous tackle on Charlie Adam in the first half.  “Although we didn’t get the three points, the fight and
spirit that I saw in my players and how they remained organized
and didn’t lose their brains makes me very happy,” Sunderland
manager Paolo di Canio told his team’s website. “When I see my
team play like that it makes me confident.”  The result puts Sunderland in 15th place as one of three
teams on 38 points with two matches left. The Blacks Cats lead
Norwich and Newcastle on goal difference and are three points
ahead of 18th-place Wigan, which occupies the final relegation
spot going into tonight’s home game against Swansea.  Wigan, which faces Chelsea in the F.A. Cup final in four
days, would also move to 38 points with two Premier League
matches left to play by beating Swansea.  Sunderland next faces Southampton, which is still in danger
of demotion to the second-tier Championship with 39 points, in
its final home game on May 12. Di Canio’s team then visits
Champions League qualification-chasing Tottenham on the final
day of the season a week later.  Stoke stayed in 11th place with 41 points, six clear of the
three-team drop zone.  “We are pleased that we’ve got that point,” Stoke manager
Tony Pulis said in a televised interview. “There are a lot of
teams down there this time around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  