-- Sunstone to Buy Boston Park Plaza Hotel for $250 Million
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-05-06T21:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/sunstone-to-buy-boston-park-plaza-hotel-for-250-million.html
Sunstone Hotel Investors Inc. (SHO)  agreed
to buy the 1,053-room  Boston Park Plaza Hotel & Towers  hotel, a
historic property near the city’s Boston Common park, for $250
million.  Sunstone also plans to invest an undisclosed amount on
renovations, including upgrades of the hotel’s elevators and
facade, the Aliso Viejo, California-based real estate investment
trust said in a statement today announcing its first-quarter
earnings. Longer term, the company may spend more to “further
enhance the hotel’s competitive positioning.”  The hotel, which opened in 1927 and is located in Boston’s
Back Bay neighborhood, “generates significant in-place cash
flow and an attractive yield on the company’s initial
investment,” Sunstone said in the statement. The property has
eight restaurants, including a McCormick & Schmick’s location
and Statler’s Lounge, according to the property’s website.
 Nightly rates  start at $160.65 for the week of May 13.  Sunstone agreed to buy the property, which will remain
unbranded and continue to be managed by Highgate Hotels, at a
6.6 percent capitalization rate, based on the expected 2013 net
operating income, the company said. A cap rate, used by real
estate investors to measure yield, is a property’s annual NOI
divided by purchase price.  The transaction, agreed to on April 26, is scheduled for
completion in the third quarter, Sunstone said.  The company, on May 1, also bought the 250-room Hilton New
Orleans St. Charles for $59.4 million, or $237,400 per room,
Sunstone said in the statement. It paid the same amount per room
for the  Boston  property.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  