-- Super Bowl Boost Stokes SodaStream Jump: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-05-07T13:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/super-bowl-boost-stokes-sodastream-jump-israel-overnight.html
SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the
Israeli home soda-machine maker that has returned five times the
Nasdaq Composite Index in the past year, is rising on
speculation the company will beat its own revenue forecast.  Shares of SodaStream, which reports first-quarter earnings
tomorrow, climbed 1.8 percent to a 20-month high of $54.98 in
New York. The stock has surged 85 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with a 15 percent advance in the Nasdaq. The Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index of the largest U.S.-traded Israeli stocks
fell 0.1 percent yesterday as  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  jumped
and  Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. (PLX)  fell.  SodaStream, which advertised its water carbonation and
flavoring device during this year’s Super Bowl, is projecting
revenue will expand 25 percent this year, according to a
February statement. While the Airport City, Israel-based company
forecasts $545 million in sales, the mean of eight analysts’
estimates is for $548 million. The U.S. contributed 36 percent
of revenue last year, up from 10 percent in 2009.  “The growth they’ve generated in the U.S. has been pretty
successful,” Jim Chartier, an analyst at Monness, Crespi, Hardt
& Co., said by phone yesterday in  New York . “Penetration in the
U.S. has been increasing in every quarter. The company’s TV
marketing is building brand awareness and driving sales at the
same time.”  Chartier  rates  SodaStream buy and has a 12-month price
target of $70. He ranks equal-first among analysts covering the
stock after his recommendations delivered the best total returns
over the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Targeting U.S.  First-quarter sales for SodaStream rose 29 percent to
 $113.1 million , according to the mean of eight analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company will report before
U.S. markets open tomorrow.  SodaStream has been targeting the U.S. market since 2010
when it went public on the Nasdaq. Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Birnbaum projected during a Feb. 20 earnings call that 50
percent of revenue gains in 2013 would come from the U.S.  The U.S. market is where the company spends the most money
on advertising, Yonah Lloyd, the company’s chief corporate
development officer, said March 27 by phone. On Feb. 3,
SodaStream aired its first commercial for the  Super Bowl , the
professional football championship game that was seen by an
average of 108.7 million viewers this year, according to data
from  Nielsen Holdings NV. (NLSN)   Roth Capital Partners LLC is more bullish on SodaStream
revenue than the consensus. Analyst Anton Brenner estimates 2013
sales will rise 29 percent to $563 million, according to a note
e-mailed yesterday.  Profit Margin  “With strong sales momentum in consumables as well as
sodamakers, a lift in the first quarter from the Super Bowl ad
and related publicity, we believe that this initial guidance
will be surpassed,” Brenner, who rates SodaStream buy, wrote in
the report, referring to the company’s 2013 forecast.  SodaStream’s ad strategy isn’t cheap. Companies paid an
average of $3.75 million for 30-second spots during the Super
Bowl this year, an increase of 7.1 percent from 2012, and the
most expensive ad rate in U.S. media, according to WPP Group’s
Kantar Media, an industry research firm.  The Israeli company’s gross profit margin will be about 54
percent this year, according to the mean of seven analysts’
estimates collated by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest in three
years, the data shows.  Bets against SodaStream have jumped 15 percent since
reaching a low in March, with  short interest  as a percentage of
free float reaching 15.2 percent as of May 2, data compiled by
Markit, a London-based research firm, showed.  The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge slipped to 90.44 yesterday.
 Israel ’s benchmark TA-25 Index rose 0.1 percent to 1,210.68 in
 Tel Aviv  today.  Orbotech Slumps  Protalix led declines on the Israel-US gauge, falling 2.5
percent to $5.38. In Tel Aviv, the stock slipped 0.3 percent to
19.53 shekels, or $5.49 today.  Orbotech Ltd. (ORBK) , which makes equipment that is used to
inspect printed-circuit boards and to test for defects in
smartphones, televisions and tablets, declined 2.3 percent to
$9.98 in New York after earlier rising as much as 7.5 percent.  The company said in a statement yesterday that revenue will
rise to about $105 million in the quarter ending in June, a 3.6
percent gain from a year ago and higher than the $97.5 million
analysts estimated.  “The stock has been doing pretty good, so that initial
reaction to the numbers kind of faded,” Mahesh Sanganeria, an
analyst at RBC Capital Markets LLC in New York, who has a buy
rating on Orbotech, said by phone yesterday. “Some investors
tend to sell on the first upturn.”  Allot rallied 4.7 percent to $12.23 in U.S. trading, the
highest level since April 4.  Hod Hasharon, Israel-based Allot’s Israeli shares fell 0.1
percent to 42.29 shekels, or $11.88, today after the maker of
technology used by telecommunications providers to track
wireless traffic reported a first-quarter loss of $1.8 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  