-- U.S. Can Take Testimony in France for Fake-Wine Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-06T23:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/u-s-judge-grants-request-to-take-depositions-of-three-vintners.html
U.S. prosecutors won permission to
videotape three winemakers’ testimony in  France  for the Sept. 9
trial of alleged wine counterfeiter Rudy Kurniawan because the
harvest will keep them from traveling to New York.  U.S. District Judge Richard Berman in New York granted the
government’s request after prosecutors said they need the expert
testimony of  Aubert de Villaine , co-owner and co-director of
Domaine de la Romanee-Conti;  Christophe Roumier , head winemaker
at Domaine Georges Roumier; and  Laurent Ponsot , head of Domaine
Ponsot. Kurniawan, a California wine-seller, is accused of
counterfeiting more than $1.3 million in phony wines, including
those purportedly made by the three French vintners.  The winemakers are French citizens whom the government
can’t compel to come to the U.S. to testify, and while they were
willing to participate in a July trial, the harvest keeps them
from being at one in September, the U.S. said.  “Messers. Ponsot, Roumier and de Villaine are the heads of
their respective domaines with unique knowledge about the wines
that the defendant is alleged to have counterfeited,” assistant
U.S. attorneys Jason Hernandez and Joseph Facciponti said in
court papers. “All three witnesses will present highly relevant
and necessary testimony that no other witness can offer.”  84 Bottles  Kurniawan was indicted last year and accused of consigning
at least 84 counterfeit bottles of Burgundy to a  New York 
auction house. The Indonesian national allegedly had a
“laboratory for creating counterfeit wine” in his Arcadia,
California, home, including thousands of printed wine labels for
many of the world’s most expensive wines, such as Domaine de la
Romanee-Conti and Chateau Petrus.  Prosecutors said Ponsot’s testimony is expected to include
that purported bottles of pre-1982 Clos St. Denis from Domaine
Ponsot that Kurniawan consigned for sale at auction “are fakes
because 1982 was the first vintage of Clos St. Denis wine
produced by Domaine Ponsot.”  Ponsot will also testify about a conversation he had with
Kuriniawan in which he claimed he’d provided Ponsot with the
name and phone number of a man in  Indonesia  “who the defendant
claimed sold him the fake Ponsot wines.”  ‘Dead Ends’  Ponsot will testify that the two telephone numbers
Kurniawan gave him of the alleged consignor were “dead ends”
that produced no information, prosecutors alleged.  Roumier is expected to testify that a purported 1923 bottle
of Domaine Roumier that he tasted and was consigned by Kurniawan
was “counterfeit” adding, “Mr. Roumier is expected to testify
that the wine is fake because Domaine Roumier did not start
making that particular wine until 1952,” Hernandez and
Facciponti said.  DeVillaine who regularly inspects his wines would testify
that purported bottles of Domaine de la Romanee-Conti Kuriniawan
sold are also counterfeit.  “Possibly all three witnesses will be unavailable to
testify in September because the trial date coincides with the
harvest in Burgundy,” prosecutors said. “The government would
be unfairly prejudiced if it was not allowed to present the
testimony of Messers. Ponsot, Roumier and del Villaine to the
jury because no one else possesses the intimate knowledge that
these witnesses have about their respective domaines.”  William Koch , a billionaire collector who last month won a
$12 million verdict alleging another consignor sold him
counterfeit wines, also sued Kurniawan in  Los Angeles . That case
is pending.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Kurniawan, 12-cr-00376, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 