-- U.S. Wind Set to Rebound as Lobby Pursues Tax Credit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-05-06T19:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/u-s-wind-industry-poised-for-rebound-as-lobby-seeks-tax-credit.html
(Corrects increased credit amount in fifth paragraph.)  The U.S. wind-power industry is
expecting a tough battle in Congress as it seeks another
extension of a federal tax credit that received a one-year
renewal at the last minute in January.  “Keeping the production tax credit is our top priority,”
Tom Kiernan, incoming chief executive officer of the  American
Wind Energy Association , said at the trade group’s annual
conference today in  Chicago . “The political climate in
 Washington  is getting tougher.”  The U.S. added a record 13,124 megawatts of turbines last
year as wind developers raced to complete projects ahead of the
Dec. 31 expiration of the production tax credit. With no
certainty in 2012 that it would be renewed, energy companies put
future plans on hold and the industry may slump as much as 78
percent this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The credit was renewed Jan. 1, reviving the industry for
the next two years as new wind farms are planned and built,
Kiernan said. General Electric Co., the biggest U.S. wind-
turbine supplier, said today it’s won orders for 1,000 megawatts
of new turbines this year.  The tax credit pays 2.3 cents a kilowatt hour for power
produced from renewable-energy projects that begin construction
by the end of the year. The  Internal Revenue Service  increased
the rate by one-tenth of a cent in April because of inflation.  Still, the renewable-energy industry is under attack by
oil, gas and coal producers at both the state and federal
levels, said  Iowa  Governor Terry Branstad.  Largest Employer  “We don’t have the money that the oil and gas industry
have,” Branstad said today at the conference. “We need to get
the farmers and community leaders to speak up.” The Republican
governor has helped his state become the wind industry’s largest
employer.  The wind industry is facing efforts in at least 16 states
to dismantle so-called renewable portfolio standards, laws that
require utilities to get an increasing amount of their power
from renewable resources.  “We are defending and winning state RPS goals across the
country,” said Gabriel Alonso, chief executive officer of
developer EDP Renewables North America and chairman of the board
at Washington-based AWEA.  Preserving those laws and winning an extension of the tax
credit will support the installation of 8,000 megawatts of
turbines a year, a level he considers “vibrant.”  The U.S. has more than 60 gigawatts of wind-energy capacity
in operation, mostly in Texas, California and Iowa. That’s
enough to supply about 14.7 million homes, AWEA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  