-- U.S. May NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-05-06T14:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/u-s-may-nahb-first-american-improving-markets-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Housing Opportunity Index from the National Association
of Home Builders.  Improving Markets List Includes 258 Metros in May  The number of U.S. housing markets showing sustained improvement
in three key measures fell slightly to 258 in May from 273 in
April, according to the NAHB/First American Improving Markets
Index (IMI), released today. This total includes entrants from
all 50 states and the District of Columbia.  The IMI identifies metropolitan areas that have shown
improvement from their respective troughs in housing permits,
employment and house prices for at least six consecutive months.
Four new markets were added to the list and 19 were dropped from
it this month. Newcomers included the geographically diverse
metros of Dothan, Ala.; Elizabethtown, Ky.; Salisbury, Md.; and
Salem, Ore.  “The fact that over 70 percent of all U.S. metros are holding
onto their spots on the improving list is definitely good news,
and representative of the generally brightening outlook for
housing markets nationwide,” said NAHB Chairman Rick Judson, a
home builder from  Charlotte , N.C. “That said, our industry’s
progress on the road to recovery is being slowed by rising
challenges related to the availability of credit, building
materials, labor and lots for development.”  “While seasonal trends in home prices resulted in an overall
decline in the IMI this month, the index remains at a very
strong level and continues to represent markets in every state,”
noted NAHB Chief Economist David Crowe. “Some metropolitan areas
that had previously charted marginal home-price gains dropped
off the list this time as a result of typically softer prices
seen in the winter months, which is similar to what the index
showed in this same period last year.”  “Today’s report shows that the majority of U.S. metros are
experiencing strengthening house prices, employment and
permitting activity, which is a much more positive picture than
the one we were seeing a year ago,” observed  Kurt Pfotenhauer ,
vice chairman of First American Title Insurance Company. “That’s
the big picture on which consumers need to focus.”  The IMI is designed to track housing markets throughout the
country that are showing signs of improving economic health. The
index measures three sets of independent monthly data to get a
mark on the top Metropolitan Statistical Areas. The three
indicators that are analyzed are employment growth from the
Bureau of Labor Statistics, house price appreciation from
Freddie Mac and single-family housing permit growth from the
U.S. Census Bureau. NAHB uses the latest available data from
these sources to generate a list of improving markets. A metro
area must see improvement in all three measures for at least six
consecutive months following those measures’ respective troughs
before being included on the improving markets list.  A complete list of all 258 metropolitan areas currently on the
IMI, and separate breakouts of metros newly added to or dropped
from the list in May, is available at www.nahb.org/imi.  Source: National Association of Home Builders
 http://www.nahb.com/facts/economics/housingopindex.html 
