-- UBS to Pay Assured Guaranty $358 Million in Settlement
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-05-06T20:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/ubs-to-pay-assured-guaranty-358-million-in-settlement.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  agreed to pay an initial
$358 million to  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  to settle litigation over
money-losing residential mortgage-backed securities
transactions, Assured officials said.  UBS, based in Zurich, also agreed to reimburse portions of
future losses under a new loss-sharing reinsurance pact,
Hamilton, Bermuda-based Assured said today in a statement.  “We are pleased to have reached a settlement with UBS that
further reduces our exposure to RMBS losses,” Dominic Frederico, president and chief executive officer of Assured,
said in the statement.  Assured said it would supply more information on the
financial consequences of the settlement in its first-quarter
earnings statement, due May 9.  “The financial effect of the settlement on UBS is
insignificant due to provisions that we had previously
established,” Megan Stinson, a UBS spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The parties filed an agreement in  Manhattan  federal court
today dismissing the suit. Details of the settlement weren’t
included in the court filing.  Assured sued in February 2012, claiming UBS breached
promises about the quality of the loans underlying $1.5 billion
worth of the securities, which Assured had agreed to insure.
Assured claimed UBS had gotten inflated assessments for the
investments from ratings companies.  ‘Massive Number’  The mortgage-backed securities included a “massive
number” of defective loans and have defaulted at higher rates
than if they had conformed to the quality standards, as UBS
promised, Assured claimed in its complaint.  In August, U.S. District Judge Harold Baer dismissed some
claims against UBS and permitted the rest of the case to go
forward.  The case is Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. v. UBS Real
Estate Securities Inc., 12-cv-01579, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  