-- Lufthansa Names Two Successors to Subsidiaries Head Lauer
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-06T16:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/lufthansa-names-two-successors-to-subsidiaries-head-lauer.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest airline, promoted two executives to its top
management body to succeed Stefan Lauer, the head of passenger
operations outside its main brand, who will leave in mid-2013.  Bettina Volkens, head of human resources, will assume group
personnel responsibilities that Lauer also held and join the
management board, while Harry Hohmeister, now chief of the Swiss
International brand, will oversee airline and logistics
operations that include the Austrian division, Cologne, Germany-
based Lufthansa said today in a statement.  The move comes as Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz
tries to push through the airline’s most ambitious efficiency
push ever, aiming for 2.3 billion euros ($3 billion) operating
profit by 2015. Employee relations and the company’s flying
units outside  Germany  have come under scrutiny following strikes
at the Lufthansa brand and the failure of some  acquisitions ,
such as Austrian Airlines, to generate profit.  The promotions “enhance the company’s fitness for the
future from a management perspective,” Supervisory Board
Chairman Juergen Weber said in the statement.  The supervisory board is also seeking a successor to Weber
after former CEO Wolfgang Mayrhuber dropped his candidacy today
following criticism from shareholders. Investors are scheduled
tomorrow to vote on two board seats, including Weber’s, at the
annual meeting.  Traded German companies’ oversight is split between the
management board, which includes the top executives who run day-
to-day policy, and the supervisory board, who represent
shareholders and employees and must approve strategic decisions.
The addition of Volkens and Hohmeister expands Lufthansa’s
management board to five members from four. Lauer is scheduled
to leave the company on June 30, Lufthansa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  