-- Lufthansa’s Mayrhuber Drops Board Candidacy on Criticism
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-05-06T10:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/lufthansa-s-mayrhuber-drops-board-candidacy-on-criticism.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  was forced into
an ad-hoc search for a new candidate to head its supervisory
board after former Chief Executive Officer  Wolfgang Mayrhuber 
surprisingly pulled out one day before he was due to be elected.  Mayrhuber, who was CEO from 2003 until the end of 2010,
withdrew his candidacy “due to criticism from shareholders
regarding his nomination,” the company said in a statement
today. Lufthansa didn’t unveil a new nominee for the post.  The boardroom upset at Germany’s largest airline highlights
the growing clout of investors who have become more vocal in
their opposition to managers accumulating board seats, a
practice that was commonplace in the previously intertwined
corporate landscape known as Germany Inc. A voluntary code of
conduct requires CEOs wait two years before they ascend to the
supervisory panel, and caps the number of permitted mandates.  “This is a surprise, no doubt,” said  Jochen Rothenbacher ,
an analyst at Equinet Bank AG in Frankfurt. “However, for
Lufthansa it removes another weapon from the armory of its
critics. It’s not the worst of solutions for the company.”  Moving from the executive suite to the supervisory board
was previously a natural trajectory at Germany’s largest
companies, with long-time leaders such as  Siemens AG (SIE)  CEO
Heinrich von Pierer seamlessly switching to the panel, whose
role it is to sign off on strategy, hire and dismiss executives
and set their pay.  Under Fire  Activist investors have since criticized the practice,
saying a chairman who until recently ran the company is less
likely to agree to necessary changes without undermining his own
legacy.  Josef Ackermann  in November 2011 withdrew plans to
immediately head  Deutsche Bank (DBK) ’s supervisory board after his
time as CEO, bowing to criticism from shareholders.  Mayrhuber’s decision follows a report in  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung  that Institutional Shareholder Service, a
proxy voting service, criticized his candidacy, saying the 66
year-old manager already held too many other supervisory board
mandates and was Lufthansa CEO until recently.  Mayrhuber serves as chairman at German chipmaker  Infineon
Technologies AG (IFX) , and also sits on the supervisory boards of
companies including Munich Re and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG.  As CEO at Lufthansa, he was responsible for  acquisitions 
including BMI, Austrian Airlines Group, and a stake in Brussels
Airlines, all of which failed to develop as planned. Critics say
he has also been slow to update the fleet of Europe’s second-
largest airline, leaving Lufthansa with a fuel bill inflated by
outdated models and cabins that are no match for the modern
interiors of Gulf carriers.  Lufthansa’s supervisory board will suggest an additional
nominee in a meeting today, which will then be made public and
voted on by shareholders tomorrow, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  