-- UN Fails to Clear Up Conflicting Claims on Sarin Use in Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-05-06T15:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/un-fails-to-clear-up-conflicting-claims-on-sarin-use-in-syria.html
The United Nations today failed to
clear up conflicting claims about chemical weapons in  Syria ,
after a former war-crimes prosecutor said there were signs that
rebels, not government forces, had used sarin gas.  “I was a little bit stupefied by the first indications we
got, they were about the use of nerve gas by the opposition,”
Carla Del Ponte, a member of a UN commission investigating
human-rights violations and war crimes in Syria, told Swiss-
Italian public television yesterday.  In Geneva, the UN Human Rights Council didn’t knock down
the claim. The four-member panel “has not reached conclusive
findings as to the use of chemical weapons in Syria by any
parties to the conflict,” according to an e-mailed statement.
The findings of the commission, set up in 2011 to probe alleged
violations in the Syrian conflict, will be released June 3.  Del Ponte, who in the past took on the Italian Mafia and
prosecuted former Serb President  Slobodan Milosevic  in  The
Hague , said investigations so far have yielded “no indication
at all” that the Syrian government has used chemical weapons.  “According to their report of last week, which I have
seen, there are strong, concrete suspicions -- but not yet
incontrovertible proof -- of the use of sarin gas, from the way
the victims were treated,” she said.  A State Department official today said the U.S. takes all
allegations of chemical weapons use seriously, including Del
Ponte’s statement. The U.S. has no information suggesting that
rebel forces opposing Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime
have either the capability or the intent of using chemical
weapons, said the official, who briefed reporters on condition
of not being named.  Case Undermined  “The case for arming the rebels will be undermined
partially,” said Ghanem Nuseibeh, the London-based founder of
political risk analyst Cornerstone Global Associates, in a
telephone interview from  Abu Dhabi . ‘There will be a greater
debate over whether or not the rebels should be supported with
armed at all. Also, the case for supporting the ‘right’ rebels
that the West trusts may complicate the way the West deals with
the entire conflict.’’  Del Ponte’s comments may further complicate the task of
finding out when, how and by whom chemical weapons are being
used in a country that has shut out the outside world. While
U.S., British and French intelligence points to chemical weapons
having been used, establishing the chain of custody has proven
difficult.  Russia  has supported Assad’s claims that “terrorists,”
the regime’s standard term for the rebels, have used poison gas.  Secretary of State  John Kerry  travels to Moscow this week
to try and persuade Russia to back away from its support for
Assad. The U.S. and its European allies have supported the
rebels, who accuse Assad’s forces of using sarin on civilians.  Experts Barred  President  Barack Obama , who previously declared any proven
use of the poison gas would cross a “red line,” faces growing
calls for action by lawmakers advocating deeper U.S. involvement
in Syria.  UN chemical weapons experts have been unable to enter Syria
to verify at least three allegations of chemical weapons use
since Dec. 23. The opposition and the Syrian government have
blamed each other for a March 19 incident in Aleppo.
Negotiations have dragged on for weeks to gain access to sites
to collect soil and blood samples.  Sarin -- a gas developed by Nazis that causes death by
choking -- was used by dictator  Saddam Hussein  in the 1980s to
kill Iraqi Kurds and in a 1995 terrorist attack in  Tokyo  by a
Japanese doomsday cult. Classified by the UN as a weapon of mass
destruction, it is banned under international law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  New York  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  