-- Unemployment Benefit Cut Adds to Drag on U.S. Spending: Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   T a n z i
-- 2013-05-06T15:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/unemployment-benefit-cut-adds-to-drag-on-u-s-spending-economy.html
Dentral Smith had to say no when her
granddaughter asked for a treat on the way home from school. The
government’s cut in unemployment payments leaves her with less
spending money.  “It was a setback,” said Smith, a 45-year-old
Philadelphian who has been out of work since November. “My
granddaughter, she said ‘Nanna, you’ve got your wallet.’ And I
said, ‘Yeah, there’s nothing in it.’”  Federally funded  benefits  paid to the long-term unemployed
were lowered by 10.7 percent starting March 31 as part of
reductions to planned  government spending  called sequestration.
Benefit cuts will affect about 1.8 million workers, based on
Labor Department  data , and add to the drag on  consumer spending 
from a payroll tax increase that took effect in January.  The reductions will shave about $2.4 billion from the
unemployment trust fund this fiscal year, according to an Office
of Management and Budget  report . While that’s not enough to have
a measurable impact on $11 trillion in annual consumer spending
nationwide, the effect will be magnified in places with large
numbers of long-term unemployed and in states with generous
programs, such as Hawaii.  “The impact is going to be felt more severely in states
that pay adequate benefits,” said Maurice Emsellem, policy co-
director at the New York-based  National Employment Law Project ,
which advocates for issues including economic security for low-
wage workers and the unemployed. The cuts will mean “there is
less money circulating in the economy. Folks spend every dime of
their benefit.”  Highest Stakes  States with the most at stake include  Alaska ,  California ,
Connecticut, Michigan and  New Jersey , all with 2 percent or more
of their labor forces on long-term benefit, according to a Pew
Charitable Trusts analysis. Those five states together accounted
for $2.75 trillion in gross domestic product in 2011, or 21
percent of the U.S. total, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Pennsylvania , with 1.8 percent of its workforce receiving
extended benefits, has already started sending smaller checks to
people like Smith. Administrative issues are stalling
implementation of the cuts in most other states.  Consumers are also feeling the pinch of a higher payroll
tax rate after the levy that funds  Social Security  reverted in
January to its 2010 level of 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent. For
households earning $50,000 a year, that translates to about $80
less a month in disposable income.  Consumer Spending  That’s taking a toll on the consumer spending that accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy. Personal spending cooled in
March after the strongest gain in five months, Commerce
Department data showed. Purchases advanced 0.2 percent compared
with a 0.7 percent increase in the prior month.  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics in  West
Chester , Pennsylvania, said because households quickly spend
their benefits checks, the multiplier effect that money has on
GDP one year after a policy change is around 1.5. Because of
that, cuts to  unemployment insurance  have a larger impact on the
economy than the official dollar loss suggests.  “If you cut unemployment insurance, then the economic
impact is outsized,” Zandi said. “This is not a lot of money
in the great scheme of things. When you combine it with all of
the other cuts and the higher taxes, it’s going to have an
impact.”  Fed’s Statement  The  Federal Reserve  said May 1 that fiscal policy has been
restraining U.S. economic growth and said it is prepared to
increase purchases of securities if necessary to stimulate  job
creation .  So far, investors have signaled little concern that
sequestration will be a drag on growth. Stock indexes are near
record highs, with the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  crossing
15,000 for the first time last week, while the  Standard & Poor’s
500 (SPX)  Index closed above 1,600, also a first, on May 3. The U.S.
dollar  index  is up 3 percent for the year.  Stocks were little changed today in the U.S. In  Europe ,
reports today showed euro-area services and manufacturing output
shrank for a 15th straight month in April and retail sales fell
in March as the 17-nation economy struggled to emerge from
recession.  The sequestration cuts affect federally funded benefits,
known as  Emergency Unemployment Compensation , that kick in for
people out of work more than 26 weeks, when state benefits
typically run out. About 15 percent of unemployed workers
receive fully federally funded benefits, according to the Pew
 study .  Economic Downturn  The EUC program was enacted in 2008 as unemployment was
rising amid the deepest economic downturn since the Great
Depression. Congress has renewed it since, most recently
extending it through 2013.  Americans can now receive 14 to 47 additional weeks of
emergency benefits, with duration tied to state unemployment
levels. The amount an individual is paid depends on prior
earnings, length of employment and state policies.  Consumption in states with higher payments will take a
greater hit from reduced emergency benefits, Emsellem said. In
Hawaii, for instance, benefits average $10.76 per hour assuming
a 40-hour week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
 Alabama , average pay is $5.11 hourly.  Lower-Paying Jobs  Unemployment insurance reductions could also force people
to settle for lower-paying jobs rather than holding out for
perfect positions. While that could help lower the jobless  rate ,
which stood at 7.5 percent in April, it also can leave valuable
job skills to atrophy.  The  U.S. economy  added 165,000 jobs in April, up from
138,000 in March, the Labor Department reported last week.
Still, 11.7 million Americans were  jobless  in April, compared
with 6.8 million in May 2007, before the last recession began.  The number of long-term unemployed, or those out of work
for 27 weeks or more, declined by 258,000 to 4.4 million in
April. The group accounts for 37 percent of unemployed workers,
Labor Department figures show.  People try harder to find jobs when benefit payments are
smaller, studies have shown. A 2008 analysis by Alan Krueger,
now chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s  Council of Economic
Advisers , and Andreas Mueller, then a Stockholm University
economist,  found  that “across the 50 states and D.C., job
search is inversely related to the generosity of  unemployment
benefits .”  Desperation’s Impact  John Dodds, who works with job seekers at the nonprofit
 Philadelphia Unemployment Project , said benefit reductions could
cause some of the long-term unemployed using his service to
settle for low-paying jobs more easily. That’s not ideal, he
said.  “It’s not like people can afford to work at minimum wage,
but at some point desperation sets in,” he said. “It’s better
if people use the skills they’ve been trained for.”  In any case there aren’t enough openings in Philadelphia
for everyone who needs a job, Dodds said. Philadelphia County’s
unemployment  rate  hung at 10.6 percent at the end of 2012.  In California, the reductions will affect about  400,000
people , and because their implementation was delayed until April
28, benefit cuts will total a steeper 18 percent for the rest of
fiscal 2013.  That will mean about $54 less from the average $298.87
weekly unemployment allotment in California, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on U.S. Labor Department  data .  Smith, the jobless grandmother, said while the cuts to her
benefits are spurring her to watch her spending, she isn’t
settling for a job yet. Living with her pregnant daughter, she
benefits from a temporary cushion because she pays no rent.  “I’m not as selective, but I am selective,” she said.
“It’s kind of hit me hard. It’s a whole lot gone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  