-- Univision’s Saban Seeks to Triple Asia Investments in Two Years
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-05-06T00:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/univision-s-saban-seeks-to-triple-asia-investments-in-two-years.html
Saban Capital Group Inc., the private-
equity firm of Univision Communications Inc. Chairman  Haim Saban ,
wants to triple its investments in  Asia  over the next two years
focusing on media and communication.  The company, which started investing in Asia in 2010, last
month opened its second office in the region in  Singapore  where
it will seek opportunities in Southeast Asia,  South Korea  and
 India , Adam Chesnoff, the group’s president and chief operating
officer, said in an interview on May 2.  More than 60 percent of the world’s youth, the main target
group for television and Internet services, live in the Asia-
Pacific region, according to  estimates by the United Nations .
Los Angeles-based Saban Capital has invested in five companies
including Indonesia’s  PT Media Nusantara Citra (MNCN)  since expanding
in the region.  “In the next 12 to 24 months, we want to double or even
triple the size of the portfolio in Asia,” said Chesnoff, 47,
declining to give specific investment details. “There is a void
in sophisticated investors focusing on media and communication.
And that is the strategy we are employing here in Asia.”  Globally, Saban’s investments include Univision, the
largest U.S. Spanish-language broadcaster, and Partner
Communications Co.,  Israel ’s second-biggest mobile provider. He
made his first fortune developing and producing the Power
Rangers children’s television series.  Media Nusantara  Saban Capital bought a 5 percent stake in Jakarta-based
Media Nusantara for 692 billion rupiah ($71 million) in October
2011 and increased its stake to 5.8 percent this year. The
shares have tripled since the 2011 investment, compared with a
40 percent gain in the benchmark Jakarta Composite index.  Media Nusantara has a 40 percent market share in
Indonesia’s $1.6 billion free-television market, according to
Sumeet Jaisinghani, Saban’s director for private equity and head
of the Singapore office. The private-equity firm also owns about
4 percent of pay-television provider PT MNC Sky Vision, which
has a 70 percent share of the country’s $300 million pay-
television market, he said.  Saban Capital, which also has an office in  Hong Kong , is
interested in boosting its stake in both companies, Chesnoff
said.  The company has either invested or arranged to invest
“well north of $6 billion” of equity in its transactions,
Chesnoff said, with a targeted annual return of more than 20
percent. “But it depends on the opportunity and we can deviate
from that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  