-- Vornado Had $98.8 Million of Quarterly J.C. Penney Losses
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-05-06T22:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/vornado-had-98-8-million-of-quarterly-j-c-penney-losses.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , which controls
about 100 million square feet of U.S. commercial real estate,
recorded $98.8 million of losses in the first quarter from its
investment in struggling retailer  J.C. Penney & Co. (JCP)   The real estate investment trust had a $39.5 million non-
cash impairment loss on shares of the retailer it holds, a $36.8
million loss on shares it sold and a $22.5 million loss from the
decline in value of J.C. Penney derivatives, Vornado said today
in a statement announcing its first-quarter earnings. The New
York-based company’s funds from operations, a measure of  cash
flow  used by REITs, fell 42 percent to $201.8 million, or $1.08
a share.  J.C. Penney and non-property investments are overshadowing
Vornado’s performance as an owner and developer of office and
retail properties, said Alexander Goldfarb, a Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP analyst. The REIT reported quarterly rental revenue
of $499.2 million, up 5.1 percent from a year earlier.  “The question is how long do they want to continue to be
there, and how long does Vornado want to sit through the
restructuring that J.C. Penney has to go through,” Goldfarb,
who raised his  rating  on Vornado to buy from hold in March, said
in a telephone interview. “Their core businesses are good. If
they could get rid of this other stuff, the core would be more
valuable.”  As it did in February, when it announced a $224.9 million
impairment from its J.C. Penney shares, Vornado today described
the first-quarter losses as “other than temporary.” The
company in March sold 10 million J.C. Penney shares, leaving it
with 6.1 percent of the chain’s common stock.  CEO Change  J.C. Penney last month fired Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson  and reinstated his predecessor Myron E. Ullman III. It
said last week it would air commercials apologizing for
“mistakes” that alienated customers.  J.C. Penney is up 13 percent since March 5, the day Vornado
sold about half its interest in the company. Vornado shares are
up 4.4 percent since then.  After adjusting for the impact of J.C. Penney and other
mostly one-time items, Vornado’s first quarter FFO was $1.14 a
share, up from 98 cents a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  