-- In Defense of M&A Leaks
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-05-06T14:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/what-a-study-on-m-a-leaks-misses-they-are-good.html
Normally, an academic study as inane
as “M&A Confidential: What Happens When Deals Leak” would be
dismissed for what it is: a blatant, lame attempt to gin up some
public attention for its sponsors.  Yet things turned out differently this time -- it got a
little notice largely because  Andrew Ross Sorkin  of the  New York 
Times’s DealBook and CNBC took a  shine to it . The research is
worth taking the time to debunk not just because of its
superficiality but because there’s a chance it may be used as
ammunition in calling for regulation or enforcement that would,
in fact, be harmful to financial markets and investors.  The study -- a concoction of the Cass Business School in
 London ; IntraLinks Inc., a company that facilitates the sharing
of confidential corporate information; and MergerMarket Group,
which compiles M&A “league tables” -- had a bunch of
underwhelming findings. It noted that deal leaks, once an
epidemic in the U.K., have actually decreased globally. And then
it concluded with this logical pretzel: A leak increases the
chance that a deal will get scuttled but, if it doesn’t, a leak
will increase the takeover premium. Got that?  Anyone who has spent time doing deals on  Wall Street  is
likely to ask, “Since when are ‘deal leaks’ a problem,
anyway?” The problem for mergers-and-acquisitions bankers these
days is not leaks about deals, but deals generally. With
 announced M&A deal values  falling 10 percent so far in 2013
compared with last year, and down 45 percent from the fourth
quarter of 2012, there is barely enough activity to keep the
high-priced M&A experts busy.  The study conveniently overlooks the important fact that
the “leak” of a merger between two publicly traded companies
serves a very important -- essential, even --function in the
merger market: Getting stock out of the hands of a company’s
long-term shareholders and into the hands of short-term
arbitrageurs who make sure that deals get done. This is,
generally speaking, in the interests of all shareholders.  Here’s how it works: At the time of either a formal -- or
informal, such as a “leak” -- announcement of a takeover or
merger, the stock of the target company (and often its suitor)
will trade in huge volumes and generally at a premium to where
it has been trading the day before, at prices approaching the
stated value of the deal. Long-term shareholders, many of whom
have been waiting years for this happy day to arrive, quickly
make the calculation about whether it is better to hold out for
the deal to close, squeezing out the last penny of value, or if
it is better to avoid the risk, cash out and look for a new
investment.  The deal announcement, whether by leak or fancy press
conference, gets the process of getting stock out of the hands
of the people who want money now and into the hands of the
arbitrageurs who are willing to take the risk -- and there are
often serious financial risks involved -- of the deal closing.
The arbitrageurs, mostly hedge funds these days, calculate the
odds of a deal closing and how much they can make by buying the
stock at a discount to the stated deal price and then holding it
for the ultimate payoff.  Everybody’s happy: The long-term holders get their cash;
the arbitrageurs make some quick money but take risks they are
well suited to take, and the companies involved get shareholders
who want nothing more than for a deal to close, and fast, as
long as the price is right. That’s what keeps the heart of
capitalism beating strong - and “leaks” play an important
role.  No less an M&A authority than the legendary  Felix Rohatyn ,
once my boss at Lazard Freres & Co., explained to a
congressional subcommittee in 1969 how the arbs provide a
valuable service. “The arbitrageur is willing to take the risk
that the transaction will go through and to profit by the
difference between the present market and the ultimate realized
value,” he said. Titanic Wall Street figures such as Gus Levy
and  Robert Rubin , both onetime senior partners at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and the latter a  Treasury secretary , made their
professional bones, and fortunes, as merger arbitrageurs.  Of course, as the insider-trading scandals of the 1980s and
of this decade have made abundantly clear, the sharing of -- and
trading on -- material, nonpublic information such as the price
that one company will pay for another, and when, is ripe for
abuse and should be punished. Yet the “leaking” of the facts
relating to a proposed merger or acquisition is the opposite of
 insider trading . It is the dissemination of material information
to the marketplace in a way that gets the gears of capitalism
moving to everyone’s benefit.  Intralinks has products to sell: secure digital-data rooms
and what it says is a network of “two million” M&A
professionals. Paying for the imprimatur of a respected
international business school to report that such services are a
valuable investment is a clever way of going about it (in fact,
you have to register on the company’s website to get a look at
the report). But not if you arrange a study based on the idea
that there is a major problem where none actually exists. Then
again, that was probably the point.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase, against which he lost
an arbitration case over his dismissal. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at  tharshaw@bloomberg.net  