-- Two Men Charged by U.S. in Weapon Machinery Shipping Plot
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-07T01:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/two-men-charged-by-u-s-in-weapons-plot.html
A Taiwanese man with ties to North
Korea who the U.S. called a proliferator of weapons of mass
destruction in 2009 and his Chicago-area son were charged with
trying to evade federal laws curbing the spread of such weapons,
prosecutors said.  Hsien Tai Tsai, 67, also known as “Alex,” was arrested
May 1 in Tallinn,  Estonia , while his son, Yueh-Hsun “Gary”
Tsai, 36, was apprehended the same day in suburban Glenview,
Illinois, acting Chicago U.S. Attorney Gary Shapiro said in a
statement yesterday.  The U.S. has linked Alex Tsai to “the supply of weapons
machinery to North Korea,” Shapiro said in a statement issued
jointly with Cory B. Nelson, special agent in charge of the
Chicago office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  Father and son are accused of conspiracy to defraud U.S.
enforcement of laws against the spread of WMD, conspiracy to
violate the International Emergency Economic Powers Act by
trying to dodge earlier restrictions placed on Alex Tsai and two
of his Taiwan-based businesses, and money laundering.  The younger Tsai made his initial court appearance
yesterday before U.S. Magistrate Judge Susan Cox in  Chicago 
federal court. She conditioned his release upon the posting of a
$500,000 bond backed by the Glenview home he shares with his
wife and about $90,000 to be deposited with the court.  Electronic Monitoring  Cox ordered Gary Tsai confined to his home with electronic
monitoring, allowing him to leave only for appointments with his
lawyer or doctor and religious observance. The government is
holding his passport.  His next court appearance is scheduled for May 28.  “The charges are that a son was assisting his father,”
defense attorney  Theodore Poulos  told reporters after the
hearing. That alleged assistance came in the form of purchasing
old “unsophisticated” machinery used for drilling holes in
metal and shipping it to his father, the attorney said.  Poulos called it “a benign business transaction.”  Alex Tsai and one of his Taiwanese businesses, Trans Merits
Co., were charged and later convicted in that country for
forging invoices and shipping restricted materials to North
Korea, FBI Special Agent Eric Shiffman said in an affidavit for
a complaint filed against Tsai.  Trans Merits  The U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets
Control designated the father, Trans Merits and another company,
Global Interface Co., as “proliferators of weapons of mass
destruction” which bars any U.S. citizen, business or person or
company in the country from doing business with Alex Tsai, Trans
Merits or Global, according to Shiffman’s affidavit.  From 2009 to 2010, Gary Tsai allegedly plotted to buy and
export for Trans Merits or Alex Tsai a Bryant Center Hole
Grinder -- “a machine used to grind a center hole, with
precisely smooth sides,” according to the affidavit by FBI
Agent Joseph Hugdahl filed with the complaint against the son.  The younger Tsai allegedly gave an employee of the company
from whom he was buying the center hole grinder a business card
indicating he worked for Trans Merits, according to Hugdahl.  Gary Tsai is also accused of being partners with his father
and Trans Merits in a business called Factory Direct Machine
Tools, which imported goods to the U.S., Hugdahl said.  The crime of violating the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a
$1 million fine, the government said. Money laundering is
punishable by as long as 20 years in prison. Conspiracy to
defraud the U.S. carries a sentence of as long as five years and
a fine of $250,000.  The son’s case is U.S. v. Tsai, 13-cr-00325, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  