-- WTI Drops First Time in Four Days as U.S. Stockpiles Seen Rising
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-05-07T12:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/wti-crude-drops-first-day-in-four-as-u-s-stockpiles-seen-rising.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell for
the first time in four days before government data that may show
U.S. stockpiles rose from an 82-year high. Saudi Arabia
increased production to the most in five months.  Futures slid as much as 0.9 percent in  New York  after the
biggest three-day gain since the first week of August. U.S.
crude supplies probably climbed by 2 million barrels last week,
according to a  Bloomberg News  survey before the Energy
Information Administration report tomorrow. Saudi Arabia raised
output to 9.32 million barrels a day in April, a person with
knowledge of the country’s production said. China’s external
trade probably slowed last month, a separate survey showed.  “We are probably going to be presented with another weekly
inventory rise from the U.S. tomorrow, and that obviously does
bring the focus that the market is still well supplied,” Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in
Copenhagen, said in a telephone interview. “Whether we are
ready to see a return toward the $110 level, which is the
average for the last few years, it’s probably too early to
say.”  WTI for June delivery declined as much as 90 cents to
$95.26 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $95.85 at 1:36 p.m. London time. The volume
of contracts traded was 19 percent below the 100-day average.
Futures climbed 55 cents to $96.16 yesterday, the highest close
since April 2, capping a three-day gain of 5.6 percent.  Market Struggle  Brent for June settlement on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange rebounded to $105.86 a barrel, up 40 cents,
after declining to as low as $104.68. The European benchmark
crude was at a premium of $9.48 to WTI futures, up from $9.30
yesterday. The spread closed at $8.58 on May 3, the narrowest
since December 2011. The volume of all contracts traded was 9
percent below the 100-day average.  “We are seeing a positive mood carrying over into the
European session, also U.S. futures slightly to the positive,”
Bjarne Schieldrop, head of commodity research at SEB AB, said by
telephone from Oslo. “We are now set for a gradual recovery in
the oil price toward $110 level” in the third quarter of the
year, he said.  Forties Shipments  Shipments of North Sea Forties crude for June are planned
at 21 cargoes of 600,000 barrels each, unchanged from this
month, according to a loading program obtained by Bloomberg
News. Exports of Ekofisk crude for June are planned at three
cargoes of 600,000 barrels each, seven less for this month,
while exports of  Brent crude  for June are planned at five
cargoes of 600,000 barrels each, one less than this month, the
program showed.  Planned exports in June of Oseberg blend are unchanged,
according to the program. Forties, Ekofisk, Brent and Oseberg
grades comprise the Dated Brent benchmark.  Brent’s premium to WTI may widen to as much as $15 a barrel
in the third quarter,  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  said in an e-mailed
report today. Purchases of Atlantic Basin sweet, or low-sulfur,
crude are increasing with a seasonal rebound in refinery
utilization rates, the bank said. That may boost front-month
Brent prices, while the outlook for WTI is “neutral to
bearish” because of rising U.S. supplies, it said.  Chinese Goods  China ’s goods exports probably rose 9.1 percent in April
from a year earlier, compared with 10 percent in March,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists before customs
data tomorrow. Imports probably increased 13 percent, from 14.1
percent the prior month, the survey showed. China accounted for
11 percent of global oil consumption in 2011, according to  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  U.S.  crude stockpiles  probably increased to 397.3 million
barrels last week as domestic output remained near the highest
in two decades and demand declined, according to the Bloomberg
survey of nine analysts. Gasoline inventories decreased by
 400,000 barrels  and distillate supplies, including heating oil
and diesel, climbed by 500,000 barrels, the survey showed.  The  American Petroleum Institute  in  Washington  is to
release separate supply data today. The industry group collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the Energy
Department’s statistical unit, for its weekly survey.  Saudi Supply  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s planned shutdown of the U.S. Ozark pipeline
for 10 days starting June 10 will reduce capacity to move oil
from Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for Nymex futures.
Enbridge will close the line, which has the capacity to carry
215,000 barrels a day of crude to Wood River,  Illinois , from
Cushing, for maintenance, said Larry Springer, a company
spokesman in Houston. Monthly throughput will be reduced by 40
percent, he said.  Saudi Arabia , the largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, increased output by 180,000
barrels a day last month, according to the person familiar with
the matter. The country supplied 9.16 million barrels a day to
international and domestic markets, compared with 9.15 million
in March, said the person with knowledge of the kingdom’s
output, asking not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  