-- Tyson Says China Chicken Unit to Benefit After Bird Flu Outbreak
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-05-06T20:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-06/tyson-says-china-chicken-unit-to-benefit-after-bird-flu-outbreak.html
Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S.
chicken producer, said its poultry business in China will
benefit in the long-term as the bird-flu outbreak focuses
attention on its food-safety procedures.  Tyson’s chicken production in China hasn’t been directly
affected by avian influenza, also known as the H7N9 virus,
according to the Springdale, Arkansas-based company. Tyson is
“getting recognition” for its food-safety measures as chicken
demand has dropped temporarily industrywide in China, Chief
Executive Officer Donnie Smith said during a call with analysts
yesterday after reporting fiscal second-quarter earnings.  “The avian influenza outbreak in China is troubling and is
detrimental to protein consumption in the short run,” Smith
said. “The one thing that this unfortunate event has done is
absolutely validated our model for extreme biosecurity.”  Tyson is increasing the number of company-owned birds it
processes in the country as consumers there eat more chicken,
Smith said. While many chickens in  China  are still raised by
small farmers, Tyson is bringing technology and practices common
in the U.S. to the Asian country.  To keep birds healthy, Tyson uses ventilation systems in
the houses, mills its own feed, controls access to farms and
requires anyone entering or leaving the buildings to shower,
Smith said. Customers in the region will pay for the added food
safety Tyson provides, Chief Financial Officer Dennis Leatherby
said on the call.  Tyson reported fiscal second-quarter earnings excluding
one-time items of 36 cents a share in the three months through
March 30, compared with the 45-cent average of 11 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Tyson took a $56 million impairment in
China during the quarter related to an older poultry complex and
not connected to the bird flu outbreak, the company said.
Revenue in the fiscal year through September will be about $34.5
billion, down from a February forecast of $35 billion, the
company said in the statement.  Tyson fell 3.3 percent to close at $24.10 yesterday in  New
York , the biggest drop since Feb. 26. The shares have gained 24
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  