-- 
‘Angry Birds’ Staying Power Tested With CEO Hatching Movie

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-06-27T17:22:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/-angry-birds-staying-power-under-test-with-ceo-hatching-movie-before-ipo.html
On a recent visit with his two
children to a toy museum in Espoo,  Finland , Mikael Hed was
struck by a display of action figures from  George Lucas ’s “Star
Wars” series.  “The only toys I felt were still very cool and still worth
playing with were the ‘Star Wars’ toys,” said the 35-year-old
chief executive officer of the Finnish mobile-phone game
developer that’s still riding its first big hit, “ Angry
Birds ,” after designing games the past eight years.  Rovio Mobile Oy faces a long haul to convince investors
that the touchscreen game where players stretch and release a
virtual catapult to hurl birds at structures populated by green
pigs will command the same staying power. After racking up 250
million downloads, Rovio now wants to make an “Angry Birds”
movie, develop more game titles for casual gamers, and open
offices outside Finland to bring in more gaming and storytelling
talent.  The company published 51 games for  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  phones and
other handsets before striking gold with “Angry Birds,” which
zoomed to the top of the iPhone charts last year before being
rolled out for Android phones, desktop computers, and Barnes &
Noble Inc.’s Nook e-reader. It’s already on Nokia’s just-
announced N9 smartphone. A Facebook version is in the works.  Birds on Walls  The 99-cent game is again the top paid app in  Apple Inc.’s
U.S. app store  after being toppled by new entrant Heist in
March. Angry Birds Rio, a version with a tie-in to the animated
movie “Rio,” is the third-most popular. The first run of
“Angry Birds” in the top spot, a free version, lasted a record
275 days, according to website  The Loop .  “We’re working on a number of new concepts, but we’re fully
aware that ‘Angry Birds’ is probably going to be the dominant
brand we have for quite a while,” Hed said in an interview at
Rovio’s new office down the street from Nokia in Espoo,
featuring living-room-style areas for laptop working and bird
cartoons stencilled on the walls.  In March, Rovio received $42 million in funding from
investors including Skype Technologies SA co-founder Niklas Zennstrom’s Atomico Ventures as well as Facebook backer  Accel
Partners . It’s “very possible” that Rovio will seek another
 venture-capital  round before eventually holding an initial
public offering, possibly in two to three years, Hed said.  IPO Risks  Firms that get early-stage venture capital typically give
20 percent to 40 percent to their investors, said Nordea Bank
analyst Sami Sarkamies. Based on that, the March deal valued the
game maker at as much as $210 million at the time.  “If they are able to replicate the success of ‘Angry
Birds’ with other titles, it may be a candidate for an IPO but
with one title it’s difficult,” said Sarkamies. “The risk of
not being able to do it and getting into trouble later on may
just be too high.”  Another risk is how long Internet valuations remain buoyed.
Signs of a slowing U.S. economic recovery and the initial public
offering of LinkedIn Corp. have sparked concern that the
industry may have entered a speculative bubble.  Hed, a business graduate at  Tulane University  in  New
Orleans , helped start Rovio under the name Relude Oy when his
cousin Niklas Hed began writing games with some classmates from
what’s now Aalto University. Rovio is chaired by Hed’s father,
Kaj, who first invested in the company in 2005.  Studio Talks  Mikael Hed quit as CEO in 2005, feeling the company wasn’t
big enough for both him and his father, and the two agreed on
his re-entry in 2009. In the interim he co-wrote  August Jessor ,
a comic series about a police chief in a remote town.  Writers are developing a script for a full-length “Angry
Birds” film that would fill in the backstory of the birds and
pigs. Rovio has spoken to major movie studios and is working
with partners of the caliber of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar to
produce and distribute the movie, Hed said.  “We are working on the mythology with the movie script and
we don’t want to shape the mythology too far until we have that
one nail in place,” the CEO said. “We’ve seen too many movies
based on games that have not performed well.”  Rovio created a special edition of “Angry Birds” with
characters from the animated film “Rio” produced by News
Corp.’s Twentieth Century Fox. A bird resembling Rovio’s avians
appeared in the film trailer, which was aired during the  Super
Bowl .  Maisel’s Role  The company  said  today it appointed David Maisel, former
chairman of Marvel Studios, which produced the “Iron Man”
films, to be special adviser and executive producer of “Angry
Birds” movies. A veteran of Hollywood agencies, Maisel led the
sale of Marvel Entertainment to Disney in 2010.  Meanwhile, Hed said demand for the touchscreen game hasn’t
peaked. Peter Vesterbacka, the red-sweatshirt-clad Rovio
executive who holds the title of “Mighty Eagle” and handles
relations with U.S. partners, told a conference in  London  this
month that in  China  alone, Rovio is aiming for 100 million
downloads with customized versions of the game.  “People are still migrating from old-fashioned phones to
touchscreen devices, and in emerging markets, that’s creating
whole new audiences that may not have a TV before but now could
have an Android device,” Hed said. “Catering to that audience
is important for any media company in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  