-- 
Abu Dhabi Changes Adnoc Management Amid Talks on Oil Concessions

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-06-26T09:11:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/abu-dhabi-changes-adnoc-management-amid-talks-on-oil-concessions.html
Abdullah Nasser al-Suwaidi, former
deputy chief executive officer of  Abu Dhabi  National Oil Co.,
was named the state-owned company’s director general as the oil
producer starts to renegotiate contracts with foreign companies.  "The new director-general has close relations with the Abu
Dhabi crown prince and thinks in the same way," said Thad
Malesa, an independent analyst based in Dubai. "The crown prince
wants to get the best deals possible for Abu Dhabi, and right
now they will be looking at pushing oil concessions forward and
with new partners."  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Total SA are
among companies seeking to extend contracts for producing oil in
Abu Dhabi, holder of more than 90 percent of the oil reserves in
the U.A.E. The sheikhdom is planning to spend as much as $60
billion over the next decade to expand its oil and gas industry,
including boosting crude production capacity to 3.5 million
barrels a day from about 2.8 million now.  Al-Suwaidi was appointed by a decree by United Arab
Emirates President Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahyan. Adnoc’s
Chief Executive Officer Yousef Omair bin Yousef is no longer a
member of the  Supreme Petroleum Council , which decides the
country’s petroleum policy, state-owned Emirates News Agency
reported yesterday.  Concessions  Exxon Mobil  and Shell are concession-holders in Adnoc’s
onshore unit  Abu Dhabi Co. for Onshore Oil Operations  until
2014. Adnoc owns 60 percent of the unit with Exxon Mobil, Shell,
Total, BP Plc and Partex Oil & Gas holding the rest.  Cosmo Oil Co., a Japanese refiner 21 percent owned by the
government of Abu Dhabi, was awarded a concession in Hail oil
field for 30 years and was granted a 30-year extension of its
rights in Mubarras, Umm Al Anbar and Neewat Al Ghalan oil fields
when they expire in December 2012, it said in February.  Concessions in Abu Dhabi’s  offshore  fields, held by BP Plc,
Total and Japan Oil Development Co., expire later this decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  