-- 
West Antarctica’s Biggest Glacier Is Melting 50% Faster Than 17 Years Ago

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-06-26T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/antarctica-s-pine-glacier-melting-50-faster-study-indicates.html
West Antarctica’s biggest glacier is
melting 50 percent faster than in 1994, adding to a global
increase in sea levels, U.S. and U.K. scientists found.  The Pine Island glacier is losing about 78 cubic kilometers
(30 cubic miles) of ice per year, the researchers at  Columbia
University  in  New York  and the British Antarctic Survey in
Cambridge,  England , said today. That’s up from 53 cubic
kilometers in 1994. The study in the journal Nature Geoscience
is based on data from a 2009 expedition.  Scientists are grappling to understand how much
Antarctica’s ice could contribute to higher sea-levels after the
 United Nations  in 2007 predicted they’ll rise by 18 to 59
centimeters (7 to 23 inches) this century. Just how much of that
will come from the southern continent remains uncertain.  “The glaciers from the Amundsen Sea region are
contributing more to sea-level rise than any other part of
Antarctica, so it’s imperative we understand the processes
involved,” Adrian Jenkins, a glaciologist at the British
Antarctic Survey and a co-author of the paper, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The Pine Island glacier and smaller glaciers that flow into
it contain enough ice to boost sea levels by 24 centimeters,
according to Columbia.  The regional increase in ocean temperatures of 0.2 degrees
Celsius (0.4 degrees Fahrenheit) isn’t enough to cause the
increase in melt at Pine Island, the researchers said.  They sent a robot submarine beneath the floating portion of
the glacier and determined that the ice mass had previously been
grounded on a ridge. The ice melted free from the ridge, opening
room for warmer waters to circulate, they said.  “More warm water from the deep ocean is entering the
cavity beneath the ice shelf, and it is warmest where the ice is
thickest,” Stan Jacobs, an oceanographer at Columbia’s Lamont-
Doherty Earth Observatory and the study’s lead author, said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  