-- 
U.K. Stocks Rise; Vedanta, BG, Northumbrian Water Climb; AstraZeneca Slips

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-27T15:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/astrazeneca-glaxosmithkline-shell-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks climbed as Greek
lawmakers met to debate austerity measures that the European
Union has made a condition of providing further aid to the
indebted country.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  advanced 3.1 percent after  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  advised buying the shares.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  fell 1.1
percent as the company and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. said
patients taking their experimental diabetes pill had more breast
and bladder cancers than people using a standard drug.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 24.62, or 0.4 percent, to
5,722.34 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. Since its peak this
year on Feb. 8, the gauge has tumbled 6.1 percent as U.S.
economic data trailed forecasts and concern mounted that  Greece 
will default on its debt.  “Our strategy remains constructive towards risk assets,”
 David Shairp , a London-based global strategist at JPMorgan Asset
Management, which manages $1.3 trillion for clients, wrote in a
report today. “The bad news is increasingly well known” about
Greece.  U.K. stocks dropped last week, the gauge’s fifth straight
week of losses, as U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
cut his growth forecast for the world’s largest economy. The
FTSE All-Share Index today rose 0.4 percent, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index climbed 0.4 percent.  Greece Austerity Package  Greek lawmakers will vote on a five-year austerity plan
this week that must pass before the EU and the  International
Monetary Fund  will agree to provide more international aid.
Failure to pass the plan may lead to the euro area’s first
sovereign default as Greece needs to cover 6.6 billion euros
($9.4 billion) of maturing bonds in August. Greece’s Parliament
today opened a debate today where lawmakers will vote on whether
to accept the government’s 78 billion-euro medium-term fiscal
plan.  Vedanta gained 3.1 percent to 1,905 pence. HSBC upgraded
the shares to “overweight” from “neutral.”  AstraZeneca lost 1.1 percent to 3,026 pence. The two
drugmakers found nine breast cancers and nine bladder cancers
among the 5,478 patients taking their drug, dapagliflozin,
compared with one breast and one bladder cancer among the 3,156
people in control groups.  BG, Northumbrian Water  BG Group Plc (BG/)  rose 2.2 percent to 1,303.5 pence after
signing a deal with Bank of  China , giving the company as much as
$1.5 billion of new funding options to expand projects. The deal
increased BG’s total borrowing facilities to $4.4 billion, the
company said.  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  jumped 8 percent to 413.5
pence after Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. said it may
make a cash offer for the supplier of water to the north east of
 England .  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  slumped 9.1 percent to 170 pence, its
lowest price this year, even after posting a pretax profit in
its fiscal first half of the year. Shore Capital Group Ltd.
downgraded its earning forecast for Ocado, with analyst Clive Black remaining “cautious” on the shares with a “sell”
recommendation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  