-- 
Gillard Says Australia Will Compensate 90% of Households Under Carbon Tax

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-27T04:36:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/australia-will-compensate-90-of-homes-for-carbon.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said her government will pay compensation to nine out of
10 households to help families absorb the cost of a carbon-
emissions trading system.  The government will offset entirely for nine out of ten
households the cost of a carbon price through tax cuts, extra
payments to couples with children, and increased pensions,
Gillard said today. The assistance will go to about 7 million
Australians, she said.  “The price, of course, is going to be paid by the 1,000 big
 polluters ,” Gillard told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio.
“We are going to assist Australian families with tax cuts and
increases in payments. The vast majority of Australians won’t
pay an extra cent as a result of the price on carbon.”  Gillard is seeking to garner support for an emissions
trading system in the world’s biggest coal exporter, where the
number of Australians who say the nation should take action has
slipped to a record low 41 percent, according to a poll
published today.  To pass the plan through parliament, she needs the
agreement of independent lawmakers and the Greens Party, whose
leader  Bob Brown  said yesterday there are “still one or two
major hurdles” to clear before a deal is reached.  That may take “weeks, rather than days,” Brown said on the
Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s “Insiders” program. Calling
Gillard “a very good negotiator,” Brown said “we’re not there
yet, but we’re working toward it.”  A report is scheduled by month’s end from the Multiparty
Climate Change Committee of lawmakers on proposed legislation to
go to parliament in the next three months.  Big Polluters  The group, which the main opposition Liberal-National
coalition has declined to join, will work out a fixed price per
ton of carbon in an emissions system that would move to open
trading as early as 2015. Also to be decided is aid to
businesses and consumers to offset the impact.  “I want to tackle  climate change  by putting a price on
carbon pollution that big polluters will pay and then use that
money to assist Australian families,” Gillard said yesterday.  While the government hasn’t detailed a carbon price, a
charge of A$20 ($21) a metric ton would cost households A$550 a
year, or A$10 a week, the Sunday Telegraph reported yesterday.  ‘Relatively Cheaper’  A carbon price makes “goods and services that generate more
pollution relatively more expensive, and those that generate
less pollution relatively cheaper,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in
his weekly economic note yesterday. Consumers can either use the
government compensation to buy the more costly goods, or save
some of the money by choosing low-carbon items, he said.  Some 39 percent of Australians polled by the Lowy Institute
between March 30 and April 14 said they aren’t prepared to pay
anything extra on their electricity bills to help solve climate
change. The poll also showed 62 percent were against  Australia 
building nuclear-power plants to cut emissions.  Opposition Liberal-National coalition leader  Tony Abbott ,
who has said he will repeal the plan if he becomes prime
minister, pledged June 25 to deliver tax cuts without a levy on
carbon.  Gillard’s government, formed after last year’s closest
election result in 70 years with the support of three
independents, is under pressure to deliver a carbon system. The
Greens, who have one member in the lower house, will have
control of upper house Senate votes beginning in July, when new
members take their seats.  Opposition  Opponents of the carbon plan include the  Minerals Council
of Australia , which says it would destroy 126,000 jobs and
threaten company investment. It would be the world’s third
emissions-trading system after the European Union and  New
Zealand .  Coal & Allied Industries Ltd., a unit of Rio Tinto Group,
and Whitehaven Coal Ltd. may see earnings fall by as much as 10
percent should a carbon tax be put in place, Citigroup Inc.
analysts led by Elaine Prior said in a June 16 research note.  The Australian Coal Association says 18 coal mines may
 close  in the next decade if the system is introduced and that it
will be harder to attract investment.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the
third-largest producer of steelmaking coal, said it will
struggle with a $4 billion Australian expansion because the
climate plan would slash its investments there by 45 percent.  “We’ll work with the coal industry in this transition, the
details will be available when we announce the full carbon
pricing package,” Gillard told ABC today. “We will be ensuring
we work with coal, with the people who work in coal mining to
get the right policies and plans for that industry’s future.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net  