-- 
Australians Want Afghanistan Troops Home, Oppose Carbon Plan

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-26T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/australians-want-afghanistan-troops-home-oppose-carbon-plan.html
A record number of Australians want
their nation’s troops withdrawn from  Afghanistan  and most oppose
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s planned emissions trading system,
a poll shows.  Fifty-nine percent of voters oppose the nation’s
Afghanistan mission, according to the Lowy Institute poll of
1,002 people between March 30 and April 14. Also, 75 percent
said Gillard’s government had done a “poor job” of addressing
climate change and the people who thought  Australia  should take
action slipped to a record low 41 percent.  Australia has 1,500 troops in Afghanistan and 27 of its
soldiers have been killed. Gillard’s plan to cut pollution was
part of her deal with lawmakers who helped her form a minority
government last year. The Greens and independent  Rob Oakeshott ,
who support Labor, have also said troops should be withdrawn
from Afghanistan before a planned 2014 deadline.  “A record majority of Australians now oppose our continued
military involvement in Afghanistan,” Lowy Institute Executive
Director Michael Wesley said in an e-mailed statement.
“Australians are much less willing to pay a price to tackle
 climate change .”  Australia is the world’s biggest coal exporter. The
Minerals Council of Australia says the climate plan, which would
be the world’s third emissions-trading system after the European
Union and  New Zealand , would destroy 126,000 jobs.  A report is scheduled by month’s end by the Multiparty
Climate Change Committee, which was proposed by the Greens and
includes independents Oakeshott and Tony Windsor, on legislation
to go to parliament in the next three months.  Power Bills  Thirty-nine percent of those polled are not prepared to pay
anything extra on their electricity bills to help solve climate
change, Lowy said. The poll, conducted annually, had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points. Sixty-two percent
were against Australia building nuclear-power plants to cut
emissions.  The number of people who said Australia’s military should
return from Afghanistan rose to 59 percent from 54 percent in a
poll last year. Opposition mounted after the deaths of four
Australian soldiers in the two weeks to June 6.  Greens Senator  Bob Brown  wants Gillard to withdraw the
nation’s troops, who are mostly in central Uruzgan province as
part of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led force.
Oakeshott also wants them to come home earlier than 2014.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  on June 23 announced a
reduction of 30,000 troops by September 2012. That accounts for
last year’s U.S. troops surge, leaving 68,000 there, and comes
as the U.S. holds talks with the Taliban to reach a political
settlement to the conflict.  France  will pull out troops this year at a comparable rate
with the U.S. About 4,000 French soldiers are in Afghanistan and
62 have been killed. Canada will pull out its combat forces from
next month.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  