-- 
Bachmann Says She Would Eliminate Minimum Wage to Stimulate U.S. Economy

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-06-26T16:19:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/bachmann-says-she-would-eliminate-minimum-wage-to-spur-growth.html
Representative  Michele Bachmann , a
Minnesota Republican planning to seek the party’s presidential
nomination, said she would stoke U.S. economic growth by cutting
taxes on corporate income and  capital gains  and considering
elimination of the  minimum wage .  Corporate tax rates should be significantly reduced from a
maximum 35 percent and capital gains taxes should be eliminated,
Bachmann said in an interview on CBS’s “Face the Nation”
today. Congress should also reevaluate the federal minimum wage
of $7.25 per hour, she said.  “Whatever it takes, that’s what we need to do for  job
creation ,” said Bachmann. She said President  Barack Obama 
“doesn’t seem to have an understanding of how to do the job.”  Bachmann, who plans to formally announce her campaign
tomorrow at an event in her birthplace of Waterloo,  Iowa , is
nearly tied with former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney among
prospective Republican challengers in a poll of likely Iowa
caucus voters published today by the Des Moines Register.  Romney is the preference of 23 percent of Republican voters
and Bachmann was second with 22 percent, according to the
newspaper. Other candidates trailed by 12 points or more.  Bachmann said her experience founding and running a pair of
mental health clinics qualifies her for the presidency.  She drew distinctions between herself and Romney over
health care, citing her view that a legal requirement that
Americans carry health insurance is “unconstitutional whether
it’s put into place at the state level, by a state legislature,
or whether it’s put into place at the federal level.”  Massachusetts  Law  Romney, while serving as governor of Massachusetts in 2006,
enacted a health-care overhaul that requires all state residents
to carry insurance. Obama called that law the model for the
federal health-care overhaul passed in 2010.  In an interview on “Fox News Sunday,” Bachmann said she
would “fully repeal” Obama’s health-care law, which she called
“one of the largest spending initiatives we will ever see in
our country.”  The  Congressional Budget Office  said the overhaul will cost
$1.4 trillion from 2012 through 2021. The law’s tax increases
and spending cuts, primarily in Medicare, will more than pay for
its cost, the CBO said.  “I want to bring free-market policies back to health
care,” Bachmann said in the CBS interview.  Debt Limit  She said she also plans to vote against authorizing the
government to issue more debt, a topic that is the subject of
negotiations between Obama and congressional Republican leaders.  Obama seeks to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit
before Aug. 2. His administration has warned that failing to
raise the ceiling might cause the U.S. to default on some
obligations. Republicans have demanded trillions of dollars in
long-term spending cuts in exchange for an increase.  “It isn’t true that the government would default on its
debt,” Bachmann said on the CBS program. “The Treasury
secretary can pay the interest on the debt first and from there
we just need to prioritize our spending.”  The  Congressional Research Service  said in an  April report 
that without an increase in the debt limit, “funding federal
operations after the middle of 2011 may be complicated.” The
government might avoid defaulting on its debt, the agency said,
by delaying payments to vendors, contractors and federal
employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington , DC on 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington, DC on 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 