-- 
Bank of America Sees Overseas Takeovers by India Companies Curbed by Rates

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-06-26T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/bank-of-america-sees-overseas-takeovers-by-india-companies-curbed-by-rates.html
Overseas acquisitions by Indian
companies may stay subdued in 2011 as the highest interest rates
in more than two years deter chief executives from borrowing for
expansion,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  said.  At the same time, inbound deals are likely to rise as
foreign companies seize on low interest rates in  Europe  and the
U.S. to buy assets in  Asia ’s second-fastest growing major
economy, said Bala Swaminathan, vice chairman of corporate and
investment banking at Bank of America’s Indian unit.  Foreign acquisitions of Indian companies are outpacing
outbound transactions this year for the first time in at least a
decade, after the central bank raised interest rates 10 times
since the start of 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
difference in yields between India’s AAA-rated corporate bonds
and similar-maturity U.S. notes touched the highest in at least
six years earlier this month, according to the data.  “Why would an Indian company want to borrow at a very high
interest rate to buy into markets which are not growing?”
Swaminathan said in a June 21 interview in Mumbai. “The way
interest rates are poised, international companies can borrow at
one or two percent and use that money to come and buy into
 India .”  While  India’s economy  grew about four times the pace of the
U.S. in the quarter through March, the local benchmark stock
index has slumped 11 percent this year, narrowing the valuation
gap with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. That’s providing added
incentive for foreign companies to attempt acquisitions in the
nation of 1.2 billion people.  Valuations Fall  Companies on the Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index
trade at 14.8 times estimated full-year earnings, the lowest
level in more than two years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That compares with 13 times projected profit for the  S&P 500 .  The value of mergers involving Indian companies has slumped
32 percent this year to $25 billion, according to Bloomberg data.
Inbound deals accounted for 62 percent of the total, up from 27
percent in the same period a year earlier, the data show.  Indian corporate owners’ limited ability to reduce their
controlling stakes further may deter multibillion-dollar
takeovers abroad, Swaminathan said. He predicted most deals
could be in the $50 million to $500 million range.  “Expansionary capital, more than anything else, is
sentiment-driven and right now the sentiment in corporate India
is not very buoyant,” said Swaminathan, who joined Bank of
America from Standard Chartered Plc in August last year.  “Discretionary expenditure on expansion is being deferred
until such time as there is clarity.”  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , sold stakes in 23 oil and gas areas in India to London-
based BP Plc in February for $7.2 billion, the biggest inbound
transaction in more than four years.  TPG Capital and  Carlyle Group  are among private equity
companies in talks for buying a stake in Reliance Communications
Ltd.’s mobile-phone towers unit, three people with knowledge of
the matter said earlier this month. Reliance Communications is
controlled by  Anil Ambani , Mukesh Ambani’s brother.  Financing Support  Indian companies seeking acquisitions are increasingly
asking banks to help finance the deals, according to Swaminathan.  “Wherever we are doing a transaction on the buy side, it’s
reasonable to expect that if there is leverage in the
transaction we will part of the leverage,” he said. Bank of
America has “significantly” expanded its balance sheet in
India since 2010, Swaminathan added without providing details.  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender is boosting
staff in investment and corporate banking in India, the
executive said, declining to give figures for hiring.  More Indian companies may sell divisions to free up cash
for expansion, Swaminathan said. J.B. Chemicals &
Pharmaceuticals Ltd., based in Mumbai, sold its over-the-counter
cough and cold medicine brand in  Russia , Doktor Mom, to a unit
of Johnson & Johnson in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net 
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  