-- 
Banks Should Seek to Boost Capital Levels Before Basel Deadlines, BIS Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-06-26T22:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/banks-should-seek-capital-boosts-before-basel-deadline-bis-says.html
Banks should be pushed to meet the
higher  capital requirements  before a series of deadlines
starting in 2013, unless earlier introduction of the rules would
threaten lending, the  Bank for International Settlements  said.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s requirements,
which will more than triple the core reserves that banks must
hold to protect themselves from insolvency, are “the core
regulatory response to problems revealed by the financial
crisis,” the BIS said in its annual report. The stance of the
group that acts as a bank for central banks echoes comments by
 Mervyn King , governor of the  Bank of England , that U.K. lenders
can “do more than just follow” the timetable for meeting the
standards.  “Countries should move faster if their banks are
profitable and are able to apply the standards without having to
restrict credit,” the Basel, Switzerland-based BIS said.
National regulators should treat the rules, known as Basel III,
as a “minimum” standard that they can surpass if they wish.  Global central bank governors agreed this weekend on extra
capital rules for banks whose size or systemic importance means
their failure could cause another financial crisis -- a narrower
set of institutions than those that will have to comply with
Basel III. Regulators agreed that as many as 30 of the world’s
largest lenders should face surcharges that range from 1
percentage point to as much as 2.5 percentage points of core
capital to prevent them from causing another financial crisis.  The Basel III capital rules are scheduled to be phased in
from 2013 through 2019. The BIS is the parent organization of
both the Basel committee and the Group of Governors and Heads of
Supervision, which oversees the committee’s work.  ‘Slightly Ahead’  Under Basel III, banks will be obliged to hold core Tier 1
Capital equivalent to 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets,
compared with 2 percent under the previous international rules.
As many as 30 of the world’s largest banks will be required to
hold the additional capital under the plans agreed on this
weekend, meaning they may have to hold as much as 9.5 percent in
reserve.  (For a related story on the Basel Committee’s surcharges,
click here. To read a story about how the rules apply to
contingent capital, click here. To read about bank reaction,
click here.)  U.K. banks can “do more than just follow” the timeframe
for complying with Basel III, King told journalists in  London  on
June 24. “It would be better if they were slightly ahead of the
schedule.”  Minimum Requirements  The Basel rules constitute “minimum requirements” that
individual countries can exceed, the BIS said, mirroring calls
by several European Union finance ministers, including  George Osborne , that national regulators should be left free to toughen
the rules for their banks.  That stance is in contrast to draft plans prepared by the
European Commission for applying Basel III in  Europe  that would
leave national regulators limited flexibility to add extra rules
on a case by case basis.  “Delay or weakening of the agreements would jeopardize
financial stability and the robustness of the recovery over the
long term,” the BIS said. “The full, timely and consistent
implementation of all relevant standards by banks, along with
rigorous enforcement by supervisors, is critical,” it said.  Dividend Payments  The BIS also called for lenders to be forbidden from taking
advantage of the 2013 through 2019 phase-in period for Basel III
to increase dividend payments.  “Banks should not be permitted to increase their capital
distributions simply because the deadline for achieving the
minimum standards is still some way off,” the BIS said. This
applies “particularly if there are signs of growing
macroeconomic risks and imbalances.”  Regulators should also take a stronger role in supervising
banks to make sure they operate within agreed capital levels and
balance risk, the BIS said.  “Authorities must supervise in a more intensive and more
intrusive fashion especially for the largest and most complex
banks,” it said. Supervision is “needed to ensure that banks
operate with capital levels, liquidity buffers and risk
management practices that are commensurate with the risks
taken.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 