-- 
Europeans Lose Out to U.S. With Basel Committee’s Contingent Capital Vote

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-06-27T14:38:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/basel-committee-decision-on-contingent-capital-backs-u-s-stance.html
The decision to make too-big-to-fail
banks primarily use retained earnings and ordinary shares to
meet heightened  capital requirements  was a victory for U.S.
regulators over their European counterparts.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  largely rejected
requests from European countries to use some forms of contingent
instruments to satisfy the new capital buffers. Regulators have
yet to prove that so-called CoCo bonds, which convert into
ordinary shares if a trigger event occurs, can absorb a bank’s
losses, a person familiar with the negotiations said.  “Europeans were pushing for a mix of common equity and
contingent capital and they lost at a global level,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Washington-based Federal
Financial Analytics Inc., a bank consulting firm.  The decision was part of the Basel Committee’s overhaul
this weekend of rules on how much capital the world’s largest
and most systemically important banks must hold to ensure they
don’t collapse during a financial crisis. The group of
regulators said June 25 that lenders deemed too big to fail
would need to set aside from 1 percentage point to 2.5
percentage points in additional capital.  Banks will have to meet the Basel surcharges using core
Tier 1 capital, also known as common equity, the group said in
its statement. The extra measures for as many as 30 of the
largest banks will be imposed in addition to Basel rules
announced last year. The 2010 accord, known as Basel III,
require lenders to hold core capital equivalent to at least 7
percent of their risk-weighted assets.  Capital Surcharges  The outcome of the latest talks indicates that a
“consensus” among regulators is “getting hardened around 10
percent common equity core tier 1,” Tobias Lux, a spokesman for
Swiss financial regulator Finma, said in a telephone interview.  The committee said it would continue to study the issue and
that banks could use CoCos to meet national capital rules that
are even stricter than the Basel rules.  The agreement will help make “key financial institutions
even more solid than already foreseen” under Basel III,  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-
services commissioner, said in an e-mailed statement.  (For a related story on the Basel Committee’s surcharges,
click here. To read a story about deadlines to phase in the
rules, click here. To read about bank reaction, click here.)  Regulators Split  Regulators have been split over how far banks should be
pushed to bolster their core reserves, which consist mainly of a
bank’s ordinary shares and retained earnings, with lenders also
warning that forcing them to plough more profits back into their
capital could impede credit lines and ultimately harm the
economic recovery.  Central bankers ultimately rejected allowing the buffer to
include contingent capital for now because there wasn’t enough
experience with the securities to see how they would serve as a
buffer in a time of crisis, said one person involved in the
discussions, who declined to be identified because the meetings
were private. The group acceded to a request by several nations
to keep the securities under study, and decided to validate a
Swiss plan to use them on top of the systemic buffer.  “The credit markets were eagerly awaiting some sort of
Basel sponsorship of the CoCo instrument as contributing to any
SIFI buffer, and thus taking us one step closer to the proper
launch of such a market, outside of the Swiss banks,”  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  analysts said in a note yesterday.  ‘Entirely Disappointing’  “For those hoping for a 200 billion euro plus CoCo market
(like us) over time, the release was entirely disappointing,”
the analysts said.  Bertrand Benoit, a spokesman for the German  finance
ministry , declined to immediately comment on the discussions.
Ben Fischer, a spokesman for  Germany ’s financial regulator,
Bafin, declined to comment.  “It is still too early to tell” whether CoCos will be
accepted by the markets,  Ewald Nowotny ,  Austria ’s central bank
governor who isn’t a member of the Basel committee, said in a
telephone interview. “Up to now we have seen quite positive
signs, it is still a bit mixed,” he said.  Not all European countries supported the use of CoCos. The
U.K. Independent Commission on Banking in April said in an
interim  report  that important questions remain to be answered”
about the use of the instruments to build up capital.  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  has
supported international efforts to impose tougher capital rules
on systemically important financial institutions to avoid a
repeat of the market turmoil that followed the 2008 bankruptcy
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., and that those rules should be
based on banks having to build their common equity.  ‘Feed a Crisis’  “Conversion to equity in a stressed situation could trigger
a run on the institution, downstream losses to the holders of
the debt, and potentially feed a crisis,” Bair said in a
hearing last week.  With national regulators allowed to go their own way in any
additional requirements they impose, American banks may face
more restrictive choices than their European counterparts in how
they bolster their capital.  “This will create disparities in the international market
if you have some countries using it and some not,” said Scott Talbott, senior vice president of government affairs at the
Washington-based Financial Services Roundtable, a group
representing large banks such as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  “There
is a need for international harmonization for all aspects of
capital whether types, quality or amount of capital levels.”  Contingent Capital  Global regulators “will continue to review contingent
capital,” the Basel committee said in its June 25 statement.
The group supports the use of such instruments to meet higher
national loss absorbency requirements than the global minimum,
the group said “as high-trigger contingent capital could help
absorb losses on a going concern basis.”  Swiss regulators have already called for the country’s two
largest lenders,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , to issue
CoCos in addition to meeting a three percentage-point surcharge.  “We took note that Basel also mentions CoCos as a way for
national authorities to impose additional surcharges,” Lux
said. On the use of core Tier 1 capital, “what was suggested is
really close to the proposition now being discussed before
parliament in  Switzerland ,” Lux said.  CoCos are “quite an important element” for the two Swiss
Banks, Nowotny said.  The success or failure of CoCos as an instrument “is
nothing regulators can decide in the end,” Nowotny said.
Regulators can make it possible for banks to issue them but
whether they are accepted “is up to the markets to decide,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 