-- 
BIS Says Central Banks Need to Start Increasing Rates to Contain Inflation

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-06-27T07:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/bis-says-central-banks-need-to-start-increasing-rates-to-contain-inflation.html
Central banks need to start raising
interest rates to control inflation and may have to act faster
than in the past, the Bank for International Settlements said.  “Tighter global monetary policy is needed in order to
contain inflation pressures and ward off financial stability
risks,” the BIS said in its annual report published yesterday
in Basel,  Switzerland . “Central banks may have to be prepared
to raise policy rates at a faster pace than in previous
tightening episodes.”  While policy makers in  Asia  and  Latin America  are already
raising borrowing costs to damp price pressures, rates remain
near record lows in the world’s largest developed economies.
Central banks in the U.S., U.K. and Japan have signaled they
intend to keep that stimulus in place for some time, with only
the  European Central Bank  moving to gradually tighten credit as
inflation risks increase.  “Global inflation pressures are rising rapidly as
commodity prices soar and as the global recovery runs into
capacity constraints,” said the BIS, which acts as a central
bank for the world’s central banks. “These increased upside
risks to inflation call for higher policy rates.”  With U.K. inflation running at 4.5 percent, more than
double the Bank of England’s target, the BIS said “one wonders
how long its current policy can be sustained.” The pound rose
half a cent in early European trading to $1.5985 before
retracing to $1.5931 at 9 a.m. in  London .  ‘Too Low For Too Long’  Crude  oil prices  have gained 20 percent in the last 12
months, putting pressure on companies to increase wages and pass
on higher costs to consumers.  “The price pressure is there,” said  Carsten Brzeski ,
chief European economist at ING Group NV in Brussels. “One of
the lessons of the financial crisis is that you shouldn’t leave
rates too low for too long. Now is the time to remember that
lesson.”  BIS General Manager  Jaime Caruana  said global headline
inflation has risen a percentage point to 3.6 percent since
April 2010. At the same time, short-term interest rates adjusted
for inflation “have actually fallen in the past year, from
minus 0.6 percent to minus 1.3 percent globally,” he said in a
speech in  Basel  yesterday.  “The world economy is growing at a historically
respectable rate of around 4 percent,” Caruana said. “The
resurgence of demand has put concerns about deflation behind us.
Accordingly, the need for continued extraordinary monetary
accommodation has faded.”  ‘Extended Period’  The ECB in April raised its benchmark interest rate from a
record low of 1 percent and has signaled another quarter-point
step is likely in July.  By contrast, the  Federal Reserve  last week repeated a
pledge to keep its policy rate close to zero for an “extended
period,” while the  Bank of Japan  this month held its benchmark
near zero and kept credit and asset-purchase programs in place.  Minutes of the  Bank of England ’s last policy meeting this
month, at which the key rate was held at 0.5 percent, show some
officials see the potential to extend bond purchases to boost a
faltering recovery.  The BIS said that in “some advanced economies” policy
tightening still needs to be balanced against the
“vulnerabilities” associated with balance-sheet adjustment and
financial sector fragility.  Credibility  Still, “undue delay in the normalization of the monetary
policy stance entails the risk of creating serious financial-
market distortions,” it said. Furthermore, a “timely
tightening” of policy in both emerging-market and advanced
economies will be needed “to preserve a low-inflation
environment globally and reinforce central banks’ inflation-
fighting credibility.”  The BIS said central banks should reduce the size of their
balance sheets, though it would be “dangerous” to cut them
“too rapidly or too indiscriminately.”  In response to the financial crisis, the Fed and the Bank
of England “sharply” increased their total assets from about 8
percent of gross domestic product to just below 20 percent,
while the ECB expanded its assets from 13 percent of GDP to more
than 20 percent, according to the BIS.  “Balance-sheet policies have supported the global economy
through a very difficult crisis,” it said. “However, the
balance sheets are now exposed to greater risks -- namely
interest-rate risk, exchange-rate risk and credit risk -- that
could lead to financial losses.”  ‘Once And For All’  The BIS also urged governments to pursue fiscal
consolidation, saying the biggest risk is “doing too little too
late rather than doing too much too soon.” In  Europe , policy
makers must fix the region’s debt crisis “once and for all,”
it said.  “Nowhere is the link between fiscal sustainability and
financial health more apparent than in parts of Europe today,”
Caruana said. “There is no easy way out, no shortcut, no
painless solution.”  The BIS warned that a failure of the U.S. to tackle its
 budget deficit  could become a source of instability, with
potentially “far-reaching ramifications for the global
economy” should a rapid depreciation of the dollar result.  “The current ability of the  United States  to easily
finance its deficit cannot be taken for granted,” the report
said.  The BIS holds currency reserves on behalf of its members
and provides policy makers with a forum for discussion.
Attendees at the annual general meeting in Basel yesterday
included ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Basel at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in Basel at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  