-- 
BIS Urges Europe to End Its Debate, Resolve Debt Crisis ‘Once and for All’

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-06-26T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/bis-urges-europe-to-end-debate-and-resolve-debt-crisis-once-and-for-all-.html
The  Bank for International
Settlements  urged  Europe  to end its dithering and find a
permanent solution to the sovereign debt crisis.  “For well over a year, European policy makers have been
scrambling to put together short-term fixes for the hardest-hit
countries while debating how to design a viable and credible
long-term solution,” the BIS said in its annual report
published today in Basel,  Switzerland . “They need to finish the
job, once and for all.”  European officials have bickered over who should foot the
bill for bailouts of Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , prolonging a
crisis that some analysts say could end in the demise of the
euro. While European Union leaders last week agreed to a new aid
program for  Greece  to stave off default,  Germany  is still trying
to convince banks and insurers to participate by rolling over
their maturing Greek debt.  The  European Central Bank  has warned that any solution
deemed a default or “credit event” risks making the crisis
worse.  “The fallout from a partial default on outstanding
sovereign debt would be extremely difficult to control,
especially given the losses banks might sustain,” the BIS said
in its report. It noted the “eye-popping jumps” in bond yields
of debt-riddled nations and said fiscal consolidation is
paramount.  Sudden Punishment  Italian and Spanish bonds fell last week on speculation the
debt crisis might worsen. The extra yield, or spread, that
investors demand to hold Italian 10-year debt instead of German
bunds of similar maturity widened to 213 basis points, a euro-
era record. Greek two-year notes are yielding close to 30
percent.  “Governments that put off addressing their fiscal problems
run a risk of being punished both suddenly and harshly,” the
BIS said. “The fiscal challenge is made all the more difficult
by the fact that simply returning to the pre-crisis fiscal
stance will not be enough.”  The BIS, which acts as a central bank for the world’s
central banks, said fiscal positions preceding the global
financial crisis were “made to look unrealistically rosy” by
tax revenues from unsustainable credit and asset-price booms.  “Cyclical surpluses need to be built up as buffers that
can be used for stabilization in the future,” it said. “Since
the government acts like an insurance company, it needs a
 reserve fund .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  