-- 
Overseas Central Bank Yen Asset Buys Prop Up Bonds, Currency

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 
2011-06-27T07:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/central-banks-boost-yen-asset-holdings-25-supporting-bonds-nikkei-says.html
An increase in Japanese-asset
holdings as overseas central banks diversify foreign-exchange
reserves may be supporting government bond prices and pushing
the yen higher.  Foreign central banks boosted their portfolios of yen-
denominated assets, including Japanese  government bonds , by 24.6
percent to about 35 trillion yen ($437 billion) last year,
according to figures provided by the Bank of Japan. Bonds made
up around 33 trillion yen of the total, the document showed.  “Yen-asset purchases by overseas central banks are a
factor to strengthen the yen, while their buying provides
positive news for Japan’s government bond market,” said  Naomi Hasegawa , a senior bond analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
in  Tokyo . “ China , in particular, has been increasing JGB
purchases since spring.”  The asset holdings were reported by the Nikkei newspaper on
June 25.  Central bankers increasingly point out a need to spread
holdings over a basket of currencies as the dollar weakens and
the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  erodes sentiment on the euro.  “Overseas central banks are apparently shifting
investment of foreign reserves to yen assets from euro-
denominated assets because concerns about sovereign debt in
 Greece  and other euro-zone nations are flaring up,” Hasegawa
said.  China Swaps  China may swap reserve currencies with emerging economies
to reduce dollar assets from their present 70 percent, Yang Tao,
a researcher with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said
in the latest edition of a central bank magazine.  Japanese investors held off on boosting government bond
holdings after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami out of
concern reconstruction spending would send yields soaring and
worsen the nation’s fiscal status, Hasegawa said. Instead, JGB
yields have gradually declined and prices have been supported as
foreign investors bought bonds.  Overseas buying of Japanese bills rose in April to the
highest level since January and foreign investors were net
buyers in May, Finance Ministry data show.  Japan ’s 10-year
yields touched the year’s low last week on concern Greece will
struggle to pass austerity measures and the  U.S. economy  is
losing momentum.  Still, yen assets aren’t actually attractive, Hasegawa said.
They’re being purchased because investors can’t find better
alternatives.  “We can’t rule out the possibility that overseas central
banks will reverse their stance and reduce investment into the
yen should the sovereign problems of Europe and concern about
the U.S. start to recede,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  