-- 
Chavez Doesn’t Have Cancer, Will Return Home

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-06-27T04:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/chavez-doesn-t-have-cancer-assembly-leader.html
An ally of  Hugo Chavez  denied that
the Venezuelan president is suffering from cancer as speculation
over his condition mounts more than two weeks after undergoing
unannounced surgery in Cuba.  Fernando Soto Rojas, the leader of the National Assembly,
said yesterday “I would be the first to tell the country” if
Chavez had cancer. The lawmaker said that Chavez continues to
recover from an operation to remove a pelvic abscess and should
return to  Venezuela  in time to celebrate the 200th anniversary of
the nation’s independence from  Spain  on July 5.  Since Chavez underwent surgery June 10, the president’s
seclusion and lack of information about his health has raised
questions about whether he should be running  South America ’s
largest oil producer from a Havana hospital. The opposition,
which wants to remove Chavez from power in next year’s
elections, has called on Vice President Elias Jaua to replace
Chavez until he recovers. Jaua has ruled out such a move.  A report June 25 by El Nuevo Herald, the Spanish-language
sister newspaper of the Miami Herald, cited unidentified U.S.
intelligence sources as saying that Chavez is in a critical
state of health though faces no immediate threat of dying.
Deputy Foreign Minister Temir Porras led officials who dismissed
the report, saying the Miami Herald was a “cancer” spreading
lies through the “right-wing media.”  “President Chavez is recovering well from surgery,”
Porras wrote on his  Twitter account . “Our enemies can stop
dreaming.”  ‘Armed Struggle’  Amid the rumors, Chavez’s elder brother, Adan Chavez, said
yesterday that the ballot box is not the only route to power.
Quoting Cuban revolutionary Ernesto “Che” Guevara, Adan Chavez
said that supporters of his brother’s 21st century socialist
revolution “should not rule out other forms of fighting”
including “armed struggle.”  The elder Chavez did not explain why violence might need to
be considered. The president, a former paratroop commander, led
an unsuccessful military coup in 1992 though since taking office
in 1999 has repeatedly trounced his opponents in elections.  Chavez’s mother, Elena Frias de Chavez, said yesterday at
the same gathering of supporters in Chavez’s home state of
Barinas that she was praying to God her son would be cured soon.  “Let the holy power cure him quickly and bring him to
me,” she said in comments carried on state television.  Active on Twitter  While Chavez has not been seen in public since touching
down in Havana June 9, he’s remained active on Twitter. On June
25, he posted several messages praising his ministers and
announcing that his daughter Rosines and three grandsons had
arrived in Cuba to be by his bedside.  Cuban state newspaper Granma last week also published a
photograph of him being visited at his hospital by Cuban
President  Raul Castro  and his brother  Fidel Castro .  The last time Chavez’s voice was head was on June 12, when
he called into Venezuelan state television Telesur to say that
he decided to undergo surgery in Cuba after feeling pain in his
abdomen during visits to Brazil and  Ecuador . He gave no estimate
about how long his recovery would take or cause for the pus
formation on his pelvis, saying only that he was “lucky” it
wasn’t malignant and that there’s “no reason to hurry” home.  Chavez’s absence comes as he’s struggling to reassure
voters he can resolve economic problems that may stand in the
way of him being elected to a third consecutive term next year.
Support for the president was near the lowest in eight years in
a poll taken in March by Caracas-based Consultores 21.  Even though economic growth accelerated in the first
quarter as higher  oil prices  allowed Chavez to boost spending on
the poor, the country’s 22.8 percent inflation rate in May was
still the fastest among 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Rising prices, and a 40 percent devaluation of the bolivar
in January, has been eroding the buying power of Chavez’s
working-class base. Voters are also angry about power outages
that have persisted more than a year after Chavez declared a
national emergency to fix the nation’s aging electricity grid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  