-- 
China Inflation Is Stabilizing, Will Ease, Ex-PBOC Adviser Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-26T07:12:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/china-inflation-is-stabilizing-will-ease-ex-pboc-adviser-says.html
Inflation in  China  won’t exceed 6
percent in any single month as the pace of price increases
stabilizes and slows in the second half of the year,  Fan Gang , a
former academic adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said
today.  “Externally, oil and commodity prices are stabilizing and
domestically, money supply growth and liquidity are under
control and economic growth is moderating,” helping to rein in
consumer-price gains, Fan told reporters at a forum in Beijing.  Inflation in the world’s second-biggest economy may
accelerate to a three-year high of more than 6 percent in June,
some economists estimate, adding pressure for the central bank
to raise interest rates. Price gains this month may exceed May’s
5.5 percent jump and will remain elevated for some months, the
nation’s top economic planning agency estimated in a June 22
report.  In contrast, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said China’s efforts to
stem inflation have worked and that the pace of consumer-price
increases will slow. “The overall price level is within a
controllable range and is expected to drop steadily,” Wen wrote
in a commentary in the London-based Financial Times on June 24,
ahead of a five-day visit to Europe.  China has paused for almost 12 weeks in raising interest
rates, the longest gap since increases began in October, as
officials gauge the economy’s strength amid a slowdown in the
U.S. and a debt crisis in Europe.  Central bank quarterly surveys published on June 16 showed
public expectations for price gains are easing and fewer bankers
are forecasting an increase in  interest rates  in the next
quarter.  Inflation Accelerates  Inflation is “mild” compared with 2008, said Fan, who
heads the National Economic Research Institute of the China
Reform Foundation. Prices climbed an average 7.9 percent in the
first half of 2008 compared with 5.2 percent in the first five
months of this year, according to government data.  Mizuho Securites Asia Ltd. expects consumer prices will
climb 6.1 percent in June from a year earlier while Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch expect an
increase of more than 6 percent.  It’s “crucial” for China to contain the cost of
agricultural products and property to rein in price gains and
inflation expectations, Lawrence Lau, head of the Hong Kong-
based unit of China’s $300 billion sovereign wealth fund, said
at the same forum today.  Inflation in China has been driven by gains in meat and
vegetable prices. The cost of food, which accounts for almost a
third of the  consumer price index , jumped 11.7 percent in May
from a year earlier, boosted by surging pork prices.  Savings Outflow  While  core inflation  is still low and the pace of increases
will slow in the fourth quarter, the PBOC should raise long-term
time deposit rates to help anchor expectations, said Lau,
chairman of CIC International (Hong Kong) Co.  “The current real negative deposit rate, if it continues,
will lead to an outflow of savings from banks,” he said. The
lending rate shouldn’t necessarily be raised at the same time,
he said.  The benchmark one-year lending rate is now 6.31 percent.
The one-year deposit rate, currently 3.25 percent, has lagged
behind the inflation rate for more than a year.  The government should also allow the yuan to appreciate,
increase imports and lower tariffs to help control inflation,
Lau said.  China will remove import tariffs on diesel and jet fuel and
cut tariffs on gasoline and fuel oil from July 1, as part of a
reduction in levies on 33 items, the Ministry of Finance said
June 24.  Support for Euro  Speaking at a press conference in Budapest yesterday,
Premier Wen said China will remain an investor in  Europe ’s
sovereign debt market and will continue to support Europe and
the euro. The country has pledged to buy Greek and Spanish bonds,
using some of its record $3 trillion of foreign-exchange
reserves, the world’s largest.  China’s purchase of European debt is a long-term policy and
it shouldn’t worry about the short term risks, Lau said today,
when asked to comment on Wen’s pledge to buy Hungarian
 government bonds  during his visit to the country yesterday.  “There’s no need to worry. The euro won’t collapse,” he
said.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery, John McCluskey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  