-- 
China Energy, Seamwell to Build $1.5 Billion ‘Clean Coal’ Plant

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-06-26T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/china-energy-seamwell-to-build-1-5-billion-clean-coal-plant.html
China  Energy Conservation &
Environmental Protection Group, a state-owned project developer,
will build a $1.5 billion “clean coal” plant in Inner Mongolia
with U.K.-based Seamwell International Ltd.  The companies agreed to collaborate on the electric power
plant that’ll harvest its energy from gasified coal deep
underground, the first commercial plant of its size in the
world, according to a statement today from Seamwell.  The plant on the YiHe Coal Field will produce power by the
end of 2014 or 2015, Matthew Idiens, president of Normanton,
West Yorkshire-based Seamwell, said in an e-mail. It will
generate 1,000 megawatts of electricity for about 25 years.  The contracts for the accord are being signed at a U.K.-
China summit attended today by Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  and
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron . The leaders will also be
present at the signing of an agreement between U.K.-based
Building Research Establishment Ltd. and China Vanke Co., the
country’s biggest developer, to collaborate on an innovation
park in Beijing.  That park, representing a Vanke investment of about 100
million pounds ($160 million), will demonstrate construction
products and technologies for low-carbon homes and a research
and development center, according to a statement from BRE.  China is promoting cleaner energy to meet a 2020 goal of
cutting the amount of carbon it emits per unit of economic
output by 40 percent to 45 percent from 2005 levels as demand
for power grows in the world’s biggest energy consumer market.  Seam of Coal  The project will drill to the seam of coal that is then
ignited and injected with air, oxygen or steam to create
synthesis gas. That will be pumped out and cleaned before being
used by a combined cycle power plant at the surface. There are
280 billion tons of coal resources “stranded” in that region
of  Inner Mongolia , according to Seamwell.  “The intention is to build more power plants of a similar
type, to roll the technology out onto additional coal fields,”
Idiens said. “The technology is very scalable.”  The commercial plant will be fitted with carbon-capture
technology that collects the emissions linked to  climate change 
before combustion, then stores them permanently underground.
This is a 50 percent savings on emissions when compared to a
traditional coal-fired plant, the company said. Seamwell is
owned by private investors, including Idiens, and financial
institutions.  The companies will first undertake a demonstration project
at YiHe Field that Seamwell will finance after seeking funds
globally, Idiens said. The full commercial plant will be funded
using a project finance model, he said.  Once approvals are secured from the Chinese government, the
companies said they will set up a joint venture in which
Seamwell will own 49 percent and China’s energy conservation and
protection group CECEP the rest.  Coal, the dirtiest carbon-based fuel widely used for power
generation, has met 47 percent of new worldwide electricity
demand in the past decade, according to the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  