-- 
China Stocks Priced for Hard Landing Hint Second-Half Rally by Top Brokers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-27T08:12:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/china-stocks-priced-for-hard-landing-signal-2nd-half-rally-by-top-broker.html
The lowest Chinese stock valuations
since economic growth collapsed three years ago are a sign to
the nation’s biggest brokerages that it’s time to buy.  The Shanghai Composite Index’s 6.2 percent retreat this
quarter sent the gauge to 11.6 times estimated profit, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It took the global financial crisis
and a decline in  China ’s growth rate to a seven-year low of 6.8
percent to push valuations this low in November 2008. The
Shanghai gauge rebounded 49 percent in the next six months.  Citic Securities Co. and China International Capital Corp.,
which predicted the drop this quarter, say the market will rally
in the second half as inflation peaks and the government
sustains the economic expansion by easing credit. EvenNouriel Roubini, the New York University economist who says China may
face a “hard landing” after 2013, expects growth of at least
8.8 percent in 2011 and 2012.  “The market has basically priced in a very pessimistic
outlook for the economy,” said Ling Peng, chief strategist at
Shanghai-based Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., ranked China’s
most influential research provider by New Fortune magazine last
year. “A hard landing of the economy is very unlikely,” he
said, forecasting the  Shanghai  index will advance as much as 15
percent by the end of the year to about 3,150.  Government Control  The gauge of more than 900 stocks traded mostly by local
investors has trailed the MSCI Emerging Markets Index by 1.5
percentage points this quarter as the People’s Bank of China
raised lenders’ reserve requirements for the 12th time since the
start of 2010 and increased benchmark  interest rates  for the
fourth time. Tighter monetary policy has spurred a drop in
loans, cut money supply growth to the slowest pace since 2008
and sent short-term borrowing rates to a three-year high.  The government is curbing credit to tame consumer prices
that boosted inflation to 5.5 percent last month, the highest
level since July 2008. Retail sales trailed estimates in the
past two months as rising prices eroded the buying power of
China’s 1.3 billion people.  The Shanghai index rallied 3.9 percent to 2,746.21 last
week after Premier  Wen Jiabao  wrote in an opinion piece in the
Financial Times that China’s efforts to stem inflation have
worked and the pace of price increases will slow. The stocks
gauge added 0.4 percent to 2,758.23 at the 3 p.m. close today.  Beijing-based  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  climbed 5.2 percent last
week to 3.25 yuan, still below Citic’s share-price estimate of 4
yuan, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lender has a
price-to-book ratio 40 percent below its five-year average, the
data show.  Growth Outlook  China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest developer, is valued
at a 50 percent discount to MSCI’s gauge of global real estate
companies, compared with a 10 percent discount two years ago,
the data show. Shares of the Shenzhen-based company climbed 4.1
percent last week.  “The tightening that China has done for the last 18 months
has been effective and seems to be coming towards an end,” said
Philippe Langham, who runs the $855 million RBC Emerging Markets
Fund from London. The government “still seems to have a large
amount of control” over the economy, he said.  China’s expansion, which has averaged more than 10 percent
during the past decade, may slow to 9.5 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The outlook compares with projected global growth of
4.3 percent, according to June forecasts from the Washington-
based  International Monetary Fund .  Credit Concerns  Roubini, the co-founder of New York-based research firm
Roubini Global Economics LLC who predicted the worldwide
financial crisis, said in a June 11 interview that China’s
reliance on exports and investment may spur “massive” non-
performing loans and cause the expansion to falter after 2013.  Credit Suisse Group AG cut its earnings forecasts for
Shanghai index companies and advised reducing bank holdings in a
June 20 research report. A surge in “off-balance sheet”
financing may force policy makers to clamp down on credit growth
for longer than investors anticipate, according to Hong Kong-
based analysts Vincent Chan and Peggy Chan. Chinese profits may
increase 10 percent this year and next, weighed down by banks’
non-performing loans, the analysts wrote.  Roubini Global still sees Chinese growth of 9.1 percent
this year and 8.8 percent next year, according to the firm’s web
site. Credit Suisse predicts an expansion of 8.7 percent this
year and 8.5 percent in 2012. The Zurich-based bank has a target
of 3,000 for the Shanghai index.  ‘Control the Risks’  “There are some underlying problems for the long term but
the situation isn’t as bad as some investors’ forecast,” said
Pan Jiang, a Shanghai-based  money manager  at Franklin Templeton
Sealand Fund Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of
more than $2.6 billion. “We shouldn’t underestimate the
government’s insight into the situation and its power to control
the risks.”  Shanghai index profits will jump 32 percent in the next 12
months, topping the 19 percent growth rate for the MSCI
emerging-market index, according to the average of more than
14,000 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Communist Party is boosting investment in affordable
housing to counter a slump in manufacturing growth to the
slowest pace since August. Premier Wen set a target to build 36
million social housing units over the next five years, according
to a Feb. 27 online interview.  Cheap Valuations  Citic Securities recommended shares of property developers
and cement companies because of the government’s housing
measures. China’s biggest brokerage, which turned “positive”
on the nation’s stocks in a June 20 report after being
“cautious” since April, has a six-month target of 3,500 for
the Shanghai index.  The Chinese equity gauge is valued at a 32 percent discount
to the average 12-month forward price-earnings ratio since
January 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The ratio touched
11.1 on June 20, the lowest level since Nov. 7, 2008. The
measure’s price-to-book ratio slid to 2.2 times last week, the
least since February 2009. That was three months after the
Chinese government announced a 4 trillion yuan ($618 billion)
stimulus plan to revive growth amid the worst global recession
since World War II.  “China’s stocks are close to a bottom in terms of
valuation so there is limited room below the current level,”
said Mei Luwu, a Shenzhen-based  fund manager  at Lion Fund
Management Co., which oversees more than $7.8 billion.
“Valuations for some industries like banks are at bottom
levels.”  ‘Back Up the Truck’  The Shanghai gauge may rebound about 20 percent in the
second half of the year, CICC wrote in a June 13 report. China’s
largest investment bank and the top-ranked China research
provider in Asiamoney magazine’s survey forecasts peak inflation
of about 6 percent in June and 2011 growth of 9.2 percent.  Hao Hong, CICC’s Beijing-based global equity strategist who
had been “cautious” on China’s stocks since mid-April, said
industries that will benefit from a second-half equity rally
include cement, machinery, non-ferrous metals, property and
insurance.  “A slowdown has been fully priced-in,” he said.
“Depressed valuation, sentiment and technical indicators all
augur well for a budding tradable rally. Back up the truck.”  -- Michael Patterson , Allen Wan, Shidong Zhang. With assistance
from Irene Shen in Shanghai and Shamim Adam in  Singapore .
Editors: Darren Boey, Laura Zelenko  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Patterson in  London  at +44-20-7073-3102 or
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net .
undefined 