-- 
ConAgra Foods, Deckers, Monster, Sara Lee: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 
2011-06-27T13:04:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/cliffs-natural-resources-jpmorgan-universal-forest-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading today. Stock symbols are
in parentheses and prices are as of 8:45 a.m. in New York.  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)   gained 1.6 percent to $7.
Moody’s Investors upgraded the rating outlook of the second-
biggest maker of heart devices to positive from stable based on
developments of the company’s stent franchise.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)   rose 1.1 percent to
$29.25. The pharmaceutical company said a treatment it’s
studying with AstraZeneca Plc (AZN US), which pairs
dapagliflozin and metformin, improved morning blood sugar
levels.  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF)   fell 0.4 percent to
$86.25.  North America ’s largest iron-ore producer said
regulators rebuffed its carbon monoxide remediation plan for the
Pinnacle Mine in  West Virginia . The plan would have allowed
resumption of underground mining operations at Pinnacle, which
now won’t restart before the fourth quarter, the company said.
Operations were stopped in May.  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)   gained 2.5 percent to $25.83.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised the food manufacturer to “buy”
from “neutral” and increased the share-price estimate to $31
from $28 based on the potential for acquisitions and buybacks.  Deckers Outdoor Corp. (DECK)   increased 1.6 percent to
$84.40. Capstone Investments upgraded the maker of Ugg boots and
Teva sandals to “buy” from “hold” and gave a 12-month price
forecast of $98 a share.  Exco Resources Inc. (XCO)   fell 3.9 percent to $18.05.
Douglas Miller, chief executive officer of the natural gas
producer, is considering buying part of the company after
financing problems prevented him from taking it private, The
Wall Street Journal said, citing people familiar with the
situation.  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)   improved 1.3 percent to
$40.24. The AIDS-drugmaker may rally to as high as $48 if it
wins approval for two new combination therapies, Barron’s
reported, citing Credit Suisse analyst Ravi Mehrotra.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)   rose 1
percent to $24.97. FBR Capital Markets Inc. equity analyst  Randy
Binner  raised the insurance provider to “outperform” from
“market perform” and raised the share-price estimate to $35
from $32 based on the company’s funding ability to match
policyholder liabilities.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   fell 0.2 percent to $39.42.
Irving H. Picard, the trustee for the liquidation of  Bernard
Madoff ’s investment company, filed an amended complaint in U.S.
court against the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, seeking to
collect a minimum of $19 billion in damages. Picard had sought
$5.4 billion in damages previously, in addition to $1 billion in
transfers and claims.  Molex Inc. (MOLX)   decreased 2 percent to $25.40.
Ticonderoga Securities cut the maker of electrical components
for cars to “sell” from “neutral” and gave a 12-month price
estimate of $20 a share.  Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW)   improved 3 percent to
$13.91. The online career recruiter unveiled a new professional
networking Facebook application.  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)   increased 0.8 percent to $18.75.
The food manufacturer could be a takeover target for Smithfield
Foods Inc. (SFD US), owner of the world’s biggest hog
slaughterhouse, which is looking for buys in the packaged-meat
industry after canceling a plan to purchase  Spain ’s Campofrio
Food Group SA, Bloomberg News reported.  SINA Corp. (SINA US) climbed 3.2 percent to $92.25. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised the owner of  China ’s third-most visited
website to “neutral” from “sell” and set a share-price
estimate at $87.  SuccessFactors Inc. (SFSF)   gained 1.4 percent to $30.
Canaccord Genuity Corp. upgraded the maker of software used to
manage employee performance to “buy” from “hold” and gave a
12-month price forecast of $38 a share.  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK)   rose 1.3 percent to
$70.20. The producer of power tools agreed to buy Niscayah AB
for 7.6 billion kronor ($1.2 billion), outbidding rival
Securitas AB (SECUB SS) to secure expansion in the market for
electronic security systems.  Universal Forest Products Inc. (UFPI)   sank 16 percent to
$30. The maker of do-it-yourself lumber products said it’s
cutting jobs because of weaker-than-expected sales in the first
five months of the year. Net sales through May dropped 9.5
percent to $765 million from a year earlier, the company said in
a statement on  Business Wire .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  