-- 
Denmark’s Covered Bond Market Damaged by Basel, Moody’s, Danske Bank Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-27T12:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/danske-bank-says-basel-moody-s-are-damaging-denmark-s-covered-bond-market.html
Danske Bank A/S said the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  and Moody’s Investors Service
don’t understand  Denmark ’s mortgage bonds and warned their
actions may hurt the world’s third-largest covered debt market.  The mortgage unit of Denmark’s biggest bank said last week
it will stop paying Moody’s to rate its securities after
learning it would lose its AAA credit grade unless it found an
extra $6.2 billion in capital. At the same time, Denmark is
lobbying the European Union to ease Basel’s liquidity
requirements for banks, which it says will penalize the
country’s covered bonds and trigger a sell-off.  “It’s obvious that we have a challenge ahead of us in
communicating the quality of our product,” said Carsten Noeddebo, chief executive officer at Danske Bank’s Realkredit
Danmark unit, in a phone interview out of Copenhagen. “We have
both the Moody’s issue and Basel.”  The country’s mortgage bonds, which have  never defaulted 
even when the Kingdom of Denmark went bankrupt in 1813, may
encounter refinancing risks because of a surge in adjustable-
rate loans being sold to homeowners, Moody’s said on June 10.
Criticism of Denmark’s covered-bond market comes as the European
Commission decides whether to allow banks to hold more of the
securities than Basel recommends. If current liquidity rules
aren’t changed, Danish banks will need to sell off the bonds,
according to Peter Engberg Jensen, chief executive officer at
 Europe ’s biggest covered-debt issuer, Nykredit A/S.  Moody’s Downgrade  Moody’s, which didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment,
said June 10 it cut the timely payment indicator on some Danish
mortgage bonds, including those sold by Realkredit Danmark and
Nykredit, because a rise in adjustable-rate loans was infusing
the market with risk. Nykredit responded on June 21 by
separating financing for the securities from the rest of its
business. While the move may result in a lower rating for bonds
backed by adjustable-rate mortgages, it should protect the
credit grade on the lender’s fixed-rate products, Nykredit said.  Denmark’s mortgage bond market has undergone a number of
 changes  in the past 15 years, moving away from its traditional
fixed-rate, callable-option securities into more varied debt
instruments. Adjustable-rate mortgages were introduced in 1996.
Interest-only loans, which the central bank has criticized for
exacerbating volatility in the country’s property market, were
sold from 2003. So-called capped floaters, which offer a
floating interesting rate with a cap on how high borrow costs
can rise, were introduced in 2004.  S&P View  Danske’s Realkredit Danmark unit said last week it was
engineering a similar move to Nykredit, as it creates a new 
capital center for adjustable-rate securities. The bank is 
in “an on-going dialogue with  Standard & Poor’s  and feels 
pretty comfortable” that it will maintain its AAA grade 
there, Noeddebo said. It may also approach  Fitch Ratings  to 
discuss having its debt ranked by that company, he said.  “We fundamentally disagree with Moody’s in their view on
Danish mortgage bonds in general and on Realkredit Danmark
specifically,” Noeddebo said in the June 24 interview.  Standard & Poor’s is “naturally following everything
that’s going on in the Danish mortgage bond sector with
interest,” Casper Rahbek, an analyst at the rating company,
told Danish newspaper Borsen. “But at the moment we see no
reason to change our AAA rating.”  Shares Slump  Danske Bank shares lost 4.2 percent to trade at a two-year
low of 89.50 kroner at 2:23 p.m. in Copenhagen. The yield on
Realkredit Danmark’s 5 percent bond due 2041 rose 1 basis point
to 5.20 percent, set for its highest close since May 19,
according to data available on Bloomberg.  Moody’s in its June 10 statement said “the refinancing
margins have been increased following the material rise in
adjustable-rate  mortgage loans  in Danish cover pools.”  The rating company said the bonds represent a bigger
refinancing risk because they, unlike other Danish covered
bonds, don’t match the maturities on the loans linked to them.
The adjustable-rate bonds tend to have maturities of one to
three years compared with an average loan maturity of 20 to 30
years.  “The issuers’ dependence on regular  market access  to issue
covered bonds has increased with the growing volume of
adjustable rate loans,” Moody’s said.  Basel Haircut  The outstanding volume of bonds for financing adjustable-
rate loans increased to 1.22 trillion kroner ($236 billion) in
2011 from 636 billion kroner in 2008, Moody’s said, citing data
from Denmark’s central bank. The bonds now represent about half
of all outstanding covered debt in Denmark, it said.  Noeddebo said the criticism is unjustified because “Danish
mortgage bonds have performed much better than almost anything
else during the financial crisis.” He said that ought to
persuade the European Commission to ease liquidity requirements
set by Basel that would force banks to restrict their holdings
of the securities to 40 percent of easy-to-sell assets. Basel
also wants the debt to be booked at 85 percent of its market
value, representing a so-called haircut to reflect the perceived
liquidity risk relative to  government bonds .  Government
securities  face no caps.  “The southern European debt crisis has made it even more
evident that government bonds aren’t always superior to covered
bonds,” Noeddebo said. “Just look at Greek state debt; that
should make it obvious that it’s the quality of the paper,
rather than whether it’s state or mortgage, that should count.”  Bank Failures  Moody’s on May 19 downgraded six Danish banks, including
Danske, citing an absence of state support following the Feb. 6
collapse of regional lender Amagerbanken A/S. That failure,
which triggered a resolution framework that allowed the European
Union’s first senior creditor losses, was followed on June 24 by
the collapse of Fjordbank Mors A/S. Both banks failed after
losing money on loans to the construction industries.  While Denmark expects the commission to soften Basel’s
liquidity rules somewhat, the prospect of a haircut is
unavoidable, Engberg Jensen said in a June 22 interview. The
lender is now trying to double its international investor base
to 25 percent of the total to make up for the selloff it expects
from local banks. The liquidity requirement is due to take
effect by 2015.  Trading in Denmark’s short-term covered bonds -- securities
backed by the  cash flow  from a pool of mortgages -- rose during
the financial crisis, both in the total value of bonds traded
and in the median size of individual trades, according to a
study published last year by the Danish central bank. It was
easier to trade short-term mortgage bonds than government notes,
the study found.  The European Commission is due to provide an update on how
it will implement the Basel rules locally in the middle of July.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  