-- 
Delek Real Estate Nears Canadian Exit to Lower Its Debt, Chief Maytal Says

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-26T11:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/delek-real-estate-sells-canadian-assets-to-raise-funds-for-debt.html
Delek Real Estate Ltd. (DLKR)  is one step
away from accomplishing its goal of exiting the Canadian market
by the end of August, Chief Executive Officer Eran Meytal said.  Delek has been selling Canadian properties since late last
year as it works to repay some 1.7 billion shekels ($494
million) of outstanding debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Delek operates primarily in the U.K. and  Europe  and
holds the Canadian assets through Delek Global Real Estate Ltd.,
which last week announced agreements to sell a property in
Quebec and its holdings in 30 shopping centers known as Jean
Coutu.  “The market is very strong in  Canada  and the prices are
high so the yields are optimal,” CEO Meytal told Bloomberg in a
telephone interview on June 23. He declined to comment on the
status of the final Canadian property.  High energy prices and low  interest rates  are helping
property prices in Canada to recover and are buoying the
country’s economy, Ross Moore, director of market and economic
research at Seattle-based Colliers International, said in May.  Crude oil closed at $91.16 a barrel on June 24, 19 percent
above year-earlier levels. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney
said June 15 housing prices in some parts of the country are
reaching “severely unaffordable” and that the bank plans to
“eventually” raise its benchmark rate from 1 percent, where it
has stood since September.  Mitigating Declines  The  Ramat Gan , Israel-based company’s quarterly loss
narrowed from 255.4 million shekels in the second quarter of
2010 to 89.5 million shekels in this year’s first quarter.
Canadian holdings helped mitigate first-quarter declines in the
value of the company’s property portfolio, it said.  “There are no massive future  capital gains  to be made,”
Terence Klingman, analyst at Tel Aviv-based Meitav Investment
House Ltd. said by telephone. “They can make reasonable
profitability from rental income but they are deleveraging.”  The shares of Delek Real Estate have plummetted 82 percent
over the past year, compared with a 7 percent gain for the
TA-100 index. Gazit Globe Ltd., another Israeli real-estate
company with international holdings, rose 22 percent over the
same period.  RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust (REI-U) , Canada’s
largest real-estate investment trust by market value, rose 36
percent in that period, compared with an 11 percent jump for the
S&P/TSX Composite Index.  ‘Weak Liquidity’  Since Meytal’s appointment as chief executive officer in
October 2009, the company has sold property in countries
including Finland, Canada and Britain to help meet debt
obligations. Standard & Poor’s Maalot on March 2 cut its  credit
rating  to ilCCC, eight levels below investment grade, from ilBB.
The rating agency cited “weak liquidity” and said the company
had “no certain resources to pay bond holders” after it
cancelled plans to sell a significant property in the U.K.  Delek’s controlling shareholder agreed on May 30 to provide
guarantees for a 30 million-shekel  bank loan  so the company
could make a payment to bondholders. Isaac Tshuva, who holds
more than 50 percent of Delek Real Estate, also has interests in
Canada through an 88 percent stake in  Elad Canada Inc. (ELCN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman at   gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 