-- 
Delek Real Estate Close to Exiting Canada to Help Pay Off Debt

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-26T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/delek-real-estate-close-to-exiting-canada-to-help-pay-off-debt.html
Delek Real Estate Ltd. (DLKR) , whose
controlling shareholder helped pay off bondholders in May, is
close to completing its strategy of selling off all its
properties in  Canada , Chief Executive Officer Eran Meytal said.  Delek has been selling Canadian properties since late last
year as it works to repay some 1.7 billion shekels ($494
million) of outstanding debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Delek operates primarily in the U.K. and  Europe  and
holds the Canadian assets through Delek Global Real Estate Ltd.,
which last week announced agreements to sell a property in
Quebec and its holdings in 30 shopping centers known as Jean
Coutu.  “The market is very strong in Canada and the prices are
high so the yields are optimal,” Meytal told Bloomberg in a
telephone interview on June 23. He declined to comment on the
status of the final Canadian property.  High energy prices and low  interest rates  are helping
property prices in Canada to recover and are buoying the
country’s economy, Ross Moore, director of market and economic
research at Seattle-based Colliers International, said in May.
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has said he plans to
“eventually” raise the country’s benchmark rate from 1 percent,
where it has stood since September.  The  Ramat Gan , Israel-based company’s quarterly loss
narrowed to 89.5 million shekels in this year’s first quarter
from 255.4 million shekels in the second quarter of 2010.
Canadian holdings helped mitigate first-quarter declines in the
value of the company’s property portfolio, it said.  Deleveraging  “There are no massive future  capital gains  to be made,”
Terence Klingman, analyst at Tel Aviv-based Meitav Investment
House Ltd. said by telephone. “They can make reasonable
profitability from rental income but they are deleveraging.”  The shares of Delek Real Estate have plummeted 82 percent
over the past year, compared with a 7 percent gain for the TA-
100 index. Gazit Globe Ltd., another Israeli real-estate company
with international holdings, rose 22 percent over the same
period.  RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust (REI-U) , Canada’s largest
real-estate investment trust by market value, rose 36 percent in
that period, compared with an 11 percent jump for the S&P/TSX
Composite Index.  ‘Weak Liquidity’  Since Meytal’s appointment as chief executive officer in
October 2009, the company has sold property in countries
including Finland, Canada and Britain to help meet debt
obligations. Standard & Poor’s Maalot on March 2 cut the
company’s credit rating to ilCCC, eight levels below investment
grade, from ilBB. The rating agency cited “weak liquidity” and
said the company had “no certain resources to pay bond
holders” after it cancelled plans to sell a significant
property in the U.K.  Delek’s controlling shareholder agreed on May 30 to provide
guarantees for a 30 million-shekel  bank loan  so the company
could make bondholder payments. Isaac Tshuva, who holds more
than 50 percent of Delek Real Estate, also has interests in
Canada through an 88 percent stake in  Elad Canada Inc. (ELCN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman at   gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 