-- 
Deutsche Bank, UniCredit May Have to Raise Additional Capital After Basel

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-06-27T11:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/deutsche-bank-unicredit-may-have-to-raise-additional-capital-after-basel.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
lender, and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  are among European banks that may have
to raise additional capital after regulators dismissed lenders’
threats that stiffer rules may stunt economic growth.  Regulators meeting in Basel this weekend agreed to make as
many as 30 of the world’s largest, or systemically important,
banks hold as much as 2.5 percentage points more capital than
the 7 percent core Tier 1 capital required. They also blocked
European banks’ requests to use hybrid capital, such as
contingent convertible bonds, to meet the target. The biggest
banks will use mostly retained earnings and ordinary shares.  Lenders had lobbied against the extra capital requirements,
saying they risked stunting the global economic recovery and
some had sought to avoid being categorized as systemically
important. The decision marks a loss for European banks that are
grappling with the region’s debt crisis and had sought to use
hybrid capital to meet regulators’ extra requirements.  “It’s likely to be the catalyst for the last wave of
capital raisings, with UniCredit, Deutsche Bank and the top
three French banks needing to boost capital,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA in  London . “The
winners are the U.S. banks.”  Combined Shortfall  Deutsche Bank spokesman  Ronald Weichert  declined to comment
beyond remarks by Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger on June 10,
when he said the bank was “confident” of meeting the Basel III
capital requirements. UniCredit spokesman Andrea Morawski
referred to Chief Executive Officer Federico Ghizzoni’s comments
on June 17, when he said the lender could handle a 2 percent
surcharge through retained earnings alone. Spokeswomen for
 France ’s biggest banks --  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, Credit Agricole and
Societe Generale -- all declined to comment.  The banks, together with  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and Credit
Suisse Group AG, will have a combined 62 billion-euro ($88
billion) capital shortfall, according to Mediobanca. Spokesmen
for Credit Suisse and Santander declined to comment.  (For a related story on the how the Bank for International
Settlements is pushing banks to raise capital before the rules
take effect, click here. To read more about the Basel
regulators’ decision to rule out contingent convertibles for
now, click here.)  The decision was part of the Basel Committee’s overhaul of
rules on how much capital the world’s largest banks should hold
so they don’t collapse during a financial crisis. The proposals
will be reviewed by the Financial Stability Board and then be
issued for public comment, the  Basel  group said. The FSB, which
brings together finance ministry officials, central bank
governors and regulators from the Group of 20 countries, is
leading efforts to rein in systemically important banks.  ‘They Lost’  “Europeans were pushing for a mix of common equity and
contingent capital and they lost at a global level,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Washington-based Federal
Financial Analytics Inc., a bank consulting firm. “The capital
requirements for the biggest banks have now gone from as low as
2 percent before the crisis to well north of 10 percent. The
banks are going to have to constrain activities both by reducing
risk and denying credit.”  The Basel committee didn’t identify which banks will be
subject to the capital charges. About 28 to 30 banks, including
as many as eight in the U.S., may face the surcharge, according
to a person familiar with the situation, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  ‘Total Failure’  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Citigroup,
Deutsche Bank, BNP Paribas,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc may be subject to the
surcharge of 2.5 percent, Morgan Stanley analyst Huw van Steenis
said on June 19. UBS AG, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Societe Generale would be subject to a lower charge of 2
percent, the analyst said.  “The vote ignores the total failure of the QE2 thrust in
the United States to stimulate this country’s economy, a failure
caused by the stringent capital and liquidity ratios already in
place on American banks,” Lutz, Florida-based  Richard Bove , an
analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC, said in a note to clients.
QE2 is the U.S.’s second program of quantitative easing,  Banks should be pressed to meet the higher  capital
requirements  before a series of deadlines starting in 2013
unless earlier introduction of the rules would threaten lending,
the Bank for International Settlements said in its annual report
yesterday.  CoCos Criticized  “The Basel Committee has given banks until 2019 but the
equity markets will expect them to react much sooner, maybe by
2012 or 2013,” said Kinner Lakhani, a banking analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “If Basel decides in two years’ time
to permit contingent convertibles, there is a risk that it will
be too late.”  The securities, which convert into equity at a given
trigger, have been criticized by  Oswald Gruebel , chief executive
officer of Switzerland’s biggest bank, UBS AG, for diluting
regular shareholders’ investments. The Basel Committee said it
would continue to study them and that banks could use the
securities to meet national capital rules that are even stricter
than the Basel III rules.  Lobbying Efforts  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest lender, rose 0.5 percent to 1.37
euros by 1:20 p.m. in Milan, valuing the bank at about 26.4
billion euros. The bank will need to raise 6 billion euros,
according to the median estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg earlier this month. Deutsche Bank fell 0.3 percent to
39.34 euros, while  Societe Generale (GLE)  slid 0.5 percent to 37.57
euros. BNP Paribas was 1 percent higher at 49.71 euros while
Credit Agricole dropped 0.7 percent to 9.60 euros.  “Investors have no appetite for buying into companies that
are at the whim of economically challenged legislators and
regulators, unable to raise their dividends and who must lower
their returns on equity,” Bove said.  Banks have already started to ramp up lobbying to limit how
much capital they are required to hold. Individual banks are
also trying to escape the “too-big-to-fail” label, Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  told U.S. lawmakers
June 22.  The U.S. bank lobbying campaign intensified this month when
 Jamie Dimon , JPMorgan Chase’s chief executive officer, publicly
challenged Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke on whether regulators
have gone too far and are slowing economic growth.  “It’s essential to take into account the cumulative effect
of the extensive regulatory changes already under way,” said
Michael Lever, a managing director at the Association for
Financial Markets in Europe lobby group. The changes “mean that
risks posed by systemically important financial institutions
have been substantially reduced since the financial crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  