-- 
Djokovic Regroups for Wimbledon Fourth-Round Match After Losing His Cool

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-26T23:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/djokovic-regroups-for-wimbledon-fourth-round-match-after-losing-his-cool.html
Novak Djokovic may have lost only
one match this year. That doesn’t mean the Australian Open
tennis champion won’t lose his cool.  Down a break of serve in the second set against  Marcos Baghdatis  of Cyprus two days ago, the Serb smashed his racket on
the grass of Wimbledon’s Centre Court. After the umpire’s
warning for racket abuse, he dropped the set, then came back to
win the next two to beat the 2006 semifinalist. The victory set
up a meeting with French lefthander Michael Llodra today on
Court No. 1 for a place in the quarterfinals.  “It was frustrating, I cannot lie,” Djokovic, a
semifinalist last year and in 2007, told a news conference. “I
did lose my temper a bit. But I came back. I thought, even
though I haven’t returned the best, I still had a lot of
chances. I was missing from the baseline a lot. So this is
something that I was frustrated about.”  Unlike six-time winner  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  and
defending champion  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain , who both rarely lose
their cool in matches, Djokovic is emotional at times.  “In my case it helps sometimes, even though it doesn’t
look great,” said Djokovic, 24. “Look, I’m not going to
change who I am. I can work on some things, but my temper is my
temper. My character is my character.”  After a day of rest yesterday on the “middle Sunday,” the
entire men’s and women’s fourth rounds will be played on what’s
dubbed Manic Monday.  ‘Manic Monday’  On Centre Court,  Andy Murray , the No. 4 seed from Britain,
plays  France ’s Richard Gasquet, followed by five-time champion
 Venus Williams  against  Tsvetana Pironkova , a Bulgarian who beat
the American at Wimbledon last year.  Men’s top seed Nadal plays former U.S. Open champion Juan
Martin del Potro of Argentina. On Court No. 1, defending
champion  Serena Williams  faces former finalist  Marion Bartoli ,
the No. 9 seed from France. No. 3 seed Federer plays Mikhail Youzhny, the No. 18 seed from  Russia , in the last match of the
day.  Two-time major winner Djokovic had entered the  French Open 
last month with a chance of taking the No. 1 spot away from
Nadal if he’d made the final. Instead, Federer beat him in the
semifinals, ending the Serb’s start-of-season winning streak at
41 matches, one fewer than John McEnroe’s record set in 1984.  “After Paris, of course you can say: On the one hand, you
didn’t lose 41 matches and then you lose one,” Marian Vajda,
Djokovic’s coach since 2006, said in an interview shortly before
the start of Wimbledon. “On the other hand, it was a difficult
match. But he has to forget about this match as soon as
possible. That was my goal. Try and help him concentrate on his
next tournament, Wimbledon.”  Top Ranking  Seeded second, Djokovic once again has a shot at becoming
the top-ranked player on the ATP World Tour if he reaches his
first final at the All England Club, or if Nadal doesn’t retain
his title.  Djokovic isn’t underestimating his next opponent Llodra,
the No. 19 seed whom he’s beaten twice in three matches.  “He’s dangerous for anybody if he serves well, he’s one of
the few serve-and-volley players nowadays,” Djokovic said.
“The fact that he’s a lefty gives him a little advantage
because there aren’t many lefties around. He’s a very aggressive
player. He likes to be on the net. He can be trouble. But I need
to return well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  