-- 
Egypt Raises Less Than Two-Thirds of $1.2 Billion It Wanted in T-Bill Sale

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-06-26T15:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/egypt-sells-39-less-debt-than-planned-at-a-treasury-bill.html
Egypt raised less than two-thirds of
its targeted 7 billion Egyptian pounds ($1.2 billion) at a
treasury-bill auction today as three-month yields jumped the
most since March.  The country sold 4.25 billion pounds of  government
securities , according to central bank data on Bloomberg. The
average yield on three-month notes surged 33 basis points, or
0.33 percentage point, to 12.095 percent from last week’s
auction. Nine-month bills yielded 12.983 percent on average,
surpassing the rate on one-year notes for the first time since
February. The government raised 750 million pounds through the
sale of the 266-day notes, or about a fifth of what it planned.  “There is limited demand at the current market levels,”
Khalil El-Bawab, director of fixed income at Cairo-based
investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said in a phone
interview. “It’s clear that the Ministry of Finance is not
willing to pay above 13 percent. Eventually if they don’t they
won’t be able to finance all the issues.”  Egypt ’s  Finance Ministry  met 44 percent of its goal at the
last auction and failed to raise the target amount in the last
10 sales of one-year notes as local lenders demanded more return
on the securities the government relies on to finance its
widening  budget deficit . The North African nation last week cut
the budget deficit forecast for the fiscal year starting July to
8.6 percent from 11 percent in its draft spending plan.  Finance Minister  Samir Radwan  said yesterday the country
doesn’t need to borrow from the International Monetary Fund and
 World Bank  “at the moment” after the budget deficit cut. The
two organizations had pledged as much as $7.5 billion to help
the country’s economy recover following the uprising that ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.  Egypt’s 5.75 percent 10-year dollar bond was little changed
at 5.67 percent on June 24, as was the pound at 5.9602 per
dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  