-- 
Dollar Strengthens Before Greek Vote as Crisis Stokes Bids for Safe Assets

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-06-27T09:30:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/euro-weakens-against-dollar-before-greece-vote.html
The dollar strengthened versus most
of its major peers on demand for the world’s reserve currency
before  Greece ’s parliament votes on austerity measures.  The greenback climbed against 10 of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Greek lawmakers must approve a 78 billion-
euro ($110 billion) austerity package to receive a loan payment
and future financing. The pound gained versus most counterparts
after a survey showed U.K. business owners expect activity to
pick up. New Zealand’s dollar declined for a third day as data
showed the nation’s trade surplus was narrower than forecast.  “People are taking off risk heading into the vote,” said
 Adam Cole , head of global currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada Europe Ltd. in London. “What we’re seeing essentially is
people covering short dollar positions ahead of what looks like
could be quite a noisy week. It probably will get through, and
if it does the euro will probably have a decent bounce, but it’s
certainly not a clear cut call.”  The dollar advanced 0.4 percent to 80.78 yen at 10:14 a.m.
in London after touching 80.89, the strongest level since June
16. The euro was little changed at $1.4191 after earlier sliding
to $1.4103, the weakest since June 16. The common currency
depreciated 0.4 percent to 114.62 yen.  Greece Budget Cuts  European Union leaders vowed to stave off a Greek default
as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes through
budget cuts and asset sales. European finance chiefs will decide
on July 3 whether Greece has met aid conditions.  The first session of the Greek parliament’s three-day
debate on the austerity measures will begin today, with a vote
expected on June 29. An implementation law, which provides
technical details of how the five-year plan will be applied, is
also due to be discussed and approved by a deadline of June 30.  “There’s further uncertainty for the euro,” said Alex Sinton, a senior dealer at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Auckland,
New Zealand. “This is yet another step in the very long journey
that they’ve got to take.”  One-month implied volatility for the euro-dollar  exchange
rate  rose for a third day to 13.78, up from 12.28 on June 22.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  said yesterday it’s
“probably inevitable” that a mechanism will be needed to allow
weaker euro-region economies to exit the single currency.  U.S. Houses  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, gained 0.2
percent to 75.826. The index advanced for a fourth day, the
longest rising streak since January.  Reports on U.S. housing this week may show that purchases
will pick up even as property values continue to drop. Pending
home sales, or contract signings for existing homes, probably
increased 2.5 percent in May after dropping 12 percent the prior
month, economists forecast the National Association of Realtors
will report on June 29.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  home prices  in 20 cities, due
a day earlier, likely fell in April from March, the 10th
straight monthly drop on a seasonally adjusted basis.  “I expect the  U.S. economy  to improve gradually,” said
Daisuke Karakama, a market economist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s third-biggest financial
group by market value. “The recent slowdown will be a soft
patch, which is what the Fed expects.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 22 the U.S.
economic recovery is proceeding “somewhat more slowly” than
policy makers had expected.  Sterling Gains  The pound strengthened against 13 of a basket of 16
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The Lloyds TSB Business
Barometer index for business activity in the next 12 months rose
to 46 in June, the highest since May last year, while a Lloyds
index for current economic optimism rose to 36 from 14.  Sterling was also supported on speculation the  Bank of
England  may raise rates earlier than expected after the  Bank for
International Settlements  said central banks need to start
raising  interest rates  to control inflation.  The pound appreciated 0.2 percent to 88.76 pence per euro
and advanced 0.3 percent against the yen to 128.73 yen. It
slipped 0.1 percent versus the dollar to $1.5936.  New Zealand ’s dollar fell 1.1 percent to 80.28 U.S. cents.
It earlier touched 80.09 cents, the weakest since June 16. The
currency declined 0.7 percent to 64.85 yen.  The nation’s trade surplus was NZ$605 million in May, the
statistics office said in Wellington, compared with the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists for a NZ$1
billion surplus.  Kiwi, Won  “The kiwi has come off on the back of the lower-than-
expected trade data,” said Khoon Goh, head of market economics
and strategy at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “This
whole sovereign-debt crisis will continue to linger for a while.
In the commodity currency space, commodity prices are soft.”  The won dropped for a third day, losing 0.6 percent to
1,085.63 per dollar. It slid as low as 1,088.70, the weakest
level since June 17. South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan
on June 24 urged contingency planning for potential external
shocks to the economy.  “Concerns that Greece’s debt crisis may spread to other
European nations, including Italy and  Portugal , is keeping
investors from emerging-market assets,” said Byeon Ji Young, a
currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. in  Seoul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 