-- 
Even Putin Drives Lada as Soviet Relic Approaches Top Europe Market: Cars

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-06-26T22:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/even-putin-drives-lada-as-soviet-relic-approaches-top-europe-market-cars.html
Lada, the car of the Soviet
proletariat, survived the transition to capitalism and is now
expanding to fend off  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Fiat SpA (F)  two
decades after the collapse of communism.  Lada’s parent OAO AvtoVAZ, which is 25 percent-owned by
 Renault SA (RNO) , plans to invest about 153 billion rubles ($5.4
billion) to introduce seven models in the next three years. The
cars will in some cases replace vehicles that were developed
before  Mikhail Gorbachev  came to power in 1985 and presided over
the collapse of the Soviet Union.  Lada,  Russia ’s dominant brand with a 24 percent market
share, is under pressure to defend that position. GM,  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  and Ford Motor Co. are pushing into the market, which is
poised to become  Europe ’s largest within three years. GM has an
8.9 percent share and VW 7.5 percent, with both reporting faster
sales growth than Lada in the first five months.  The Russian carmaker’s hopes rest on customers like Sergei
Chernikh. The 35-year-old retail manager from Voronezh, about
500 kilometers south of Moscow, bypassed Fiat and Chevrolet
models to buy a Lada 2107 sedan because it was cheap and easy to
maintain.  “I chose Lada because of the price mostly,” said
Chernikh. “I even can do minor repairs myself if needed, which
I wouldn’t be able to do if I bought a foreign model because of
the large amount of electronic gadgets.”  Pre-Brezhnev Classic  The Lada 2107, one of three so-called classic models, was
first introduced in 1982, when Leonid Brezhnev was in power. It
starts at 206,900 rubles ($7,300), less than half the price of
the Ford Focus and VW Polo.  The other Soviet-era Ladas still for sale are the 2104 and
2105, which are the cheapest Ladas and cost as little as 178,000
rubles. The “classics” are the second-best selling model line
in the Russian market after the Lada Kalina, which was
introduced in 2004 and starts at 281,900 rubles. The newest Lada
is the Priora, introduced in 2007 and costing 326,300 rubles.  The challenge for Lada will be to keep prices low, while
modernizing technology to compete with foreign brands, said
Elena Sakhnova, an analyst at VTB capital in Moscow. Price is
Lada’s most competitive advantage, especially outside Moscow and
 St. Petersburg , she said.  Advantage Slipping  To secure its market lead, the company has also relied on a
network of 385 dealers, which is more extensive than anything
foreign brands can currently match. In the Voronezh region,
which has a population of 2.4 million people, there are nine
Lada dealers compared to one Renault shop.  “You can find the same situation in any other smaller city
in Russia,” said Sakhnova. “But the situation is changing and
 AvtoVAZ (AVAZ)  will be losing this advantage as Ford, GM, Toyota and
others continue to expand.”  Ford, which has a plant near St. Petersburg, signed a
manufacturing and distribution pact this year with OAO Sollers.
Volkswagen, which has a new factory in Kaluga, will produce VW
and Skoda cars with OAO GAZ, a Russian vehicle manufacturer
owned by billionaire Oleg Deripaska. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG
is considering a factory in Russia. Fiat, which helped set up
the carmaker in the 1960s, also plans local production.  Russia may become the largest car market in Europe in 2013
or 2014, outpacing  Germany , Ivan Bonchev, the Moscow-based head
of Ernst & Young’s automotive industry practice for the region.
Russia’s Ministry of Industry forecasts car sales to climb 73
percent to more than 3.3 million in 2015.  Putin Drive  To combat the encroachment of foreign carmakers,  AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) 
plans to use the underpinnings of the Logan from partner Renault
for new models, including a minivan and van. The French carmaker
will also help Lada develop a low-price platform to replace the
“classic” models, said Oxana Nazarova, a Moscow-based
spokeswoman for Renault.  The carmaker also has powerful allies. Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  drove 2,165 kilometers (1,345 miles) in
a yellow Lada Kalina Sport to inspect a new road in Russia’s far
east in late August. He called the car “comfortable and
reliable,” according to state-owned news agency RIA Novosti.  Backed by new Lada models, Renault along with alliance
partner Nissan Motor Co. aim to boost the three brands’ combined
share of the Russian market to 40 percent by 2016, Nazarova
said. The group has 35 percent of the market now, according to
data from the country’s Association of European Businesses.  Cars for Food  For its part, Lada aims to nearly double sales to about 1
million cars by 2020 from 564,000 last year, AvtoVAZ spokesman
Igor Burenkov said. The company is targeting production of
700,000 vehicles in 2011.  For all its ambition, Lada almost didn’t make it this far.
After the dissolution of the  Soviet Union  in 1991, the car
market collapsed. The factory in Togliatti on the Volga river
kept functioning at the time by trading finished cars for parts
from suppliers or for food and clothing for workers, said Yuri
Zektser, a former AvtoVAZ board member.  The Lada maker was kept afloat by handouts from the Russian
government, with loans from the state rising to about $1 billion
by the mid-1990s. Mounting debt and a growing technology gap
with the rest of the  auto industry  prompted the Russian
government to seek out a partner. In 2008, Renault beat out GM
and Fiat for a 25 percent stake in AvtoVAZ. The Boulogne-
Billancourt, France-based carmaker is now in talks to take
control of the Russian carmaker.  The manufacturer’s struggles over the past 20 years are a
far cry from its position as the car of choice during the Soviet
era. East German buyers had to wait as long as 17 years to get a
Lada, which is an old Russian word for “beloved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at   creiter2@bloomberg.net  