-- 
Fischer Will Probably Pause With Israel Rate Increase on Shekel

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-06-26T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/fischer-will-probably-pause-with-israel-rate-increase-on-shekel.html
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  will probably wait before raising interest rates for the
11th time in two years as the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe 
and the shekel’s appreciation slows economic growth.  Fischer will keep the benchmark lending rate at 3.25
percent today after a quarter-point increase last month, all 23
of the economists surveyed by Bloomberg said. The central bank
will announce the decision at 5:30 p.m. in Jerusalem.  “The Bank of Israel doesn’t live in isolation,” Yaniv
Pagot, chief strategist for Ayalon Group, said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t see the Fed raising the benchmark rate in
the foreseeable future. It’s easier to be an inflation hawk when
other central banks are raising rates.”  Fischer became the first central bank governor to raise
interest rates from a record low of 0.5 percent in August 2009
since signs of easing in the global recession appeared. The
increase reinforced an appreciation of more than 20 percent in
the country’s currency against the dollar since the end of April
that year.  The stronger currency contributed to the biggest Israeli
trade deficit in at least 23 years in April. Economic growth in
 Israel  slowed to an annualized 4.8 percent in the first quarter
from 7.6 percent in the previous three months, which was the
fastest since 2006.  Bonds Advance  Israel’s 10-year government bond advanced on June 26 on
speculation the central bank won’t raise rates. The yield on the
Mimshal Shiklit note due January 2020 dropped two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.08 percent, the lowest in three
weeks, at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv .  “He can’t go it alone,” Pagot said. “A move that’s too
strong can hurt growth.”  Interest rates remain near record lows in the world’s
largest developed economies. Central banks in the U.S., U.K. and
 Japan  have signaled they intend to keep that stimulus in place
for some time, with only the  European Central Bank  moving to
gradually tighten credit as inflation risks increase.  The ECB in April raised its benchmark interest rate from a
record low of 1 percent and has signaled another quarter-point
step is likely in July.  By contrast, the  Federal Reserve  last week repeated a
pledge to keep its policy rate close to zero for an “extended
period.” Minutes from the Bank of England’s last policy
meeting, at which the bank held its key rate at 0.5 percent,
showed some officials see the potential for more monetary
stimulus through further bond purchases. The  Bank of Japan  this
month held its benchmark near zero and kept credit and asset-
purchase programs in place.  Inflation Accelerates  The TA-25 benchmark share price index has slid about 9
percent since the beginning of the year, led by Discount
Investment Corp., a holding company with interests in
telecommunications, retailing and manufacturing.  Fischer’s rate increases have so far failed to bring
inflation in line with the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent
target since the beginning of the year. Inflation accelerated to
4.1 percent in May, the fourth month at or above 4 percent.  Inflation will probably remain “at the current high rate”
for the next three months, and will begin to fall gradually in
September,  Michael Sarel , chief economist at Harel Insurance
Investments & Financial Services Ltd. said in an e-mailed
report.  Mortgage Limits  While Fischer isn’t likely to raise the interest rate this
month, the “continued rapid increase” of  home prices  is likely
to prompt the  Bank of Israel  to apply additional limits to the
mortgage market, Sarel said. Home prices rose by 15.3 percent in
March and April compared with the two-month period a year, the
 Central Bureau of Statistics  said June 15. In February-March,
the rate was 13.9 percent.  The central bank said April 27 it would limit variable-rate
mortgages to one-third the value of the total loan. It has also
required banks over the past year to increase provisions for
certain categories of mortgages, in an effort to cool the market
and slow price increases.  Central banks need to start raising interest rates to
contain inflation and may have to act faster than in the past,
the  Bank for International Settlements  said yesterday.  The benchmark interest rate is likely to rise to between 4
percent to 4.25 percent a year from now, Modi Shafrir, chief
economist at Tel Aviv-based I.L.S. Brokers Ltd. said in an e-
mailed report today. The Bank of Israel research department
forecast that the rate would rise to 4.2 percent in a year’s
time, according to minutes of the last rate decision released
June 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  