-- 
Jacobson Fulfills Promise to Daughter With First PGA Tour Win at Travelers

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-06-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/fredrik-jacobson-wins-travelers-championship-for-first-u-s-pga-tour-title.html
Fredrik Jacobson became the eighth
first-time winner on golf’s U.S. PGA Tour this year, with a one-
shot victory at the Travelers Championship that fulfilled a
promise to his 5-year-old daughter.  Jacobson shot a 4-under-par 66 yesterday at TPC River
Highlands in Cromwell,  Connecticut , and finished 20-under par
overall, one stroke better than  Ryan Moore  and John Rollins.  Jacobson, a 36-year-old Swede, received $1.08 million for
the win, his first in the U.S. since he began playing regularly
on the PGA Tour in 2004. He collected his three previous pro
victories in 2003 on the European Tour and said his daughter,
Emmie, asked him during the offseason why he didn’t have any
trophies at home.  “I got a couple in  Sweden , but they’re in the garage. I
told her, ‘I promise I’ll get one this year for you,’” Jacobson
said in a news conference. “And it’s been haunting me. I’ve
been asked so many times by the kids, ‘Did you get a trophy this
week, daddy?’ I’m glad I’m not breaking that promise to her.”  Jacobson had two top-10 finishes in 17 starts on the  PGA
Tour  this year. He tied for ninth at the Arnold Palmer
Invitational in March and the following month tied for fifth at
the Texas Open, where he was runner-up last year. Jacobson tied
for 14th at last week’s  U.S. Open .  Jacobson clinched his win yesterday with a two-putt par on
the 18th hole after Moore bogeyed to slip to 19-under.  Moore missed a 7-foot par putt on the closing hole after
hitting his first two shots in fairway and greenside bunkers. It
was his only dropped shot in a round of 7-under-par 63.  “That 18th hole is going to sting a little bit,” Moore
said. “Just put it in a bad place off the tee and maybe a
little too aggressive with my second shot. I hit a pretty darn
good bunker shot, almost made it. Really hit my first bad putt
of the day.”  Michael Thompson shot an 8-under-par 62 to finish in fourth
place at 18-under par.  The tour now moves to  Newtown Square ,  Pennsylvania , for the
AT&T National at Aronimink Golf Club.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  