-- 
French Banks Said to Offer 70% Rollover on Greek 2011-14 Government Debt

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-06-26T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/french-banks-said-to-offer-70-rollover-on-greek-2011-14-government-debt.html
French banks, including  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA, have told the French government they are willing to partly
roll over maturing Greek  government bonds  in a bid to avoid a
default by the debt-laden nation, three people familiar with the
plan said yesterday.  Under the proposal discussed in recent days between the
French Banking Federation and the French Treasury, bondholders
would re-invest about 70 percent of Greek sovereign debt
maturing from mid-2011 to mid-2014, said one of the people
directly involved with the talks.  Fifty percent of the redemptions would go into 30-year
Greek securities, with the remaining 20 percent invested in a
fund made of “very-high quality” securities that would back
the 30-year bonds, that person said. The proposal may be
altered, he said. All three people spoke on condition of
anonymity because the talks are ongoing and private.  European governments are seeking to persuade the region’s
banks to voluntarily participate in  Greece ’s second bailout to
make the country’s debt burden more sustainable. European banks
held about $52 billion of Greek sovereign debt at the end of
last year, according to Bank for International Settlements data,
with French banks owning $15 billion, the second-largest
position after German banks, which owned $22 billion.  European Union leaders at a Brussels summit that ended June
24 backed a new aid program to stave off a Greek default so long
as Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  shepherds 78 billion
euros ($111 billion) of austerity measures through parliament in
a vote slated for June 29.  Parallel Talks  Parallel talks between financial companies and finance
ministries across  Europe  on the participation of private-sector
bondholders took place last week. French newspaper  Le Figaro 
first reported the French banks’ proposal on its Web site today.  Spokespeople at the French Finance Ministry and the French
Banking Federation couldn’t be reached for comment by Bloomberg
News today.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told reporters in Brussels
on June 24 that he had “no apprehensions or difficulties”
about the discussions with banks, while Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said Spanish banks are “well disposed” to
private-sector involvement as their positions are “small.”
Talks are also under way in the Netherlands.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government said June 24
banks and insurers will recognize their “very high interest”
in sharing the burden of a Greek financial package and an
agreement will be reached in the next nine days.  European finance chiefs will decide on July 3 whether
Greece has met conditions for its next aid payment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  