-- 
Fukushima Retiree Leads Anti-Nuclear Shareholders at Tepco Annual Meeting

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-06-27T06:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/fukushima-retiree-to-lead-anti-nuclear-motion.html
Masafumi Asada bought shares of
 Tokyo  Electric Power Co. almost a decade ago with a single
purpose: To vote against the use of nuclear power.  Asada, a 70-year-old resident of Fukushima prefecture, the
epicenter of  Japan ’s nuclear crisis, will speak on behalf of 402
shareholders tomorrow at the annual general meeting of the
utility known as Tepco, to ask it to stop atomic generation.  “Even if our proposal doesn’t go through, I will still
hold the stock,” said Asada, whose 1.6 million yen ($20,000)
investment in 800 shares 10 years ago has shrunk to about 12
percent of the original value. “I bought the stock to protect
our lives, not to make money.”  Almost $37 billion of Tepco’s market value has been erased
since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, causing meltdowns in three reactors.
The catastrophe, the worst nuclear accident in 25 years,
displaced 50,000 households after radiation leaked into the air,
soil and sea.  A group of shareholders has been proposing the motion to
stop Tepco from using atomic energy for the past two decades,
each time failing at the annual meeting. The 21st attempt this
year may see some support after more than 60,000 people marched
in demonstrations in Tokyo,  Osaka , Hiroshima and Fukushima on
June 11, local media said.  Tepco has opposed the proposal of withdrawing from nuclear
power generation, saying that it’s a matter for the board.  Dai-ichi Life  Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Co., Tepco’s second-biggest
shareholder after Japan Trustee Services Bank, booked a 110.4
billion-yen charge for the three months ending in March, mainly
for losses on the utility’s stock, it said.  At its annual general meeting today, the insurer said it
hasn’t received any formal request for support from Tepco. Any
future loans would depend on factors including the government’s
plans to compensate victims of the nuclear accident and
prospects for the utility’s future business, Hideto Masaki,
executive vice president at Dai-ichi, told shareholders.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  has no plans to sell
its 2.2 percent stake in the utility or forgive its loans or
interest, said Takeshi Kunibe, chief executive officer of
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., the banking unit of Japan’s
second-biggest lender by market value.  Tepco shares rose 2.6 percent to 316 yen at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo. They have lost 85 percent since the quake.  Compensation Claims  Earlier this month, the Cabinet approved a disaster
compensation bill to help Tepco pay reparations with the support
of a third-party organization. Tepco may face as much as 11
trillion yen in compensation claims, according to Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  The cost of dismantling the Fukushima plant may reach 20
trillion yen, and compensation for households in a 20-kilometer
evacuation zone may total 630 billion yen over 10 years,
according to the  Japan Center for Economic Research .  A group of banks led by Sumitomo Mitsui Financial advanced
2 trillion yen of emergency loans to Tepco.  “Perhaps the best solution would be to spin off all of the
non-core assets, real estate and subsidiaries into a separate
company for liquidation to pay for the damages,” said  Curtis Freeze , founder of Honolulu-based Prospect Asset Management Inc.,
which manages $300 million. “Otherwise the shareholders will
expect Tepco to do as little as possible.”  Riot Police  The  National Police Agency  plans to send riot squads and
150 officers to the meeting at the Prince Park Tower Tokyo Hotel
to quell any protests, said a police official who declined to be
identified, citing the agency’s policy.  Tepco has prepared seats for 5,600 shareholders at the
central Tokyo hotel, said Tetsuya Terasawa, a spokesman. Last
year, the utility had a record attendance of 3,342 investors, he
said. The longest  shareholders’ meeting  was in 1999, which
lasted 3 hours and 42 minutes, according to Tepco.  “Shareholder interest has increased after the accident, so
we prepared more seats,” Terasawa said. “It will depend on our
shareholders how long the meeting will last.”  The company had 933,031 shareholders as of March 31.  At the  meeting , shareholders will vote on the appointment
of 17 board members, including newly named President Toshio Nishizawa, 60, and Chairman  Tsunehisa Katsumata , 71. Sixteen of
the 17 directors are Tepco executives, company documents show.  Outside Director  The lone outside director, Yasushi Aoyama, has received
remuneration from a Tepco unit for two years in the past,
according to the documents. Aoyama is a former vice-governor of
the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and has experience in urban
planning and crisis management, the company said.  U.S. proxy adviser  Glass Lewis  & Co. is recommending
shareholders vote against all nominees, citing a lack of
independent members to carry out the company’s risk management
oversight. Instead, independent directors that may change the
way it operates should be appointed, Naomi Stroud, an analyst at
San Francisco-based Glass Lewis, wrote in a June 13 report.  “The company has experienced significant problems with its
safety practices and risk management, wreaking havoc on
surrounding communities, destroying  shareholder value  as well as
tarnishing its reputation,” Stroud wrote. “The appointment of
new, independent directors untainted by prior safety lapses and
poor communication would provide better oversight of the company
on behalf of shareholders as well as stakeholders.”  New Auditors  Tepco will also propose the appointment of two new auditors,
both from within the company, Executive Vice President Makio Fujiwara and Yoshihiko Matsumoto, the company’s head of
accounting.  Some institutional investors are selling shares of  utility
companies  because of the risks associated with nuclear power.  STB Asset Management Co. said in April it’s removing Tepco
stock from its socially responsible investing fund, citing
environmental and health concerns following the accident.  Asada, the retired shareholder, moved from Tokyo with his
wife 17 years ago to Tamura city, about 25 kilometers from the
Dai-Ichi plant in Fukushima, to grow rice, carrots and shiitake
mushrooms.  Shortly after, Tepco announced plans to expand the Dai-Ichi
station with two more reactors, leading to his involvement with
the local anti-nuclear movement.  “Instinctively, I thought this could lead to trouble,”
said Asada, a former computer engineer. “I moved to start a
second life here, but that’s completely turned upside down and
we’re left here wondering if I have to look for another home.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  