-- 
Gates Defies Odds With Successful Second Act: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-06-26T15:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/gates-defies-all-odds-with-successful-second-act-albert-hunt.html
There rarely are second acts, to
borrow a phrase from F. Scott Fitzgerald, in American politics.  Larry Summers , lauded as President  Bill Clinton ’s Treasury
secretary, made a comeback to government two and half years ago
as President Barack Obama’s chief economic adviser with
expectations he would become the next chairman of the  Federal
Reserve . Instead, he returned to  Harvard University , his
reputation not enhanced.  More striking was  Donald Rumsfeld , a powerful figure in the
Gerald Ford administration, including a stint as defense
secretary, and an influential Republican national security voice
for the next quarter century. Surprisingly, he came back to his
old Cabinet job under President George W. Bush in 2001.  Five and half years later, Rumsfeld was forced out, an
embarrassment to his party. You are unlikely to ever hear the
current Republican presidential candidates invoke his name.  This history makes  Robert Gates  all the more remarkable.
The director of the Central Intelligence Agency under President
 George H.W. Bush , he was summoned by  George W. Bush  to succeed
Rumsfeld, the Pentagon in disarray. He then acceded to Obama’s
request to stay on.  He is retiring this week, highly respected by politicians
of both parties, military officers and rank and file, and the
public. His first act was good; the second act off the charts.  Challenging Tenure  His stewardship hasn’t been during an easy time. He oversaw
the surge in the Iraq War and the steady escalation of the
conflict in  Afghanistan . Partisanship has been pronounced in
Washington the past five years.  Yet Gates somehow largely coped with the challenges, even
rose above them. It’s hard to find a critic among politicians.
Republican Senator  Richard Lugar  hails him as one of “America’s
most brilliant public servants.” Democratic Senator Jack Reed
praises him as “the ideal of a public servant -- great
integrity, great intelligence, and total dedication to his
country.”  At the Pentagon he has restored a mutual respect between
civilians and the military that was deeply frayed under Rumsfeld,
whose disdain for some flag officers was palpable.  “No one is more dedicated to those of us in uniform than
Bob Gates,” Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, said at a recent dinner for wounded veterans where the
defense chief received a standing ovation.  ‘Understands the Sacrifice’  “Bob Gates respects and understands the sacrifice soldiers,
sailors, airmen and Marines are making, is humbled by what they
do,” Reed says. “They know and appreciate that respect.”  Not since President Dwight Eisenhower’s farewell address
has a top Washington official departed with more candor and
credibility. Gates recently told America’s European allies that
the six-decade-old North Atlantic Treaty Organization faces a
“dim if not dismal future” due to their insistence that the
U.S. carry a disproportionate share of the financial and
military burden. And, in a reference to  Iraq , and indirectly
 Libya , he raised doubts about “wars of choice.” The Iraq War
“will always be clouded by how it began, which was a wrong
premise,” he declared. “There were, in fact, no weapons of
mass destruction.”  In the model of George C. Marshall, the Army chief of staff
in World War II and one of his predecessors as defense secretary,
Gates is devoted to public service, and is himself a powerful
reminder of its importance.  Public-Service Call  He isn’t a wordsmith, but some of his major speeches over
the past few years capture his values and dedication. At Texas A
& M University, where he served as president before returning to
 Washington , he worried that in facing the burdens of public life
“too many young Americans, so public-minded in campus and
community affairs, turn aside when it comes to our political
process and to careers in public service.” He urged them to
devote at least part of their lives to these callings.  At a Naval Academy commencement in May 2007, he spoke of
the important roles of Congress and a free press in our
democracy. With the often adversarial relations between the
military and the news media as context, he cautioned that the
press “is not the enemy, and to treat it as such is self-
defeating.” He praised the role the Washington Post played in
exposing mistreatment of veterans at Walter Reed Hospital.  Last year, at  Duke University , he challenged the
comfortable and privileged to consider the chasm that separates
them from those who serve in the all-volunteer military. “No
war in our history,” he said, has been fought with fewer of its
citizens -- less than 1 percent -- in uniform.  Civilian-Military Ties  For all the success of the U.S. military, the defense chief
worried about the “cultural, social and financial cost in terms
of the relationship between those in uniform and the wider
society they have sworn to protect.”  He urged elite college students to “go outside your
comfort zone,” noting the military affords “the opportunity to
be given extraordinary responsibility at a young age,” as their
civilian peers “are reading spreadsheets and making
photocopies.”  Too often in America, patriotism is superficial -- wearing
a flag lapel or concluding speeches with “God Bless America.”
Bob Gates is a real-deal patriot.  He’s being succeeded as defense secretary by another
genuine patriot and high-class second act,  Leon Panetta , former
congressman, budget director, White House chief of staff, and
most recently, director of the Central Intelligence Agency.  Even with those credentials Panetta has a tough act to
follow. The man he replaces as Pentagon chief is fond of quoting
 John Adams ’ admonition about the importance of “public
business,” in a letter the Founding Father wrote to his son:
“If wise men decline it, others will not. If honest men refuse
it, others will not.”  Bob Gates, a wise and honest man, served.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 