-- 
Greeks Prefer Fiscal Pain to Hazards of Default, Survey Shows

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-06-26T09:48:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/greeks-prefer-fiscal-pain-to-hazards-of-default-survey-shows.html
Most Greeks acknowledge the need for
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  to raise taxes and take other
austerity measures rather than let the country default on its
debt, according to an opinion poll.  Fifty percent of 1,014 people polled by Marc SA for  Ethnos 
newspaper said the government must implement and also
renegotiate the terms of Papandreou’s proposal to boost revenue
and cut public spending by a combined 78 billion euros ($112
billion) over the next five years. An additional 21.6 percent
said the government should take the austerity steps without
renegotiating them. Nearly 23 percent said the prime minister’s
package should be rejected even at the risk of default.  Of the 50 percent of those surveyed who want the financial
package revised, 57 percent said the measures should take effect
even if attempts at revising them fail, according to the study.  Papandreou will seek approval for the budget proposal in
Parliament this week. His plan calls for the sale of state-owned
companies, higher taxes on purchases at restaurants and bars and
new “crisis levies” on wages, among other steps. Parliamentary
approval is required before  Greece  can receive a fifth payment
under a 110 billion-euro bailout organized by the European
Union, of which Greece is a member.  The poll, conducted June 21 to June 23, showed Papandreou’s
Pasok party preferred by 20 percent of voters, trailing  New
Democracy , the biggest opposition party, which has said it wants
to renegotiate terms under which Greece will receive financing.
New Democracy received 21.4 percent support. More than 68
percent of those surveyed said they didn’t want early elections.  The poll’s margin of error is 2.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net . 