-- 
Michelin-Star London Chefs Choose Favorite Restaurants in Paris

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-06-26T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/michelin-starred-london-chefs-name-their-favorite-restaurants-in-paris.html
French gastronomy has taken a back
seat over the past decade as innovative chefs elsewhere have
gained attention with new technology and flavor combinations.  If the tide of culinary fashion moved against France, that
may be changing.  London  chefs are among those expressing
admiration for the movement known as Bistronomy, where seasonal
dishes are served in informal venues at reasonable prices.  “It irks me when I hear people saying that London is the
gastronomic capital of the world,” said Anthony Demetre, chef-
patron at Arbutus, Wild Honey and Les Deux Salons in London.
“It’s Paris. Paris had lost its way: It’s been rejuvenated by
young cooks coming through and moving into Bistronomy.”  Here are U.K.-based chefs’ recommendations for Paris
dining, from the three-star splendor of restaurants such as Le
Meurice to neighborhood bistros and a creperie.  Tom Aikens  (Tom Aikens): “L’Astrance and Chateaubriand.
They are both great places in terms of cuisine and skill of the
chef. Pascal Barbot at l’Astrance is an extremely talented chef
who keeps flavors and tastes simple, whereas Chateaubriand
pushes the boundaries a little more.”  Jason Atherton (Pollen Street Social): “Chateaubriand. I
took my wife for her birthday and it was fantastic. It’s very
informal, like a scruffy  Cafe Rouge . It’s the anti-restaurant. I
love it. Spring was also really good. They all seem to be doing
set menus in Paris. I wonder how that would work in London.”  Pascal Aussignac (Club Gascon): “Le Vaudeville. It’s a
beautiful example of what a brasserie should be. Chartier, in
Montmartre, is stunning. It’s basic, old-fashioned and offers
value for money. It’s a very good introduction to what a
traditional Parisian brasserie is like.”  Sat Bains (Sat Bains): “L’Arpege. It crippled my wallet
but the flavors are brilliant and pure and it’s great to see a
three-star restaurant where the service isn’t stuffy. Rino is
just a young guy with a galley kitchen and a little bar. It’s
not about finery. The food was very good: fresh and in season.”  Lee Bennett (Le Pont de la Tour): “Cafe du Marche on Rue
Cler is fantastic. It sources most of its ingredients from the
daily food markets that surround the restaurant so the menu is
largely made up of specials. By contrast, Cafe Cambronne has an
unchanging menu of good-value French bistro classics.”  Raymond Blanc (Le Manoir aux Quat’Saisons): “Paris has
always led in gastronomy, but politics and the 35-hour workweek
have undermined dining out. Just try finding a top-quality
restaurant that’s open on a Saturday or Sunday. My favorites
include l’Atelier de Joel Robuchon, l’Ami Louis and Le Boeuf sur
le Toit.”  Antonin Bonnet (Greenhouse): “Passage 53 is a little gem.
It’s a small, beautiful space offering immaculate Zen-like
French food mastered by a Japanese chef. Expectations are high
at l’Arpege. It was a master class. It’s hard for a chef to
admit that all the dishes were simply perfect but they were.”  Helene Darroze (Helene Darroze at the Connaught): “Michel
Rostang: The best products, perfectly cooked, and the Rostang
family is like my second family. And then the Mori  Venice  Bar.
It’s the best Italian cuisine, inspired by Venice and Harry’s
Bar, with beautiful produce.”  Anthony Demetre (Les Deux Salons): “Rino is a great little
bistro in the 11th arrondissement. Le Dauphin is the new opening
from Inaki (Aizpitarte), who owns Le Chateaubriand. It’s
fantastic: great food and reasonable prices. There’s a good
place in the 17th: La Bigarrade. We had a sensational dinner.”  Chris Galvin (Galvin Bistrot de Luxe): “I like Jean-
Francois Piege’s Thoumieux and l’Epi Dupin. They are great value
and buzzy, with great simplicity. You never really know what you
are going to get because everything is market fresh and
skillfully handled. They are not highfalutin.”  Alexis Gauthier (Gauthier Soho): “A good restaurant in
Paris that represents value for money with interesting food is a
rarity in Paris, and in  France  in general. London is more
progressive. Frederic Anton at Pre Catelan is the Paris king.
His cooking techniques are remarkable as is his presentation.”  Stuart Gillies (Savoy Grill): “My wife and I go a couple
of times a year and she always asks if we can move to Paris. Our
favorite places are l’Arpege and l’Atelier de Robuchon, as well
as bistros and cafes such as Boeuf Sur le Toit and La Coupole.
We went to L’Arpege 12 years ago on one of our first dates.”  Sam Harris (Zucca): “Le Cinq at the George V Hotel for an
outrageous gourmet treat. Regally seated in obscene dining
thrones, expect classically themed dishes and impeccable
service.  Rech  is arguably Paris’s finest fish restaurant, small
and cozy with the best ‘Fruits de Mer’ known to man.”  Angela Hartnett  (Murano): “L’Astrance. It’s not cheap but
it’s phenomenal. For something different, I like Ze Kitchen
Galerie because the French don’t usually do fusion. I went to
Chateaubriand and the first person I saw was Ed Wilson from
Brawn. I liked the style and the food: I prefer Brawn.”  Philip Howard (The Square): “L’Arpege was without doubt
the best meal of the last few years: light-hearted, inspiring
and truly delicious. I’d go to Le Meurice for the full Monty,
master-blaster deluxe experience.”  Judy Joo (Playboy Club): “Au Bon Accueil is an old standby
of mine for classic French fare. And I always go to Creperie de
Josselin for their double wheat crepes.”  Atul Kochhar (Benares): “L’Atelier de  Joel Robuchon . I’ve
always been a fan of Joel and his food, his quirkiness and
creative flair. He’s a legend. Just outside Paris, I like  La
Madeleine . Patrick Gauthier is a great craftsman and his flavors
are mind-boggling.”  Pierre Koffmann (Koffmann’s): “It’s difficult to find
good, simple restaurants. While we’ve had a lot of
disappointments, we really enjoyed our last visit. Thoumieux is
a modern brasserie serving classic food with a twist. The chef
recommended Rino, where the food was very light and fresh. We
also had a fantastic meal at La Bigarrade. Other places included
Le Repaire de Cartouche and Le Chardenoux des Pres.”  Jean Denis Le Bras (Sketch): “L’Astrance: The chef is
always in the kitchen. If he ever has to be elsewhere, he closes
the restaurant. Bigarrade: Only 20 guests -- you can see the
kitchen -- and only one menu. They work with small producers and
only order what they need and it’s not expensive.”  Gary Lee (The Ivy): “La Fontaine Gaillon, Gerard Depardieu’s restaurant in Paris, is simple and homely. The
lightly salted cod with mash and olive oil sauce I had there was
amongst my top five ever meals.”  Jeremy Lee (Blueprint Cafe): “Brasserie Lipp is great for
a late lunch. Their herring potato salad has to be one of the
last dishes in Paris that has not been under the butcher’s knife
of modernity and invention. Chez Allard is a chaotic and
wonderful place that works so well. I am always happy there.”  Oliver Peyton ( Peyton and Byrne ): “Le Chateaubriand,
because it effortlessly achieves the perfect combination of
classic and modern French, and Michel Bras, because his food is
exactly as I always imagined true French cooking should be.”  Theo Randall (Theo Randall at the InterContinental): “Chez
l’Ami Louis, because the food is simple and delicious. My other
favorite is Willi’s Wine Bar, which has an amazing collection of
wine by the glass and simple food. Eat at the bar if you can.”  Michel Roux Jr. (Le Gavroche): “Passage 53. It’s a tiny
place. I had the long tasting menu for lunch and it was
exceptionally good. And I had absolutely classic food at Michel
Rostang. It was old-fashioned French cuisine at its best -- to
die for. I also ate very well recently at Thoumieux.”  Aggi Sverrisson (Texture): “L’Astrance is a small, 30-
cover restaurant with just one set menu, no choices. The dishes
that come out of the kitchen are both inventive and simple at
the same time and the flavors are extremely good.”  Marcus Wareing  (Marcus Wareing at the Berkeley): “I have
only spent a couple of days in Paris over the last few years so
I need to go again. I dined at Brasserie Thoumieux with friends
and would love to try Restaurant  Jean-Francois Piege  directly
above. Chateaubriand too so is on my list of places to try.”  Tristan Welch (Launceston Place): “Jules Verne in the
Eiffel Tower. The views are outstanding and the food is
exquisite.”  Alyn Williams ( Westbury ): “Le Meurice and l’Astrance: “Le
Meurice because it is simply superb, and L’ Astrance because
Pascal Barbot is an incredible chef and it is always an exciting
and amazing experience.”  Ed Wilson (Terroirs, Brawn) “Vivant and Chateaubriand. I
like Vivant for its simplicity, fantastic ingredients and such a
beautiful room. Chateaubriand is unique in terms of location,
style and delivery. It has one menu changed daily: innovative
cooking in a relaxed setting with a great natural wine list.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 