-- 
Investors Cut Bullish Agriculture Bets to One-Year Low on Supply Outlook

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-07-10T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/investors-slash-agriculture-bets-as-global-supply-concerns-ease.html
Funds trimmed bets on rising
agriculture prices for a third straight week, sending holdings
to the lowest in a year as supply concerns eased.  Speculators reduced their net-long position in 11 U.S. farm
goods by 6.6 percent to 564,174 futures and options contracts in
the week ended July 5, government data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s the lowest since July 6, 2010. Investors more than
doubled their net-short bets for wheat. Corn holdings slumped 16
percent.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index has dropped
7.6 percent this year. On June 30, the government said U.S.
farmers planted more corn than analysts expected. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. cut its outlook for grains and soybeans on July 1.
Since then, prices have rebounded as hot, dry weather threatened
Midwest crops and on signs of rising grain demand in  China .  “People decreased their bets as they now perceive that the
supply situation is not as bad as was earlier thought,” said
James Dailey, who manages $185 million at TEAM Financial
Management LLC in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania . “I actually sold
our agricultural positions a couple of days prior to the crop
report and hope to use the intermediate weakness to reload.”  Hedge funds  and other money managers reduced their net-long
corn position by 35,315 futures and options contracts to
190,817, the lowest in a year.  Six-Month Low  The grain dropped to six-month low of $5.755 a bushel on
July 1, one day after the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
growers seeded 1.8 percent more of the crop this year than
analysts had estimated and that June 1 inventories were higher
than forecast. After the report, Goldman slashed its three-month
price outlook by 26 percent to $5.90.  Since then, futures have rebounded, jumping 6.7 percent
last week on the  Chicago  Board of Trade to close at $6.37, the
first gain in seven weeks. Supplies may be smaller than the
government projected because the USDA underestimated planting
delays and the risk of yield loss, according to  Hussein Allidina , Morgan Stanley’s head of commodity research in New
York.  Traders “were bearish for a few days after the report, but
now I think there’s some skepticism about whether or not to
believe the high corn stocks number,” said  Dan Cekander , the
director of grain research at Newedge USA LLC in Chicago.
“We’re trying to figure out if we need to be concerned about
the hot, dry trend over the corn belt.”  Speculators cut their net-long positions in 18 U.S.
commodities for a fourth straight week to 952,281 futures and
options contracts in the seven days ended July 5, data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. That’s the lowest
since July 13, 2010.  “I anticipate a general period of derisking as the global
economic slowdown gains momentum,” Dailey of TEAM Financial
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  