-- 
Japanese Stocks Decline as Investors Eye Greek Vote, U.S. Shopping Report

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-06-27T07:36:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/japanese-australia-stock-futures-fall-after-basel-curbs-greece-concerns.html
Japanese stocks fell the most in
more than a week ahead of a vote in Greece’s parliament that may
forestall a European banking crisis and before a report expected
to show slowing growth in U.S. consumer spending, dimming the
outlook for export earnings.  Sony Corp. (6758)  which sells about 20 percent of its PlayStation
game consoles and other products in Europe, dropped 2.1 percent.
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker by sales, fell
2.3 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , the country’s
biggest lender by market value, erased losses after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said capital requirement rules agreed to by
international regulators are “positive” for Japan’s lenders.  The benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1 percent to
9,578.31 at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo. The broader Topix index
retreated 0.9 percent to 825.64. Trading volume on the main
board of the Tokyo Stock Exchange was a third less than this
year’s average as investors awaited the vote in  Greece  and
reports on U.S. consumer spending and Japanese manufacturing.  “It’s not easy for investors to get bullish with all of
these unresolved things waiting out there,” said  Naoki Fujiwara ,
who helps oversee $6 billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in
Tokyo. “It’s unclear whether Greece will be able to pass its
reconstruction plans.”  ‘Spill-Over’  The Topix has lost 11 percent since March 10, the day
before a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami devastated Japan’s
northeast coast, triggering the worst nuclear accident in 25
years and leaving more than 23,000 people dead or missing.  Japanese shares have also declined on signs the U.S.
economic recovery is slowing and amid a debt crisis in Greece
that the  International Monetary Fund  said may “spill over,”
hurting banks in the region that hold the country’s bonds.  Sony lost 2.1 percent to 2,033 yen. Fanuc Corp., a maker of
industrial robots that gets 11 percent of its sales in  Europe ,
lost 2.1 percent to 12,630 yen.  Shares fell ahead of a vote in Greece’s parliament expected
on June 29 on a five-year austerity plan that must pass for the
cash-strapped nation to secure more international aid. Greece
needs loans from Europe and the IMF to cover 6.6 billion euros
($9.4 billion) of maturing bonds in August.  The Topix rose last week the most in almost a year after
European leaders said Greece is getting closer to meeting
conditions for a rescue, easing concern the country will suffer
a default that destabilizes the region’s banking system.  U.S. Consumers  Stocks also declined today ahead of a report expected to
show growth in  consumer spending  is slowing in the world’s
biggest economy. The U.S. Commerce Department may say today that
consumer spending grew last month at its slowest pace since June
2010, with outlays rising 0.1 percent, according to the median
estimate of  economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Spending
increased 0.4 percent in April.  Toyota, whose biggest market is the U.S., sank 2.3 percent
to 3,210 yen. Kyocera Corp., a maker of solar panels which gets
more than 20 percent of sales in the U.S., sank 1.3 percent to
8,100 yen.  Trading companies dropped as concern the U.S. expansion is
slowing weighed on  oil prices . Mitsubishi declined 1.2 percent
to 1,960 yen. Mitsui & Co.,  Japan ’s second-largest trading
company, dropped 1.1 percent to 1,346 yen.  Banks Pare Declines  Banks pared earlier losses after Goldman Sachs said capital
requirement rules agreed to by global regulators are
“positive” for Japan’s lenders.  Mitsubishi UFJ  erased losses of as much as 1.3 percent,
finishing the day unchanged. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc., Japan’s second-largest bank by market value, gained 0.2
percent to 2,404 yen after earlier dropping 1.5 percent.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said on June 25
the world’s largest banks must hold as much as 2.5 percentage
points in additional capital as part of efforts to prevent
another crisis like the one that stemmed from the 2008
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Although it’s not
clear which lenders would be subject to the rules, Goldman Sachs
analysts led by Philippa Rogers said Japan’s top banks have
sufficient capital and won’t have to raise funds.  Japan’s central bank will announce the country’s most-
closely watched survey of manufacturer sentiment on July 1. The
Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan index of confidence among big
manufacturers probably fell to minus 7 in June from 6 in March,
the biggest drop since March 2009, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A negative number
means pessimists outnumber optimists.  Post-Quake Tankan  This week’s survey is the first to fully reflect the impact
of Japan’s record earthquake and tsunami on March 11. About
three quarters of the responses in the previous survey were
submitted before the disaster.  Among stocks that rose,  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., operator
of the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant, climbed 2.6
percent to 316 yen. The Yomiuri newspaper reported the utility
may sell two units as part of restructuring plans.  Nakabayashi Co., a maker of  office equipment , soared by its
upper daily limit of 29 percent to 221 yen, the biggest gain
since at least June 1981. The Osaka-based company will start
selling a battery in early August that can be recharged by
adding water, beer, saliva or any other fluid, it said June 24.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 