-- 
Torre Gets Biggest Cheer in Old Timers’ Day Return; Yankees Defeat Rockies

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-06-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/joe-torre-draws-biggest-cheers-on-first-visit-to-yankees-old-timers-day.html
Former manager  Joe Torre  received a
prolonged standing ovation as he returned to the  New York
Yankees  for his Old Timers’ Day debut.  Torre received the loudest cheers yesterday at Yankee
Stadium as he has donned his No. 6 uniform for the first time
since he left the team in 2007.  “Putting it on it felt good,” Torre said of the uniform.
“Taking it off was quite emotional in ’07.”  Torre, 70, managed the Yankees for 12 seasons from 1996,
winning World Series titles in 1996, 1998, 1999 and 2000. He’s
now  Major League Baseball ’s executive vice president of baseball
operations.  A former player and manager with the  New York Mets , Torre
left the Yankees after rejecting a one-year, $5 million offer,
which he called insulting. He was the  Los Angeles Dodgers ’
manager from 2008-10.  Other newcomers among the Yankees’ 50 Old Timers’ Day
honorees were former manager Lou Piniella and Bernie Williams,
the center fielder on four World Series championship teams.  “I haven’t been home in what, 20 years, so it’s been
special,” the 67-year-old Piniella told reporters before the
Yankees’ 6-4 win over the Colorado Rockies.  Piniella ended his 23-year managerial career last season,
when he retired from the  Chicago  Cubs. Piniella spent the last
11 seasons of his 18-year playing career with the Yankees and
managed the club from 1986-88 before going on to managerial
stints with Cincinnati,  Seattle , Tampa Bay and Chicago.  Williams Returns  Williams, 42, batted .297 with 287 home runs in his 16-year
playing career, spent entirely with the Yankees. The five-time
All-Star and four-time Gold Glove Award winner retired after the
2006 season.  “It’s a really big thing for me. If you’d take out the
word ‘old,’ I’d probably be a little more comfortable,”
Williams said. “When I was playing, I always looked forward to
this day. It reminded me of the fact that we were all part of a
family that has been going on for 100 years.”  Others attendees included Hall of Fame players  Yogi Berra ,
Rich “Goose” Gossage, Reggie Jackson and  Whitey Ford . Tino
Martinez hit a two-run home run off David Cone as the Bombers
beat the Clippers 2-0 in the Old Timers’ Game.  The Yankees then beat the Rockies as Nick Swisher and Jorge Posada hit fifth-inning home runs to erase a 3-0 deficit and
Mark Teixeira added another in the eighth. It was Teixeira’s
team-leading 23rd home run of the season.  The Yankees won two of three games in the series to improve
to 45-31 and remain a half-game ahead of the  Boston Red Sox  atop
the American League East standings.  Honoring Monahan  The Yankees also used yesterday’s celebrations to honor the
49 years service of head athletic trainer Gene Monahan.  Monahan, 67, said last month that this would be his final
year with the club, which he joined as a 17-year-old bat boy.  In announcing his retirement, Monahan said he planned to
move to  North Carolina  and get a pickup truck and a Labrador
retriever he’d call Schrader. Yesterday, the Yankees presented
Monahan with a Ford F-150 truck, a black Labrador, a 15-day trip
to  Europe ’s Alps, a riding lawnmower, a painting of the old
Yankee Stadium and two seats from the original stadium in
appreciation for his service. Monahan also threw out the first
pitch before the Old Timers’ Day game.  “All of us are trying to enjoy this last year having Geno
around,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi said in a video tribute to
Monahan. “We’re going to miss him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  