-- 
Christie Says He’s ‘Not a Fan’ of Gay Marriage After New York Passes Bill

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-26T13:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/new-jersey-s-christie-says-he-s-not-a-fan-of-gay-marriage.html
New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he is “not a fan” of same-sex marriage and wouldn’t
follow neighboring  New York ’s lead by legalizing it.  While New Jersey allows gay couples to form civil unions,
marriage should be between a man and a woman, Christie said
today on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.  New York on June 24 became the sixth U.S. state to give gay
couples the right to wed. Governor Andrew Cuomo signed the
measure into law after the New York’s Republican-controlled
state Senate approved the measure earlier that night in a 33-29
vote. New Jersey’s Senate rejected a gay marriage bill backed by
then-Governor Jon Corzine in January 2010.  “In our state, we’re going to continue to pursue civil
unions,” said Christie, 48, a first-term Republican. “I am not
a fan of same-sex marriage. It’s not something that I support.”  Proponents of New Jersey’s failed gay-marriage bill had
said the state’s current civil union law doesn’t guarantee same-
sex couples federal protection and equal treatment by insurance
providers, hospitals and out-of-state firms that don’t recognize
the arrangements.  “I believe marriage should be between one man and one
woman,” Christie said. “I wouldn’t sign a bill like the one
that was in New York.”  Iowa , Vermont,  New Hampshire ,  Massachusetts  and Connecticut
issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples, as does the
 District of Columbia , according to the Washington-based  Human
Rights Campaign , which advocates equal rights for gay, bisexual
and transgender people. New York and  Maryland  recognize such
marriages from other jurisdictions.  New York’s new law, enabling same-sex couples to marry in
the state, will take effect in 30 days. New York is the nation’s
third most-populous state, with 19.4 million residents.  Christie, who has said he won’t seek the Republican
presidential nomination for 2012, also demurred when asked
whether he’d have any interest in running for vice president.  “The person who picks me as vice president would have to
be sedated,” Christie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  