-- 
NHL Teams Favored Canadians, Swedes, U.S. Players in 2011 Entry Draft

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-26T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/nhl-teams-favored-canadians-swedes-u-s-players-in-2011-entry-draft.html
Canadians represented more than a
third of the 210 players taken in the seven rounds of the
National Hockey League draft.  Canadian-born center Ryan Nugent-Hopkins was the overall No.
1 pick by the Edmonton Oilers to become the first British
Columbia native ever selected with the first pick.  The Canadian Hockey League produced 21 of the 30 first-
round choices, including 10 of the first 13. In all, 79 Canadian
players were selected, 38 percent of the prospects.  The six Swedes taken in the opening round tied the record
set in 1993 and matched in 2009. Half were among the first six
picks: Gabriel Landeskog by the  Colorado Avalanche , Adam Larsson
by the New Jersey Devils and Mika Zibanejad by the  Ottawa
Senators .  Sean Couturier, the first U.S. player selected among five
in the initial round, was picked eighth by the  Philadelphia
Flyers , and J.T. Miller went 15th to the  New York Rangers .  Among the four forwards and two defensemen the Rangers
selected was Stephen Fogarty of the Edina Hornets, who was
acquired in the third round after  New York  traded Evgeny Grachev
for St. Louis’ pick.  Russia, Denmark, Finland and Switzerland had one prospect
each taken in the first round of the draft that started two days
ago. Rounds two through seven were completed yesterday at Xcel
Energy Center in  St. Paul , Minnesota.  Eight Russian-born players were selected during the two
days, the same number as last year. That compares with the
record high 45 Russians picked in 1992. Russia, which felt the
NHL was taking its most promising prospects, has started its own
junior league similar to the ones in Canada.  Blackhawks Draft 11  The 210 players selected in the draft represent 14
countries.  The  Chicago Blackhawks  had 11 picks, the most of any team.
The Blackhawks had two choices in each of the first three rounds,
one each in the next three and two in the seventh, including the
last pick,  Swedish goaltender Johan Mattson.  The Senators had three in the first round, the most of any
team, when they selected Mika Zibanejad (No. 6), Stefan Moesen
(No. 21) and Matt Puempel (No. 24).  Goaltenders were forced to wait until overall pick No. 38
in the second round before Magnus Hellberg of  Sweden  went to the
Nashville Predators. In all, 19 goaltenders were drafted, 11 in
the last two rounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  