-- 
Nick Charles, First Sports Anchor for CNN, Dies of Bladder Cancer at 64

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/nick-charles-first-sports-anchor-for-cnn-dies-of-cancer-at-64.html
Nick Charles, a former taxi driver
who became the first sports anchor of Cable News Network Inc. in
1980, died yesterday after a two-year battle with bladder cancer.
He was 64.  Charles died at his home in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , CNN said,
citing his wife Cory.  On the set for CNN’s debut June 1, 1980, Charles and Fred Hickman anchored the Atlanta-based cable network’s “Sports
Tonight” for most of the next two decades.  “His passing is a loss to CNN, to the sports world and to
the fans and friends everywhere who were with him to the end of
his extraordinary life,” said Jim Walton, Charles’s field
producer in his early days and current president of CNN
Worldwide.  Born Nicholas Charles Nickeas, he grew up in Chicago’s
inner city as the son of a taxi driver. During high school he
worked nights to help pay the family’s bills. He drove a taxi to
pay tuition to Columbia College  Chicago  where he studied
communications and journalism.  At the age of 24, he was hired as a sports anchor for WICS
in Springfield,  Illinois . He then moved to television stations
in Baltimore and Washington before joining CNN.  While he covered the Olympics, Super Bowls and Kentucky
Derbys, boxing was his passion, CNN said on its website. He
covered the Buster Douglas knockout of an undefeated  Mike Tyson 
in 1990, as well as the bout in which Tyson bit Evander Holyfield’s ear.  “Mourning the loss of a true warrior. My friend & brother,
Nick Charles,” Tyson wrote on Twitter.  Charles is survived by his wife, Cory, and their daughter,
Giovanna. He has three children from two previous marriages:
Jason, Melissa and Katie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  