-- 
Luxury-Home Prices in London to Climb 8% This Year on Overseas Purchasers

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-06-26T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/london-luxury-home-prices-to-climb-8-in-2011-on-foreign-buyers.html
Central London luxury home prices
will increase by 8 percent this year as overseas buyers take
advantage of a weak pound, broker  Savills Plc (SVS)  said, reversing a
November prediction that values would fall.  The average price of a home costing at least 3 million
pounds ($4.8 million) and located in neighborhoods such as
Knightsbridge and Belgravia rose 9.6 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, Savills said. The quarterly gain
was 3.4 percent.  “Overseas demand has been much stronger than we
expected,” Lucian Cook, a researcher at Savills, said in a
telephone interview. “The big unknown is what happens in  Greece 
- will it be a catalyst for more demand because of the outlook
for the euro region?”  Buyers based outside the U.K. have been competing over a
below-average number of properties for sale in central  London  as
they seek a haven for their wealth amid political and economic
uncertainty at home. The pound’s 25 percent slide against a
basket of other currencies since the housing-market peak in late
2007 has made London real estate more attractive.  In November Savills forecast a 1 percent decline for luxury
apartments and houses in central London, predicting a pickup in
the number of properties for sale and saying deteriorating
economic conditions would deter British buyers.  Overseas buyers accounted for 72 percent of prime central
London property purchases in the first quarter, compared with 60
percent three years earlier, according to  Hamptons
International .  British Shift  British owners accounted for 55 percent of prime property
sales in the city’s center. Instead of reinvesting in the same
districts, they tended to move to more affordable neighborhoods
within the capital, said Adam Challis, head of research at
 Hamptons .  Savills predicts that prices of homes valued at least 1
million pounds across the capital will probably rise by 6
percent this year, reflecting the shift and the gentrification
of neighborhoods, particularly in southwest London.  “Displaced wealth is pushing up values beyond the
center,” said Yolande Barnes, Savills’s head of residential
research. “We would normally expect this to trigger a ripple of
domestic wealth out of the capital, but this is only so far
being seen in a few key commuter hotspots.”  Savills predicts that average values of prime residential
real estate outside London will fall by 3 percent this year. In
November it predicted a 1 percent drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 