-- 
Longest Losing Streak Since 2008 Ending for Commodities as Futures Surge

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-06-27T11:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/longest-losing-streak-since-2008-ending-for-commodities-as-futures-surge.html
Commodities will rebound from the
worst losing streak since the end of 2008 because shortages of
everything from copper to palladium to corn will boost prices
even if economic growth slows, should history be a guide.  The benchmark  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index is heading for a
second monthly drop, led by declines in silver, coffee and
nickel. The last time that happened, the gauge surged 36 percent
in the next six months. Speculators are holding a net 1.1
million U.S. futures and options contracts to bet on higher
prices, 37 percent more than the average of the last five years,
data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  “The long-term perspective is that many commodities have
supply constraints,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps
manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in
Birmingham, Alabama, and favors gold because it will gain from
financial stimulus by central banks and inflation. “That’s an
environment where you want commodities in your portfolio.”  The two-month slump in raw-materials mirrored declines in
stocks, with almost $4 trillion of equity value erased since May
1 as the slowdown in economic growth threatens to curb profits.
Financial assets also retreated as more than two-dozen countries
and the  European Central Bank  raised  interest rates  to cool
inflation and Greece sought aid to avoid becoming the first
euro-area country to default.  The S&P GSCI fell 12 percent this quarter compared with a
4.7 percent decline in the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities. Treasuries returned 3.8 percent, a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index shows. The commodities index advanced 1.3
percent this year, beating stocks that are down 0.9 percent.
Bonds returned 3.6 percent.  Silver Winner  Silver will be the biggest winner among 15 commodities in
the second half, rallying as much as 46 percent by Dec. 31 to
match the all-time high $49.79 set in April, the median in a
Bloomberg survey of more than 100 analysts and traders shows.  While gold will have one of the smallest gains, its 9.9
percent advance means a record price of $1,650 an ounce,
according to the survey. Copper will gain 11 percent to $10,000
a metric ton.  Corn and wheat will be the best agricultural performers,
each rising 30 percent to $8.18 a bushel and $8.50 a bushel, the
survey showed. Arabica coffee may rally 11 percent to $2.80 a
pound, the survey shows.  Catalytic Converters  Farmers will reap too little corn to meet demand for a
second year, leaving stockpiles at the lowest relative to use
since 1974, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Supply
of palladium will fall 112,000 ounces short of demand, enough to
supply the global car industry with catalytic converters for a
week,  Barclays Capital  says. There will also be a 728,000-ton
copper shortage, equal to 3.6 percent of consumption and 18
times last year’s deficit, the bank forecasts.  The main brake on the decade-long  bull market  in
commodities may be the economy.  Japan  entered its third
recession in a decade, and the Australian economy shrank the
most in 20 years in the first quarter. Federal Reserve policy
makers cut their forecasts for U.S. growth this year to a range
of 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent from 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent.
The Fed will maintain record monetary stimulus to support a
flagging recovery from the worst recession since the 1930s,
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said June 22.  “Without the Fed’s intervention, the economy will falter
and commodity prices will drop,” said  Michael Pento , the
economist at Euro Pacific Capital in  New York  who correctly
predicted the collapse in commodity prices in 2008. “Several
European countries could be in a recession by the beginning of
2012. We’ve had a truncated and shallow recession and there’s
still a lot of pain to come.”  Production Surplus  That may mean some commodities retreating again after they
rebound. While nickel was expected to advance 11 percent to
$24,500 a ton in last week’s survey, one carried out earlier
this month predicted prices dropping as low as $20,000 by Dec.
31 because of an expanding production surplus.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou, after winning a
confidence vote June 21, still has to push through budget cuts
this week to secure financial aid. European leaders vowed last
week to stave off a default as long as the cuts go through.
 Greece  already has the world’s lowest debt grade assigned by
Standard & Poor’s.  Economic pressure is building elsewhere. The 26 percent
gain in commodity prices in the past 12 months contributed to
accelerating inflation, spurring more than two-dozen central
banks to raise interest rates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chinese Inflation  Inflation in  China , the biggest consumer of everything from
copper to wheat, exceeded the government’s target each month
this year. Premier Wen Jiabao said June 24 that efforts to cool
consumer-price growth were working.  Weakening economic growth has cut commodity demand before.
Aluminum, copper, nickel, zinc, silver, platinum and palladium
consumption fell in 2009 as the global economy suffered its
worst recession since World War II, Barclays Capital said. That
was preceded by speculators in U.S. commodity futures cutting
their bets on higher prices by 95 percent in the eight months
ended October 2008.  There’s no sign of that happening now. The combined net-
long position rose in three of the last five weeks, data from
the Washington-based CFTC show.  Economists don’t expect a return to the slump of 2008 and
2009 either. U.S. growth will accelerate to 3.2 percent in the
next two quarters from 2.3 percent this quarter, the median of
as many as 68 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.
The world economy will expand 4.3 percent this year and 4.5
percent in 2012, the  International Monetary Fund  said June 17.  Weaker Dollar  Commodities may also be boosted by a weaker dollar. The
U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge against six counterparts, will weaken
to 74.1 in the third quarter, from 74.8 so far this period,
based on the median of eight forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.
The Dollar Index and S&P GSCI have a correlation of -0.76, with
-1 meaning they move in opposite directions all the time.  Some of the most accurate forecasters remain bullish on raw
materials.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which correctly predicted
the slump in May, expects higher prices in six months for 17 of
the 21 commodities it covers, a report June 14 showed.  Commodity assets under management climbed to a record $451
billion in April, up 56 percent from a year earlier, Barclays
said last month. The figure doesn’t reflect the May slump, when
the S&P GSCI fell 11 percent in five days, the worst rout since
December 2008.  Grain Export Ban  Wheat as much as doubled in the past 12 months as drought
and flooding from Canada to  Russia  to  Europe  ruined crops. While
Russia lifts a 10-month grain export ban on July 1, weather is
now threatening harvests in the U.S. and across Europe. Group of
20 farm ministers meeting in Paris last week passed on a French
proposal to curb speculators in agricultural markets to finance
ministers meeting in  Washington  in September.  Cocoa jumped as much as 45 percent in the past 12 months as
a civil war curbed supplies from Ivory Coast, the world’s
largest producer. Raw sugar more than doubled as shipping
bottlenecks limited supply from  Brazil  and Thailand, the biggest
exporters. Coffee gained as much as 98 percent because of a
smaller harvest in Brazil and crop losses in Colombia.  Growth in copper and platinum supply is being curtailed by
ores that yield less metal, as well as higher prices for labor
and energy. The cost of mining copper in Chile, the world’s
biggest producer, rose 20 percent last year, according to UBS
AG.  Northam Platinum Ltd. (NHM) ’s Zondereinde mine in  South Africa  has
shafts extending as much as 1.4 miles underground.  “I still like the growth story,” said  Michael Cuggino ,
who helps manage $13.5 billion at  Permanent Portfolio (PRPFX)  Funds in
San Francisco. “Commodity prices are going to continue to go
higher. Worldwide, the economy continues to grow and monetary
policy is going to stay relatively consistent with no changes.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  