-- 
Papandreou Faces Parliament on Second Austerity Call as EU Deadline Looms

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-06-27T07:48:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/papandreou-faces-parliament-on-second-austerity-call-as-eu-deadline-looms.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  faces his second survival test in a week as lawmakers
vote on a five-year austerity plan that must pass for the cash-
strapped nation to secure more international aid.  Failure to pass Papandreou’s plan may lead to the euro
area’s first sovereign default as  Greece  needs to cover 6.6
billion euros ($9.4 billion) of maturing bonds in August. The
week, beginning with talks over creditors’ role and ending with
a Sunday meeting of finance ministers meet in Brussels, will be
marked by a 48-hour general strike in Greece.  With 155 votes in the 300-seat legislature, Papandreou
needs to unite his lawmakers in two votes on a 78 billion-euro
package of budget cuts and asset sales before Greece can tap a
fifth loan payment from last year’s 110 billion-euro rescue.
Ruling-party lawmaker Thomas Robopoulos said June 24 he may vote
against the government, joining Alexandros Athanasiadis, who
opposes plans to sell a stake in  Public Power Corp SA (PPC) , the
former electricity monopoly.  “There is a deep awareness of the seriousness of the
situation,” said Gikas Hardouvelis, chief economist at  EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) , Greece’s second-biggest bank. “The
program will pass as the government members of parliament are
lined up behind the prime minister. Political uncertainty is
out.”  Yield Climbs  Concern the sovereign debt crisis has longer to run after
almost two years of attempts to stem the contagion is unnerving
investors who last week pushed the euro to a record low against
the Swiss franc. German bonds rose for a third consecutive week
and European stocks fell for an eighth, the longest stretch of
losses since 1998. Today, the yield on Greece’s 10-year notes
rose 3 basis points to 16.81 percent at 10:05 a.m. in Athens.  “We are on the verge of an economic collapse which starts,
let’s say, in Greece, but it could easily spread,” billionaire
investor  George Soros  said yesterday in Vienna. “The financial
system remains extremely vulnerable.”  Papandreou has spent the past 15 days trying, and failing,
to muster opposition backing for the package, while keeping his
own troops in line. He appointed a new finance minister to stem
defections, survived a confidence vote and outlined 5.6 billion
euros of additional budget measures, including a 5 percent levy
on lawmakers’ wages. On June 24, he won a pledge for a second
bailout from European Union leaders provided he can deliver
domestic support for the retrenchment.  Debate Begins  The first session of the three-day debate is scheduled to
begin at 6 p.m. today. A vote is expected on June 29. An
implementation law, which provides the technical details of how
the five-year plan will be applied is also due to be discussed
and approved this week by the deadline of June 30.  As Greek government officials say they may not have money
past mid-July to pay wages and pensions, the country’s travails
are again taking front stage in the global economy.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s effort to involve banks
in aiding the nation is running into difficulty as her  Finance
Ministry  rejects calls from private investors for incentives to
encourage their participation in a plan to roll over maturing
Greek debt. The French Treasury and banks led by  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA
will propose this week that bondholders re-invest 70 percent of
their Greek debt maturing in the next three years, three people
familiar with the plan said yesterday.  Charles Dallara , managing director of the  Institute of
International Finance , will hold talks with banks in  Rome  today
led by Vittorio Grilli, director general of the Italian
Treasury, IIF spokesman Frank Vogl said. Grilli is also the head
of the EU’s Economic and Financial Committee, which prepares the
work of EU finance ministers.  Chinese Support  Europe  won a vote of confidence from Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , who said during a weekend trip to the continent that
 China  will remain “a long term investor in Europe’s sovereign
debt market.”  Ramping up the pressure on Papandreou and his lawmakers,
unions, traditional allies of his socialist Pasok party, are
holding their fourth general strike. Beginning at midnight, the
48-hour strike will affect government services, flights and
public transport. For the past week, workers at Public Power
have held rolling 48-hour strikes, leading to power cuts around
the country.  Acropolis Protest  Early today, members of the Communist Party of Greece
draped a banner reading “The People Have the Power: Never
Surrender” in English and Greek over the walls of the ancient
Acropolis citadel in  Athens , chanting slogans against the
austerity measures. Tourists took photos of the peaceful
demonstration.  “Passage of the legislation may be the comparatively easy
part,” said Jens Bastian, a visiting economist at Oxford
University, in  England , who believes Papandreou has the support
to win the votes this week and may also receive backing from
some opposition lawmakers as well. “Implementation will be
severely challenged by different constituencies and thus risks
being delayed or sabotaged.”  Implementing more austerity measures threatens to deepen a
three-year recession and complicate efforts to boost government
revenue. Greek gross domestic product will shrink 3.8
percent this year, according to a report from EU and IMF
inspectors in June after contracting 4.4 percent last year. The
nation’s debt load will peak at 166 percent of GDP next year,
and is already the biggest in the euro-region’s history.  Lobbying Lawmakers  Evangelos Venizelos, named finance minister by Papandreou on
June 17, said he’d speak to the two lawmakers threatening to
withhold their support. On June 23 he met with unions at the
power company, which has prompted the opposition of lawmaker
Athanasiadis, whose Komotini, northern Greek constituency counts
 Public Power  as one of its biggest employers.  “I cannot see why anyone would have supported Papandreou
last Tuesday and then vote against the package” this week, said
David Mackie, London-based chief European economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Apart from state asset sales to reduce debt and levies
ranging from 1 percent to 5 percent on wages, Papandreou’s plan
includes higher taxes on restaurants and bars, higher heating-
oil taxes and lowering the tax-free threshold to 8,000 euros
from 12,000 euros presently. Greek newspaper  To Vima  calculated
the additional burden for an average Greek family of four at
2,795 euros a year, about the same as one month’s income.  Papandreou Popularity  Papandreou’s Pasok party now trails  New Democracy , the
biggest opposition bloc, with the latest opinion poll giving
Pasok 20 percent of voter preferences to 21.4 percent for New
Democracy. ND leader Antonis Samaras has defied calls from EU
leaders to support the package. While he says he backs the goals
of the plan, he insists the package should be renegotiated to
drop tax increases in favour of measures to boost growth.  “Samaras is trying to appear playing hardball with the
Papandreou government in Athens but he risks holding the short
straw at the European level if he insists on continued
intransigence,” said Bastian.  Papandreou said in Brussels on June 24 that he believed his
lawmakers knew what was at stake.  “We all feel the great sense of responsibility we have
first of all to the Greek people and continuing on a difficult
path, but I would say a path which is much better than the
alternative path of defaulting,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  