-- 
Pelosi Says U.S. Debt-Ceiling Deal Must Reduce Tax Subsidies for Companies

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-06-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/pelosi-says-any-debt-deal-will-have-to-reduce-tax-subsidies-.html
House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi 
said reductions in “tax subsidies” for companies must be part
of any deal to cut the  U.S. budget deficit  and increase the
federal debt ceiling.  Democratic President  Barack Obama  and Republican House
Speaker  John Boehner  will need the support of Democrats to get
an agreement through the House, Pelosi said yesterday in an
interview on CNN’s “State of the Union.” Such an agreement
would have to include both spending cuts and an end to tax
breaks for some industries such as oil, she said.  “You can’t cut your way out of the deficit,” California
Democrat Pelosi said. “You have to have revenue on the table.”  Obama stepped into the negotiations to cut at least $1
trillion from the long-term deficit and raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling before Aug. 2, after discussions led by
Vice President  Joe Biden  broke down when House Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, walked out June 23, saying
he wouldn’t discuss increases in revenue.  “The obstacle has come because Leader Cantor walked away
from the table because he doesn’t want to deal with the special-
interest tax subsidies,” Pelosi said.  Obama summoned Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, for separate meetings at the White House today aimed
at breaking the impasse.  More Taxes  “Throwing more tax revenue into the mix won’t get us the
desired results,” McConnell yesterday said on ABC’s “This
Week.” “And it won’t pass.”  McConnell, who declined to completely rule out ending some
tax breaks to raise revenue, said Republicans are focused on
cutting spending.  “We need to cut spending now, we need to cap spending in
the future, and we need to save our entitlement programs,” he
said.  McConnell’s words echoed the pledge being circulated to
members of Congress and Republican presidential candidates by
Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, who is seeking
passage of balanced budget amendment to the U.S. constitution.  “I am convinced if we don’t have that requirement, we’re
going to keep spending until our country becomes worse than
 Greece ,” DeMint said yesterday on  CNN ’s “State of the Union.”  Greece’s debt reached 143 percent of its gross domestic
product last year and the country received a bailout from the
European Union. The country is risking defaulting on its debts
if it doesn’t approve tax increases and spending cuts in coming
weeks.  August Deadline  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the
statutory debt ceiling must be raised by Aug. 2 or the U.S.
risks being unable to pay its debts.  Moody’s Investors Service said this month it will put the
U.S. government’s Aaa credit rating under review for a downgrade
unless there’s progress on increasing the limit by mid-July.
 Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. on notice in April that it risks
losing its top  credit rating  unless policy makers agree on a
plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the national debt.  Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., said failing to get an agreement
would put the U.S. in “the land of the unpredictable.”  “My advice is please try and get together and solve this
issue in the context of a medium-term reform package,” El-
Erian, whose firm runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said
yesterday on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.” “If you can’t do
that and you’re going to kick the can down the road, kick the
can rather than face something that could be catastrophic in
terms of legal contracts being triggered.”  11th Hour  McConnell said both Democrats and Republicans would like to
“finish this negotiation and finish it soon.”  “It need not go to the 11th hour,” he said.  Cantor quit the Biden-led talks after seven weeks and
Arizona Senator John Kyl, the second-ranking Republican,
followed within hours.  At that time, the negotiators had agreed to $1.4 trillion
to $2 trillion in spending cuts, McConnell said.  The Republicans bowed out with only two meetings to go in
the round of dealmaking, said South Carolina Representative
James Clyburn, one of the Democrats involved in the talks. The
breakdown came when group was discussing ways to raise revenue
that the Republicans wouldn’t accept because they saw them as
tax increases, Clyburn said on “This Week.”  “How do you call loopholes to  oil companies  that are
making all these billions in profits tax hikes?” he said.
“That is no tax hike. We call a tax hike when you raise
rates.”  Spending Cuts  Republicans are pressing to cut spending on entitlement
programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Democrats proposed
phasing out tax breaks for those earning more than $500,000 a
year, Maryland Representative Chris Van Hollen, a Democrat
participating in the talks, said on a conference call June 24.  Speaking at a political fundraiser June 23 in  New York ,
Obama said he’s “prepared to bring down our deficit by
trillions of dollars,” and that spending cuts must be
“balanced” with tax increases on the wealthy.  U.S. debt  may exceed the size of the nation’s economy by
2021, according to the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  The handoff of negotiations to the president will force
Obama to be specific about what kinds of tax increases he
supports to help close the  budget deficit , something Democrats
have avoided amid tension in their party over raising tax rates
versus closing tax loopholes for corporations.  It also increases pressure on Boehner, who would have to
find enough Republican votes to pass a deal that might draw
opposition within his caucus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  