-- 
Philip Morris Claims Australia’s Plain Cigarette Package Plan is Illegal

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-06-27T08:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/philip-morris-starts-legal-action-on-australian-tobacco-package-law-plans.html
Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,
the world’s largest publicly traded tobacco company, said an
Australian proposal requiring cigarettes to be sold in plain
packages violates a treaty with Hong Kong and may cause billions
of dollars in damages.  The maker of Marlboro and Peter Jackson cigarettes said it
served the government with a notice of claim stating its
intention to pursue its case in international arbitration. Hong
Kong has a 1994 treaty with Australia prohibiting the forced
removal of trademarks, Anne Edwards, a Philip Morris
spokeswoman, said in a phone interview today.  The Australian proposal is the first in the world to ban
all logos and different colorings on cigarette packages.  New
Zealand ,  Canada  and the U.K. had considered the move and didn’t
put it in place because of concerns it would be illegal,  British
American Tobacco Plc (BATS)   said  in April. British American Tobacco
said it’s also considering its legal options.  “There’s a massive public policy argument here,”  Wayne
Condon , a partner at Griffith Hack who specializes in
intellectual property law, said in a phone interview. “The
Commonwealth government would be facing a multimillion dollar
claim, if not more,” should the  tobacco companies  succeed.  Under the Australian constitution, parliament can’t make
laws under which the government would acquire property without
providing adequate compensation.  Trademarks Are Property  “It is property,” Condon said, referring to the tobacco
companies’ logos and trademarks that are used on cigarette
packages. “The law defines trademarks as property.”  Philip Morris’s Asian unit is based in  Hong Kong  and owns
Philip Morris Ltd., the Australian unit.  “Damages caused by plain packaging may amount to billions
of Australian dollars,” Edwards said. The tobacco company took
the legal action to protect investors in Hong Kong, she said.  Australia has already banned the public display of tobacco
products in most retail outlets. The government plans to outlaw
logos on cigarette packs and force them to be sold in plain dark
olive packaging, carrying health warnings instead of company
logos. Cigarette brand names will appear on the packages in the
same size and style of printing. The legislation, if passed by
parliament, will come into force on Jan. 1, 2012.  A television advertising campaign, backed by Imperial
Tobacco  Australia  Ltd. and titled “ Stop This Nanny State ,”
urges Australians to contact their political representatives and
stop the plain packaging law.  Won’t Be Intimidated  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said she won’t be
intimidated by the tobacco companies.  “We’re not taking a backward step,” she told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “We’ve made the right decision
and we’ll see it through.”  The government raised tobacco taxes by 25 percent last year
as it seeks to curb smoking, which is the nation’s largest
single preventable cause of death, according to Health Minister
Nicola Roxon.  “We don’t believe that taking that action is in breach of
any of our international obligations,” Roxon told Sky News
today. “We believe that we are able, and the Australian people
I think would expect their government, to take action in the
interests of public health.”  The government has received legal advice and believes it’s
on “very strong ground” in drafting the law, Roxon said in an
interview on Australian Broadcasting’s Lateline program April 7.  Mandatory Negotiations  The notice served by  Philip Morris  begins a mandatory
period of negotiations to resolve the dispute, the company said.
If an agreement isn’t reached in three months, the tobacco
company plans to take the dispute to arbitration under the
Arbitration Rules of the United Nations Commission on
International Trade Law.  Philip Morris will suggest the arbitration hearing be held
in  Singapore , Edwards said.  In this case, the government may be intruding into the
fundamental right of companies to exercise and exploit the
intellectual property which they were granted, Condon said.  “What company would stand for having its brands, which are
worth billions, taken away from them?” Scott McIntyre, a
spokesman at British American Tobacco, said in April. “A large
brewing company or fast food chain certainly wouldn’t, and we’re
no different.”  McIntyre didn’t respond to a request for comment today.  Winfield Maker  British American Tobacco, maker of  Winfield  cigarettes,
Australia’s best-selling brand, had 42 percent share of the
grocery and supermarket cigarette sales and 56 percent share of
convenience store sales in 2007, according to a  Tobacco in
Australia  report, which was produced by the Cancer Council of
Victoria.  Philip Morris had a 40 percent share of the grocery and
supermarket sales and a 33 percent share of convenience store
sales while  Imperial Tobacco  had an 18 percent, according to the
report.  Winfield had a 31.7 percent share of the market, followed
by Philip Morris’s Peter Jacksons at 18 percent.  About 15,000 Australians die each year from tobacco-related
diseases caused by smoking, with social, health and economic
costs put at A$30 billion ($31 billion) annually, Roxon said.  British American Tobacco has won a preliminary ruling in a
separate case in the Australian state of Victoria over the
covering up of labels with health warnings.  Trojan Infringement  Supreme Court Judge Elizabeth Hollingworth ruled in
December that British American Tobacco could pursue a claim that
its trademark was infringed by Trojan Trading Co. a distributor
of Captain Black cigars, which covered the label with a health
warning. Trojan said it was following the law in placing the
graphic warning on the package.  British American Tobacco is seeking access to the legal
advice the government received. The tobacco company failed in
forcing the government to release the documents through a
Freedom of Information request.  A federal appeals court has agreed to hear the case on Aug.
3 in  Melbourne .  George Williams, a constitutional law professor at the
University of New South Wales in Sydney said Australia’s top
court has never addressed this particular question.  “The tobacco companies have a hard road ahead,” Williams
said in a phone interview today. “They’re quite likely to
lose.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  