-- 
Pixar’s ‘Cars 2’ Is Top Movie With $66.1 Million in Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-06-27T21:45:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/pixar-s-cars-2-wins-weekend-box-office-with-68-million-in-ticket-sales.html
“Cars 2,” the 3-D animated feature
from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar studio, opened as the top film in
U.S. and Canadian theaters this past weekend, collecting $66.1
million in ticket sales.  “Bad Teacher,” the R-rated  Sony Corp. (6758)  comedy featuring
 Cameron Diaz , opened in second place with sales of $31.6
million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-
mailed statement.  “Cars 2,” a sequel to a 2006 film, is the first from
Pixar to draw mostly unfavorable reviews, with only 33 percent
of 148 critiques positive at Rottentomatoes.com. That compares
with 74 percent for the original. The film was expected to
collect as much as $70 million in its first weekend and $250
million in its domestic theatrical run, the estimate of Doug Creutz, a San Francisco-based analyst with Cowen & Co.  “Pixar is arguably the strongest brand in the business;
the name brings people out regardless of anything at this
point,” said  Brandon Gray , president of researcher Box Office
Mojo. Still, he said, the performance was “relatively tepid as
far as Pixar movies go.”  Potential merchandise sales likely led to the decision to
make the sequel, Creutz wrote in a June 23 note. The original
film has driven almost $10 billion in global merchandise sales,
most of it through licensing, of which Disney collects up to 15
percent, Creutz said. Disney expects sales of “Cars 2” toys
and products to top the $2.8 billion from “Toy Story 3” last
year, his note said.  $6.8 Billion  In “Cars 2,” race car Lightning McQueen and tow truck
Mater head overseas so that McQueen can compete in the World
Grand Prix auto race. Their adventure becomes complicated when
Mater becomes involved in a top-secret spying mission.  Owen Wilson  and Larry the Cable Guy (Daniel Lawrence Whitney) provide
the voices of McQueen and Mater.  Pixar’s 12 films all have opened at No. 1 and the filmmaker
has generated $6.8 billion in revenue worldwide through
yesterday, according to Hollywood.com. Disney acquired the
studio in 2006.  “Bad Teacher” features Diaz as a burned-out, foul-mouthed
teacher who hopes to escape her job by marrying an idealistic,
and wealthy, colleague.  Justin Timberlake , Jason Segel and Lucy
Punch co-star.  Given Diaz’s “spotty track record when it comes to
carrying a movie,” Gray said, “it really brings her back.”  ‘Super 8’  “ Green Lantern ,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.,
dropped to third from first with $18 million. The 3-D film,
based on the D.C. Comics character, has generated $89 million in
worldwide sales since it opened on June 17. It cost about $200
million to make, according to Box Office Mojo.  The film stars  Ryan Reynolds  as a self-indulgent test
pilot, Hal Jordan, who is recruited to join a force of
intergalactic superheroes dedicated to battling evil forces. To
harness the power that comes with his new calling, he must first
learn to master himself.  “Super 8,” the science-fiction thriller from  J.J. Abrams 
and  Steven Spielberg , finished fourth with sales of $12 million
in its third weekend. Made for an estimated $50 million, the
film has taken in $95.1 million since its June 10 release.  “Super 8” tells the story of a group of teens who uncover
a dangerous government secret while filming an amateur movie.
The picture stars  Elle Fanning , sister of Dakota Fanning, and
Joel Courtney.  Woody Allen   The  Jim Carrey  comedy “Mr. Popper’s Penguins,” fell to
fifth from third in its second weekend, taking in $10.1 million
for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox.  Woody Allen’s  “Midnight in Paris,” finished in 11th place
with sales of $4.2 million. Receipts total $28.3 million since
the film’s May release, making it Allen’s best commercial
success since the 1986 film “Hannah and Her Sisters” collected
$40.1 million, according to Box Office Mojo.  Revenue for the top 12 films this past weekend rose 8.3
percent to $170.1 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com
said. Domestic box-office sales this year have declined 7.6
percent to $4.9 billion. Attendance is down 9 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for June
24-26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  