-- 
Psychopaths Haunt Chatrooms in Nico Muhly’s ‘Two Boys’: Review

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-06-26T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/psychopaths-haunt-chatrooms-at-muhly-s-two-boys-london-premiere-review.html
Nico Muhly is tagged the “hottest
composer on the planet’’ on his record label’s website.
Whichever planet that is, it must be a pretty tepid one.  The 29-year-old American’s latest world premiere is “Two
Boys’’ at  English National Opera  in London. A co-production with
the  Metropolitan Opera , it travels to  New York  in the 2013-14
season. Lucky New York.  Based on real events, Muhly’s opera tells the story of a
16-year-old British boy called Brian who gets swept up in a
bizarre Internet world of mysterious psychopaths, girls in
distress and secret agents. Via chatroom messages, a female spy
orders Brian to stab his friend Jake and shout “I love you,
bro’’ at the same time.  The real-life case was widely reported and a TV documentary
was made about it, so I don’t think I’m spoiling things too much
by revealing that it was actually the troubled friend Jake who
was behind all the messages.  “Spoil’’ is a pretty hopeful verb here in any case. The
libretto (by Craig Lucas) moves with such exasperating slowness,
that if the audience hasn’t worked things out by Act II, then
they’re probably asleep or sensibly diverting their mental
energy elsewhere.  The opera is structured around the conventions of a TV cop
drama. Investigating officer Anne Strawson (mezzo Susan Bickley)
questions Brian after the stabbing, and his answers then prompt
a series of flashbacks. If you’ve ever felt yourself screaming
“chase the e-mail addresses’’ or “get the computer’’ at dim-
witted televisual detectives, you’ll recognize the feeling of
watching a plodding exposition that is always two steps behind.  Online Chats  In flashbacks, Brian is seen chatting online. His
interlocutors all appear on stage just as he fondly imagines
them to be.  Well, almost. Soprano Mary Bevan makes a convincing 16-
year-old girl, Rebecca, and Robert Gleadow makes a lively
oversexed psychopath, Peter. Adult baritone Jonathan McGovern,
is bizarrely cast as a 13-year-old schoolboy. It’s one of many
such “What? Who? How?’’ moments.  In real life, the two central boys were roughly the same
age. In the opera, 16-year-old Brian is sung by Nicky Spence, a
large tenor in his late twenties. The troubled friend who sends
all the bizarre chatroom commands is sung by a small boy treble
(Joseph Beesley).  When they meet, their scenes don’t create a sense of
mutual, confused adolescent sexuality. They create something
bordering on pedophilia. Can that really have been the
intention?  Not British  Librettist Lucas, an American, fails to create a convincing
atmosphere of Britishness for the story. Mentions of swimming
pools and full-time gardeners are off track in referring to the
U.K. urban middle classes.  All would be forgiven for some decent music. Instead, Muhly
serves up a footling reworking of  John Adams ’s early minimalism
in a score which rarely breaks out of a sclerotic andante-
moderato. He overuses a technique of chugging unison bass
instruments under flighty treble sounds too.  His vocal writing moves in a uniformly plodding one-note-
per-syllable parlando which never brings any of the characters
to life. It fails to conjure up love, or hatred, or despair, or
any of the other emotions the story would seem to demand.  One of the characters is a dangerous female spy, for
heaven’s sake. You’d think that should be a gift to a composer.
Not for Muhly. Plod, plod, plod. She sounds the same as Brian’s
boring dad.  Ear-Grabbing  The members of the cast throw themselves into it
wholeheartedly. Bickley has a great voice with an ear-grabbing
spin to it, and Nicky Spence sings attractively as Brian.  It doesn’t help. Bartlett Sher’s production is a fussy
affair with large brown screens (for video projections) and
clunkily realistic props. They all roll on and roll off into a
black-box stage space with depressing frequency.  In a season which has already given us a hopeless “Simon
Boccanegra,’’ an unfortunate “Midsummer Night’s Dream’’ and a
dead-in-the-water “Lucrezia Borgia,’’ it’s yet another ENO
disappointment.  Rating: *.  “Two Boys” runs though to July 8 at English National
Opera,  London  Coliseum, St. Martin’s Lane, WC2N 4ES.  Information: +44-871-911-0200,  http://www.eno.org/home.php   (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 