-- 
Racehorses Shouldn’t Have to Have Sex to Be Thoroughbreds, Court Is Told

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-06-26T14:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/racehorses-shouldn-t-need-sex-to-be-thoroughbreds-court-told.html
The rule is: Racehorses must have
actual sex for their foals to be thoroughbreds. In an era of
widespread artificial insemination, Australian breeder Bruce
McHugh says that’s wrong and has sued to void the rule in his
country. If he wins, he might change horse breeding worldwide.  The requirements that horses, in effect, get a stable and
go at it “are in restraint of trade” and thus unenforceable,
McHugh, former chairman of the  Sydney Turf Club  said in a
complaint filed in the Federal Court of  Australia .  Artificial insemination is common in other types of
breeding, he argued. Two-thirds of U.S. dairy cows and three
quarters of the pigs in 2005 were produced through that method,
 according  to Steve Blezinger, a nutritional and management
consultant in Texas. Even humans use artificial insemination
to reproduce without penalty.  A win “will bring thoroughbred racing into the 21st
century,” McHugh said of his case, which is set to go to trial
in Sydney Aug. 29.  The lawsuit is rattling a multibillion-dollar global
industry, where a thriving breeding trade has developed. Each
year owners of the world’s most-prized horses, including Dubai’s
ruler Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, send so-called
shuttle stallions around the globe to breed with mares,
collecting fees which have exceeded $330,000 per mating episode.  A court victory for McHugh could make Australia a trend-
setter, tempting stud book operators around the world to follow
its lead in allowing the registration of offspring from
artificially inseminated mares and saving money in the process.  Shut Out?  Alternatively, if no one followed Australia’s lead, that
country might find itself shut out of the racing industry.  U.S., British and other regulators might ban the progeny of
Australia’s artificially inseminated mares from their tracks,
said Paul Higgins, owner of  Baerami Thoroughbreds  in  Hunter
Valley , New South Wales, the world’s second-biggest horse-
breeding region after  Kentucky .  “I think the initial stance would be very hard,” Higgins,
who has as many as 300 horses on 1,000 acres of rolling fields
near Denman, New South Wales, said at his ranch home. “Things
will soften very quickly, and they’ll eventually be saying we’re
at the forefront.”  Higgins said he’s not taking a position in this dispute.  Horse breeders “are motivated by recognition and pursuit
of prestige,” said Gerald Ng, lawyer for the  Australian Racing
Board Ltd. , one of the defendants in the suit. Owners had also
used the breeding operations as tax write-offs, he told federal
court judge Alan Robertson at a June 22 hearing in Sydney.  Tax Returns  “Brood mare owners are not necessarily profit-maximizing
economic agents,” Ng said at the hearing, where Robertson
dismissed his request for access to tax returns of Tony Hartnell.
Hartnell, a former chairman of the Australia Securities and
Investment Commission, plans to testify in support of McHugh.  Ng had sought to show Hartnell used the losses from the
horse venture to reduce his income taxes.  To be eligible to race, thoroughbreds must be registered in
a recognized stud book. In Australia the  stud book  dates back to
1878, when the first one was compiled by William C. Yuille,
sporting editor of the Melbourne Weekly Times, according to the
organization’s website.  The book preserves an official record and ensures the
integrity of the thoroughbred breeding industry, the
organization said. Racing associations in other countries keep
stud books. More than 70 Stud Book Authorities are members of
the  International Stud Book Committee .  The prohibition of any form of artificial insemination was
one of the first issues discussed when the committee met for the
first time in Paris in 1976.  Position Maintained  The international committee has always recognized that a
challenge to the ban on artificial insemination may come, “but
in common with Racing Authorities, has maintained that it would
not be in the interest of the industry to change,” the group
said on its website.  Michael Ford, keeper of the Australian Stud Book, had told
the Brisbane Times in 2009 that it would be “definitely
foolish” for Australia to allow artificial insemination
unilaterally and face international bans on horses produced in
the country.  Livia Bartoletti, general counsel for the  Australian Turf
Club  which co-owns the stud book, said Ford couldn’t comment
because the McHugh case is pending.  McHugh, a would-be breeder, said in court papers that
allowing artificial insemination will reduce costs for both
owners of stallions and mares, since transportation of the
horses for a physical get-together could be eliminated.  Injury Risks  “Direct breeding involves transportation costs, and
agistment costs as well as servicing fees,” McHugh said in the
court papers, using the industry’s phrase for grazing.
“Transport increases the risk of injury to the mare.”  With artificial methods the number of mares a stallion
could impregnate could rise five- or six-fold, costing much less
as the increased supply would reduce prices, Higgins said.
Currently stallions can generally mate with about 80 mares each
breeding season, he said.  There is already an oversupply of horses in Australia, and
the use of artificial insemination would “exacerbate the
disequilibrium,” Ng said at the June 22 hearing.  The  American Quarter Horse Association  dropped its ban on
registration of foals produced through embryo transfers, a form
of artificial insemination, as part of an out-of-court
settlement in 2002 after a  Texas  judge ruled the restrictions
violated the state’s antitrust law.  The Thoroughbred Breeders’ Association of Australia has
successfully applied to be included as a party in the Sydney
lawsuit on the defendants’ side. The association opposes
artificial insemination, saying it would endanger the Australian
industry.  The case is Between Bruce McHugh and the Australian Jockey
Club Ltd. NSD1187/2009. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  