-- 
Shanghai Cargo to Rise 10% Yearly on Inland Factories

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-28T03:05:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/shanghai-sea-cargo-volume-to-increase-10-annually-as-plants-move-inland.html
(Corrects job title in second paragraph of story published
on June 27.)  Shanghai  port, the world’s busiest
for containers, expects volumes to rise about 10 percent
annually for the next five years as manufacturers open plants in
western and inland China in search of lower-cost labor.  Rising production in these regions has benefited Shanghai
because of increasing cargo volumes along the  Yangtze River ,
Chen Xuyuan, chairman of harbor operator Shanghai International
Port (Group) Co., said in a June 23 interview. The river, Asia’s
longest, stretches 6,397 kilometers (3,975 miles) across China
before meeting the  East China Sea  in Shanghai.  The  Yangtze River Delta  “will continue to be the main
region driving china’s economic expansion,” Chen said. The
river handled 1.34 billion tons of cargo in 2009, more than
triple 2000’s volumes, according to government data.  Shanghai’s container traffic this year may rise 12 percent,
likely enough to retain its crown for cargo-box volumes over
Singapore, Chen said. Volumes leapt 16 percent in 2010 as the
end of the global recession triggered a surge in shipments of
Chinese-made auto parts, furniture and toys to the U.S. and
Europe.  “Last year, we saw incredible growth,” Chen said. “This
year, traffic is growing at a more normal and healthy pace.”  Shanghai handled 12.7 million containers in the first five
months of this year, compared with 12.1 million by Singapore.  Foxconn, Lee & Man  Apple Inc. supplier Foxconn Technology Group and  Lee & Man
Paper Manufacturing Ltd. (2314)  are among companies to have opened
factories in inland provinces because of lower wages and
government incentives. The government has encouraged the trend
to spread economic growth beyond coastal regions including the
 Pearl River Delta  in Southern China.  The Yangtze, which handles 80 percent of China’s river
freight, passes through provinces including Chongqing, Anhui,
and Sichuan.  Shanghai Port fell 0.3 percent to 3.91 yuan on the city’s
stock exchange today. The shares have risen 2.6 percent this
year, compared with a 1.7 percent decline for the benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index.  The Shanghai government and Hong Kong-listed China
Merchants Holdings (International) Co. are the company’s two
biggest shareholders, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shanghai last year surpassed  Singapore  as the world’s
busiest container port, moving 29.05 million 20-foot boxes
compared with the city-state’s tally of 28.4 million.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  