-- 
Dubai Ruler’s Uncle Named Chairman of Emirates NBD in Bank Board Reshuffle

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-06-26T07:57:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/sheikh-ahmed-appointed-chairman-of-emirates-nbd-replacing-ahmed-al-tayer.html
Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum,
the uncle of Dubai’s ruler, was appointed the chairman of
 Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  as the government made changes to the board of
the United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank.  Sheikh Ahmed, who is also chairman of Emirates airline,
Dubai World and Dubai’s Supreme Fiscal Committee, replaced Ahmed
Humaid Al Tayer, state-run Emirates News Agency  reported  on its
website. Hisham Abdullah Al Kasem was named deputy chairman,
while three other board members were also replaced.  Al Tayer, who remains governor of the Dubai International
Financial Centre, has been the chairman of Emirates NBD since it
was formed in October 2007 with the merger of Emirates Bank
International PJSC and National Bank of Dubai PJSC. Al Tayer is
a former U.A.E. minister of state for finance and industry and
was also the chairman of Emirates Bank from 1983 until its
merger in 2007, according to the lender’s website.  Emirates NBD is one of the biggest lenders to state-owned
Dubai World and units of Dubai Holding LLC, which is in talks
with banks to delay payments on at least $12.5 billion of
liabilities. The bank’s profit dropped over the last two years
as loan defaults rose, and the lender sold a 49 percent stake in
its credit-card processing unit, Network International LLC.  Shares Gain  Dubai, the second-biggest of the seven sheikhdoms that make
up the U.A.E., had to seek help from neighboring Abu Dhabi after
the global credit crisis pushed property prices down by more
than half from their peak in 2008, and frozen credit markets
forced some state-owned companies to delay loan payments. Dubai
World signed a final agreement with its bank creditors in March
to restructure $25 billion of debt.  Emirates NBD shares climbed 2.4 percent, the most since
June 15, to 4.20 dirhams at 11:20 a.m. in Dubai. The stock has
gained 52 percent this year compared with a 5.9 percent decline
in the benchmark  DFM General Index. (DFMGI)   Dubai’s government owns 55.6 percent of Emirates NBD,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New members appointed to Emirates NBD’s board include
Mohammed Obaid Al Shehhi, Mohammed Hadi Ahmed Abdullah Al
Husaini and Shoaib Mer Hashim Khouri. They replaced Eissa Saleh
Al Gurg, Fardan Ali Al Fardan, Khalid Jassem Bin Kalban,
Abdullah Ahmed Lootah and Hamad Mubarak Bu Amim.  Sheikh Ahmed Bin Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, a son of
Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, was also
named to replace Sheikh Ahmed as the chairman of Noor Islamic
Bank PJSC, another Dubai government-controlled lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  