-- 
Smithfield’s Hunger for Bacon Makes Sara Lee a Target: Real M&A

-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i ,   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-27T20:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/smithfield-foods-hunger-for-bacon-makes-sara-lee-merger-target-real-m-a.html
Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , owner of the
world’s biggest hog slaughterhouse, is looking for deals in
smoked ham, bacon and frozen meatballs. That may put  Sara Lee
Corp. (SLE)  and  People’s Food Holdings Ltd. (PFH)  on its shopping list.  The Smithfield, Virginia-based company may seek purchases
in the packaged-meats industry after canceling a plan this month
to buy  Spain ’s Campofrio Food Group SA, Chief Executive Officer
C. Larry Pope said June 16. Sara Lee, which is spinning off its
beverage business to focus on meat, may be a target, said Fifth
Third Asset Management. Smithfield could also profit from an
acquisition in emerging markets such as China, where pork prices
reached a three-year high as shortages of the nation’s most
consumed meat persist, according to AgStar Financial Services.  While Smithfield reported a profit for the first time in
three years last fiscal year, Pope has lost money for investors
since becoming CEO in 2006. With earnings projected to fall this
year and the highest debt-to-equity ratio of the biggest U.S.
meat companies, Smithfield could pursue smaller deals in faster
growing economies, said AgStar’s  Mark Greenwood . Among meat
producers under $1 billion in value, People’s Food has the most
net cash and gets all its sales in China, the world’s biggest
consumer of pork, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Smithfield is “trying to increase value by adding value to
their brand,” said Greenwood, who oversees $1.4 billion in
loans and leases to the hog industry and manages the swine
portfolio at AgStar in Mankato, Minnesota. “In previous years
they may have tried to grow more by raising more pigs. Having
some extra value with a brand, you can at least charge more for
that product than doing strictly commodity.”  Hog Processing  “They might look more international than domestic,
especially because of the emerging markets,” he said. “If they
could get something like that pulled off, you think that it
would work to their benefit.”  Keira Lombardo, a spokeswoman at Smithfield, declined to
comment and referred to the company’s long-term strategies for
growth in its 2011 Farm to Market Conference presentation. In
the presentation, Smithfield said it will take a “disciplined
approach to acquiring branded packaged meats companies.”  The company makes more than 50 brands of pork products and
has 52,400 employees globally, making it the world’s largest
producer and processor of pork, its  website  said. Its facility
in Tar Heel,  North Carolina , is the largest hog slaughterhouse
in the world, according to  Steve Meyer , president of Paragon
Economics in  Des Moines ,  Iowa .  ‘Potential Opportunities’  Pope said in an interview that Smithfield “would be
interested and routinely look at potential opportunities to do
something particularly on the packaged-meats side,” after
pulling out of its negotiations to buy Madrid-based Campofrio.  Smithfield dropped the deal because of “adverse” economic
conditions in  Europe  and a decline in its own stock price, Pope
said in a June 3 statement. Prior to the announcement,
Smithfield’s shares had slid 17 percent since the company said
in April it was studying a plan to purchase a controlling stake.  Shares of Smithfield slipped 0.1 percent to $21.84 in  New
York  today.  While Smithfield reversed two years of losses to report
$521 million in net income in the 12 months ended April,
analysts estimate the pork processor’s profit will decline 19
percent this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Costs such as those to raise, feed and slaughter hogs, as well
as those to produce meat products, are projected to rise.  Pope may still need acquisitions to boost returns.  Shareholder Value  Since he became CEO in September 2006, Smithfield’s
shareholders lost 27 percent, including dividends, through last
week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Consumer staples stocks
in the S&P MidCap 400 Index returned a total of 77 percent in
the same period.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the biggest U.S. meat processor, returned
35 percent to its owners, while  Hormel Foods Corp. (HRL) , which makes
Farmer John bacon and Spam lunchmeat, had a 74 percent increase.  An acquisition of  Downers Grove , Illinois-based Sara Lee
after it splits off its beverage division is one option for
Smithfield, said  Keith Wirtz , who helps oversee $18 billion as
chief investment officer for Fifth Third in Cincinnati.  Sara Lee’s North American retail meats business had $2.9
billion in sales in the past 12 months and had an operating
margin of 9.7 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
higher than Smithfield, which generated 7.6 cents in operating
income per dollar of sales, the data show.  If acquired, Sara Lee’s meats unit would increase sales at
Smithfield’s packaged meats business by about 50 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Reinforce Their Desire’  In August 2006, Smithfield bought Sara Lee’s European meats
arm for $614 million, including net debt, the data show.  “Smithfield would and should have an interest in the
retail meats division of Sara Lee,” Wirtz said. “A move to
expand in this category would reinforce their desire to move
further upstream into higher margin activities.”  Mike Cummins, a Sara Lee spokesman, declined to comment.
The company’s shares gained 1.2 percent to $18.82 today.  While Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson may be a logical
company for Smithfield to tie up with based on its operations,
Tyson’s size would make it difficult for Smithfield to pull off
without penalizing its own shareholders, according to Fiduciary
Trust’s Michael Mullaney.  Smithfield’s limited cash would mean any deal would have to
be financed through equity or debt, he said.  With a market value of $3.6 billion, Smithfield had $374.7
million in cash and $2.1 billion in debt as of April, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tyson, worth $7.1 billion, held
$794 million in cash versus $2.5 billion in debt in March.  Debt Load  Smithfield’s debt-to-equity ratio, which measures how much
debt a company has relative to its common shareholder equity, of
60 percent outstrips Tyson’s 44 percent. Austin, Minnesota-based
Hormel has a ratio of 23 percent.  “Tyson makes sense from a product-line standpoint,” said
Mullaney, who helps oversee $9.5 billion at Fiduciary Trust in
 Boston . “It does not make sense from a size standpoint. If they
are trying to buy growth and diversification with a really well-
run good company like a Tyson, they are going to wind up making
a dilutive acquisition.”  Worth Sparkman, a spokesman at Tyson, declined to comment.
The shares advanced 0.3 percent to $18.95 today.  Smithfield should consider buying smaller companies with
related product lines that have a larger proportion of sales
outside America, according to Mullaney.  People’s Food  In  China , Smithfield could profit from acquiring People’s
Food, a meat processor valued at $721 million. Based in Linyi in
China’s Shandong province and traded in  Singapore , People’s Food
has increased sales 54 percent in the past three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company also has
$246 million in net cash, the data show.  People’s Food generated about 41 percent of its sales from
processed meats such as spicy sausages and ham, and the rest
from fresh and frozen pork and poultry, including  pig hearts ,
according to its website and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pork prices in China, which accounts for  half  the world’s
consumption of the meat according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture , may remain at their highest level since April 2008
as a shortage persists, Wang Xiaoyue, an analyst at Beijing
Orient Agribusiness Consultant Ltd. said last week.  Demand is outstripping supply after local farmers reduced
swine herds as prices declined almost 20 percent in the 15
months through March 2010, Wang said. It takes 12 months for a
piglet to become mature enough for slaughter, he said.  That means Smithfield can profit from greater access in
China through an acquisition, AgStar’s Greenwood said.  People’s
Food  didn’t immediately respond to a request seeking comment.  The Chinese “consume more pork per capita than anyone in
the world,” he said. With People’s Food, “at the end of the
day, if it gets you  market access  and gets you entry into that
market, it’s absolutely huge,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 