-- 
Soros Says a Euro Exit Mechanism Is ‘Probably Inevitable’ Amid Debt Crisis

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-06-27T09:39:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/soros-says-euro-member-exit-mechanism-is-probably-inevitable-amid-crisis.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
said it’s “probably inevitable” that a mechanism will be put
in place to allow weaker economies to exit the euro.  “There’s no arrangement for any countries leaving the
euro, which in current circumstances is probably inevitable,”
Soros, 80, said at a panel discussion in Vienna yesterday on
whether liberal democracy is at risk in  Europe . “We are on the
verge of an economic collapse which starts, let’s say, in
Greece, but it could easily spread. The financial system remains
extremely vulnerable.”  Concern Greek lawmakers will fail to pass austerity
measures to ensure the next installment of the nation’s bailout
is roiling global markets and pushed the euro to a record-low
against the Swiss franc last week.  Greece  is one of three euro-
region members to have sought international bailouts amid the
sovereign debt crisis.  “I think most of us actually agree that” Europe’s crisis
“is actually centered around the euro,” said Soros. “It’s a
kind of financial crisis that is really developing. It’s
foreseen. Most people realize it. It’s still developing. The
authorities are actually engaged in buying time. And yet time is
working against them,” he said.  The euro was created in 1999, with 11 member states --
 Germany ,  France , Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg,
Finland, Austria,  Portugal ,  Spain  and Ireland. Greece was the
12th country to adopt the shared currency in 2001, while Estonia
is the newest member of the euro region, joining this January.  Winning Bet  The euro erased its decline versus the dollar to trade
little changed at $1.4191 as of 10:14 a.m. in  London . The 17-
member common currency earlier slid as much as 0.6 percent to
$1.4103, the weakest since June 16.  Soros is chairman of Soros Fund Management LLC, which has
about $28 billion in assets. He’s best known for reportedly
making $1 billion in 1992 on a bet that the U.K. would fail to
keep the pound in the European exchange-rate system that pre-
dated the euro.  He also expressed concern the currency union would dissolve
on Jan. 26 at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland . He
said then that European policy makers must address their two-
speed economy or risk the euro collapsing, though he added this
was unlikely to occur.  ‘Plan B’  European Union leaders have vowed to stand behind Greece 
as long as Prime Minister George Papandreou, who won a 
confidence vote last week, pushes through his 78 billion-euro 
($111 billion) package of budget cuts and asset sales. Investors 
are concerned a default would trigger contagion that would engulf
other euro-region members including Ireland, Portugal and Spain.  Europe’s leaders should look for alternative strategies to
solve the debt crisis, Soros told the Vienna panel, which also
included Former Belgian Premier  Guy Verhofstadt .  Because the “survival of the EU is of vital interest to us
all,” there’s a need for a “Plan B,” he said, explaining that
this could include EU-wide taxes, a “banking system guaranteed
by European institutions, not a bunch of national banking
systems,” or a financial transaction tax.  “You need a Plan B and there’s no Plan B at the moment,”
Soros said. Instead, “authorities are sticking to the status
quo” and not “recognizing that there are fundamental flaws
that need to be corrected,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  