-- 
U.S. Spending, Manufacturing Cooled in Slowdown

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-26T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/spending-manufacturing-probably-slowed-u-s-economy-preview.html
Consumer spending  probably climbed
at the slowest pace in almost a year and manufacturing cooled as
dimmer job prospects and elevated commodity costs weighed on the
U.S. expansion, economists said reports this week will show.  Purchases rose 0.1 percent in May, the smallest gain since
June 2010, according to the median estimate of 63 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey before a Commerce Department figures
tomorrow. The disaster in  Japan  also held back American
factories this month, a survey of purchasing managers may show.  The highest gasoline prices since 2008 and unemployment
hovering around 9 percent caused households to pare spending,
which may temper demand at factories already contending with
higher input expenses and supply chain disruptions. The recent
drop in fuel costs bolsters Federal Reserve Chairmen Ben S.
Bernanke’s prediction that the slowdown will be temporary.  “We’re seeing a deterioration in the labor market combined
with still-high gasoline prices eating into discretionary
spending,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria
Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York . “Probably, the worst of the
Japanese supply chain disruptions are behind us.”  Economic growth slowed to a 1.9 percent annual rate in the
first quarter from 3.1 percent in the previous three months as
surging energy costs strained consumer finances.  Payrolls grew by 54,000 workers in May, the weakest reading
in eight months, and the jobless rate climbed to 9.1 percent,
the highest this year, the Labor Department said June 3.  Manufacturing Cools  Manufacturing, which drove the recovery as growing overseas
economies propelled U.S. exports, began to cool in the aftermath
of Japan’s earthquake in March and as raw-material costs
climbed. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
fell to 51.8 this month from 53.5 in May, according to the
survey median before the July 1 release. Readings above 50
signal expansion.  Reports released earlier this month showed manufacturing in
the regions covered by the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia
and New York unexpectedly shrank in June.  Fed officials last week attributed some of the slowdown in
the first half of the year to “factors that are likely to be
temporary.” They lowered projections for economic growth this
year to 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent, down from forecasts of 3.1
percent to 3.3 percent in April. Unemployment will average 8.6
percent to 8.9 percent in the final three months of 2011,
compared with the 8.4 percent to 8.7 percent projected in April.  ‘Moderate’ Recovery  “The economic recovery appears to be proceeding at a
moderate pace, though somewhat more slowly than the committee
had expected,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told reporters on
June 22 after the  Federal Open Market Committee  met.  Reports on housing this week may show that purchases will
pick up even as property values continue to drop.  Pending home sales, or contract signings for existing
homes, increased 2.5 percent in May after dropping 12 percent
the prior month, economists forecast the National Association of
Realtors will report on June 29.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  home prices  in 20 cities, due
June 28, likely fell in April from March, the 10th straight
monthly drop on a seasonally adjusted basis.  “Persistent high unemployment, a weak housing market, high
fuel prices and inflation all put pressure on consumers,” Greg Wasson, president and chief executive officer of  Walgreen Co. (WAG) ,
said on a June 21 earnings call. In response to the economic
outlook, customers of the largest U.S. drugstore chain are
shifting spending to essential goods, he said.  The Deerfield, Illinois-based company has been raising
prices to combat more expensive input costs, including fuel,
Chief Financial Officer Wade Miquelon said during the call.  The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline at the
pump has dropped from $3.99 on May 4, the highest since July
2008, to $3.60 as of June 23. The decrease may be helping boost
retailers’ shares. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index of
92 companies has increased 3.7 percent since June 10 compared
with a 0.2 percent decline in the broader  S&P 500 .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  