-- 
Steve Soboroff, Vice Chairman of Dodgers, Resigns Over MLB Oversight

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-26T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/steve-soboroff-vice-chairman-of-dodgers-resigns-over-mlb-oversight.html
Steve Soboroff resigned as vice
chairman of the  Los Angeles Dodgers  after two months, saying
Major League Baseball’s oversight of the team interfered with
his ability to do his job.  Soboroff, a supporter of Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  and
critic of Commissioner  Bud Selig ’s move to oversee the club’s
finances, was hired after a visiting San Francisco Giants fan
was beaten on Opening Day. Soboroff was given the task of
improving the experience of fans attending games at Dodgers
Stadium.  Soboroff, who was hired the day before Selig stepped in to
monitor the Dodgers’ finances in April, sent his letter of
resignation yesterday to McCourt.  “Unfortunately, the very next day, an unanticipated action
by the commissioner of Major League Baseball resulted
(understandably) in elevating the resolution of ‘control and
ownership’ issues to top priority, as it remains to this day,”
according to the letter obtained by Bloomberg. “As a
consequence, it is not possible for me to effectively work on
the very initiatives and contributions that you had hired me to
implement.”  The Dodgers didn’t immediately respond to a report from
YahooSports.com that McCourt may be considering the sale of a
share of the team in order to maintain his ownership. The
website attributed the information to unidentified people close
to discussions among the owner, his lawyers and  Major League
Baseball .  In a similar situation, New York Mets owner  Fred Wilpon 
offered a third of the club for $200 million to  David Einhorn ,
president of Greenlight Capital Inc., to help pay off $427
million in debts and resolve a $1 billion lawsuit by the trustee
representing people who lost money in the Ponzi scheme run by
Bernard L. Madoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  