-- 
U.K. Retail Demergers Should Await Consumer Return, Analysts Say

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-06-26T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/u-k-retail-demergers-should-await-consumer-return-analysts-say.html
A demerger of  WH Smith Plc (SMWH) , a U.K.
magazine retailer and stationer,  Whitbread Plc (WTB) , owner of the
Costa Coffee chain, and the sale of electronics retailer Comet,
owned by  Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA) , should wait until consumer
spending recovers, analysts say.  Whitbread has looked at hiving off its Costa Coffee
outlets, say analysts. Kesa said last week it is exploring ways
of exiting its electrical retail chain Comet. WH Smith Chief
Executive Officer Kate Swann told the Daily Telegraph newspaper
in April that a demerger of its travel stores, which includes
outlets at airports and trains stations, from the high street
chain was a possibility.  “Disposable income is falling and the high street is
struggling,” said  Kate Calvert , an analyst at  Seymour Pierce 
Ltd. in London. “I don’t think it will create any value for
shareholders at the moment.”  U.K. consumers are struggling to cope with rising
unemployment as well as increasing commodity prices and public
spending cuts as Britain emerges from its worst recession since
World War II. Inflation held at the fastest pace since October
2008 last month as food and energy prices soared.  British retail sales dropped more than economists forecast
in May as higher fuel costs and concern about employment
prospects restrained consumer spending. Sales fell 1.4 percent
from April, when they rose 1.1 percent, boosted by warm weather
and an extra public holiday, the  Office for National Statistics 
said June 16.  Comet Options  The  Bank of England  held its key interest rate at a record
low in June to aid the economy’s recovery. The majority of
policy makers saying the “current weakness of demand growth was
likely to persist for longer than previously forecast,”
according to minutes of the June 8-9 meeting.  Homeform Group Ltd., the owner of Moben kitchens and
bathroom chain Dolphin, plans to appoint administrators, the
company said in a statement last week. Homeform employs 1,400
people, according to its website.  A spokesman for WH Smith, who wouldn’t be identified
because of internal policy, declined to comment. A spokesman for
Whitbread, who declined to be identified, also didn’t want to
comment. A Kesa spokesman declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News.  Kesa said last week its 249-store Comet chain made a retail
loss of 8.9 million pounds ($14.2 million) for the 12 months
ended April 30, compared with profit of 11.5 million pounds a
year earlier. Darty, the largest electronics retailer in  France ,
reported a 12 percent increase in retail profit to 149.2 million
euros, said Kesa.  Kesa Electricals  “It is a bad time to sell,” for Kesa, Freddie George, an
analyst at Seymour Pierce, with a “hold” rating on the stock,
said June 23 in a phone interview. “Most people have gone very
negative on retail. Consumers are being squeezed by higher food
and petrol prices. We’ve got job cuts coming through,  interest
rates  going up at some stage, it’s not a very good
environment.”  Whitbread’s Costa Coffee chain, which has 1,257 outlets in
the U.K., is bucking the trend. Still, selling the outlets now
would undervalue the unit as pressure on  consumer spending 
increases, say analysts, including Wyn Ellis at Numis Securities
in London.  Costa Coffee, Punch  First-quarter sales at Costa Coffee surged 23 percent,
Whitbread said last week, while sales at its budget hotel chain
Premier Inn rose 8.1 percent. The company plans to double the
size of Costa Coffee to 3,500 stores worldwide over the next
five years.  “Nothing is likely in the near term,” Ellis said June 23.
“It isn’t the easiest market environment to sell into at the
minute, with ongoing consumer pressures. They would be better to
hold off. It is now at the stage where a lot of investment in
overseas markets is starting to bear fruit.”  The planned demerger of  Punch Taverns Plc (PUB)  this year to
separate its leased pub division from Spirit, the faster-growing
managed pub estate that includes Chef & Brewer, is unlikely to
create  shareholder value  as weak consumer spending hurts leased
outlets, say analysts.  “My valuation is 70 pence for Spirit and five pence for
the Punch part of it,”  Paul Hickman , an analyst at Peel Hunt,
said in a phone interview on June 23. “It is fairly valued at
the moment. The demerger is the delayed result of a company
hitting the recession with too many pubs and too much debt.
While trading is quite difficult, what they are doing is
appropriate.”  Punch climbed 1.9 percent to close at 71.35 pence a share
in  London  trading on June 24.  Punch Taverns is making “good progress” with its demerger
the company said on June 8. The demerger needs the approval of
bondholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  