-- 
U.K. House Prices Decline for Second Month, Hometrack Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-06-27T09:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/u-k-house-prices-fell-for-second-month-in-june-hometrack-says.html
U.K. house prices fell for a second
month in June as the growth in the supply of properties for sale
outpaced demand, Hometrack Ltd. said.  The average cost of a home slipped 0.1 percent from May,
the London-based property researcher said in an e-mailed report
today. From a year earlier, values were down 3.9 percent. In
 London , prices increased 0.2 percent on the month.  “While the balance between supply and demand is not
significantly out of kilter, subdued demand and weak consumer
confidence are set to keep headline prices under modest downward
pressure over the months ahead,”  Richard Donnell , Hometrack
director of research, said in the report. However, “the market
continues to be highly polarized with a wide differential
between London and the rest of the country.”  U.K. house prices declined in the past year as government
budget cuts and accelerating inflation squeezed finances and
banks tightened lending requirements, forcing potential
homebuyers to raise bigger deposits. The number of housing
transactions surged this month as sellers showed a “greater
realism” on pricing, Hometrack said.  The supply of properties on the market rose 3.5 percent on
the month, while demand, based on the number of buyers
registering with real-estate agents, rose 1.9 percent, Hometrack
said. The number of sales agreed on jumped 11 percent.  Weak Confidence  “On the face of it, this trend appears to be at odds with
the wider economic picture of weak  consumer confidence  and
increasingly stretched household incomes,” Donnell said. “It
is unlikely that there will be any material increase in demand
over the summer.”  Out of the 10 regions in  England  and  Wales  tracked by
Hometrack, seven posted declines in June, led by a 0.6 percent
drop in northeast England. Only London reported a gain, while
values in the remaining two areas were unchanged.  The  Bank of England  held its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent this month. Price-comparison website
 Moneyfacts.co.uk  said today that the average  interest rates  on
some of the most popular mortgages has fallen to the lowest in
at least 23 years as funding costs declined.  The average rate on two-year fixed-rate loans is 4.32
percent, while mortgages tracking the Bank of England’s
benchmark for the same period have an average 3.37 percent rate.  Confidence in the economic outlook among U.K. companies
improved this month, Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets said today.
The net balance of 319 businesses in a survey saying they were
more optimistic about the economy than three months earlier
gained to 36 percent from 14 percent in May, the unit of  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said in an e-mailed statement.  Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets questioned the companies,
which all had sales of more than 1 million pounds ($1.6
million), between June 6 and June 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  