-- 
U.K. Gives Consumer Protection Groups Powers Over Toxic Financial Products

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-06-26T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/u-k-gives-consumer-bodies-powers-over-toxic-financial-products.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will give consumer protection bodies the right to flag
‘toxic’ financial products with regulators to prevent banks
selling services to consumers that they don’t need.  Consumer groups such as Which? will be given the power to
raise complaints with the financial regulator when they see
evidence of products that are improperly sold or harm consumers.
The Treasury said it expects the change will make the system
more nimble and responsive to the needs of consumers.  “We want to go further by giving front line consumer
groups the power to hold the regulator to account,” Treasury
Minister Mark Hoban will say in a speech in London today,
according to remarks released by his office. “Consumer groups
should be able to ask the regulator to deal with widespread mis-
selling.”  The effort comes after  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in May set aside about $3.4
billion for customers improperly sold personal-loan insurance.
The powers are part of the biggest financial regulatory overhaul
since 1997.  Consumer groups already have some powers to raise
competition complaints with the  Office of Fair Trading . The
Financial Conduct Authority, whose powers will be formalized
once the Financial Regulation Bill is passed next year, will be
forced to investigate similar complaints.  ‘Consumers Have Suffered’  “In the past 10 years consumers have suffered from mis-
selling and toxic products on a grand scale,” Peter Vicary Smith, the head of Which? said in a statement released by the
Treasury. “The impact of these rip-offs has been compounded by
a slow response from industry and regulators.”  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest lender by assets,
earmarked 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) and HSBC $440 million.
Edinburgh-based RBS, which had already made a provision of 100
million pounds, will set aside an additional 850 million pounds.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the biggest provider of payment
protection insurance, a week earlier had broken ranks with
competitors and earmarked 3.2 billion pounds to settle claims
with clients who bought the insurance, which covers payments on
credit cards and mortgages in case of illness or unemployment.  The insurance generated as much as 5.5 billion pounds in
annual revenue for U.K. banks, with about 6.5 million policies
sold in 2006, according to estimates by the current regulator,
the Financial Services Authority.  The  Financial Regulation Bill , which will now undergo pre-
legislative scrutiny, will abolish the Financial Services
Authority and transfer most of its responsibilities to the
central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  