-- 
U.S., China Should Break Yuan, QE Policy ‘Gridlock,’ BIS Says

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-06-26T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/u-s-china-should-break-yuan-qe-policy-gridlock-bis-says.html
The U.S. and  China  should work to
break policy “gridlock” on imbalances that threaten the global
financial system, such as the dollar-yuan  exchange rate  and U.S.
monetary easing, the  Bank for International Settlements  said.  “What we need are policies in deficit countries to
encourage saving and policies in surplus countries to encourage
consumption,” the Basel, Switzerland-based BIS, which oversees
global central banks, said in its quarterly  review . “The longer
the gridlock lasts, the larger the eventual adjustment will need
to be and the greater the risk of a disorderly adjustment.”  While U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  pushed
last month for a stronger yuan in annual talks with Chinese
counterparts, China’s Deputy Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said
the two sides disputed the pace at which the currency should
appreciate. The Obama administration declined to brand China a
currency manipulator in a May 27 report, while saying the nation
is making “insufficient” progress letting the yuan rise.  “The policies in the  United States , China and elsewhere to
maintain monetary stability and limit nominal exchange-rate
movement have slowed the rate of adjustment in the real exchange
rate,” the BIS said. “However, adjustment provides a positive
externality to all countries as well, because of increased
global macroeconomic stability.”  The U.S. could ease the burden of adjustment on China by
“pursuing tighter fiscal and monetary policies in order to
reduce domestic demand,” the BIS said. That would allay concern
for surplus countries that the value of foreign-exchange
reserves will be inflated away, it said, though it’s only likely
should both nations experience “more supportive domestic
conditions.”  ‘First-Mover’ Disadvantage  The U.S. started its most recent round of bond purchases,
known as QE2 for a second program of so-called quantitative
easing, in November of last year.  International coordination would relieve the disadvantage
of being a “first mover” on exchange-rate adjustment, the BIS
said. Both nations could advance the pace of adjustment by
removing “distortions” that encourage saving in the U.S. and
reduce the need for saving in China, the BIS said.  Yuan forwards declined last week after Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said measures to cool inflation are working, easing pressure on
policy makers to allow a stronger currency. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards fell 0.23 percent on the week to 6.3919 per
dollar as of 5:28 p.m. in  Hong Kong  on June 24, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The contract was at a 1.3 percent
premium to the onshore spot rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  