-- 
U.S. Tells China at Honolulu Talks It Wants Stability in South China Sea

-- B y   A l l i s o n   S c h a e f e r s   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-06-26T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/u-s-tells-china-at-honolulu-talks-it-wants-stability-in-south-china-sea.html
The U.S. told  China  that tensions
must be reduced in the South China Sea when the countries held
the inaugural U.S.-China Asia-Pacific Consultations in Honolulu.  Talks with Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai were
“useful and productive,” Assistant Secretary of State for East
Asian and Pacific Affairs Kurt M. Campbell said when the forum
ended on June 25. Cui didn’t speak to the press after the
meetings. Cui last week told the U.S. not to get involved in
territorial disputes over the oil-and gas-rich South China Sea.  China’s recent moves to stop  Vietnam  and the  Philippines 
exploring for oil and gas in disputed waters have drawn
criticism from U.S. congressional representatives. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  on June 23 reaffirmed the U.S.’s
commitment to defend the Philippines, a treaty ally.  China asserts jurisdiction over most of the South China Sea,
including oil and gas blocks more than 1,000 kilometers (625
miles) from its shores. Vietnam and the Philippines have
rejected China’s claims as a basis for joint exploration,
setting the stage for clashes in areas where Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Talisman Energy Inc., Forum Energy Plc and Vietnam Oil & Gas
Group, known as PetroVietnam, have operations.  Claims to various islands and strategic shipping lanes have
been made by the Philippines, Vietnam, Taiwan, Cambodia,
 Malaysia , Thailand, Brunei and  Singapore . Vietnamese and Chinese
boats have clashed twice in the  South China Sea  since late May.  Economic Zone  Vietnam said China breached the exclusive economic zone
that extends 200 miles (320 kilometers) from its shores when it
prevented Vietnamese vessels from conducting oil exploration
surveys near the disputed Spratly islands.  China and Vietnam agreed to address their dispute through
negotiations and consultations, China’s state-run Xinhua News
Agency reported yesterday after Chinese State Councilor Dai
Bingguo met with Vietnamese Vice Foreign Minister Ho Xuan Son in
Beijing yesterday.  Chinese ships chased away a Forum Energy survey vessel
under contract from the Philippines in March, and rammed survey
vessels operated by PetroVietnam twice in the past month. China
has disputed that version of events, saying it is committed to
maintaining peace in the seas.  The U.S., which has patrolled Asia-Pacific waters since
World War II, has defense treaties with the Philippines and
 Thailand , and guarantees Taiwan’s security. The U.S. Navy has
said it will conduct joint training exercises with both the
Philippines and Vietnam over the next two months.  ‘Cooler Heads’  Earlier this week, Campbell said the U.S. had “no
intention” of inflaming territorial disputes in the South China
Sea. He said he wanted “recent tensions to subside and cooler
heads to prevail.”  Campbell said his discussions with Cui in Honolulu included
military development, Chinese diplomacy with North Korea and
Myanmar and U.S. interests in the region, as part of an effort
to promote transparency.  Talks with China will continue at the Asia Pacific Economic
Cooperation leaders’ meeting in  Hawaii  in November, at the
Pacific Islands Forum in Auckland,  New Zealand , and at the East
Asia Summit in Bali,  Indonesia .  The U.S. “welcomes a prosperous and successful China” and
the two sides agreed to hold another round of talks in China at
a mutually agreed upon time, Campbell said. “These dialogues
enhance cooperation and contribute to better understanding
between the U.S. and China.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Schaefers in Honolulut ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  