-- 
UN Food Agency Picks Brazil’s Graziano da Silva as Head to Replace Diouf

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-26T14:41:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/un-food-agency-names-jose-graziano-da-silva-of-brazil-as-director-general.html
The  United Nations ’ food agency
picked Brazil’s Jose Graziano da Silva as its director general,
the first new leader in almost two decades as the world faces
near-record food prices that are driving millions into poverty.  Graziano da Silva, 61, former Brazilian minister of  food
security , will take over at the Rome-based Food and Agriculture
Organization from Jan. 1 to July 31, 2015, replacing Senegal-
born Jacques Diouf after 18 years at the head of the biggest UN
agency. Graziano got 92 votes against 88 for  Spain ’s Miguel Angel Moratinos Cuyaube, the FAO said in an e-mailed statement.  World food prices tracked by the FAO rose to a record in
February, and the  World Bank  says costlier food has driven 44
million people into poverty since June 2010. The UN agency,
whose Latin motto ‘Fiat panis’ means ‘Let there be bread,’ needs
an overhaul to better tackle hunger and poverty, according to
Tony Hall, former U.S. ambassador to the UN agency.  “The current leadership has been in place way too long, and
it’s hurt them really badly,” Hall said in a phone interview
two days ago from  Washington , where he heads the Alliance to End
Hunger. “FAO is in some serious need of reform. It has the
people and it certainly has the expertise. Now it needs the
leadership.”  180 Votes  There were a total 180 votes cast by the FAO’s 191 member
countries, the FAO said. Other candidates were  Austria ’s Franz Fischler,  Indonesia ’s Indroyono Soesilo,  Iran ’s Mohammad Saeid
Noori Naeini and  Iraq ’s Abdul Latif Rashid.  The FAO, set up in 1945 as a specialized UN agency, says it
leads international efforts to defeat hunger and helps
developing countries improve farming. The mandate of the agency,
whose headquarters moved to Rome from Washington in 1951,
includes raising nutrition levels and agricultural productivity.  “A major number of people have been pushed into poverty,
there needs to be a body that really deals with this issue,”
Hall said. “FAO is the ideal place for that, but has never
really picked it up. There is a relevance problem.”  The FAO has a $2.2 billion budget for the two-year period
through 2011, with 45 percent from contributions by member
countries and the remainder provided through voluntary payments
by members and other donors.  ‘Zero Hunger’  Graziano da Silva was in charge of former Brazilian
president  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s “Zero Hunger” plan started
in 2003. The plan reduced hunger in  Brazil  by half and cut the
percentage of Brazilians living in extreme poverty to 4.8
percent in 2009 from 12 percent in 2003, according to the FAO,
which awarded Lula the 2011 World Food Prize for “Zero Hunger.”  “The guy who actually carried out Lula’s commitment was the
Brazilian,” Hall said, referring to Graziano da Silva. “Brazil
was amazing. He played a big part in it. To be able to organize
Brazil and make a major impact is pretty significant.”  The FAO must work more transparently and “free staff from
time-consuming bureaucratic procedures,” Graziano da Silva said
in a statement before his election. “Country offices need to
enjoy greater autonomy in initiating and implementing projects.”  Graziano da Silva has been the FAO’s regional
representative for  Latin America  and the Caribbean as well as an
assistant director-general since 2006.  Diouf Term  Diouf, 72, was elected on November 1993 and began the first
of three six-year terms in January 1994, with his final term
starting in January 2006. Diouf’s Lebanese predecessor Edouard
Saouma also served three terms as the head of FAO. The FAO’s
governing conference in 2009 limited the post to a four-year
term, renewable once, after already setting  term limits  in 2003.  The agency’s income climbed to $2.21 billion for the 2008-
2009 biannual period, from $1.87 billion in 2006-07, $1.56
billion in 2004-05 and $1.41 billion in 2002-03 as both member-
country payments and voluntary contributions increased.  A 417-page evaluation report published in September 2007
found “a great need for change” in  FAO , and absence of reform
would likely lead to “accelerating decline.” The FAO was called
“conservative and slow to adapt,” with a “heavy and costly
bureaucracy” that created a centralized and risk-averse
corporate culture.  ‘Reform Minded’  “It’s important that the person that comes into the new
leadership position really is reform minded,” Hall said.
“They’ve allowed the whole thing to go downhill. The next leader
really needs to get involved in building the morale up and do
the things a leader needs to do to bring new life.”  The FAO’s funding fell 31 percent between 1994 and 2005,
and staffing dropped 25 percent, according to the evaluation
report. FAO’s finances were “dire” and “rapidly deteriorating,”
and concerns by member states about FAO’s priorities and
effectiveness were “well-founded,” according to the report.  Relations between the FAO headquarters and field operations
followed “an ‘all things lead to  Rome  approach’ which has been
high on costs and low on benefits, with an absence of shared
goals,” the 2007 report concluded.  Graziano da Silva said FAO should bolster its capacity to
help countries design and implement hunger-eradication plans.  “I subscribe to the view of FAO’s founders that ending
hunger is entirely possible,” the Brazilian director-general
elect said in the statement before the election. “Ending hunger
is not a charity, but an investment in our poorest people and a
key to sustainable development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 