-- 
Vettel Has Fun in the Sun to Leave Formula 1 Championship Rivals Trailing

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-06-26T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/vettel-wins-f-1-race-in-valencia-as-button-loses-ground-1-.html
Sebastian Vettel had fun even if he
didn’t overtake anyone all race.  The 23-year-old German let out a yell of delight on the  Red
Bull  team radio after finishing 10.89 seconds ahead of Ferrari’s
 Fernando Alonso  to win yesterday’s European Grand Prix in
Valencia,  Spain . Vettel’s teammate  Mark Webber  came third.  Vettel started from pole position on the quayside street
circuit and kept the field at bay throughout, watched by 85,127
fans under a clear blue sky in temperatures exceeding 30 degrees
Celsius (86 Fahrenheit). It was the defending champion’s sixth
win in eight races this season, extending his Formula One world
championship lead to 77 points ahead of Webber and McLaren’s
Jenson Button.  “It might have looked like a boring race but I tell you I
enjoyed it so much: judging the tires, trying to foresee the
strategy,” Vettel said. As he took the checkered flag, Vettel
screamed “Oh yeah, baby” on the radio.  Button, who won the last race in  Montreal  after overtaking
Vettel on the final lap, finished sixth yesterday. He had
entered the 57-lap race trailing Vettel by 60 points in the
championship standings.  Vettel’s winning margin was the biggest since the opening
race in  Australia  after he pulled away at the end. Even so,
Alonso passed Webber and said Ferrari’s car is narrowing the gap
to the aerodynamic superiority of the Red Bulls.  “We are getting much closer,” Alonso said. “We are now
six or seven tenths of a second behind Red Bull. We have closed
the gap by half.”  ‘Personal Target’  For Alonso, it was a first top-three finish in Valencia,
one of his two home races. The other is in Barcelona.  “It was a personal target to get a podium here and enjoy
the champagne,” the Spaniard said after the post-race
celebration. “I am very happy to have achieved that at last.”  Alonso and teammate  Felipe Massa  overtook  Lewis Hamilton  at
the start, which passed without any crashes. McLaren’s former
world champion was unable to match the pace of the leaders and
finished fourth, 46.1 seconds behind Vettel.  Alonso rose to second by passing Webber on the inside of a
bend on lap 21. Fans in the stands dressed in Ferrari’s red
colors cheered and punched the air.  Webber regained second place after a round of pit stops
halfway through the race before Alonso wrested back the runner-
up position after a stop on lap 45.  Michael Schumacher  finished 17th after dropping down the
field following damage to the front wing of his Mercedes in a
collision with Nick Heidfeld of Renault. The record seven-time
champion had to stop for a replacement wing straight after
making a pit stop for fresh tires.  Schumacher 10th  In the second season of his comeback, Schumacher is 10th
out of 24 drivers in the standings. The next race in the 19-
event season is at Silverstone,  England , on July 10.  Vettel said his lead means he can afford to take fewer
risks in the coming races, although it’s too early to start
thinking about back-to-back championships.  “I don’t look at the scoreboard much,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Valencia , Spain, at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  