-- 
Wen Says China Is a Long-Term Investor in European Debt, Confident on Euro

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-06-27T03:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/wen-says-china-is-a-long-term-investor-in-european-debt-confident-on-euro.html
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said China will
keep investing in  Europe ’s sovereign bond market, providing a
vote of confidence in the region roiled by the debt crisis.  “China has actually increased the purchase of government
bonds of some European countries, and we haven’t cut back on our
euro holdings,” Wen told the British Broadcasting Corp.
yesterday in an interview. These acts “show our confidence in
the economies of Europe and the euro-zone.”  Wen, whose country’s $3 trillion of currency reserves are
the world’s largest, is today due to meet with U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  in London as European policy makers enter
another week of talks on how  Greece  can avoid default. Greek
lawmakers vote this week on an austerity package needed to
secure more international aid, while governments elsewhere on
the continent are negotiating with banks over how they can
assist the country.  China ’s leader is visiting Europe as investors signal
renewed concern in the ability of euro-region nations to beat
the debt crisis that has occupied the minds of officials for
more than a year. European stocks fell for an eighth week last
week, the longest stretch of losses since 1998, and the euro
weakened to a record against the Swiss franc amid speculation
Greece won’t be able to pay its bills.  “China is ready to work with Europe to share opportunities,
cope with challenges and achieve common development, and to make
unremitting efforts for stable development of the world economy
and an in-depth development of China-Europe ties,” China’s
state-run Xinhua news agency cited Wen as saying June 25.  Spain  Support  This is not the first time Wen has expressed support for
Europe’s cash-strapped nations. He said in April that China
would invest in Spain’s bonds and savings bank industry and that
it would continue buying public debt.  Wen’s visit will help “convince the market that China will
provide a contagion back-stop” and so lend support to the euro,
Douglas Borthwick, head of foreign-exchange trading at Stamford,
Connecticut-based Faros Trading, said in a June 20 report.  China is playing a “white knight” role in assisting
Europe and buying itself goodwill that will enable it to
purchase more sensitive European assets such as technology
companies, according to Faros Trading. The Asian country’s
purchases of euro-denominated debt also helps diversify its
reserves away from dollars, it said.  Wen’s positive comments contrast with last week’s criticism
of Europe’s strategy by other international policy makers. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said that the region must
speak with a “clearer, more unified voice,” while  Bank of
England  Governor  Mervyn King  said Europe must realize it is
dealing with an issue of solvency not liquidity.  Boosting Commerce  Today’s talks in London will be focused on trade as the U.K.
government seeks to boost commerce with China to $100 billion by
2015, Cameron’s office said in a statement. Downing Street also
said the two countries are set to make it easier for British
businesses to branch out beyond Beijing and  Shanghai  and that
China will again open its market to U.K. poultry exports.  During Wen’s last visit to the U.K. in 2009, a protester
denounced him as a “dictator” and threw a shoe at the premier
as he was giving a speech at  Cambridge University . In the run-up
to Wen’s visit, the government released dissidents in a move
that may have been aimed at defusing potential criticism.  Hu Jia, a campaigner for AIDS sufferers, environmental
issues and civil rights, was released yesterday after spending
more than three years in a Beijing prison, his wife said. Hu’s
release was expected as his prison term was set to end today.  Ai Weiwei  Chinese authorities released dissident artist Ai Weiwei on
bail on June 22, Xinhua said that day. Ai, who was detained on
April 3 at Beijing airport, was let out because of “his good
attitude in confessing his crimes,” willingness to pay taxes he
owes, and his chronic disease, Xinhua said.  Human Rights Watch , a New York-based advocacy group, says
Ai was one of more than 100 people detained in China this year
in “the largest crackdown on dissent in over a decade.”  Wen, who visited William Shakespeare’s hometown of
Stratford-Upon-Avon and toured a Chinese-owned car factory
yesterday, will also deliver a speech before traveling to
 Germany . In Budapest, he promised to buy a “certain amount” of
Hungarian bonds and to extend a 1 billion-euro ($1.4 billion)
loan via China’s state development bank to finance projects in
Hungary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
 Simon Kennedy  in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net .
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ; 