-- 
What Europe Can Learn From Asia’s 1997 Crash: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-06-26T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/what-europe-can-learn-from-asia-s-1997-crash-william-pesek.html
Watching Greece slide into chaos
from 6,000 miles away is painful.  Asia , after all, was the last
region to experience what  Europe  may be about to endure. Asia’s
implosion in 1997 toppled leaders, touched off riots, set back
living standards a decade or more and tarnished the
 International Monetary Fund ’s reputation. Expect similar
developments as Europe’s grand monetary experiment cracks.  Asia and Europe are half a world apart and it is true that
the differences are considerable. Indonesia,  South Korea  and
 Thailand  were much less developed 14 years ago than their euro-
zone counterparts are today. China had yet to emerge as a
dominant manufacturing economy. The U.S. was also in a better
position to offer international assistance than it is today.  With that in mind, here are five lessons Europe might learn
from Asia.  No. 1: A default is unavoidable. What makes Europe’s
bailout efforts so hard to watch is that they are so futile. The
Greek public has been very consistent about one thing: the
belief that it bears no responsibility for all the debt its
leaders took on over the last decade. If that doesn’t provide
the backdrop for debt repudiation, what does?  As  Greece  runs through more and more of the funds its
European neighbors throw at it, other dominos will fall. We saw
that in Asia after Thailand devalued the baht in July 1997.
Indonesia swore up and down it wouldn’t get dragged into
Thailand’s mess -- until it was. Korea assured the world it
would avoid an IMF aid package -- until it couldn’t.  The U.S. and Japan are near recession. China’s boom
continues to squeeze wages in uncompetitive economies such as
Greece. This won’t end well for the  euro zone .  Purge the Debt  No. 2: Recovery is quicker once debts are purged. Greece
fudged its way into the common currency with the help of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s financial creativity. That leaves the
government in  Athens  with a yawning credibility gap. When it
says the country can close its  budget deficit  with stop-gap
measures, traders roll their eyes and policy makers lose more
sleep.  In December 1997,  Korea  caved in and sought a $57 billion
IMF bailout. It acted quickly to let weak companies fail, closed
insolvent banks, clamped down on tax cheats and came clean about
the magnitude of its debts.  Greece will have to restructure its debt, and the fallout
from this will increase pressure on Portugal, Spain and  Italy .
If Greece had acted a year ago, markets might not be spending
every waking moment on edge over how and when a default will
arrive.  “Asia’s crisis showed that the quicker you deal with the
root of the problem, however painful that may be, the quicker
you are likely to recover from it,” says Simon Grose-Hodge,
head of investment strategy for  South Asia  at LGT Group in
 Singapore . “Europe could do worse than to heed that lesson.”  Reforms Matter  No. 3: Don’t forget reforms. In all the obsessing over
debt, European leaders are taking their eyes off the need to
retool in a world increasingly influenced by  China . Fiscal
austerity is important, of course, but so is altering policies
to make economies more nimble, competitive and conducive to
entrepreneurs who create jobs.  In the years following its crisis, Asia worked to open
service sectors to competition. It also cut red tape and took
steps to limit cronyism.  It’s a work in progress. Asia still is home to many of the
world’s poor, and corruption is pervasive. What Asia got right
is that crises can’t only be about austerity. While you’re
trimming spending, you must be creative about generating new
dynamism. Since euro nations can’t resort to  currency
devaluation  to revive growth, reform is the only way.  Growth, Not Taxes  No. 4: Growth beats taxes when repairing fiscal balance.  Japan  is a cautionary tale when it comes to rich nations
getting incentives wrong. It issued mountains of debt, assuming
for 20 years that it was just one stimulus plan away from 5
percent growth. That never happened.  Then, amid a ballooning budget deficit, it increased
consumption taxes in 1997. That killed a nascent recovery.  In the current global environment, growth is the route to
balanced budgets, not higher taxes. The latter would simply
destroy the former.  No. 5: Markets are quick to forgive and forget. Yes,
there’s a heavy price to pay for going hat-in-hand to the IMF.
The key will be conditionality. There’s much griping in Asia
about how the terms of Greece’s IMF package are far less
stringent than those forced on  Indonesia , Korea and Thailand.  Fresh starts are possible, though, as the powerful gains in
Asian markets over the last 14 years attest. So drop the denial,
Europe. Let Greece do what it needs to do, even if it means
default, and move on. Asia shows there is life after crisis.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  