-- 
Yemeni Protesters Demand Saleh’s Ouster

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-06-26T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/yemenis-demonstrate-by-hundreds-of-thousands-400-libyan-families-reunited.html
Anti-government demonstrations swept
Yemen yesterday as hundreds of thousands of protesters in at
least 15 provinces sought the immediate resignation of President
Ali Abdullah Saleh and formation of a transitional government.  “No to the ruling family,” people chanted in the capital
Sana’a, calling for the expulsion of Saleh, his son Ahmed and
nephew Ammar. “Relatives of Saleh and rest of the regime are
hijacking power,” the people said.  Pro-democracy protesters have been calling for Saleh to
step down since January. The president is recuperating in
neighboring  Saudi Arabia  after being injured in a June 3 attack
on his compound in the capital, leaving Vice President Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi in charge.  The Republican Guard, led by Saleh’s son, will follow
Hadi’s orders and support his efforts to meet with the rebels,
the defense ministry said on its Web site yesterday.  Saleh is to make a media appearance within 48 hours, his
first since he was wounded, Al Arabiya television reported
today, citing the president’s secretary. Saleh has ruled Yemen
for 32 years.  In Libya, about 400 families that had been separated since
the start of an uprising against that country’s leader  Muammar Qaddafi  were reunited with the help of the  International
Committee of the Red Cross . Banks reopened in the besieged
rebel-held city of Misrata.  Libyan Families  More than 100 people returned today to Tripoli, the capital
in western  Libya , from the eastern rebel-held city of Benghazi,
on a ship chartered by the ICRC, spokesman Robin Woodo said. The
same ship, the Ionis, sailed on June 24 from Tripoli to Benghazi
with about 300 people in the first large-scale reunification, he
told reporters at Tripoli’s port.  “There are hundreds of people who are stuck on the other
side and waiting to go back to their families,” Woodo said.  Tripoli resident Mohammed Ghrewi broke down in tears and
hugged his sister Mabrouka, whom he hasn’t seen for more than
five months, as she stepped from the ship.  “Who would have thought that this will happen to us in
Libya?” Ghrewi said. “By God, this cannot be!”  Some of the people waiting on the pier were holding
portraits of Qaddafi and shouting the rallying slogan of his
supporters: “God, Muammar, Libya and that’s enough.”  Qaddafi Won’t Leave  Rebels, with the support of NATO nations, have been
fighting Qaddafi’s government for four months and U.S. President
 Barack Obama  has called for him to step down.  “Qaddafi is leading the country. He will not leave. He
will not step down,” Ibrahim Moussa, a government spokesman,
told reporters in Tripoli yesterday. “If they want to continue
the fight we are ready, we will fight street to street, house to
house.”  In Misrata, long lines formed outside banks at daybreak
across the city, with police supervising those waiting for
withdrawals.  “It’s a good day,” said Hussein Al Jamal, 47, as he
waited for his wife to make a withdrawal at the Alwaha Bank in
central Misrata. “We need the banks to start the economy. With
our banks working, everything will be possible.”  The re-opening was organized by the city council, which
limited cash withdrawals to 300 dinars, worth about $150 on the
local black market, amid concern that larger withdrawals could
trigger inflation in a city still surrounded by pro-Qaddafi
forces. Many teachers, doctors and other state workers haven’t
been paid since January.  Syrian Deaths  Across  Syria , 10 people were killed June 25, according to
 Al Arabiya , and clashes have pushed the number of refugees in
neighboring  Turkey  to 11,739, according to Anatolia news agency,
which cited the office of Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan .  One hundred children have been killed in Syria since the
protests against Syrian president Bashar al-Assad began in mid-
March, activist Obeida Faris told Al Arabiya.  Russia ’s envoy to Africa Mikhail Margelov is to meet a
delegation of Syrian human rights activists in Moscow after
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said al-Assad must end his
crackdown against anti-government protesters. Margelov will meet
the group tomorrow, he said in a text message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  