-- 
Yemenis Demonstrate Across Nation for Creation of Transitional Government

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-06-26T15:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-26/yemenis-demonstrate-across-nation-for-creation-of-transitional-government.html
Hundreds of thousands of protesters
took to the streets in at least 15 provinces across Yemen
calling for the formation of a transitional government and the
immediate resignation of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  “No to the ruling family,” people chanted in the capital
Sana’a today, calling for the permanent removal from Yemen of
Saleh, his son Ahmed and nephew Ammar. “Relatives of Saleh and
rest of the regime are hijacking power,” the people said.  Pro-democracy protesters have been calling for Saleh to
step down since January. The president is recuperating in
neighboring  Saudi Arabia  after being injured in a June 3 attack
on his compound in the capital, leaving Vice President Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi in charge.  “We reject the American and Saudi support to the regime,”
said Ammar al-Kinani, an activist in the southern city of Taiz
where tens of thousands demonstrated today.  Saleh is due to make a media appearance within 48 hours,
his first since he was wounded at the beginning of June, Al
Arabiya television reported today, citing the president’s
secretary. Saleh has ruled over Yemen for 32 years. His son
Ahmed is head of the country’s special forces, the Republican
Guard.  Yemen’s government said it will give 3 million rials
($10,000) to anyone with information on members of the Joint
Meeting Parties, a six-party opposition coalition that it
alleges was involved in the bombing of oil pipelines and the
destruction of electricity stations, state-run Saba reported.  Mohammed Qahtan, a spokesman for the JMP, dismissed the
accusations as “groundless” and “nonsense” and said the
interior ministry is no longer legitimate given the country’s
changing political landscape.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  