-- 
‘Black Swan’ Author Worries About the U.S.

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-09-13T07:35:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/-black-swan-author-worries-about-the-u-s-.html
Nassim  Nicholas Taleb , author of
the best-selling book “The Black Swan,” said he’s more
concerned about prospects for the U.S. than  Europe  because the
country lacks awareness of its fiscal woes.  “The difference between Europe and the U.S. is the
consciousness of the problem,” Taleb, a New York University
professor, said today at a news conference in  Tokyo  organized by
Bank of America Corp. “There’s no consciousness in the U.S.”
about the fiscal deficit, he said.  Global financial-market turmoil intensified this quarter as
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis deepened and the U.S. economy
showed signs of slowing.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s credit
rating for the first time in August, criticizing lawmakers for
failing to cut spending or raise revenue enough to reduce record
budget shortfalls.  Jacques Attali, a former European banking official, told
reporters at the same briefing that the U.S. is in a worse state
than Europe because of factors including political paralysis
over its debt burden as well as unemployment.  “I’m quite pessimistic about the future of the  U.S.
economy  for quite a long time,” said Attali, who advised French
President  Francois Mitterrand  in the 1980s and later became the
first head of the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development. “The U.S. economy is in very, very bad
situation.”  Fate of Euro  The euro is likely to avoid collapse and the trouble in the
region will help to speed up action by governments, said Attali,
who is now president of Planet Finance, an organization that
seeks to fight poverty through microfinance.  Europe’s 17-nation currency fell toward its lowest level
since 2001 against the yen today on speculation Greece is
nearing default and before Italy sells bonds. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said in a radio interview that she won’t let
 Greece  go into “uncontrolled insolvency” because of the risk of
contagion for other euro-area countries.  Michael Spence , a Nobel laureate in economics, was less
optimistic than Attali when asked about the euro’s prospects at
a conference in Beijing today.  “If the group as a whole can’t agree on the burden sharing,
who’s going to pay the price of solving the problem?” he said.
“There is probably at least 30 percent chance this could go
badly wrong. Maybe more.”  No U.S. Crisis  Spence, a professor at New York University’s Stern School
of Business who won the  Nobel Prize  in economics in 2001,
stopped short of saying the U.S. is in a crisis. “We have a
debt problem, we have a political problem dealing with it, and
we certainly have a growth and unemployment problem, but it’s
not a crisis,” he said.  His colleague Taleb, who said in June that the U.S. debt
situation is worse than that of Greece, commented on  Japan ’s
record government borrowings. For Japan, the “main problem is
the level” of its debt, Taleb said, adding that the nation’s
high household savings help to compensate.  While Japan has the world’s largest public debt burden,
more than 90 percent is held by domestic creditors. Japanese
households had 1,476 trillion yen ($19.2 trillion) of financial
assets as of March 31, according to the Bank of Japan.  Taleb popularized the term  black swan , which derives from
the once widespread Western belief that all swans were white --
until explorers discovered the black variety in Australia in
1697. He argued that unforeseen events with a large impact on
markets occur more frequently than statistical analysis predicts,
thereby justifying the high cost of hedging against disasters.  “There is no moral reason why a world so wealthy should
have so much debt,” Taleb said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  