-- 
‘Follies’ Dazzles; ‘Sweet and Sad’; Hemingway Marathon: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-09-13T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/-follies-dazzles-sweet-and-sad-hemingway-marathon-review.html
Broadway’s sterile Marquis Theatre
has never looked so good as in the state of faux decrepitude
that welcomes us to the latest, and finest, revival of  Stephen Sondheim ’s “Follies.”  “Follies” takes place in the wreckage of the “Weismann
Theatre,” where Dimitri Weismann has gathered the remnants of
the burlesque troupes that performed here between the two world
wars.  It’s 1971, and the theater is about to be torn down to make
way for a parking lot. The proscenium arch is crumbling and the
walls are draped in black; you can almost gag on the dust. (The
Marquis, built in a hotel, replaced the Morosco and Helen Hayes
theaters.)  As they gather, the now middle-age and elderly performers
are shadowed by versions of their lithe and lovely younger
selves, decked out in bangles and beads and preposterously
lavish fantastical costumes (from the inventive Gregg Barnes).
They mingle on the stage and prowl, in silhouette, on catwalks
above, ghosts of their glamorous pasts.  Girls and Boys  The story concerns two former chorines from the 1941 show,
Phyllis Rogers (Jan Maxwell) and Sally Durant (Bernadette Peters), and the stage-door Johnnies they eventually married.  Urbane Ben (Ron Raines) courted Sally but married the more
waspish Phyllis, eventually becoming an acclaimed politico.
Buddy Plummer (Danny Burstein) married Sally and became a
salesman; they’ve settled into domestic ennui in Phoenix, Sally
ever carrying the torch for Ben.  James Goldman’s book moves freely between past and present.
This mostly allows the four principals and other company members
to sing songs written in the styles of the great composers and
lyricists of those years, from Otto Harbach and Irving Berlin to
Cole Porter, Oscar Hammerstein and Richard Rodgers.  They include up-tempo numbers like “Broadway Baby” (sung
with infectious razzle-dazzle by Jayne Houdyshell) and tone-
shifting declarations (“I’m Still Here,” sung by Elaine Paige,
and Sally’s harrowing “Losing My Mind”).  Magic  Maxwell nearly steals the show with Phyllis’s tongue-
twisting “The Story of Lucy and Jessie.” But the true thief is
Raines who brings heart-breaking pathos to Ben’s two big numbers
-- “The Road You Didn’t Take” and “Live, Laugh, Love.”  That song comes at the end of the Act II “Loveland”
sequence, in which the two couples are transported back in time
to a fantasy number right out of the Busby Berkeley playbook.
This Kennedy Center import, staged by Eric Schaeffer and
choreographed by Warren Carlyle, goes for broke here, filling
the stage with Derek McLane’s lush arches-within-arches of
roses, enhanced by Natasha Katz’s moody shifts in lighting.  Near the end of the song Raines, through a brilliant trick,
snaps Ben and us back into the reality of 1971. We’re still
feeling the jolt as the curtain falls and Technicolor nostalgia
recedes into grim reality.  At the Marquis Theatre, 1535 Broadway at W. 46th St.
Information: +1-877-250-2929;  http://www.ticketmaster.com .
Rating: ****  ‘Sweet and Sad’  At dinner 100 miles north of  ground zero  in the Hudson
Valley village of Rhinebeck, Sept. 11 still casts a grim shadow
in Richard Nelson’s elegant, elegiac “Sweet and Sad” at the
 Public Theater .  This country home provides the Chekhovian setting where two
Apple sisters, Barbara and Marian, are joined by their siblings
Richard and Jane, who have come up from  Manhattan . The time,
deliberately, is the afternoon of Sept. 11, 2011.  Lawyer Richard (Jay O. Sanders) is the apostate in this
liberal Democratic family, having left public service to join a
high-priced Wall Street law firm.  Jane (J. Smith-Cameron) lives in subsidized housing with
her actor-waiter boyfriend Tim (Shuler Hensley). Barbara
(Maryann Plunkett), the spinster sister, has taken in Marian
(Laila Robins) in the aftermath of her own family tragedy.  Meanwhile, Uncle Benjamin (Jon DeVries), once an
accomplished actor now in the muddle of dementia, is meant to
appear at the local high school commemoration of the attacks,
reading Walt Whitman’s poem “The Wound Dresser” from which the
play’s title comes.  Nelson’s “That Hopey Changey Thing” introduced us to
these good Apples on election night, 2010. “Sweet and Sad”
casts a subtler spell as the playwright deftly moves the evening
conversation from the personal to the political.  Great Play  Barbara and Marian have been recording Benjamin’s memories
during his lucid moments. In a junk shop, they found a
collection of datebooks that belonged to a Manhattanite, and
whose entries stop at 9/11/01. Reading from them prompts talk
about the world since then, in which  Chicago ’s parking meters
are leased to a Middle East hedge fund and New York has grown
increasingly hostile to all but the wealthiest.  This is a Public Lab production (all tickets are $15). The
exquisite performances from an accomplished cast -- I single out
DeVries because he makes Benjamin such a magnificent shell --
argues strongly that “Sweet and Sad” is the first great play
to emerge from the horror of 9/11.  Through Sept. 25 at 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-212-
539-8500;  http://www.publictheater.org .
Rating: ****  ‘The Select’  In the East Village, intense Australian Lucy Taylor is
tearing through “The Select (The Sun Also Rises).”  That cumbersome title refers to the Paris dive where the
American and British ex-patriates of  Ernest Hemingway ’s 1926
novel drink, banter and flirt in the years between the two world
wars. These mostly trust-fund members of what  Gertrude Stein 
called “the lost generation” have time and money.  With an air of practiced boredom, they go slumming with
artists, searching for the next thrill in the bars of Montmartre
or the bullring at Pamplona. The emotionally vacant, sexually
carnivorous Lady Brett Ashley is the generator that electrifies
this tawdry group.  Her cheekbones set off by close-cropped hair, Taylor
devours the stage the way Brett devours men. First is Jake
Barnes, whose battlefield wounds have left him impotent and thus
of little use to her except as procurer.  Jewish Outsider  Then Robert Cohn, the manly Princeton boxing champion whose
Jewishness prevents him from being regarded as anything more
than a barely tolerable annoyance. And finally Pedro Romero, the
teenage matador Brett beds as Cohn observes, consumed with
jealousy.  “The Select” is part of this group’s trilogy of
adaptations of landmark American novels. (“Gatz,” seen last
season, and “The Sound and the Fury” are the others.) The
company incorporates much of the novels’ text, deliberately
blurring the line between narration and performance.  Staged by  John Collins  and employing a brilliant, often
humorous digital soundscape (fish plop, booze gurgles), “The
Select” is more gimmicky than “Gatz,” more burlesque in tone
(and, at 3 1/2 hours, considerably shorter). Barkeeps juggle
bottles like the Flying Karamazov Brothers. A conference table
becomes a crazed, snorting bull.  The show is ambivalent about Hemingway’s anti-Semitism,
abjuring the K-word the author himself used liberally. You’ll
have to decide for yourself whether that counts as whitewash or
sensitivity. What’s not in doubt is the appealing cleverness of
this ensemble.  At the New York Theatre Workshop, 79 E. 4th St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.nytw.org 
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 