-- 
H&R Block Pulls Plug on Tax-Refund Loans

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-09-13T15:37:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/h-r-block-pulls-plug-on-tax-refund-loans.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the biggest
preparer of U.S. tax returns, won’t offer loans tied to the size
of customers’ refunds.  H&R Block first halted so-called refund-anticipation loans
last year after regulators told the bank that provided financing
to stop, the Kansas City, Missouri-based company said today in a
statement.  “Knowing we had a strong 2011 tax season without RALs, our
analysis did not present a compelling reason to bring back the
product in 2012,” Chief Executive Officer Bill Cobb said in the
statement.  In December, U.S. regulators barred  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  from
offering tax-refund anticipation loans, prompting the London-
based bank to end an exclusive contract with H&R Block three
years early.  The short-term loans had been criticized by regulators and
consumer groups for high  interest rates , which may be 124
percent at some firms. Their popularity waned as the  Internal
Revenue Service  shortened the wait for refunds from eight weeks
to two or less, the company said.  Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc. and Liberty Tax Service,
two competitors, still offer RAL loans, according to their
websites.  “Yes, this puts them at a slight disadvantage because some
of their competitors still offer the loans, but they were able
to grow last year and take some market share even without it,
and I think they can build on that again this year,” said David Burtzlaff, an analyst with Stephens Inc. in  Dallas .  Market Share  Loss of the loan program didn’t prevent H&R Block from
expanding its market share for the 2010 tax year, so the
announcement will have little impact on the company’s
profitability, said  Michael Turner , an analyst with Washington-
based Compass Point Research & Trading LLC.  “Realistically, this is more of an advertising ploy to get
customers in,” Turner said.  Given that the company was able to increase its market
share to slightly above 10 percent of the retail tax return
market, “this is the year that will really be a test to see if
they can grow their share even without the loans,” Turner said.  Total U.S. returns prepared by the firm in fiscal 2011
climbed 6.5 percent, compared with an estimated 1.1 percent gain
in industrywide filings at the Internal Revenue Service, H&R
Block said in June.  H&R Block offered 2.7 million RAL loans in the 2009 tax
year before being blocked from offering them for the 2010 tax
year, according to Gene King, a company spokesman.  “At some point the RALs are going to go away, and I think
Block will benefit and take more market share because of its
size,” Burtzlaff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  