-- 
AC Milan Ties Barcelona 2-2 in Champions League on Thiago Silva’s Header

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-13T22:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/ac-milan-ties-barcelona-2-2-in-champions-league-on-thiago-silva-s-header.html
Thiago Silva scored in stoppage
time to give AC Milan a 2-2 tie with Barcelona in their opening
 Champions League  group-stage match.  Silva headed in Clarence Seedorf’s corner kick in the
second of four added minutes last night to deny defending
champion Barcelona the home victory in Group H.  “It was my best and most important goal since I joined
Milan,” Silva said on UEFA’s website.  Chelsea, Marseille and Porto were among the winners as
European soccer’s elite club competition kicked off its program
of group matches, while Borussia Dortmund scored a late goal to
draw 1-1 with Arsenal.  Alexandre Pato scored in the opening 30 seconds for seven-
time champion Milan at the Camp Nou stadium. The Brazilian took
possession near midfield, pushed the ball past the onrushing
defense and shot under goalkeeper Victor Valdes.  Barcelona tied the game in the 36th minute as  Pedro
Rodriguez  tapped in a pass from Lionel Messi. The four-time
European champion went in front five minutes into the second
half on David Villa’s free kick from about 30 yards (27 meters).  It looked to be the game winner under Silva headed home
Seedorf’s corner to earn the visitor a point.  In the other Group H game, Renan Bressan’s goal in the 69th
minute gave BATE Borisov a 1-1 draw at Plzen Viktoria, which got
a score from Marek Bakos.  Chelsea Scorers  Goals from  David Luiz  and Juan Mata in the second half gave
Chelsea a 2-0 home victory over  Bayer Leverkusen  in Group E.
Luiz put the Blues ahead in the 67th minute and Mata clinched
the victory in injury time. Valencia and Genk finished scoreless
in the other game in the group in  Belgium .  “We created so many opportunities to win the game by
more,” Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas told Sky Sports. “If
there was a fair result, it would have been Chelsea winning.”  Ivan Perisic’s volley into the top corner from about 20
yards in the 88th minute earned German champion Dortmund the
home draw with Arsenal in Group F.  Robin van Persie  scored for
the Gunners in the 42nd minute.  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  missed the game as he began a
two-match suspension for contacting his assistant coaches while
serving a one-game ban during a Champions League match against
Udinese.  “It was a good point,” Arsenal defender Bacary Sagna told
 Sky Sports . “They’re a good team, they did well last year. We
were expecting this type of game and got it.”  Marseille won 1-0 at Olympiacos in the other Group F game
on Lucho Gonzalez’s second-half goal. Marseille defender Rod
Fanni was sent off in injury time.  Porto Rallies  Porto, which won the second-tier Europa League last season,
came from behind to beat Shakhtar Donetsk 2-1 in Group G. Hulk
and Kleber scored for Porto after Luiz Adriano put Shakhtar
ahead after 12 minutes.  Shakhtar finished with nine men. Yaroslav Rakitskiy was
red-carded in the first half and Dmytro Chygrynskiy got his
second yellow card with 10 minutes remaining.  Goals from Gustavo Manduca and Ailton two minutes apart in
the second half gave Apoel Nicosia a 2-1 win over Zenit St.
Petersburg in the other game in the group. Konstatin Zyryanov
scored for Zenit, which had Bruno Alves sent off for a second
yellow card in the 86th minute.  Play begins in the other four groups tonight. Last year’s
runner-up  Manchester United  visits Benfica, record nine-time
winner Real Madrid is at Dinamo Zagreb and tournament newcomer
 Manchester City  hosts Napoli.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 