-- 
Maersk Lured by $1.5 Trillion in 2020 Asia-Africa Trade: Freight Markets

-- B y   S u n i l   J a g t i a n i   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-13T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/maersk-lured-by-1-5-trillion-asia-africa-trade-freight-markets.html
A record surge in trade between
 Asia  and Africa to as much as $1.5 trillion by 2020 is prompting
companies including AP Moeller-Maersk A/S and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) 
to expand shipping links between the continents.  Chinese and Indian demand for commodities from coal to
copper and African purchases of such items as automobiles and
rice are set to fuel the fivefold rise in trade from $304
billion in 2010, said Anil K. Gupta, who holds the Michael
Dingman Chair in Global Strategy & Entrepreneurship at the
University of  Maryland  in College Park.  “Africa has the resources that Asia needs,” said Gupta,
who is a visiting professor for the Fontainebleau, France-based
business school INSEAD, co-wrote the book “ Getting China and
India Right ” and studied in India. “ Africa  now has an historic
opportunity to transform its development, and Asia has begun to
look at Africa as a market of high growth potential.”  The strengthening ties are part of what HSBC Holdings Plc
calls the new “Silk Road” connecting emerging markets and
supporting global growth as U.S. and European expansions falter.
Shares in Grindrod Plc, Africa’s biggest shipping company, and
 Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  stand to benefit from the trade links to
Asia, says private bank and asset manager Investec Plc.  The prospective growth in imports and exports must overcome
a legacy of political instability in Africa that has constrained
expansion. Most nations in sub-Saharan Africa had a gross
domestic product per head of less than $1,000 in 2009, according
to the  2011 Africa Progress Report , produced by a group chaired
by former  United Nations  Secretary-General Kofi Annan.  $2-Billion Fleet  Maersk, Denmark’s biggest company, said it’s spending more
than $2 billion to create a fleet of the 22 largest container
ships to connect West Africa and Asia. The so-called  West Africa
MAX  vessels are each about 249 meters (817 feet) long, more than
three Airbus A380 superjumbo jets.  “It’s a route that gets a lot of attention internally at
Maersk, and it’s one of the fastest-growing,” said Sonny Dahl,
director of West Africa services for Copenhagen-based Maersk.  Durban, South Africa-based Grindrod’s shares have risen
about 12 percent to 14.77 rand ($2) since the company said on
Aug. 22 that it was in talks with a potential strategic partner.
They remain below a May 2008 high of 28.40 rand on declining
shipping rates worldwide, said John Arron, an analyst at Barnard
Jacobs Mellet Holdings Ltd. in Johannesburg.  Shares of commodity producers benefitting from exports to
Asia are up as well. Kumba  Iron Ore , based in  Pretoria ,  South
Africa , has risen 34 percent in the past year. The company, the
world’s fourth-largest supplier of seaborne iron ore, sent  69
percent  of its exports to China in the first half of this year.  Commodity Demand  The Africa-Asia trade relationship “in the medium term is
going to be about commodities,” said Malcolm Gray, a  fund
manager  in Cape Town at Investec Asset Management Ltd., an
Investec unit that oversees $94 billion. In 15 years, Africa may
provide “a manufacturing capability and labor to the then much
more affluent Chinese and Indian markets,” he said.  Investec funds held about 2.9 million Grindrod shares and
more than 200,000 Kumba shares as of June 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  African resources include a copper belt running through
Zambia and the Democratic Republic of Congo that holds 10
percent of world reserves of the metal. Exports of coal are
getting under way from  Mozambique , which says it has 23 billion
metric tons of reserves of the fossil fuel.  Trade between Asia and Africa, which together account for
three-quarters of the world’s 7 billion people, rose more than
400 percent from 2001 through 2010, data from the  United Nations 
and the  Population Reference Bureau  show.  Average annual economic growth of about 5 percent in Africa
and 7 percent in Asia spurred the record jump, Gupta said.  More Capacity  DHL Global Forwarding, a unit of Bonn-based Deutsche Post,
the biggest carrier of air and sea freight by volume, and
Marseille-based CMA CGM SA, the third-largest container line,
are among other companies expanding links between the two
continents.  “There has been a considerable amount of capacity
enhancement between  India  and Africa in the past two years,”
said Sandeep Pingle, director of marketing and sales for India
at  DHL Global Forwarding  in Mumbai.  Maersk predicts about 15 percent annual cargo volume growth
on Asia-Africa sea routes during the next five years.  That outlook signals the company expects trade between the
continents to weather threats from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis and a struggling U.S. economy. The risks have unnerved
investors, wiping $6 trillion off stocks worldwide this year.  The prediction also indicates an expectation that trade
growth will overcome a history of political upheaval in Africa.  Political, Economic Risk  As the continent began gaining independence from European
colonial powers, more than 70 coups occurred between the early
1960s and the overthrow of President Mobutu Sese Seko of then-
Zaire in 1997, John Reader, honorary research fellow at
University College London, wrote in the book “Africa: A
Biography of the Continent.”  Such instability has yet to be eliminated. In  Libya ,
opposition forces are battling Muammar Qaddafi’s supporters for
control of the nation. Last year, soldiers seized power in Niger
and Ivory Coast descended into violence after Laurent Gbagbo,
the former president, refused to cede power following his defeat
in a general election. Niger has since held democratic elections
and Ivory Coast’s winner,  Alassane Ouattara , took office.  While conflicts and natural disasters may contribute to
growth disruptions in certain African countries or regions,
“the fundamental trends and drivers suggest a positive growth
outlook for most of the continent,” Annan’s panel said in the
2011 Africa Progress Report.  ‘New’ Africa  Asia compared with the West “is less fearful of political
risk because it’s more used to it, and because it’s not basing
its views on Africa of 20 years ago,” said Paul Collier,
director of the Centre for the Study of African Economies at the
U.K.’s Oxford University. “Africa has improved its business
climate, so Asia is seeing the new Africa, whereas the West is
remembering the old Africa.”  The African Development Bank this month cut its economic
growth estimate for the continent to as low as 3.2 percent in
2011 from 3.7 percent. Still, it forecast 2012 expansion of 5.8
percent, compared with International Monetary Fund  predictions 
for U.S. growth of 2.7 percent and European Union expansion of
2.1 percent.  In Asia, growth has slowed from India to  Thailand , a
moderation exacerbated by elevated inflation and higher  interest
rates  in the region. Even so, the levels of expansion remain
among the fastest in the world, led by  China ’s 9.5 percent
increase in gross domestic product in the second quarter from a
year earlier.  China’s Influence  “African-Asian trade and investment flows are unlikely to
abate for the foreseeable future,” said Harry G. Broadman,
chief economist and emerging-markets practice leader at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC in  Washington . “This reflects the
underlying secular trend of the explosion” in commerce between
emerging markets, he said.  China is also investing in African projects from roads to
ports and power plants, as part of a bargain for access to
resources that is projecting its rising economic heft across the
continent.  Direct investment by China into Africa rose to  $9.33
billion  by the end of 2009 from $490 million in 2003, the
nation’s government said last year. Sino-African trade reached
$127 billion in 2010, up from $10 billion in 2000, according to
China’s Ministry of Commerce.  “China has taken the view that Africa provides a good
market for product,” said Peter Ledger, a fund manager at Cape
Town-based  Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. , which oversees about
240 billion rand. “It’s clearly trying to put the appropriate
elements in place to support and grow trade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net 
Sunil Jagtiani in Singapore at 
 sjagtiani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  