-- 
Thailand Ready to Cede No. 1 Rice Ranking to Pay Higher Prices to Farmers

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-09-13T08:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/thailand-may-give-up-role-of-biggest-rice-exporter-to-boost-rural-incomes.html
Thailand  is willing to relinquish
its role as the world’s biggest rice exporter as the government
prepares to buy grain directly from farmers to boost prices and
rural incomes, Deputy Prime Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said.  “We will not back off,” Kittiratt said in an interview
yesterday. “If we cannot help our farmers, what is the point of
being the government in this country? I’m not proud of being the
largest exporter. I’m proud that Thai farmers can grow and sell
their products at reasonable prices and they can smile.”  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra aims to insulate the
country of 66 million people from a global slowdown by lifting
incomes of poorer Thais who propelled her party to victory in a
July election. The plan to guarantee rice prices may boost
export rates by almost 20 percent and erode the nation’s share
of the global market, said Sarunyu Jeamsinkul, deputy managing
director at  Asia  Golden Rice Ltd., Thailand’s largest shipper.  “That will be trouble for exporters,” Sarunyu said by
phone from Bangkok. “It would be difficult to get deals done at
that price.” The export price may climb to $750 a metric ton,
Sarunyu said. It was at $629 as of Sept. 7, the highest level
since December 2009, according to the Thai Rice Exporters
Association.  Rice futures rose 0.3 percent to $18.42 per 100 pounds on
the Chicago Board of Trade as of 3:13 p.m. Bangkok time, poised
for the highest close since Sept. 30, 2008.  Shipments to Decline  Shipments from Thailand, which account for about 30 percent
of world rice exports, are expected to fall to 8 million metric
tons next year from an estimated 10 million tons this year,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Exports by
 Vietnam , the second-largest shipper, may fall 8.6 percent to 6.4
million tons next year, the USDA estimates.  Flooding in Thailand may damage at least 2.4 percent of the
main rice crop, bringing output to about 24.5 million tons,
according to the Office of Agricultural Economics. The main
crop, planted in May and harvested in October, represents about
70 percent of Thailand’s total annual production, Apichart Jongskul, the office’s secretary-general, said in a phone
interview.  “I believe that if we have to suffer with smaller export
amounts, the total value of exports will be more,” Kittiratt
said in Bangkok. Overseas sales jumped 55 percent to 8.3 million
tons this year through Sept. 5, according to the  Thai Rice
Exporters Association.   47 Percent Higher  The government plans to pay 15,000 baht per ton ($498) for
unmilled white rice and 20,000 baht for Hom Mali fragrant rice,
as much as 47 percent above current market rates, according to
Bloomberg News calculations based on data from the  Thai Rice
Mills Association . Purchases are due to start on Oct. 7.  Thailand’s effort to raise farm incomes may fuel price
gains across a region that the  USDA  estimates accounts for 87
percent of global rice consumption. Thailand has been the
world’s largest exporter since 1981, according to the USDA.  “We’re not talking about pushing up the price three, four,
or fivefold so that people will switch to consume bread or other
grains,” Kittiratt said. “I’m confident the price we’re
offering is reasonable. I’ll not be happy if the price surges
higher than what we suggest.”  Competing suppliers may also take the opportunity to raise
prices, Abah Ofon, an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television today.  ‘How Long?’  “Up to 12 months, there is a risk we see that elevation
staying in place,” he said. “The question is how long can
Thailand continue to buy rice at the rate it has set?”  The price of 100 percent grade-B Thai rice, the benchmark
for Asia, has gained 21 percent since the July 3 election on
expectation that Yingluck would resurrect a policy first
introduced by her brother,  Thaksin Shinawatra .  About 35 percent of Thais made their living growing crops
last year, according to data from the Office of Agricultural
Economics. During the election, Yingluck’s Pheu Thai party won
153 of 195 seats in the north and northeast, where incomes are
about a third of those in Bangkok.  In 2008, when Thaksin’s allies were last in power and the
government had a similar policy, it spent about 130 billion baht
to buy 10.5 million tons of rice from almost one million
farmers, according to the  Bank for Agriculture & Agricultural
Cooperatives . The government expects to use as much as 400
billion baht on the rice-price guarantee program, which will run
from Oct. 7 until Feb. 29, deputy government spokeswoman
Anuttama Amornvivat said today.  ‘Working Capital’  Funding for the rice program is not included in the
government’s budget deficit estimated at 350 billion baht for
the fiscal year starting Oct. 1, Kittiratt said yesterday.  “We’ll take the rice in as working capital so it is not an
outright budget,” he said.  Losses from selling rice below purchasing costs in 2008
were estimated at 43 billion baht, data from the bank showed.
Former Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva’s government spent 47
billion baht in 2009 on income support for farmers, according to
the bank.  Local prices rose to a record 17,000 baht per ton in April
2008 and export rates hit an all-time high of $1,038 per ton the
following month after  India ,  China  and Vietnam curbed shipments,
spurring unrest from  Haiti  to  Egypt .  ‘Beg for Understanding’  “Everyone in the business can look at the price of rice
five years ago and the price of wheat five years ago and look at
the percentage increase,” Kittiratt said. “What we’re
suggesting isn’t even trying to outpace other comparable
choices. What we’re trying to do is to beg for the understanding
of buyers and consumers.”  The USDA raised its estimate for global rice production to
a record 458.4 million tons for the 2011-2012 crop, buoyed by
larger expected harvests in  Brazil , China, the  Philippines  and
the U.S., according to a Sept. 12  report . That would be a second
year of record supply, outpacing consumption and lifting ending
stocks to the highest level in nine years, the USDA said.  Global trade in rice is estimated to fall 4.2 percent to
31.8 million tons next year, the USDA said.  “As we go forward, demand and supply fundamentals are
going to come to bear,” Ofon said. “There isn’t a shortage of
rice in the market. We’re actually seeing a decrease in per
capita consumption of rice in this region. As people get richer
they switch from rice to other higher protein meals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at  
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  