-- 
Delta Plans 2012 Seat Cuts as AMR Joins Pullback This Year

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-09-13T20:20:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/american-joins-airlines-seat-capacity-cuts-on-mixed-economy.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  will shrink
seating capacity in 2012 to cut operating costs, and  American
Airlines  is joining an industry pullback in flights for the end
of this year.  Delta’s available seating next year will fall by 2 percent
to 3 percent, the Atlanta-based carrier said today in a
regulatory filing. American said next quarter’s trims will pare
flying by 0.5 percent, and plans for 2012 are now under review.
The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index jumped the most in a month.  “If a recession does pop and we start to see demand
reductions, we’ll be prepared for it,” Delta President Ed Bastian said at a Deutsche Bank AG conference in  New York .  Paring capacity can be a positive step for airlines, both
in savings from operating expenses and in pricing power for a
smaller supply of seats.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the
world’s largest carrier, and No. 2 Delta unveiled their end-of-
year retrenchments earlier.  United’s capacity will be unchanged next year, with a
planned drop in domestic seats balanced by increases in overseas
flying, Chief Executive Officer Jeffery Smisek said at the
conference.  “If we had a material decrease in demand or a material
increase in input prices, we would shrink” in 2012, Smisek
said.  Airlines Rally  The Bloomberg airlines index jumped 6.3 percent for its
biggest one-day advance since Aug. 9, led by  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC)  The Tempe, Arizona-based airline soared 79 cents, or 16
percent, to $5.64 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  American parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  climbed 18 cents, or 5.5 percent,
to $3.45, and Delta rose 61 cents, or 8.3 percent, to $7.99.
United increased $1.32, or 7.4 percent, to $19.28.  US Airways President Scott Kirby told analysts and
investors that air-travel demand appears to be disconnected from
global economic events such as the European credit crisis that
might have eroded airlines’ business in the past.  “We don’t see any evidence yet of a slowdown,” Kirby
said. “We’ve seen a strong demand environment from mid-July
through yesterday.”  Lower-Demand Days  American’s pullback includes reductions that began in
August that reduce flying by varying amounts on lower-demand
travel days, Treasurer Beverly Goulet said at the conference.
The cuts include a 13 percent drop on Saturdays, according to an
American presentation for investors.  “Although advance bookings are generally in line, we are
taking the step in light of the mixed economic environment and
to make sure we run a smooth operation given additional pilot
retirements we expect this fall,” Goulet said. Pilots were
asked to voluntarily delay September vacations to avoid
shortages after 111 retirements at the end of August exceeded
expectations.  The  Fort Worth , Texas-based airline had held off on
disclosing fourth-quarter capacity changes as Delta decided in
July to deepen its capacity reduction to 5 percent after the
peak summer travel season, up from a planned 4 percent cut, and
United chopped available seats by 4 percent.  Delta’s projected cut in 2012 flying builds on savings
steps such as buyout and early retirement offers that were
accepted this year by more than 2,000 employees. The airline
also said this month it is eliminating 200 administrative jobs.  Delta Stands Pat  Bastian confirmed today that Delta has no plans for a
purchase of smaller single-aisle jets after agreeing last month
to buy 100  Boeing Co. (BA)  737s with a catalog value of $8.5 billion.  Delta had been in talks with  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  and Bombardier Inc.
about planes that would complement its Boeing and Airbus SAS
narrow-body jets, according to people familiar with the matter
who weren’t authorized to speak publicly. One person said last
month that the Embraer and Bombardier discussions had been
tabled until at least 2012.  “I want to put to rest as to whether there is a second
tranche,” Bastian said today. “We are done talking about
aircraft for the near to medium term, be it with Bombardier or
Embraer or Boeing or Airbus. We’re very comfortable with where
we are for the next several years.”  American also said  Hurricane Irene  reduced revenue by about
$25 million and that third-quarter unit revenue, a measure of
sales for each seat flown a mile, will rise by about 7 percent
from a year earlier.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the largest low-fare carrier, said
Irene reduced revenue by about $6.5 million. Southwest, which
previously said capacity will be unchanged to down next year,
also probably won’t add more seats in 2013, Chief Financial
Officer Laura Wright said today.  Expansion of about 5 percent is a “reasonable forecast”
for  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) , which hasn’t completed its 2012
plans, Chief Financial Officer Ed Barnes said at the conference.
The majority of the New York-based airline’s growth would occur
in  Boston  and the Caribbean, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  