-- 
Apple Cashpile Makes Dividend, Buyback ‘More Likely’  Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-09-13T20:08:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/apple-dividend-or-buyback-is-more-likely-than-ever-morgan-stanley-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most
valuable company, is “more likely than ever” to return money
to shareholders in the form of a stock buyback or dividend,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Apple is able to finance a $25 billion share repurchase
program or a 2.4 percent dividend using its available cash, said
Katy Huberty, an analyst for Morgan Stanley in New York. Apple
has $76 billion in cash and investment holdings, equivalent to
about $81 a share, which could be used to fund the effort.  “We believe Apple is more likely than ever to return cash
to shareholders,” Huberty said in a note to clients.  Technology companies that pay a dividend or buy back shares
rather than using the money for acquisitions generally
outperform their peers on the stock market, Huberty said.  Steve Jobs , then chief executive officer, said last October that the
company was saving its money for “strategic opportunities.” He
stepped down as CEO last month to become chairman. The company
is now run by  Tim Cook , former chief operating officer.  A multibillion acquisition is still a possibility, Huberty
said. While a large deal would be risky, it could be worthwhile
if it brings new subscription-based revenue for streaming
content to its devices, she said.  Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in New York, has called on Apple to return money to
shareholders. In a letter to Jobs and Apple’s board last year,
he called the company’s hoarding of cash “excessive.”  ‘Powder Dry’  Last October, when Cupertino, California-based Apple had
$51 billion in cash and long-term investments, Jobs said it was
keeping its “powder dry” in case an opportunity comes along.  “We’ve demonstrated a really strong track record of being
very disciplined with the use of our cash,” Jobs said on Oct.
18 during a conference call with financial analysts. “We don’t
let it burn a hole in our pocket.”  Apple rose $4.68, or 1.2 percent, to $384.62 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
climbed 19 percent this year.  Between Jobs returning to the company in 1997 and his
retirement as CEO last month, the stock climbed 9,000 percent.
The 56-year-old, who has battled a rare form of cancer, had been
on medical leave since January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  