-- 
Marchionne Forecasts Slowdown as Peugeot Citroen Warns of Recession: Cars

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-13T22:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/marchionne-sees-slowdown-as-peugeot-warns-of-recession-cars.html
Europe’s car industry will struggle
to grow in 2012 as a worsening credit crisis prompts consumers
to rein in spending, with  Fiat SpA (F)  saying it may delay the
introduction of new models as a result of a global slowdown.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  expects industrywide sales in Europe to be
little changed at between 14.7 million to 15.3 million units
next year, Europe head Stephen Odell said at the International
Motor Show in  Frankfurt  yesterday. Fiat Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said 2012 will be “difficult” and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  said growth next year won’t be as strong as it had predicted.  “Europe is facing a period of weak growth or even
recession,” PSA Peugeot Citroen CEO Philippe Varin said at a
briefing at the show. The French carmaker, also reliant on
Europe for most of its sales, will eliminate jobs and review the
future of its Aulnay plant in 2014 because of a “competitiveness
problem” with French small-car manufacturing, he said.  The Stoxx 600 Automobiles & Parts Index has slumped 27
percent this year after advancing 45 percent in 2010. Shares in
Fiat, which relies on southern  Europe  for much of its revenue,
have lost 46 percent. Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker
after VW, now has a market value of 3.9 billion euros ($5.3
billion) after falling 41 percent this year, compared with annual
revenue of 56 billion euros.  European services and manufacturing growth weakened in
August on tougher austerity measures and waning global demand.
Economic confidence plunged last month after the region’s
recovery lost momentum in the second quarter.  Weakest Since 1980s  “The Italian market hasn’t been so weak since the 1980s,”
Marchionne, who is also CEO of Chrysler Group LLC, told
reporters at the show. Fiat may delay the introduction of new
models globally and won’t consider selling shares in its Ferrari
SpA unit in such a market, he said. Plans to buy the remaining
stake in Chrysler are also on hold, he said.  Global auto sales should rise 4.1 percent to 53.9 million
cars in 2011, and may continue growing to 57.9 million units in
2012, according to research firm IHS Automotive. The forecasted
gains are smaller than was expected a couple weeks ago, said  Ian Fletcher , a London-based IHS analyst.  Most of that growth may come from luxury cars. Executives
from  Daimler AG (DAI) ,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and VW’s Audi unit
say their factories are still running at full tilt. Audi
yesterday raised its full-year sales forecast to 1.3 million
vehicles from 1.2 million previously.  No Recession  “For 2012, we see a higher likelihood of a slowdown of
growth rather than a recession,” Daimler CEO Dieter Zetsche
said to reporters at the Frankfurt motor show. “Our order
intake has been unaffected, which means a continuation of very
strong demand for passenger cars and commercial vehicles.”  Ferrari expects record sales of 7,000 cars this year, with
Greater China becoming its second-biggest market. BMW’s Rolls-
Royce Motor Cars hasn’t experienced a slowdown and is
“bullish” on sales prospects, CEO Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Even as current business appears insulated from the
economic risks, BMW is equipped for a slowdown after trimming
costs and reducing its leasing business to lower financial risk
during the 2009 recession, Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said, adding that BMW could withstand a similar crisis
without its automotive business slipping to a loss.  ‘X-Factor’  “Right now we have no indication of a decline in the
market, but if it comes we are more prepared than in 2008, with
respect to our financial strength and flexibility in our
plants,” Volvo Cars CEO Stefan Jacoby said.  Volvo, which employs about 20,000 people globally, has a
bigger share of temporary workers today than in 2008, allowing
it to respond faster to a potential slowdown, he said.  “The global automakers are in a much stronger position
balance-sheet wise versus the beginning of the crisis in 2008,
so the risk of immense cash-burn and state bailouts is no longer
a near-term risk,”  David Arnold , a London-based Credit Suisse
analyst, said in a phone interview. “Emerging markets, which
have been the savior to this sector the last three years,
especially on the premium side, are the big X factor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  