-- 
Harrisburg Council Acts to Get Cash, Dodge Default by Pennsylvania Capital

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/harrisburg-council-acts-to-get-cash-dodge-default-by-pennsylvania-capital.html
Harrisburg’s City Council moved to
avoid a default by  Pennsylvania ’s capital, accepting a real-
estate deal that provides cash for costs including debt service.  The council voted 5-2 yesterday to extend a lease of city
land to the Harrisburg Parking Authority in exchange for $7.4
million, enough to make a $3.3 million payment due this week on
general-obligation debt. The remaining funds will be used to
help close a  budget deficit  for the rest of the year.  A default would deepen the fiscal crisis that has propelled
the city to the brink of bankruptcy, driven by an expansion of a
municipal incinerator that hasn’t produced enough revenue to
cover costs and pay off debt. While Harrisburg has skipped
payments owed from that project, it has remained current on
general-obligation bonds.  “Allowing Harrisburg to miss a GO bond payment, and thus
default, would not be in the state’s best interest, and could
potentially be reflected in higher borrowing costs for other
Pennsylvania cities,” Alan Schankel, director of fixed income
research for Philadelphia brokerage Janney Montgomery Scott LLC,
said ahead of the vote. He said the state likely would step in
to prevent Harrisburg from missing its payment, due Sept. 15.  The Parking Authority will borrow to make the payment, and
some on the council balked at the interest rate of as much as
10.75 percent on the loan. About a third of the city’s 49,500
residents live below the federal poverty level. The lease covers
land under several garages, and the loan costs may reduce the
authority’s income, which provides revenue to the city.  Costs Debated  “It’s an exorbitant amount,” Councilman Brad Koplinski
said.  Others countered that the loan’s price pales in comparison
with the consequences of default.  “We cannot recover from a general-obligation bond
default,” Councilwoman Patricia Kim said during debate on the
arrangement.  Mayor  Linda Thompson  applauded the council’s decision to
approve the financing.  “We can keep the doors open now,” she said.  The state plans to provide the city with an advance on $2.6
million of pension-related aid by today, the mayor said. She
said default can be averted as long as either the state money or
the $7.4 million from the Parking Authority arrives by midday.  Robert Philbin, a spokesman for the mayor, declined to
disclose the identity of the lender, which he said will be made
public after the deal closes.  Discord Persists  Disagreement between the council and Thompson persists,
leaving Harrisburg without a blueprint for getting out from
under incinerator-related costs. The mayor has proposed a plan
that includes selling the waste-to-energy plant to help the city
deal with more than $300 million in related debts. The council
has rejected that approach.  Given the local discord, city officials have said they
expect the Legislature to let state appointees take control of
Harrisburg’s finances. Republican Governor Tom Corbett has
indicated he would support such a step.  The city avoided a general-obligation default a year
earlier, when then-Governor  Ed Rendell , a Democrat, advanced
state-aid payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Harrisburg at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 