-- 
Canadian Stocks Rise as Support for Greece Offsets Retail Sales

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-09-14T20:52:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/artek-exploration-barrick-gold-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for the second
day as France and  Germany  expressed support for Greece,
offsetting a report on U.S. retail sales that signaled the
world’s largest economy may slow.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  climbed 3.1
percent and 3.5 percent respectively.  Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) 
rallied 4.3 percent after an analyst said the miner will weather
fraud allegations.  BCE Inc. (BCE) , Canada’s largest phone company,
climbed 1.7 percent as telecom companies rose.  The S&P/TSX increased 87.9 points, or 0.7 percent, to
12,293.38 at 4 p.m. Toronto time. The gauge advanced 0.5 percent
yesterday, ending a three-day losing streak.  “We’ve built a base, a gradual -- albeit volatile -- up
channel in the major markets,” said Andrew Pyle, who helps
manage C$200 million ($202 million) as an associate money
manager at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s ScotiaMcLeod unit in
Peterborough, Ontario. “This market is still vulnerable to
concrete negative news,” he said. “Retail sales came in flat
and the market was looking for a modest gain.”  Concern the global economy was slipping back into a
recession amid a worsening sovereign-debt crisis in Europe
triggered an 18 percent plunge in the S&P/TSX between the
beginning of April and Aug. 8. The index has rebounded 5.3
percent since then through yesterday.  Support for Greece  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel are “convinced” Greece will remain in the euro
area, according to a statement issued by Sarkozy after they
spoke to Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou by telephone
today. The Greek government said in its own statement it is
determined to carry out all budget plans.  Caijing reported on its website today, citing  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice chairman of the National Development and
Reform Commission, that  China  is willing to buy the bonds of
European nations hit by the debt crisis.  Canadian stocks briefly turned lower today after a report
showed American retail sales unexpectedly stalled in August as a
lack of jobs restrained shoppers. The unchanged reading followed
a 0.3 percent gain for July that was smaller than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median forecast of 83 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was a 0.2 percent rise.  While oil futures slipped today, Canadian energy companies
gained. Suncor Energy,  Canada ’s biggest fuel producer, advanced
3.1 percent to C$29.44. Cenovus Energy rose 3.5 percent to
C$33.02.  ‘Weather This Storm’  Silvercorp Metals gained 4.3 percent to C$6.46. Allegations
of fraud against the Chinese silver miner are “unfortunate and
opportunistic,” said Brad Humphrey, an analyst at Raymond James
Ltd. He said he expects the Vancouver-based company to “weather
this storm.”  The Chinese miner, which was accused of fraud in an
anonymous letter last month, rejected another report that
questioned the quality of the company’s ore and volume of sales
to a related party. The report was published yesterday by
Alfredlittle.com, a website that posts research on companies
doing business in China. Silvercorp, which plunged 20 percent
yesterday, denied the report’s findings and posted documents
today on its website that it said disprove the allegations.  Telecommunication stocks posted the second-biggest gain out
of 10 groups in the S&P/TSX today, adding 2.5 percent. BCE rose
1.7 percent to C$38.71.  Telus Corp. (T)  jumped 3.3 percent to
C$52.37.  Canadian Banks  Bank of Nova Scotia gained 0.2 percent to C$51.55. Canada’s
third-largest lender by assets replaced  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,
the largest lender, as UBS’s “key call” in the country’s bank
industry. Royal Bank of Canada lost 0.6 percent to C$45.99.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest gold producer,
slipped 1.1 percent to C$52.16. The Toronto-based company will
complete a $550 million upgrade of its two gold mines in Peru by
2013, the company’s country manager Darrell Wagner said. The
plan will expand the Alto Chicama mine and extend the operating
life of the Pierina mine, both in the northern Andes, Wagner
said at a conference in the city of Arequipa,  Peru .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  