-- 
Most Asia Stocks Rise, Rebounding From Year-Low, as Oil Advances

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-09-13T09:59:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/asian-stocks-rise-as-italy-signals-china-may-invest-easing-debt-concerns.html
Most Asian stocks rose, with the
benchmark regional index trading near a one-year low, as raw
material and energy producers advanced on increased oil and
copper prices.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index pared gains as banks fell after
the Wall Street Journal, citing unidentified sources, reported
French lender BNP Paribas SA can no longer borrow in dollars.
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, advanced
2.3 percent in Sydney, leading raw material producers higher.
 Inpex Corp. (1605) , an energy explorer, advanced 1.6 percent in Tokyo.
Fanuc Corp., a maker of industrial robots, advanced 2.3 percent
after plunging 15 percent last week. Nintendo Co., the world’s
largest maker of game players, slumped 5.1 percent on
speculation it may sell fewer 3-D handheld players than it is
targeting.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.05 point, or less than 1
percent, to 118.05 at 6:52 p.m. in Tokyo after rising as much as
0.6 percent and falling 0.1 percent. About four stocks gained
for every three that fell on the gauge, which dropped 3.3
percent in the previous two days, sending the measure to its
lowest level since Aug. 2010 yesterday.  “Stocks are rebounding because they fell so sharply
recently, but there’s nothing fundamentally good out there,”
said Koichi Kurose, chief strategist in  Tokyo  at Resona Bank
Ltd. “The global economy is still a concern. Even though stocks
fell a lot recently, they may fall further if  Greece  goes into a
default and the financial system loses out.”  The Asia-Pacific measure slumped 8.6 percent last month,
the most since May 2010, amid concern global economic growth is
slowing as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis spreads and after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating.  Australian Business Confidence  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225  Stock Average gained 1 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index slumped 2.9 percent after being closed for a holiday
in the past two days. China’s Shanghai Composite Index, which
was also closed for trading yesterday, lost 1.1 percent today.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.9 percent, even
after a National Australia Bank Ltd. survey of more than 500
companies from Aug. 24-30 that was released in Sydney today
showed that business confidence in the nation plunged last month
to its lowest level since April 2009.  Markets in  South Korea  and  Hong Kong  are closed today for a
holiday.  India’s Sensex index and  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index
both reversed gains in late afternoon trading after the Wall
Street Journal report on BNP Paribas.  Italy Speculation  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.1 percent
today. In  New York , the index rebounded 0.7 percent yesterday,
reversing losses in the last 90 minutes of trading, after the
Financial Times reported that Italy aims to sell “significant”
quantities of bonds and stakes in strategic companies to China.  An Italian government official, who declined to be
identified, told Bloomberg News that Italian officials have held
talks with Chinese counterparts about potential investment in
the euro region’s third-largest economy. The purchase of Italian
bonds by  China  was not the focus of the talks, which took place
in the past few weeks, the official said.  “Realistically most investors would consider that funding
from China, while helpful, will have a limited impact on the
core risks, and consequently the very small lift in markets
today is most likely a very brief respite from a downwards
trend,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages more than $300 million
at White Funds Management in Sydney. “Investors remain
concerned about the solvency of euro governments and financial
institutions, and the ability of political parties in Europe and
the U.S. to agree upon sensible strategies to both encourage
employment and reduce indebtedness.”  BHP, Inpex  Raw material producers and energy shares were among the
biggest boosts to the MSCI Asia Pacific Index today.  BHP increased 2.3 percent to A$37.29, the largest support
to the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Origin Energy Ltd., an oil and
gas explorer, rose 3.9 percent to A$13. Inpex advanced 1.6
percent to 490,500 yen.  Crude oil for October delivery rose as much as 1.2 percent
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  today, its second day of
gains, after stockpiles of crude in the U.S. shrank last week.
Copper in  London  gained as much as 1.4 percent, rising for the
first time in three days.  Stocks gained today after the MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell
to a one-year low yesterday. Stocks on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index are trading at about 12 percent below the measure’s 200-
day moving average.  Fanuc, Komatsu Rebound  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 14 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 7.6 percent drop by the  S&P
500  and a 21 percent loss by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 11.6 for the S&P 500 and 9.1
times for the Stoxx 600.  Fanuc, which plunged 15 percent last week and 3.4 percent
yesterday, advanced 2.3 percent today and was the biggest
support to the Nikkei 225. Komatsu Ltd., which makes
construction machinery, also rallied 2.7 percent to 1,799 yen
today, rebounding from a 14 percent decline last week.  Among other stocks that rose, Elpida Memory Inc. surged 13
percent to 557 yen after the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index,
which tracks the performance of 30 industry stocks, yesterday
rallied 3 percent to the highest since Aug. 15. Elpida posted
the biggest gain on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Dainippon Screen Manufacturing Co., a maker of chip-
manufacturing equipment, jumped 4.8 percent to 462 yen.
Advantest Corp., a maker of memory-chip testers, rose 4.8
percent to 896 yen.  　　　　　　　　　　　 Banks Reverse Gains  Banks declined in afternoon trading after the Wall Street
Journal cited an unidentified bank official as saying BNP
Paribas can’t borrow dollars because U.S. money-market funds are
no longer lending to it.  India ’s ICICI Bank Ltd. dropped 1 percent to 853.95 rupees
and Singapore’s DBS Group Holdings Ltd. slipped 1.2 percent to
S$12.20.  Among other stocks that fell, Nintendo sank 5.1 percent to
12,320 yen after analysts said the company will probably sell
fewer 3-D handheld players than it’s targeting as price cuts and
new accessories fail to make up for a lack of hit titles. The
stock fell even after the company’s president, Satoru Iwata,
said today it will add new functions to the 3DS in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  