-- 
Asia Currencies Drop as Europe’s Worsening Debt Woes Boost Dollar Demand

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-09-13T08:47:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/asia-currencies-drop-as-europe-s-worsening-debt-woes-boost-dollar-demand.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by
 Taiwan ’s dollar and Malaysia’s ringgit, as  Europe ’s worsening
debt crisis boosted demand for the relative safety of the dollar.  The ringgit fell to its weakest level since June, while the
island’s dollar reached a five-month low, as German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said, in a radio interview to be broadcast today,
that she won’t let Greece fall into an “uncontrolled insolvency”
because the risk of contagion for other euro-area nations “is
very big.” Italy will attempt to raise as much as 7 billion
euros ($9.5 billion) in a bond sale today.  Taiwan’s dollar slumped 0.9 percent to NT$29.487 against
the greenback as of 4 p.m. local time, according to Taipei Forex
Inc. The ringgit dropped 0.7 percent to 3.0565,  India ’s rupee
slid 0.4 percent to 47.385 and  China ’s yuan fell 0.17 percent to
6.3991.  “We aren’t surprised to see this move in the market
because of the problems in Europe, especially worries about
Greece,” said Norawit Suparinayok, a foreign-exchange trader at
Bangkok Bank Pcl. “Investors and traders are seeking safe-haven
assets.”  International investors sold $2.3 billion more South Korean
and Taiwanese shares than they bought last week, according to
exchange data.  Italian officials have held talks with their Chinese
counterparts about potential investments in the euro region’s
third-largest economy, an Italian government official said
yesterday. Debt of 1.9 trillion euros -- more than Spain, Greece,
Ireland and Portugal combined -- leaves  Italy  vulnerable to any
advance in borrowing costs as it refinances maturing bonds.  Hurting Exports  Taiwan’s dollar fell by the most since April 2009 on
speculation the deteriorating global economy will further damage
the island’s exports. Overseas shipments rose 7.2 percent in
August from a year earlier, the least since they last declined
in October 2009, data showed on Sept. 8. Economists expected a
15.5 percent increase, a Bloomberg survey showed.  “Europe’s debt crisis continues to damp sentiment,” said
 Henry Lin , a Taipei-based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin
Kong Commercial Bank. “Looks like the depreciation trend will
continue.”  The ringgit weakened for a seventh day on speculation
Europe’s debt crisis will prompt policy makers to halt monetary
policy tightening. The one-year interest-rate swap slid
yesterday to the lowest level in 2011 after Bank Negara  Malaysia 
kept its policy rate on hold last week, citing the possible
fallout from global slowdown risks.  “The Europe situation remains unresolved and people are
avoiding risk because of the potential domino effect,” said Nik M. Khairul, a treasury dealer at Asian Finance Bank Bhd. in
 Kuala Lumpur . “There’s little room for central banks to tighten
for the rest of this year given the slowdown signs.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah declined 0.6 percent to 8,673
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Singapore’s
dollar slumped 0.5 percent to S$1.2397, the Philippine peso fell
0.4 percent to 42.975 and Thailand’s baht declined 0.2 percent
to 30.20. Financial markets in  South Korea  are closed for a
public holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  