-- 
Latin America’s Top Issuer to Borrow More Abroad Next Year: Mexico Credit

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-09-13T15:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/latin-america-s-top-issuer-to-borrow-more-abroad-next-year-mexico-credit.html
Mexico  is seeking to step up
overseas borrowing in 2012 after raising $3 billion this year
from international offerings, more than any other country in
Latin America.  The government is asking Congress for authorization to boost
net external debt  by $7 billion in 2012 , up from the $5 billion
increase it was granted for this year, according to the budget
proposal presented Sept. 8.  While developing nations from Brazil to  Colombia  are paring
debt sales abroad to contain gains in their currencies, Mexico
has tapped global markets three times this year to lock in
record-low borrowing costs in the U.S. and bolster foreign
reserves. Mexico has sold $15 billion of bonds outside its local
market since 2009, up from $7 billion in the previous three
years, while Brazil cut its sales 12 percent over that period to
$6.9 billion.  A lack of “high-quality sovereign debt” issues from
developing nations will help fuel demand for more Mexican bonds,
said Jeremy Brewin, who helps manage about $3.5 billion in
emerging-market debt with Aviva Investors in  London . “The
appetite for external sovereign debt is quite robust so for
Mexico to issue an extra $7 billion, I don’t think that’ll be a
challenge.”  Yields on the government’s benchmark dollar bonds due 2020
have tumbled 92 basis points, or 0.92 percentage point, this
year to 3.57 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield is 1.80 percentage points more than that on similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries and one basis point more than Brazilian
bonds.  Reserves Growth  Mexico sold $1 billion more of the bonds due 2020 in
February at about 4.85 percent, 13 months after an initial
offering fetched a yield of 5.27 percent.  A press official in the  Finance Ministry  didn’t respond to
an e-mailed message seeking comment.  The issues are bringing dollars into Latin America’s
second-biggest economy, helping the government’s efforts to
bolster foreign reserves after they plunged 11 percent in one
week alone during the global financial crisis in 2008. Reserves
climbed to a record $137 billion on Sept. 2 from $75.1 billion
in October 2008, when policy makers were selling dollars to slow
the peso’s tumble, according to data compiled by the central
bank.  The increase in foreign reserves warrants a credit-rating
upgrade, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said Sept. 8
during a conference in Mexico City hosted by Moody’s Investors
Service. Mexico is rated Baa1 by Moody’s, the third-lowest
investment grade ranking and one level above  Brazil , the
region’s biggest economy.  Brazilian Real  Brazil’s reserves have climbed 74 percent since October
2008 to $352.7 billion as policy makers bought dollars as part
of a push to stem the real’s rally and shore up manufacturing
exports. The real has advanced 35 percent since the end of 2008,
the most among 25 major emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg,
while the peso gained 6.2 percent. Brazil has also raised taxes
on foreigners’ local bond purchases and restricted banks from
betting against the dollar, measures that Mexico has avoided as
it looks to bolster reserves.  “Mexico hasn’t tried to put restrictions on the movement
of investors,” Sergio Luna, head of economic research at
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview. “The  Mexican peso  is a currency that’s
pretty liquid with few restrictions.”  The peso has slumped in the past six weeks as concern
mounted that  Europe ’s debt crisis and sluggish U.S. growth will
push the global economy into recession. The peso has fallen 8.6
percent since July and touched a one-year low of 12.9945 to the
dollar yesterday. Yields on the country’s benchmark bonds due
2020 jumped 19 basis points since Sept. 2 to 3.57 percent.  Greece  Concerns  Investor demand for Mexican bond offerings may wane should
concern grow that Greece will default and deepen Europe’s
crisis, said  Guillermo Rodriguez , who helps manage about $5.5
billion at Corp. Actinver SAB in Mexico City.  “On days with higher  risk aversion , yields have been
flying,” Rodriguez said in a telephone interview. “It all
depends on what happens in Europe.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds on average instead of Treasuries fell four basis points to
226 at 10:40 a.m.  New York  time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  The peso fell 0.4 percent to 12.8930 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose six basis points yesterday to 173, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Open Approach’  Yields on peso-denominated interest-rate futures contracts
due in October, known as TIIE, rose six basis points yesterday
to 4.69.  Alejandro Diaz de Leon, head of public debt, said in an
interview in August that the government was planning more sales
abroad this year.  The government’s sale of 100-year bonds, which yielded 5.96
percent, lifted its international issuance this year to $3
billion. While down from $4.1 billion in the year-earlier
period, it is still more than any other government in the
region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deficit Financing  Next year’s foreign bond issue plans will complement sales
in the local market, which the government will use as its main
source of financing, according to the budget proposal. President
Felipe Calderon’s administration is seeking authorization to
boost net local debt to 395 billion pesos from a ceiling of 375
billion pesos this year.  The government plans to issue more local bonds linked to
inflation, which slowed to 3.42 percent in the 12 months through
August from an annual rate of 3.55 percent in July, to help
extend maturities, the Finance Ministry said in the budget
proposal. The bond sales would help finance a projected budget
deficit of 36.7 billion pesos ($2.84 billion), equal to 0.2
percent of gross domestic product, the proposal says. The
government forecasts a deficit of 0.5 percent of GDP for this
year.  “These guys are being fiscally prudent,”  Roberto Melzi , a
 Latin America  strategist at Barclays Plc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “They have a very open approach for
investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  