-- 
Latvians Weary of Corruption to Oust Oligarchs as GDP Lags

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   K i r a   S a v c e n k o
-- 
2011-09-13T10:21:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/latvians-weary-of-corruption-to-oust-oligarchs-as-gdp-lags.html
Latvia  is preparing to oust the
“oligarchs” whose parties for a decade controlled swathes of
parliament as voters in the Baltic region’s slowest-growing
economy tire of corruption.  Opinion polls show parties affiliated with three oligarchs,
who influence policy and secretly control companies, according
to former President Valdis Zatlers, will win as few as 14 of the
legislature’s 100 seats at a Sept. 17 election, down from 51
five years ago and 30 in 2010.  The vote follows a referendum, called by Zatlers, to
dissolve parliament after it failed to lift the immunity of a
lawmaker facing a criminal probe. Latvians are increasingly
frustrated at corruption after the economy, the European Union’s
fastest-growing in 2006, shrank by more than a quarter between
2008 and 2010 leading to a surge in unemployment and wage cuts
heightening the debt load of consumers who took mortgages during
the country’s economic boom.  “They ended up carrying the can for the economic slump,”
Aidan Manktelow, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit
in London, said by e-mail Sept. 1. “But the corruption
allegations have certainly played a big role.”  Three men named by Zatlers on May 29 as oligarchs -- Aivars Lembergs, mayor of the port city of Ventspils, and lawmakers
Ainars Slesers and Andris Skele -- had parties in positions of
power during the economic boom. Lembergs’s Greens and Farmers
Union, Slesers’s Latvian First Party/Latvian Way and Skele’s
People’s Party all lost ground in the elections a year ago.  Growth Lags Rivals  Economic growth at 5.6 percent from a year earlier in the
second quarter lagged behind  Estonia ’s 8.4 percent and
 Lithuania ’s 6.3 percent pace, with unemployment still more than
twice pre-crisis levels. That has damaged support for Lembergs’s
party, the junior partner in the ruling coalition.  Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, who took office in March
2009 after the previous government fell, was able to avoid much
of the public anger over the crisis and his Unity bloc took 33
seats, the most for any party, in the elections last year.  The yield on Latvia’s 400 million euro bond due 2018 fell 1
basis point to 4.65 percent today, near last week’s record low
of 4.64 percent.  Lawmakers refused in May to revoke Slesers’s parliamentary
immunity to allow a search of his home by Latvia’s anti-
corruption agency, which investigated bribery and the secret
ownership of companies operating at the port in  Riga , the
capital.  ‘Privatize Democracy’  Zatlers sought to dissolve parliament as a result, warning
of attempts to “privatize democracy.” The referendum was
supported by about 95 percent of voters.  Lawmakers rejected Zatlers’s bid for a second term the
following week, prompting about 10,000 people to protest against
the oligarchs in Riga.  The Greens and Farmers Union, which has nominated Lembergs
as its candidate for prime minister, may win 8.5 percent of this
month’s vote, according to a Latvijas Fakti poll conducted Sept.
8-9 and commissioned by the  Baltic News Service . That may
exclude it from the next government.  “I expect us to get fewer seats than we have now,”
Lembergs said in a phone interview Aug. 30.  Slesers’s party may not reach the 5 percent threshold
needed for entry, according to the same poll. No margin of error
was given. Skele abolished his  People’s Party , which faced a 1
million-lati ($2 million) fine for overspending during the 2006
election campaign, on July 9.  Political Clout  “For them to be influential, they need a political
presence,” said  Nils Muiznieks , a political-science professor
at the University of Latvia. “It’s clear Slesers and Skele have
lost most of their clout. Lembergs still has his, but if his
party is left in opposition, it weakens him significantly.”  Zatlers, who the three men’s parties had backed when he was
elected four years ago, formed his own party, may win 11.5
percent of the vote, down from 17.3 percent a month ago,
according to the Latvijas Fakti poll.  Dombrovskis’s Unity party, may take 13.6 percent, while
Harmony Center, which represents Latvia’s Russian-speaking
population, may receive 20.3 percent, according to the poll.  Like Slesers and Skele, Lembergs denies involvement in
illegal activity. “I’m not an oligarch, I’m a public person, a
politician,” he said in an interview. “Zatlers lacks other
arguments so he started to abuse me.”  The Ventspils mayor has been on trial in Latvia for
bribery,  money laundering  and abuse of office since 2008.
Lembergs is also a defendant in U.K. litigation over freight
fraud, with a London court naming him among five beneficiary
owners of Latvian Shipping Company, according to a judgment
released May 24, 2010.  “I don’t have anything to do with Latvian Shipping
Company,” said Lembergs.  ‘Completely Useless’  The courts in Latvia and the U.K. have in total frozen
assets related to Lembergs and his family of about $200 million
as part of different court proceedings.  Lembergs, Slesers and Skele were among the most prominent
politicians during Latvia’s longest period of growth since
independence in 1991, with Skele serving three times as prime
minister from 1995-2000. Even so, many blame the recession on
their parties’ mismanagement.  Latvia was granted a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.8-billion)
international bailout in 2008 after a real-estate bubble burst
and its second-biggest bank collapsed leading to an accumulated
collapse or 27.7 percent of output over nine quarters.  “The oligarchs turned out to be completely useless and
incapable when the crisis hit,” Aigars Freimanis, director of
polling company Latvijas Fakti, said in a phone interview Aug.
30. “People’s hopes for a better life were destroyed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net 
Kira Savcenko in  London  at 
 ksavcenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  