-- 
Australia Business Confidence Plunges as Europe Debt Triggers Stock Slump

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-13T02:40:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/australia-s-august-business-confidence-slumps-to-lowest-since-april-2009.html
Australian business confidence
plunged last month to the lowest level since April 2009 as a
rout in global equity markets and concern about contagion from
 Europe ’s debt crisis damaged sentiment, a private survey showed.  The confidence index slumped to minus 8 in August from 2 in
July, according to a  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey of more
than 500 companies from Aug. 24-30 that was released in Sydney
today. The business conditions gauge, a measure of hiring, sales
and profits, slid to minus 3 from minus 1.  Monthly employment growth in  Australia  averaged 2,800 from
January through August this year, less than a 10th of the
average of 30,500 job gains in the first eight months of 2010.
Australia’s currency and benchmark stock index dropped last
month and the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of equities sank 7.3 percent as
concern increased that the Greek fiscal crisis would drag down
other euro-area economies.  The result reflects “heightened global uncertainty, large
falls in equity markets and the fear of debt market contagion,”
NAB Chief Economist  Alan Oster  said in a statement. “That said,
confidence levels remain significantly above global financial
crisis or recessionary lows. Clearly, much depends on how
activity holds up.”  Currency’s Decline  The local currency’s 3.5 percent decline against the  U.S.
dollar  this month has erased about three-quarters of its gain
through the first eight months of the year. The so-called Aussie,
which bought $1.0334 at 12:35 p.m. today in Sydney, is up about
10 percent from a year ago and reached a record of $1.1081 on
July 27.  A slump in sentiment is weighing on Australian consumers,
who are reining in spending as they face the highest borrowing
costs in the developed world.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  has paused raising interest rates at 4.75 percent
for the past 10 months to gauge the fallout from Europe’s debt
crisis.  Also unnerving households are five straight months of
declines in Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index, the longest losing
streak since the September 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. started a global financial crisis.  Australia’s retail sales growth may struggle to rebound
from a two-decade low as the nation’s stock market slumps and
 consumer confidence  weakens, curtailing household spending,
according to a Deloitte Access Economics report.  Retail Sales  Sales volumes are projected to increase 1.5 percent in the
12 months through June 30, compared with 1.3 percent growth in
the 2010-11 fiscal year that was the weakest in 20 years and a
2.6 percent advance a year earlier, the Canberra-based research
company said in the report released today.  “The bottom line is that things are deteriorating, but we
certainly shouldn’t be comparing them to that 2008-09 period at
this stage,” said  Bill Evans , chief economist at Sydney-based
Westpac Banking Corp., in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television.  Clouding Australia’s outlook is concern the world’s largest
economy is slowing. Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly
stagnated in August as employers became less confident in the
strength of the recovery, and the jobless rate held at 9.1
percent, according to a Sept. 2 report.  Asia ’s economic expansion will probably slow and the RBA
will eventually cut  interest rates , he said. “The combination
of that will lead to a modest weakening in the Aussie dollar,”
Evans said. He said Westpac’s forecast for the currency is about
parity with its U.S. counterpart by year end and “through most
of next year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  