-- 
Hayek, Keynes and How to Prevent Economic Crises: Sylvia Nasar

-- B y   S y l v i a   N a s a r
-- 
2011-09-13T00:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/hayek-keynes-and-preventing-economic-crises-commentary-by-sylvia-nasar.html
Unlike the movies, life rarely
permits second takes. But the Second World War gave John  Maynard Keynes , the patron saint of government activism, and Friedrich Hayek, the Cassandra who warned of the state’s destructive
potential, just such opportunities.  During the Blitz, this odd couple was said to have shared
fire-warden duty atop the soaring roof of Kings College’s
chapel, an apogee of Gothic architecture that stood in the
crosshairs of Nazi bombers. The story is likely apocryphal but
its symbolism holds true. Despite their differences, both men
were committed to the defense of Western civilization, and both
were determined that the West would do better than it had last
time in laying the foundations of a lasting peace.  When Hitler launched his mad world conquest, Keynes was no
longer the slim young civil servant he had been 20 years
earlier, someone who could poke fun at his superiors but was too
remote from power to persuade them. Middle-aged and paunchy now,
saddled with a “wonky” heart, he had become Britain’s de facto
wartime treasurer and postwar planner and was in a position to
influence the economic future.  Bretton Woods   In July 1944, 10 months before Germany’s surrender and 15
before  Japan ’s, Keynes was in a resort in the White Mountains of
 New Hampshire . The purpose of the Bretton Woods conference was
to revive world trade when the war ended, stabilize currencies
and deal with war debts and frozen credit markets. The war would
leave much of the world significantly poorer, and countries
would need to be able to earn their way back to prosperity. In
the broadest sense, salvage meant rebuilding and reconstruction,
moving back toward pre-1913 globalization, but without reviving
the pre-World War I assumption that the world’s economic
machinery worked automatically.  For the West, Bretton Woods meant avoiding the mistakes of
the interwar era -- the very lesson that Marxists claimed
capitalists could never learn -- and restoring lost moral and
material credibility. Economic chaos after World War I had
convinced Keynes that economic stability was a key to political
stability, and economic growth was a necessary if not sufficient
condition for the long-run survival of the West. Modern
societies could not endure economic breakdowns any more than
great cities could run without electricity or water.  By 1943, it was obvious to Keynes that the U.S. and Britain
would design the postwar economic order together, but that
America’s financial strength and Britain’s weakness meant that
the U.S. would have the last word on all important matters.
Determined to deploy his intellectual capital as a counterweight
to American financial clout, he drafted the British proposal and
got it out first.  International Monetary Fund   Keynes envisioned a  United Nations  of international finance
that would provide a framework for cooperation as global lender
of last resort and arbiter of trade disputes. It would operate
according to agreed-upon rules and procedures to avert financial
crises, trade wars and depressions such as those in the interwar
era. By marshalling international cooperation to deal with
postwar debts and stabilize currencies, the West would not be
driven, as it had been between the wars, to embrace the beggar-
thy-neighbor policies that had exacerbated the Great Depression.
On the sea journey to the U.S., Keynes drew up blueprints for
the International Monetary Fund and the  World Bank .  Unlike British thinkers in the Victorian era who championed
free trade, Keynes and his American counterpart, Harry Dexter
White, the U.S. Treasury’s second in command (and a KGB agent),
no longer believed that the world naturally tends toward peace
and progress. International cooperation was required. The
alternative was unthinkable.  Allied political leaders had also learned from experience
that peace depended on economic revival. As President  Franklin Roosevelt  put it, “Economic diseases are highly communicable.
It follows therefore that the economic health of every country
is a proper matter of concern to all its neighbors, near and
distant.”  The Bretton Woods conference was Keynes’s idea, but White
chose the Mount Washington Hotel. When the conference got under
way with delegates from 44 countries, Keynes and White were in
charge. Keynes took little trouble to disguise the fact that he
was ramming his views down the throats of the banking committee
that he chaired. The U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau
had to go around to Keynes’s suite and ask him to “please go
slow and talk louder and have his papers in better
arrangement.”  Keynes, typically, was more efficient than democratic. He
had accomplished what he had wished to accomplish as a much
younger man, and now he was exhausted and eager to get away.
When he arrived at the banquet to give the final speech,
everyone stood up, silently, until he made his way to the dais.  Reading Hayek  En route to the Bretton Woods conference, on the Queen
Mary, Keynes had lounged in his deck chair devouring, among
other books, “The Road to Serfdom” -- written by Friedrich
Hayek at Keynes’s old college in Cambridge.  Although just 40, Hayek too was feeling his age, and was
troubled by deafness and a sense of uselessness. His emigre
status had shut him out of any active role in Britain’s fight
against fascism.  During World War I, he had been a corporal in the Austro-
Hungarian army and, in the cold, dark, hungry years that
followed, a university student in Vienna. A moderate socialist
who was repelled by his family’s enthusiasm for German
imperialism and anti-Semitism, Hayek grew disillusioned with
central planning when he witnessed the new Austrian state and
hyperinflation destroy the middle class’s faith in democracy.  Keynes had been Hayek’s hero since “ The Economic
Consequences of the Peace ” was published in German in 1920. But
like many young men who seek immortality in economics, Hayek
launched his career by attacking the reigning king, beginning
when he was an impecunious graduate student on a Rockefeller
fellowship at  New York University . When he met the great man in
person at a conference in  London , in 1927, he picked a fight
about  interest rates . And when he started Vienna’s first
economic forecasting institute, Hayek ridiculed the confidence
of Keynes and Irving Fisher that the next recession, whenever it
came, would be mild, thanks to managed money and the  Federal
Reserve . In February 1929, in his monthly forecast newsletter,
he predicted instead that the American boom would result in a
crash.  Great Depression Debate  This strategy succeeded brilliantly, snagging Hayek an
invitation to Beatrice and Sidney Webb’s London School of
Economics, which a group of young Turks were itching to turn
into a libertarian antipode of interventionist Cambridge, where
Keynes’s disciples were. With Hayek on the LSE team, young
economists everywhere followed the furious debate that ensued
with the passion and partisanship of soccer fans.  As the Depression deepened, Hayek held that it was “due to
monetary mismanagement and state intervention operating in a
milieu in which the essential strength of capitalism had already
been sapped by war and by policy.” Overinvestment during the
boom -- not underinvestment, as Keynes contended -- had produced
the slump. Consequently, what was needed was “time to effect a
permanent cure.”  “The creation of artificial demand,” Hayek argued, would
only lead to another burst of inflation and another downturn.
Like most American economists -- as well as President  Herbert Hoover  and his political rival, Roosevelt -- Hayek opposed going
off the gold standard, and favored spending cuts and tax
increases to balance the budget. Give the economy time to heal.  When “nature’s cure” failed to end the Great Depression,
Hayek’s star hurtled to earth. As Beatrice Webb wrote in her
diary of Hayek and his allies in 1936, “They and their credo
are sidetracked, without influence or even relevance to the
present state of the world.” According to Nicholas Wapshott’s
new book about the Keynes-Hayek disagreement, Hayek was so
discouraged that he essentially gave up economics and turned
instead to philosophy.  History Repeating Itself  After Britain declared war on  Germany , Hayek found himself
shut out of war work on account of his alien status, despite
having become a British citizen. His contribution, he decided,
would be to write a book warning Western intellectuals that --
as he had concluded from his own country’s history in the 1920s
and 1930s -- the road to totalitarianism, whether of Hitlerian
or Stalinist variety (Stalin then being Hitler’s ally), started
on the slippery slope of well-intentioned government
interference in the private sector. Exiled to Cambridge, where
the LSE had been evacuated, he had plenty of peace in which to
write. Generous as always, Keynes got him rooms and high-table
privileges at Kings College, but discussions between the two men
were confined to the antiquarian manuscripts they both
collected.  On shipboard, after reading “The Road to Serfdom,” Keynes
wrote to Hayek, “Morally and philosophically, I find myself in
agreement with virtually the whole of it; and not only in
agreement but deeply moved agreement.” Hayek might not have
succeeded in drawing “the line between freedom and planning
satisfactorily,” and therefore might not have created a useful
guide through the “middle way” of actual policy making, Keynes
wrote, but he had articulated values essential “for living a
good life.”  One year after Bretton Woods, the  Cold War  had started,
“The Road to Serfdom” was on American best-seller lists, and
Hayek went on a wildly successful book tour around the U.S.
Along the way, to the annoyance of his conservative sponsors, he
spoke up in favor of the Bretton Woods treaty and the framework
of international government cooperation that Keynes had done so
much to bring about.  History of Economics  The grand pursuit of economic geniuses began in the 1840s
with an act of imagination and turned into a quest for
instruments of mastery, to borrow a phrase from the poet Muriel
Rukeyser. Their aim was to create the special kind of knowledge
needed to nurture a society marked by material well-being,
liberty and security, and not staggering on the verge of moral
and material collapse.  Hayek made the point that no one invented markets or
private property or the rule of law, but that understanding how
they functioned has been vital to these institutions’ survival.  Keynes was a balletomane, collector and intimate of
Virginia Woolf, but he took up a calling that he once compared
with dentistry. Artists were responsible for civilization, but
economic thinkers had invented and continually improved an
“apparatus of the mind” that made civilization possible.  Each economic genius not only looked at the world through
his own window, but also stood on the shoulders of predecessors.
It all began with the idea, born in Victorian London, that
humanity might now, after millenniums in which most were
condemned to drudge through life in poverty, ignorance and fear,
seize its own fate and mold its material circumstances.  (Sylvia Nasar, a former New York Times economics reporter
and the author of “A Beautiful Mind,” teaches journalism at
 Columbia University . This is the last in a five-part excerpt of
her new book, “Grand Pursuit: The Story of Economic Genius,”
to be published today by  Simon & Schuster .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Sylvia Nasar at  szn1@columbia.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 