-- 
Baja Sun Energy Plans At Least $500 Million Solar Investment for Mexico

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-09-13T17:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/baja-sun-energy-plans-at-least-500-million-solar-investment-for-mexico.html
Baja Sun Energy SRL said it will
invest more than $500 million in a solar-panel factory and
energy farm in  Baja California  that will sell power on both
sides of the Mexico-U.S. border.  The Mexicali, Mexico-based company will start building its
facility this year and plans to make panels capable of 100
megawatts annually and a 10-megawatt solar facility that will
expand to 150 megawatts, according to a  statement  yesterday.
Mexican employees will be trained by Arima EcoEnergy, a New
Taipei City, Taiwan, manufacturer of concentrated photovoltaic
module systems, Baja Sun said in the statement.  The North American solar market may grow significantly over
the next 10 years, Baja California Governor Jose Guadalupe Osuna
Millan said in the statement. The company will open a sales
office in  San Diego .  “Mexico has more sunshine per capita than most countries
in the world,” he said while attending a ceremony in Taipei to
announce the partnership. “ Mexico  can be one of the world’s
largest players in this process given our cost and location
advantages.”  Arima, Grupo Maiz of Monterrey, Mexico and the Silicon
Border, which owns the CleanTech solar industrial park in
Mexicali, are investors. The new business will be located at the
Silicon Border facility, according to the statement.  Arima EcoEnergy will outfit the factory for production of
cells, modules and dual-axis tracking systems, according to the
statement.  There are 335 solar projects with a combined capacity of
1.45 gigawatts currently installed in  North America  and the
Caribbean, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data sets.
That’s up from 1.16 gigawatts at the end of 2010, according to
the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  