-- 
Bank of America Cuts Exceed Jobs at Most Banks: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n   a n d   B r e n d a n   M o y n i h a n
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/bank-of-america-cuts-exceed-jobs-at-most-banks-chart-of-the-day.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is getting
rid of more employees in the next few years than most of its
largest U.S. competitors have working for them.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how the 30,000 jobs that the
country’s biggest bank will eliminate compares with the number
of employees at companies in the KBW Bank Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The job cuts represent the biggest
single  workforce reduction  by a U.S.-based company so far this
year, according to consulting firm Challenger Gray & Christmas
Inc., and is the biggest by a bank since HSBC Holdings Plc said
last month it plans to cut 30,000 positions by the end of 2013.  Bank of America employs about 287,000 people, Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said yesterday, when the job
cuts were announced. The total is the highest among the 24 banks
in KBW’s index.  Three other companies in the industry gauge --  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  -- also have
more than 200,000 employees. They were omitted from the chart
along with Bank of America. The employment figures were taken
from each company’s annual report.  The reductions at the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank
are part of an effort to save $5 billion annually from consumer
units by the end of 2013. The overhaul is the first phase of a
reorganization program, called Project New BAC, that will set
its sights on the company’s other businesses next month.  “We see a fair amount of expense-saving opportunities,”
 Jason Goldberg , an analyst at  Barclays Capital , wrote yesterday
after appearing with Moynihan at an investor conference in  New
York . He didn’t elaborate in the note. Goldberg is neutral on
the company’s shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Moynihan in Chicago at 
 bmoynihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  