-- 
Foreclosure Deal Shouldn’t Waive All Claims, Official Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-09-13T20:36:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/bank-foreclosure-deal-shouldn-t-waive-all-claims-minnesota-s-swanson-says.html
Banks shouldn’t be protected from
liability for mortgage securitization as part of a national
foreclosure settlement, said  Minnesota ’s attorney general,
joining other states voicing concern over the issue.  Any settlement shouldn’t release the banks from liability
for the bundling of mortgages into securities or for the use of
a mortgage registry known as MERS, Attorney General Lori Swanson
said in a Sept. 9 letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  “The banks should not be released from liability for
conduct that has not been investigated and is not appropriately
remedied in any settlement,” Swanson wrote to her counterparts
in New York and Iowa.  State and federal officials are negotiating a settlement
with the five largest mortgage servicers in the U.S., including
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  All 50 states
announced an investigation into bank foreclosure practices last
year.  Government officials are seeking an agreement that provides
funding for writedowns on  mortgage loans  for borrowers and sets
standards for how the banks service loans, interact with
borrowers and conduct foreclosures, according to terms proposed
in March.  Criticized Releases  Some attorneys general have criticized any agreement that
would provide the banks with releases for certain claims, such
as securitization, and protect the companies from state
investigations.  “We have received Attorney General Swanson’s letter and
agree that any agreement must not prevent attorneys general
investigating the mortgage crisis from following the facts
wherever they lead,” Danny Kanner, a spokesman for New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , said in an e-mail today.  State officials negotiating the settlement with the banks
don’t intend to release securitization claims, Geoff Greenwood,
a spokesman for  Iowa  Attorney General Tom Miller, said in an
interview. Miller, a Democrat, is leading talks for the states.
The liability releases are being negotiated, said Greenwood, who
declined to comment about whether claims related to the MERS
database would be released.  “We share a lot of common ground with Attorney General
Swanson, and we appreciate her input,” Greenwood said.  Speaking Out  Besides Schneiderman and Swanson, other attorneys general
who have spoken out about liability releases are  Martha Coakley 
of Massachusetts, Delaware’s  Beau Biden , and Catherine Cortez Masto of Nevada.  Coakley, a Democrat, has said she won’t sign on to an
agreement that includes a release for securitization and conduct
linked to MERS. Masto, a Democrat who is suing Bank of America,
said she would be “very cautious” about agreeing to releases
that would hinder her ability to pursue civil or criminal
investigations.  Biden and Schneiderman, both Democrats, are probing
mortgage securitization practices. In an interview in July,
Biden said the 50-state investigation is focused on the
mortgage-servicing practices of banks and that he would have
“real reservations” about waiving claims beyond servicing.
Doing so would hinder his investigations, he said.  FHFA Suits  In her letter, Swanson commended actions by individual
 attorneys general  and lawsuits against banks filed by the
Federal Housing Finance Agency over losses on mortgage-backed
securities sold to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  “We should fully welcome and support all legitimate
efforts to investigate the banks and to hold them accountable
for their unlawful activity, which has been enormously
destructive to this country and our citizens,” wrote Swanson, a
Democrat.  Benjamin Wogsland, a Swanson spokesman, confirmed that the
attorney general wrote the letter to Schneiderman, Miller and
Thomas Perrelli, an associate attorney general at the U.S.
Justice Department. He didn’t immediately comment about whether
the office had seen proposed language for releasing claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  