-- 
Bank Indonesia Signals Readiness to Lower Rate as Europe Threatens Growth

-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-09-14T09:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/bank-indonesia-may-cut-rate-as-europe-crisis-threatens-growth.html
Indonesia ’s central bank signaled
it may join Brazil and Turkey among emerging markets cutting
 interest rates  as Europe’s debt crisis threatens Southeast
Asia’s biggest economy and spurs declines in the rupiah.  Bank Indonesia has room to cut its benchmark rate if
inflation “behaves,” Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said in
Jakarta today. Policy makers are ready to “adjust the rate and
mix monetary policy toward loosening” if price gains slow and
the economy expands less than expected due to a global slowdown,
Perry Warjiyo, the bank’s director of economic research, said
late yesterday.  The central bank said it stepped in to halt losses in the
rupiah today after it dropped as much as 2.6 percent, joining a
decline in Asian currencies and stocks as Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao signaled that developed nations shouldn’t rely on  China 
to bail out the world economy. Europe’s debt crisis and a
weakening U.S. recovery prompted nations from  Malaysia  to  South
Korea  to hold their key rates last week.  “As Bank Indonesia feels comfort that inflation this year
will be in their range target, there’s room to cut rates because
it will support growth,” said Winang Budoyo, chief economist at
PT Bank CIMB Niaga in Jakarta. “Bank Indonesia may cut rates
next year as the central bank should remain cautious on  core
inflation  that’s still increasing.”  Currency Falls  The rupiah fell 1.5 percent to 8,843 a dollar as of 3:27
p.m. in Jakarta today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Jakarta Composite Index declined 1.8 percent as regional
stocks slumped, erasing an earlier gain of as much as 0.6
percent.  The currency’s drop today is caused by sentiment from the
debt crisis in  Europe  and “technical factors” after the rupiah
was quoted at above 9,000 to the dollar in  Singapore , Sarwono
told reporters. The central bank “intervened in the rupiah and
bond markets” as it needed to calm the market and doesn’t want
the currency to fall further, he said.  Wen, facing calls to widen support for indebted European
countries, said at the  World Economic Forum  in Dalian, China
that “countries must first put their own houses in order.”
Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou will hold a conference
call with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy today amid increasing speculation that  Greece 
will default.  Rate Cuts  Indonesia kept its  reference rate  unchanged at 6.75 percent
for a seventh month on Sept. 8 while allowing lower interbank
lending rates as concern the global recovery is faltering
prompted policy makers to move to protect growth. The last
increase in Indonesia’s benchmark rate was a 0.25 percentage-
point move in February.  Turkey ’s central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
interest rate to a record-low 5.75 percent in August and took
separate steps to support the lira, which weakened to a two-year
low on the news. The Brazilian central bank cut its key rate to
12 percent.  Bank Indonesia said Sept. 9 it will require companies to
place export revenue and offshore-loan proceeds at Indonesia
financial institutions in order to increase domestic foreign-
currency supplies, a move Standard Chartered Plc said may lead
to lower lending rates and bolster demand for credit.  Transition Period  The measure will take effect Oct. 1, Governor Darmin
Nasution told reporters today. There will be a sanction-free
transition period from Oct. 1 until January for companies to
report revenue and proceeds, he said. The move will result in
about $29.5 billion of foreign currency being added to
Indonesia’s banking system, Nasution said.  The Asian Development Bank cut its 2011 growth forecast for
 Asia  excluding  Japan  to 7.5 percent today from an April estimate
of 7.8 percent even as it raised the region’s inflation forecast
to 5.8 percent. Price gains are “a continuing concern” and
policy makers will have to accelerate monetary tightening if
commodity prices resume their climb and the current weakness in
the global recovery turns out to be temporary, the lender said.  While Indonesia’s inflation accelerated in August, economic
expansion has eased to about 6.5 percent in the first half of
2011 from 6.89 percent late last year.  “The crisis in Europe will affect global demand, including
Indonesia’s export performance,” Sarwono told reporters
yesterday. “Indonesia’s economic growth could be lower than the
6.7 percent targeted next year, perhaps 6.5 percent.”  Achieving 6.7 percent growth is possible if the government
focuses on domestic consumption and optimizing  government
spending , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  