-- 
Bard, German Offshore Wind Developer, Hires JPMorgan for Sale

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-09-13T11:10:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/bard-german-offshore-wind-developer-hires-jpmorgan-for-sale.html
Bard Holding GmbH, the German
offshore wind developer that put itself up for sale, hired
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s investment banking arm to find a buyer.  “The U.S. investment bank JPMorgan has been mandated with
the search for a strategic investor,”  Bard  said today in an e-
mailed statement. The new ownership structure will be decided by
the end of the first quarter, according to the statement.  Bard, based in Emden, was founded in 2003 by Arngolt Bekker, who at the age of 76 has decided to sell, spokesman
Andreas Koelling said by telephone on Aug. 31. The owners plan
to divest an 87.5 percent stake, Koelling said.  Bard heads a group of companies covering all stages of
offshore wind development, including Bard Emden Energy GmbH,
which makes rotor blades and components for turbines and
assembles the machines. The group also comprises a project
development and  investment company  for offshore wind farms as
well as units for installation and turbine maintenance.  The company is developing the Bard Offshore 1 project, a
400-megawatt park about 90 kilometers (56 miles) northwest of
Borkum island in  Germany . Its partner UniCredit SpA has arranged
financing for the venture, Bard said in today’s statement,
without elaborating. The company couldn’t immediately be reached
for further comment.  Bard said Aug. 29 that it sold its shares in one of its
planned wind farms, the 600-megawatt Bard-Nederland project in
the Dutch  North Sea , to Typhoon Offshore BV, a unit of clean-
energy investor Typhoon Capital BV, and Dutch energy provider
 HVC Groep . Bard will still supply turbines to the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  