-- 
Bell AM Selects Bloomberg for Complete Asset Management Solution

-- B y  
-- 
2011-09-13T21:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/bell-am-selects-bloomberg-for-complete-asset-management-solution.html

Press Release  Bloomberg increased efficiency and compliance and reduced cost  Melbourne and New York --  Bell Asset Management Limited , a
Melbourne-based  investment company , has adopted  Bloomberg’s
Asset & Investment Manager (AIM)  order management system for
front and middle office solutions, Bloomberg L.P. announced
today.  Bell Asset Management, which has over $3.5 billion in funds
under management and administration, already uses Bloomberg AIM
for order management. Now, Bell will also use AIM for its front
and middle office capabilities including strategy management,
compliance, financing, trade settlement, portfolio analysis,
order management and electronic trading. The added Bloomberg
technology will help Bell manage its global equity mandates for
domestic and offshore based institutional clients.  “We needed to upgrade our portfolio management system and it was
vital to get the right system in place to support our growth.
Having used Bloomberg for our core research, we decided to look
at Bloomberg AIM for our order management, risk and performance.
We were amazed at the superiority of the functionality AIM
offers,” said Ned Bell, Bell Asset Management’s Chief Executive
Officer.  ”We have much better functionality than before and it
is saving us money.  The implementation was painless and took
less than a month for the complete migration to Bloomberg.”  Amanda Dobbie, Bloomberg’s head of sales for  Australia  and  New
Zealand , said, “Fund managers are looking for ways to cut costs
in support areas and many will need to replace various third-
party providers. Bell Asset Management is a perfect example of
how an investment management firm can cut costs, but increase
efficiency and compliance services.”  For more information on Bloomberg AIM and AIM Compliance contact
Amanda Dobbie at  adobbie@bloomberg.net  or +61-2-9777-8623 or go
to  www.bloomberg.com .  About Bell Asset Management Limited  Bell Asset Management is an independently owned investment
management company offering a range of investment products to
retail, wholesale and institutional investors. With more than
$3.5 billion in funds under management/administration, Bell
Asset adopts a long-term approach to investing, with the average
holding period for stocks typically at least three to five
years. It has a bottom up, process driven, style-neutral,
quality biased investment process. Investment capabilities are
focused on the management of global equity portfolios. The
Melbourne-based investment team has been managing portfolios
since 2003 using a consistent investment process. Over that time
period, Bell Asset Management has consistently outperformed its
benchmark and the majority of its peers.  In addition to  investment management , Bell Asset is also the
responsible entity for the Australian domiciled unit trusts
managed by U.S.-based Bridgewater Associates, LP, Manager of
Global Mining Investments Limited, a listed investment company
on the ASX (code: GMI) and Manager (through a wholly owned
subsidiary) of the U.S. Domiciled Bell Australia Trust and Bell
International Trust.  The Bell Global Equities Fund invests in a globally diversified
portfolio of equity securities listed on recognised
international  stock exchanges . The investment objective of the
Fund is to outperform its benchmark, the MSCI World ex-Australia
Index (in AUD) including reinvested dividends, over rolling 4-
year periods. The Fund is open to wholesale investors and
platforms.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, a leader in global business and financial information
and news, gives influential decision makers a critical edge by
connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people and
ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally.  Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, using technology to allow customers
to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and information
across organizations more efficiently and effectively. For more
information on Bloomberg go to www.bloomberg.com  Media Contacts  Amy Mihalakis, Cognito-AU,  amy.mihalakis@cognitomedia.com ,
+61-4-1464-3446  Pam Snook, Bloomberg L.P.,  pamsnook@bloomberg.net , +1-212-617-
7652  Sophie Fischman, Cognito-US,  Bloomberg@cognitomedia.com , +1-
646-395-6300  Charlie Morrow, EMEA,  BloombergEMEA@cognitomedia.com , +44-
(0)207-438-1100
 