-- 
Berlusconi’s $74 Billion Austerity Plan Set for Final Parliamentary Vote

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-14T10:26:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/berlusconi-s-74-billion-austerity-plan-faces-final-vote-in-parliament.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
54 billion-euro ($74 billion) austerity plan may receive final
approval in Parliament today as Italy seeks to avert contagion
from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The lower house Chamber of Deputies will hold a confidence
vote on the package in Rome, a day after borrowing costs surged
at an Italian debt auction. The Treasury sold 3.9 billion euros
of five-year bonds to yield 5.6 percent, up from 4.93 percent at
the last sale on July 14.  Lawmakers  have begun  discussing the bill, which seeks a
balanced budget by 2013 and was passed by the Senate on Sept. 7.
The vote is due in the early afternoon and comes after German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  warned yesterday in a radio interview
that an “uncontrolled insolvency” of  Greece  would further roil
markets spooked by the prospect of default.  “Its complete implementation will be vital,” European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said at a press appearance
with Berlusconi in Brussels yesterday. To restore confidence in
financial markets, the plan’s “adoption is important, not only
for Italy but for all of the euro zone.”  The legislation revised measures in a plan the government
approved by decree last month to convince the  European Central
Bank  to buy the nation’s bonds. That package failed to reassure
investors after Berlusconi, bowing to political pressure from
allies, watered it down by scrapping moves such as a  wealth tax .  Bonds Plunge  The backslide prompted an 11-day fall in Italian bonds that
ended on Sept. 6, when the government beefed up the plan by
adding a one-percentage point increase in the value-added tax
and a new levy on incomes over 300,000 euros. The 320-seat
Senate, where Berlusconi’s government enjoys a wide support,
then voted 165 to 141 to adopt the package. In the lower house,
the government enjoys a smaller majority.  The premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds
instead of benchmark German bunds narrowed eight basis points as
of 12:23 p.m. in  Rome  to 383 basis points. Yesterday, the spread
reached 391 basis points, the highest since before the European
Central Bank started buying Italian bonds on Aug. 8 in exchange
for the government’s approval of the original austerity package.  After the plan’s adoption, the government will review its
policies on economic growth, Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti 
said on Sept. 10. “If there are things to change in our growth
measures we will, and if there are things to add, we will,”
Tremonti told reporters at a meeting of G-7 finance ministers in
Marseille,  France .  Ratings Outlook  Standard & Poor’s  in May and Moody’s Investors Service in
June warned that they may downgrade  Italy , saying the government
may miss its revenue and deficit targets amid chronically
sluggish economic growth and possible political instability.
Italy’s economy will contract 0.1 percent in the three months
through September, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development forecast last week.  Even as austerity weighs on Italy’s expansion, the country
may need more deficit cuts, said Mario Baldassarri, head of the
Senate Finance Committee and a former Berlusconi ally. “How
long can the ECB continue to buy Italian Treasury bonds?” he
said in a Sept. 7 interview. “We may need another adjustment in
three, four weeks which will be the real answer to the European
Commission and to markets.”  Italian officials met in the past month with delegates from
 China  Investment Corp. to discus investments in the European
country, an Italian official familiar with the matter said on
Sept 12. Government-bond purchases were not the focus of the
talks, he added. The Financial Times reported that debt sales
had been on the agenda.  The Italian government didn’t ask for “any particular
help” from China and the talks only addressed possible
“industrial investments,” Deputy Economy Minister Antonio
Gentile said in an e-mail yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  