-- 
Bermuda Issues Tropical Storm Watch as Maria Approaches

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-09-13T18:06:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/bermuda-issues-tropical-storm-watch-as-maria-approaches-en-route-to-canada.html
Tropical Storm Maria advanced
northward over Atlantic waters, prompting Bermuda to issue a
watch as the season’s 14th named storm draws closer, the  U.S.
National Hurricane Center  said.  Maria’s top winds are 50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour,
according to a center  advisory  at 2 p.m. Eastern time. The storm
is 725 miles south-southwest of Bermuda, moving north-northwest
at 3 mph, and is forecast to strengthen over the next two days
without reaching the 74-mph hurricane threshold.  The  forecast path  has Maria passing west of Bermuda early
on Sept. 15, then east of Nova Scotia before possibly hitting
eastern Newfoundland on Sept. 16. Energy assets in the storm’s
potential path include the Sable Offshore Energy Project, a
natural gas field off Canada operated by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  Hibernia Management & Development Co.
also has two rigs within the potential path on the Grand Banks
off Newfoundland.  Tropical storm-force winds of at least 39 mph stretch as
far as 200 miles from Maria’s center, and the system may bring 8
inches (20 centimeters) of rain or more to parts of Puerto Rico,
the NHC said.  The remnants of Hurricane Katia blasted over the northern
U.K. yesterday with winds gusting up to 80 mph. Most of Scotland
and parts of England and Northern Ireland were warned to expect
high gusts today, the Met Office government forecaster said.  Tropical Storm Nate dissipated over Mexico during the
weekend. Petroleos Mexicanos, Latin America’s largest oil
producer, said it resumed operations at exploration and
production offshore facilities affected by Nate.  The six-month hurricane season that started June 1 ends on
Nov. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  