-- 
Best Buy Faces ‘Volatile’ Consumer Spending, CEO Dunn Says

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-09-13T20:13:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/best-buy-profit-trails-analysts-estimates-as-television-sales-decline.html
Best Buy Co. Chief Executive
Officer Brian Dunn said the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, which cut its full-year earnings forecast today, is
contending with “volatile and uncertain” consumer spending.  “The consumer is making very measured choices,” Dunn, 51,
said in a telephone interview today after the Richfield,
Minnesota-based retailer reported a 30 percent decline in
second-quarter profit. “I don’t think it’s a year where someone
is going to buy a TV and a tablet and a new smartphone and go to
Disneyland.”  Shoppers are cutting back on purchases of electronics amid
slumping  consumer confidence , leading to the fifth straight
quarterly decline in same-store sales at Best Buy stores open at
least 14 months. Dunn is working to bolster the retailer’s
online presence as rivals including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  lure customers.  Best Buy declined $1.61, or 6.5 percent, to $23.35 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have fallen 32 percent this year, compared with a 3.4 percent
decline for the Standard & Poor’s Consumer Discretionary Sector
Index.  “Best Buy is on a path to becoming a smaller and less
profitable company, despite management’s robust efforts,”  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New
York, wrote today in a note to clients. He rates the shares as
“market-perform.”  Share Buybacks  Net income in the quarter ended Aug. 27 fell to $177
million, or 47 cents a share, from $254 million, or 60 cents, a
year earlier, the company said today in a statement. Analysts
projected 53 cents, the average of 21 estimates.  Best Buy said that profit this year will be as much as
$3.45 a share, excluding the impact of share buybacks, down from
an earlier forecast of as much as $3.55.  U.S. payrolls were unchanged in August and the  unemployment
rate  held at 9.1 percent, signaling the economy is at risk of
stalling two years after the end of the last recession.
Employers said they plan to slow the pace of hiring in the
fourth quarter, Manpower Inc., the second-largest provider of
temporary workers, said today.  Same-store sales fell 2.8 percent, matching the median of
seven analysts’ estimates. Comparable-store sales of mobile
phones fell 5 percent in the quarter because of a lack of new
devices compared to a year earlier.  Second-quarter sales of $11.3 billion were little changed,
according to the statement. That missed the $11.5 billion
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said it will buy back $1.5 billion in shares
this year.  “The buyback is putting a Band-Aid on declining same store
sales ahead of what’s probably going to be an extremely
promotional holiday season in consumer electronics,” John Tomlinson, an analyst at ITG Investment Research in  New York ,
said today in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at  rajello@bloomberg.net  