-- 
Bloomberg Markets Summit Offers Perspective on Volatile Economy

-- B y  
-- 
2011-09-13T15:38:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/bloomberg-markets-summit-offers-perspective-on-volatile-economy.html

Press Release  Bridgewater Associates President, Co-CEO and Co-CIO Raymond T.
Dalio, Blackstone Group Co-Founder and Chairman Emeritus Peter
G. Peterson, and Polytechnic Institute of  New York  University
Distinguished Professor Nassim N. Taleb Are Amongst Luminaries
Who Will Provide Context Around the Global Economy  NEW YORK -- The world is seeing some of the most volatile stock
market behavior in years.  Greece ’s debt crisis continues to grow.
European banks are once again at risk. And, investors are
increasingly looking to emerging markets for opportunity. At the
height of all this uncertainty, Bloomberg will convene notable
financial, government and economic leaders at the Bloomberg
Markets 50 Summit.  The Summit, to be held on Thursday, September 15th at Inside Park
at St. Bart’s in  New York City , will bring together the smartest
leaders to put the chaos in context and offer perspective on
where the markets are heading. Among other topics, speakers will
address inflation versus recession, the role of central bankers,
the growing possibility of a euro break-up, and growth obstacles
in the shift from government stimulus to austerity.  Hosted by Bloomberg Markets magazine, the only magazine for the
global financial elite, providing in-depth and authoritative
stories on the companies and people who move markets, the
conference coincides with the cover story of the October 2011
issue - Bloomberg Markets 50 - a list of the most influential
people in global finance.  World class journalists from across Bloomberg will conduct live,
on-stage interviews with some of the best known global financial
figures.  Guests to be interviewed include  Gary Gensler ,
Chairman, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Agustín
Carstens, Governor, Banco de  Mexico ; and Gustavo A. Cisneros,
Chairman of the Board of Directors, Cisneros Group of Companies.  Additional distinguished panelists and speakers include:  - Carson Block, Founder and Director of Research,  Muddy Waters   - Don Brownstein, Chief Investment Officer and CEO, Structured
Portfolio Management, LLC  - John B. Chambers, Managing Director and Chairman, Global
Sovereign Rating Committee,  Standard & Poor’s   -  Bob Doll , Vice Chairman, BlackRock  - Daniel Kahneman, Senior Scholar; Eugene Higgins Professor of
Psychology, Emeritus; and Professor of Psychology and Public
Affairs, Emeritus, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and
International Affairs,  Princeton University   - Peter R. Orszag, Vice Chairman, Global Banking, Citigroup,
Inc.  - Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Chairman and CEO, WL Ross & Co. LLC;
Chairman, Invesco Private Capital  The Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit is a production of Bloomberg
LINK, sponsored by Tri-State Area Audi Dealers,  Societe Generale ,
ARMZ Uranium Holding Co. and The Chinese University of  Hong Kong .  For more information on the program and speakers, please visit:
 http://www.bloomberglink.com/bm50 .  You can follow Bloomberg Markets magazine on  Facebook  and
 Twitter . The hashtag for this event is #BM50.  For more information on Bloomberg, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/about .  About Bloomberg Markets magazine  Bloomberg Markets magazine serves the global financial elite,
providing insight and perspective on the companies, trends,
issues and people that move the world’s markets. Bloomberg
Markets readers are the youngest and most affluent among all
financial and business publications. Bloomberg Markets
magazine’s rate base is 355,000.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Drew Kerr, +212-849-8250,  drewkerr@bloomberg.net 
