-- 
BNP Paribas, SocGen Rise as Funding Concerns Rejected

-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 
2011-09-14T22:35:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/bnp-paribas-sinks-in-paris-amid-funding-sovereign-debt-worries.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s biggest
bank, and Societe Generale SA rebounded in Paris trading after
rejecting concerns over their access to funding.  BNP Paribas, which plunged as much as 12 percent, closed
7.2 percent higher, the biggest gain in more than a year.
Societe Generale, which slid as much 8.1 percent, jumped almost
15 percent after Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television in  New York  that the
bank’s exposure to European sovereign debt was “manageable”
and that it could do without access to U.S. money-market funds.  “For our bank, the exposure to sovereign debt is low,
absolutely manageable,” Oudea said. “We have plenty of buffers
of liquidity and we are adjusting to the reduction in the money-
market fund exposure.”  The two banks dropped more than 10 percent yesterday on a
possible ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service because of
their holdings in  Greece . French lenders top the list of Greek
creditors with $56.7 billion in overall exposure to private and
public debt, according to a June report by the Basel,
Switzerland-based Bank for International Settlements.  “The market will be looking to figure the worst case
impact of a Greek default for the banks -- and Oudea’s comments
put this nicely into context -- and the impact of lack of U.S.
dollar funding, which affect many banks, and not solely the
French banking system,” said Jonathan Tyce, senior banks
analyst at Bloomberg Industries.  Funding Concern  BNP Paribas rebounded to 28 euros after falling to 23.05,
euros, its lowest level since March 9, 2009.  Societe Generale (GLE) 
rose 15 percent to 17.90 euros. For both banks, it was the
biggest gain since May 10, 2010.  U.S. money-market fund managers have cut their lending to
French banks at a pace that may force the banks to raise capital
by selling assets, according to a Sept. 9 report by William Prophet, a desk analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  “French banks have been strongly hit by funding concerns,
sovereign exposure and nationalization fears,” said Herve Samour-Cachian, senior equity fund manager at  Natixis (KN)  Asset
Management in Paris.  Nicolas Lecaussin, director of development at France’s
Institute for Economic and Fiscal Research, wrote in an opinion
piece in The Wall Street Journal today that an unidentified BNP
official told him the bank could no longer borrow in dollars.  BNP Paribas denied the claim in an e-mailed statement,
saying it is able to finance its dollar needs at normal levels
“directly and through foreign-exchange swaps.”  ‘Excess Liquidity’  Prime money funds in the U.S. reduced their holdings in
certificates of deposits issued by French banks by about 40
percent in the three months through Aug. 11, Prophet wrote in
his report, based on a review of seven of the 10 largest funds
eligible to purchase corporate debt. The proportion of the
remaining holdings maturing in less than a month increased to 56
percent on Aug. 11 from 17 percent on June 11.  BNP Paribas has “an excess of short-term liquidity” in
U.S. dollars and has to deposit the extra funds at the  Federal
Reserve , according a note the banks sent to clients and
investors dated Sept. 6. BNP Paribas in August had “some
decrease” in financing from U.S. money-market funds.  The company has “very abundant” short-term funding in
euros, BNP Paribas also said. The interbanking market situation
“today is very different” compared with the crisis tied to the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., it said.  Asset Sales  Societe Generale could withstand a freezing of financing
from U.S. money-market funds “forever,” Oudea said.  “Even if it were to go to zero, there would be no
problem,” he said. Societe Generale has 105 billion euros ($143
billion) of liquidity “buffers” and has reduced its funding
needs in dollars, Oudea said.  The Paris-based bank said yesterday it plans to sell assets
to free up 4 billion euros of capital by 2013 in an effort to
reassure investors about its finances. The bank has
“manageable” exposure to Greece,  Portugal , Ireland,  Italy  and
 Spain , Oudea said.  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said yesterday that
French banks are capable of facing any Greek situation. They
don’t have liquidity or solvency problems, he said.  Group of Seven finance chiefs vowed on Sept. 9 to support
banks and buoy slowing economic growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis
roiled markets and threatened a global recession. Renewed fears
that policy makers are failing to prevent a Greek default and
contain their debt woes prompted investors to sell stocks and
push the euro to a six-month low against the dollar.  “We will take all necessary actions to ensure the
resilience of banking systems and financial markets,” G-7
finance ministers and central bankers said in a statement
released during talks in Marseille,  France .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vidya Root  vroot@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 