-- 
Bollard May Delay Raising Record-Low N.Z. Rate to Wait Out Global Turmoil

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 
2011-09-13T22:07:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/bollard-may-delay-raising-record-low-n-z-rate-to-wait-out-global-turmoil.html
New Zealand  central bank Governor
Alan Bollard will probably hold  interest rates  at a record low
as global market turmoil delays the need to reverse a cut made
after an earthquake wrecked the nation’s second-biggest city.  All 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said the
 Reserve Bank  of New Zealand will leave the official cash rate at
2.5 percent in a 9 a.m. decision tomorrow in Wellington.
Thirteen economists forecast the rate will rise before Dec. 31.  Investors in early August slashed bets on a rate rise after
 Europe ’s fiscal crisis deepened and  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
U.S. credit rating, which depressed equities worldwide and
derailed estimates that Bollard would raise borrowing costs as
early as September. In July, he said rate increases hinged on an
economic recovery and a decline in global financial risks.  “The latter has clearly not occurred,” said  Darren Gibbs ,
chief New Zealand economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Auckland.
“Global financial risks have become much more acute over the
past month or so.”  Investors are betting on an 8 percent chance that Bollard
would increase borrowing costs, according to a Credit Suisse
Group AG index based on swaps trading late yesterday in
Wellington. That makes him the only developed-world central bank
governor markets judge may contemplate raising interest rates
even as share markets plunge on concern Greece will default.  The probability of a rate increase has declined from a 100
percent chance on Aug. 4, the day before S&P downgraded the U.S.
long-term sovereign rating to AA+.  Emergency Cut  Bollard said July 28 there was little need to retain the
half-point cut he made in March to buoy the economy after the
temblor in the South Island city of Christchurch devastated the
city center and killed more than 180 people. He also said then a
strong  New Zealand dollar  would reduce the need for rate
increases in the short term.  Since Bollard’s last rates meeting, the local currency
ended a five-month advance and has dropped about 5 percent
against the  U.S. dollar . The so-called kiwi bought 82.26 U.S.
cents as of 9:45 a.m. in Wellington.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
last week slashed its growth forecasts for the U.S. and  Japan ,
which are New Zealand’s third- and fourth-biggest trading
partners.  A slowdown in the economies of key trading partners may
curb demand for New Zealand exports, which make up 30 percent of
gross domestic product, the Treasury Department said in a report
on Sept. 5.  ‘Ongoing Worries’  “There are ongoing worries that a number of countries
starting with  Greece  may be forced to default on their
government debt,” Finance Minister Bill English said in
response to questions in parliament yesterday. “Any economic
weakness is not good news for New Zealand.”  The renewed global slump is giving Bollard scope to delay a
rate increase, economists said. Commodity prices fell a third
month in August, according to an ANZ National Bank index.  Still, economists don’t see Bollard waiting much longer to
remove the emergency cut, as underlying inflation is near the
top of his 1 percent to 3 percent target range. New Zealand
consumer prices increased 5.3 percent in the year through June,
the most since 1990, after emissions trading levies and an
increase in  sales tax  added an estimated 2.5 percentage points.  Rugby Tournament  New Zealand’s economy will get a boost from tourist
spending during the six-week-long Rugby  World Cup  that started
Sept. 9, and as rebuilding in Christchurch gets under way next
year, said Bank of New Zealand Ltd. staff including  Craig Ebert ,
the firm’s senior economist, in Wellington.  The central bank in June forecast annual growth of 2.9
percent this year and 4.7 percent in 2012. It publishes fresh
forecasts tomorrow.  Consumer confidence  rose to a seven-month high in August,
according to an ANZ National Bank Ltd. report.  House prices  in
August rose for the second time in three months, the Real Estate
Institute said yesterday. Second-quarter retail sales increased
by more than economists predicted.  Auckland-based  Briscoe Group Ltd. (BGR) , which operates houseware
and sporting goods stores, is “cautiously optimistic” about
business in the six months ending Jan. 31, Chief Executive
Officer Rod Duke said in a statement Sept. 9.  “We believe we will see further uncertainty in consumer
confidence, which will result in continued difficult trading
conditions for retailers,” he said.  Economic growth will accelerate even with second-quarter
“clouds” over the economy including weaker home building and
slower manufacturing, said Ebert, who predicts a rate rise in
December. Bollard “has the central task of weighing a wobbly
world with a domestic economy proving itself not requiring
emergency policy settings,” Ebert said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  