-- 
Boston Scientific Names J&J’s Mahoney President With Plan to Make Him CEO

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-14T20:20:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/boston-scientific-names-j-j-s-mahoney-president-with-plan-to-make-him-ceo.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  named
 Michael Mahoney  of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  its next chief executive
officer as the world’s second-largest maker of implantable heart
devices seeks to expand its product line and return to
profitability.  Mahoney, 46, will join Boston Scientific Oct. 17 as
president and will be elevated to CEO in November 2012, the
device maker said yesterday in a statement. Hank Kucheman,
currently executive vice president, will serve as interim chief
executive officer until Mahoney fulfills his post-employment
obligations to  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J. Boston
Scientific CEO Ray Elliott, who said in May he would leave by
year’s end, will step down when Mahoney becomes president.  Mahoney will be charged with reinvigorating sales at
Natick, Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific, which has posted
a net annual loss every year since 2006. Revenue from its
devices to regulate the heart and prop open clogged arteries has
declined as researchers questioned their safety. The company is
cutting 1,200 to 1,400 jobs, about 5 percent of its workforce,
to reduce costs as much as $275 million.  “Mike Mahoney brings some fresh blood, an outstanding
background and a wealth of experience,”  Rick Wise , an analyst
at Leerink Swann in New York, said in a note to clients.
“Mahoney has a long track record of experience at some of the
world’s premier health-care companies” and “was also clearly
among J&J’s up and coming next generation of leaders.”  Unusual Transition  Boston Scientific rose 20 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $6.46
at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares declined 35 percent between July 13, 2009, when Elliott
became CEO, and today.  The “unusual transition,” agreed to by both companies may
renew speculation that J&J could seek to acquire Boston
Scientific, said  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst with Wells Fargo
Securities in  New York , in a note to investors. J&J said earlier
this year it would stop selling drug-coated stents used to prop
open clogged arteries, a market led by Boston Scientific.  “It strikes us as a friendly agreement between two
companies that have been fierce rivals over recent years and
have litigated against each other extensively in the stent
space,” Biegelsen said.  Boston Scientific has sought to diversify its product line
during Elliott’s tenure by acquiring five companies for an
average disclosed price of $136.6 million, according to
Bloomberg data.  Recent Acquisitions  The deals included the purchases of Asthmatx Inc., a maker
of devices to treat severe asthma; Sadra Medical Inc., which
produces artificial  heart valves ; and Atritech Inc., a maker of
heart devices used to stop blood clots from triggering strokes
in people with irregular heartbeats.  The company’s recent success in litigation and controlling
its debt means there will be more available cash flowing into
the business, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Capello said today at
the Morgan Stanley Global Healthcare Conference. The money will
be used for a $1 billion share repurchase program and additional
acquisitions to increase sales, he said.  “The beauty of it is, we’ll have the capacity to build
both at the same time,” he said. “I would look at least for
the foreseeable future to see a good balance between share
repurchase and bolt-on acquisitions.”  Elliott’s Strategy  The acquisitions are part of a five-year strategy Elliott
announced to focus on new growth areas, increase sales efforts
in emerging markets such as  China  and reduce operating expenses.
Mahoney said he will stick with Elliott’s approach, known as the
Power strategy.  The device maker forecast profit of 64 cents to 70 cents a
share for the full year during its second-quarter earnings
conference call. Elliott, who took the helm of Boston Scientific
in July 2009, said his turnaround plan was exceeding
expectations.  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  of Minneapolis is the leading maker
of pacemakers and defibrillators.  Mahoney was appointed worldwide chairman of J&J’s medical
device and diagnostics group in January. He earlier led the
company’s DePuy unit, which manufactures orthopedic and
neurological devices. DePuy, the biggest seller of artificial
hips, announced a recall of 93,000 hip implants in August 2010
because of higher than expected rates of repeat surgeries needed
by patients.  ‘Intensely Passionate’  “He is intensely passionate about innovation and people,
and creates and encourages a team environment that results in
superior performance,” Pete Nicholas, chairman and co-founder
of Boston Scientific, said of Mahoney in the statement. “This,
combined with Mike’s significant international experience made
him the best choice for this critical role.”  Kucheman will be appointed to Boston Scientific’s board of
directors as interim chief executive. After Mahoney takes the
helm of the company, Kucheman will take a senior advisory role.  Mahoney was president and chief executive officer of Global
Healthcare Exchange, which connects hospitals, manufacturers and
distributors, from 2001 to 2006. He started in the industry at
General Electric Medical Systems. He has a degree in finance
from the University of  Iowa  and a master’s of business
administration from  Wake Forest University  in  North Carolina .  “J&J’s medical device business is the world’s largest so
this is somewhat of a coup for BSX,” Biegelsen, of Wells Fargo,
wrote. “We view Mr. Mahoney as a solid choice for the job given
his impressive resume.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  