-- 
Brady Throws for 517 Yards, 4 Touchdowns in Patriots Victory; Raiders Win

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-13T06:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/brady-throws-for-517-yards-4-touchdowns-in-patriots-victory-raiders-win.html
Tom Brady  passed for 517 yards, the
fifth-most in National Football League history, and four
touchdowns as the  New England Patriots  opened their season with
a 38-24 win over the Miami Dolphins.  Brady, a two-time Most Valuable Player, tied a league
record with a 99-yard touchdown pass in the fourth quarter and
finished 37 passing yards shy of Norm Van Brocklin’s single-game
mark of 554. His total is the highest since 1996, when Boomer Esiason threw for 522 yards in a game for  Arizona .  Brady’s record-setting day carried the Patriots, the
preseason Super Bowl favorites of oddsmakers, to an eighth
straight season-opening victory.  “It was a good night,” Brady, 34, said in a televised
interview. “We were opportunistic at times. We made plenty of
mistakes too, as you would expect in the first game, but it’s
great to come down here and get a tough win.”  The  Oakland Raiders  beat the Denver Broncos 23-20 in last
night’s second game to cap the NFL’s Week 1 schedule.  The Raiders’ Sebastian Janikowski kicked three field goals,
including a 63-yarder at the end of the first half at Sports
Authority Field at Mile High in Denver. It matched the longest
in NFL history, a record set by Tom Dempsey for  New Orleans  in
1970 and tied by Jason Elam with Denver in 1998.  The Broncos had won their previous 11 home openers, while
the Raiders ended an eight-year streak of Week 1 losses.  Brady’s Touchdowns  Brady, who has led the Patriots to three Super Bowl titles,
threw two touchdown passes to  Wes Welker , including the 99-
yarder, and one each to tight ends Aaron Hernandez and Rob Gronkowski. Fellow University of Michigan quarterback Chad Henne
threw for 416 yards and two touchdowns for the Dolphins.  Their 937 combined passing yards is a NFL record.  The Patriots held a four-point lead late in the third
quarter when Brady tossed his third touchdown pass of the game,
a 1-yarder to Hernandez. After Stephen Gostkowski’s 20-yard
field goal pushed New  England ’s advantage to 31-17, the Patriots
defense stopped Miami on a fourth-down play from inside their 1-
yard line with 5:57 remaining.  On the next play, Brady dropped back into his end zone and
threw deep to Welker, who caught the pass, stiff-armed a
defender and raced into the NFL record book. Brady is the 12th
quarterback to throw a 99-yard touchdown pass and the first
since Gus Frerotte for  Minnesota  on Nov. 30, 2008.  ‘No One-Man Band’  “Tom threw it well, the receivers caught it and we pass-
protected,” Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  told reporters. “It
was no one-man band out there. We had a lot of contributions
from everybody and that’s what a good offensive team should do.
We should be good across the board.”  The Patriots, who lost starting center Dan Koppen to a left
leg injury, have won five of their past six games against the
division-rival Dolphins.  New England, which has won 10 or more games in eight
straight seasons, entered this season with 9-2 odds to win the
 Super Bowl  in  Las Vegas , the lowest among the NFL’s 32 teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  