-- 
Brazilian Retail Sales Jumped the Most This Year as Demand Peaks in July

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-09-13T15:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/brazil-s-july-retail-sales-jump-the-most-this-year-on-currency-employment.html
Retail sales in  Brazil  jumped the
most this year in July as a strong currency and near-full
employment buoyed consumer demand.  July sales increased 1.4 percent, beating 24 of 32
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of analysts whose median
estimate was 1 percent. Sales rose 7.1 percent from a year ago,
the national statistics agency said.  Today’s number shows that Brazil’s tight labor market
continues to boost  consumer confidence , said Flavio Serrano,
senior economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in Sao Paulo.
This makes it unlikely that policy makers will be able to cut
borrowing costs much beyond January, he said.  “We see inflation dynamics showing a very pressured
level,” Serrano said in a telephone interview. “At some point
they will be unable to cut the benchmark rate further.”  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini lowered the
benchmark  interest rate  a half point to 12 percent on Aug. 31,
after raising it at the previous five policy meetings, citing a
“substantial deterioration” in the global economy. Traders are
betting Tombini will cut rates to 11 percent by the end of the
year, according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate
futures.  Stronger Growth  Serrano revised up his forecast for July growth as measured
by the central bank’s seasonally-adjusted economic activity
index to 0.4 percent, from 0.2 percent, after today’s number was
published. The index is a proxy for gross domestic product.  Yields on the January 2013 interest-rate futures contract,
the most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 10.62 percent at 11:00 a.m. New York
time. The real weakened for the eighth straight day, falling 0.6
percent to 1.7122 per  U.S. dollar .  Even as the industrial sector shrank in July from a year
earlier, higher wages continued to bolster demand for  consumer
goods . Unemployment fell to 6 percent in July, its lowest level
this year, while salaries for auto workers have risen as much as
20 percent in recent weeks. The country’s minimum wage, which is
used to adjust pension payments, is slated to rise 14 percent
next year.  Brazil’s economic growth slowed last quarter to 3.2 percent
from a year earlier, down from 4.2 percent in the first quarter.
The retail industry led the second-quarter expansion, increasing
4.9 percent from a year ago.  Appliances, Furniture  The July increase in retail sales was fueled by a 4
percent jump in sales of appliances and furniture, and was the
best monthly performance since August 2010, when sales rose 1.8
percent. The broader retail index, which includes the sale of
cars and construction materials, rose 0.6 percent, up from 0.3
percent in June.  Supermarket sales in July rose 4.75 percent from a year
ago, Brazil’s Association of Supermarkets in  Sao Paulo  said on
Aug. 29.  Consumer prices climbed 7.23 percent in the year through
August, exceeding the 6.5 percent upper limit of the central
bank’s target range for a fifth straight month. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Analysts covering the Brazilian economy raised their 2012
and 2013 inflation forecasts after the unexpected rate cut,
according to a central bank survey of economists published
yesterday. Consumer prices will rise 5.4 percent next year and
4.8 percent in 2013, the survey showed. The forecasts were up
from 5.32 percent and 4.6 percent respectively the previous
week.  Brazil jumped to first place, from fifth in 2010, in a
study of top global markets for retail expansion in a study
published in July by management consulting firm  A.T. Kearney .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  