-- 
Broadcom’s Chip Valuation Signals 39% Gain for Cavium: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-09-13T20:22:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/broadcom-s-steepest-chip-valuation-signaling-39-gain-for-cavium-real-m-a.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) ’s willingness to pay
the most expensive valuation for a semiconductor acquisition in
seven years signals Cavium Inc. would be worth 39 percent more
in a takeover.  Broadcom agreed yesterday to buy  NetLogic Microsystems Inc. (NETL) 
for $3.6 billion to gain chips that manage Internet traffic as
demand for data-heavy video streaming and online phone calls
surges. The company is paying 8.96 times NetLogic’s sales, more
than any acquisition greater than $500 million in the
semiconductor industry since 2004, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Using that multiple, Cavium, which also makes
processors for communications networks, would be worth $2.2
billion in a takeover, 39 percent more than its market value.  The price tag highlights the rising importance of
processors that control the flow of data across the Web after
U.S. users watched a record 6.9 billion online videos in July,
according to ComScore Inc. While Broadcom agreed to a 69 percent
premium, the offer is only 16 percent higher than NetLogic’s
record in May. With semiconductor stocks down 19 percent since
then, the acquisition may give Broadcom’s rivals  Intel Corp. (INTC)  or
 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  added incentive to buy Cavium or
 EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH) , said Benchmark Co.  “This is just a whole new way of computing and processing
in the semiconductor world, and there’s just a handful of
companies that have the talent and expertise,” Anil Doradla, an
analyst for William Blair & Co. in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “NetLogic was one of them, but Cavium is even more
superior. So this absolutely puts them in play.”  Steepest Revenue Multiple  Angel Atondo, a spokeswoman for Cavium, Ehud Helft of
EZchip and Daniel Yoo of Marvell didn’t respond to telephone
calls and e-mails requesting comment. Amy Kircos, a spokeswoman
for  Santa Clara , California-based Intel, declined to comment on
potential acquisitions.  Broadcom announced yesterday an agreement to buy NetLogic
for $50 a share, or about $3.6 billion for the Santa Clara-based
company’s equity plus $214 million in net cash, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg that includes options.  The transaction, expected to close in the first half of
next year, values NetLogic’s equity at 8.96 times sales of
$402.8 million in the last 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s the highest revenue multiple for a semiconductor
deal greater than $500 million since ARM Holdings Plc agreed to
buy Artisan Components Inc. in 2004 for $823 million, or 9.9
times sales, the data show.  ‘Opportunistic Time’  “Is this a high price? Absolutely,” David Rudow, a
Minneapolis-based analyst for Thrivent Asset Management, which
manages $73.1 billion including about 800,000 NetLogic shares,
said in a telephone interview. “But it was an opportunistic
time for Broadcom to come in and buy them. When you put
NetLogic’s technology in the hands of Broadcom’s sales force, it
may double their market opportunity.”  Now that Broadcom is buying NetLogic, Cavium may attract
potential acquirers from Intel to Marvell and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,
William Blair’s Doradla said. Cavium may fetch $50 to $60 a
share in a takeover, he said, at least a 51 percent premium to
yesterday’s close. A representative for Qualcomm declined to
comment on potential acquisitions.  Applying NetLogic’s revenue multiple, Cavium would cost
$2.24 billion in a takeover, compared with yesterday’s market
value of $1.61 billion, the data show. Cavium of  San Jose ,
 California , rose 7.1 percent to $33.10 yesterday.  Targeting Cavium  “Cavium’s stock traded up on the belief that they too
could be acquired,” Gary Mobley, an analyst for Benchmark in
 St. Louis , said in a telephone interview. “There may be some
merit to that. Intel or Marvell could pay a fairly substantial
premium and still have the deal be accretive.”  EZchip of Yokneam,  Israel , increased 11 percent yesterday,
the biggest gain among companies in the Bloomberg Israel-US 25
Index of the largest Israeli companies traded in New York.  EZchip gained 7.6 percent to $35.13 today in New York, the
highest closing price since July 19. Cavium rose 5.4 percent to
$34.89, the highest level since July 26.  Soaring Internet traffic and increased online video
streaming through websites such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube and
Hulu LLC are driving demand for wireless-networking equipment
that can process the data. U.S. Internet users engaged in a
record 6.9 billion online video viewing sessions in July,
according to Reston, Virginia-based industry researcher
 ComScore . About 86 percent of U.S. Web users viewed online video
that month, ComScore’s data show.  Internet Traffic  Broadcom, Marvell and Intel all compete in the market for
general processors that run Ethernet switches, while processors
made by companies such as NetLogic, Cavium and EZchip perform
so-called packet inspection, recognizing what type of data is
passing through a switch and prioritizing traffic to make a
wireless network run faster and more securely.  “Internet traffic is growing in volume and richness,”
William Blair’s Doradla said. “You need a specialized set of
microprocessors tailored for this.”  Some analysts and investors had speculated that Broadcom
would buy Cavium, according to Benchmark’s Mobley and William
Blair’s Doradla. Given that Broadcom only expects to have $4.2
billion in cash by the end of the third quarter and the NetLogic
deal is all cash, the company is less likely to bid for Cavium,
Mobley said. That may leave Marvell as the frontrunner, he said.  “The rationale for making such an acquisition for Marvell
would be very similar to that for Broadcom,” Mobley said.
“Cavium would fit in the networking business of Marvell. They’d
be acquiring more pieces of silicon that would typically be
found on” parts of the wireless-networking devices, he said.  Stock Decline  While the offer for NetLogic is 69 percent higher than the
stock’s 20-day trading average, it only represents a 16 percent
premium to the company’s previous record of $43.28 on May 2.
Since then, the stock had fallen 26 percent before the deal was
announced, compared with a 22 percent drop for the 30-company
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. Cavium was down 35 percent,
while EZchip fell 6.3 percent.  Broadcom is “paying peak value” for NetLogic to gain
access to a growing market as consumers utilize more and more
data on the Internet from an array of devices, Alex Gauna, an
analyst for JMP Securities LLC in  San Francisco , said in a
telephone interview.  “We are sending more video traffic across the Internet and
there is quite a bit of new media,” Gauna said. “Internet
bottlenecks are driving growth. Broadcom is willing to pay what
it’s paying because it needs that growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 