-- 
Brookfield Renewable Reaches Record High on Consolidation Plan

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-09-13T17:30:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/brookfield-renewable-reaches-record-high-on-consolidation-plan.html
Brookfield Renewable Power Fund (BRC-U) ,
which owns wind farms and hydroelectric plants in  North America ,
reached a record high after its parent company announced plans
to combine it with other energy assets to create a partnership
with 4,400 megawatts of generation capacity.  Brookfield Renewable Power surged C$1.06, or 4.6 percent at
1:03 p.m. in Toronto trading. Earlier it reached C$24.85, the
highest since it began trading in November 1999.  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A) , an owner of office
buildings, ports and  power plants , will combine the fund with
the U.S., Canadian and Brazilian energy assets of its Brookfield
Power operation. The new entity, Brookfield Renewable Energy
Partners LP, will own 168 hydroelectric facilities and two wind
farms worth $13 billion, the company said today in a statement.  Creating the new partnership will let Brookfield Asset
Management benefit from increasing demand for renewable sources
of power, Richard Legault, Brookfield Renewable Power’s chief
executive officer, said today during a conference call with
analysts.  “Brookfield continues to believe that the strong growth in
renewables will be driven by widespread acceptance of the need
to reduce the world’s carbon footprint, challenges faced by
competing technologies such as coal or nuclear generation and
the desire for energy self-sufficiency pursued by many
governments,” he said.  Higher Dividend  Unit holders of Gatineau, Quebec-based Brookfield Renewable
Power will receive one unit of the new company for each unit
they own. The partnership will increase the annual dividend
distributions to $1.35 a unit, and expects that to grow by 3
percent to 5 percent a year.  Brookfield Asset Management, based in Toronto, will own 73
percent of the new operation, and plans to acquire additional
renewable energy assets that will be housed in the new
partnership, Legault said.  The transaction is subject to unit-holder and regulatory
approval and is expected to close in the fourth quarter.
Brookfield Renewable Power has applied to list its units on the
Toronto Stock Exchange and will file a similar application with
the New York Stock Exchange.  Brookfield Asset Management fell 5 cents to $27.72 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  