-- 
Bulgaria Signs Contract to Sell Bulgartabak to Russia’s VTB

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-09-13T13:18:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/bulgaria-signs-contract-to-sell-bulgartabak-to-russia-s-vtb-2-.html
Bulgaria  signed a contract with a
unit of  Russia ’s second-largest bank OAO VTB to sell a majority
stake in  Bulgartabak Holding (57B) , ending a fourth effort in 12 years
to sell the biggest state-owned tobacco maker.  The buyer of the 80 percent stake for 100.1 million euros
($136.6 million), Austrian-registered BT Invest GmbH, must
continue producing tobacco and cigarettes and avoid insolvency
during the next 10 years, the asset-selling agency in Sofia said
in an e-mail today, citing the contract. VTB was the sole bidder
in the tender after  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  Europe ’s
largest cigarette maker, pulled out.  This is Bulgaria’s biggest sale of state assets since the
government of Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  took office in 2009.
The European Union’s poorest country by per-capita gross
domestic product needs to raise cash to narrow its  budget
deficit  and meet increasing social benefits payments ahead of
October presidential and local elections.  “This was the longest and most condemned privatization in
Bulgaria’s history, which cost the jobs of several ministers
because of political opposition,” Nikolai Vassilev, the chief
executive officer of Expat Capital investment company in Sofia,
said by phone today. “I’m glad this government had the will to
close the deal.”  Vassilev served as economy minister between 2001 and 2003
in the Cabinet of Simeon Saxe-Coburg Gotha and resigned
following a failed attempt to sell Bulgartabak, he said. His
successor Lidia Shuleva, was also forced to quit in 2005 after
British American Tobacco dropped a 200 million-euro offer for
Bulgartabak’s three biggest plants because the bid was
challenged by opposition parties and Saxe-Coburg Gotha’s
coalition partners.  VTB committed to keeping its stake in the tobacco company
for the next five years and maintain the number of employees at
the current level of 2,400 people over the next three years, the
agency said.  BT Invest offered to invest an additional 2 million lev
($1.39 million) in the first year of operation and a further 5
million lev in the second year, the state-asset company said in
an e-mail. It also committed to buying 5,000 tons a year of
locally grown tobacco over the next five years.  Bulgartabak controls 30 percent of the domestic market with
its six units, including four cigarette makers and a trading
division. The company had net income of 34.1 million lev in the
first six months of this year as revenue rose 78 percent and
exports grew 30 percent, the Sofia-based company said on July
26.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  