-- 
Buses for Planes Would Save $89 Million in Subsidized Cities

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-09-13T15:53:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/buses-for-planes-would-save-89-million.html
Taxpayers would save up to $89
million a year if buses rather than planes served 38 cities
where the U.S. subsidizes flights, the American Bus Association
said in a study.  The average cost of providing service would be reduced by
as much as $291 per passenger, according to  the Washington-based
trade group’s study . Rather than considering only air service
for these cities, the U.S. should “look at what makes the most
sense,” Peter Pantuso, the association’s president and chief
executive officer, said on a call with reporters today.  The association, which represents companies such as
 FirstGroup Plc (FGP) ’s Greyhound Lines Inc., looked at cities within
150 miles of a medium-sized or large hub airport that have
flights subsidized by the Essential Air Service program.  Projected per-passenger bus costs are lower than current
air fares on more than half the routes studied, meaning
commercial bus companies may be able to operate on them without
government support, the bus association said. Smaller subsidies
would be required on some routes, it said.  Congressional Dispute  A House-Senate dispute in July over cuts to EAS, created by
Congress in 1978 to prevent towns from losing flights after
airline deregulation, led to a two-week shutdown of parts of the
 Federal Aviation Administration . House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee Chairman  John Mica , a Florida
Republican, proposed eliminating subsidies in 13 communities and
Senate Democrats balked.  Subsidies have quadrupled since 2001, to $200 million a
year, and have become a target for Republican lawmakers who say
the government can no longer afford the program at a time of
high deficits.  Carriers including  Great Lakes Aviation Ltd. (GLUX) , based in
Cheyenne,  Wyoming ;  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCL) , based in Memphis,
Tennessee, and closely held Cape Air, based in Hyannis,
Massachusetts, get EAS aid.  The study examined the viability of bus service as an
alterative in about one-fourth of the 153 communities in the
U.S. and Puerto Rico that receive air subsidies.  Jonesboro, Kingman  Savings could be greatest in Jonesboro, Arkansas, located
79 miles from  Memphis , and Kingman, Arizona, 103 miles from Las
Vegas, the study said.  Taxpayers provide $801 in subsidies per passenger for
airline service to Jonesboro and $651 per passenger for Kingman
service, according to the study.  Using buses instead of planes would also save 5.7 million
gallons of petroleum a year and cut carbon-dioxide emissions as
much as 63,500 tons, the report said.  Bus companies are competing with subsidized flights now on
some of those routes. Hagerstown, Maryland, residents can take
Bayrunner Shuttle to Baltimore’s airport for $48. In Lebanon,
 New Hampshire , the Dartmouth Coach travels to Boston’s Logan
International Airport for $38.  The average per-passenger taxpayer subsidies for flights in
those markets are $56 and $150, according to the study.  Taxpayers for Common Sense, a Washington-based watchdog
group, the  Natural Resources Defense Council , an environmental
advocacy group based in  New York ; and the Reason Foundation, a
Los Angeles-based liberterian group, also sponsored the study.  “Transportation policy needs to focus on moving people and
goods efficiently, and not necessarily being sexy,” said
Shirley Ybarra, senior transportation policy analyst with the
Reason Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  