-- 
Buy U.S. Company Bonds on ‘Panic,’ QIC Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-09-13T22:58:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/buy-u-s-company-bonds-on-panic-qic-says.html
Investors should buy U.S. and
Australian corporate bonds as “fear and panic” helps drive
yield premiums to the highest levels since 2009, according to
QIC, an Australian  fund manager  with about $62 billion of  assets 
under management.  QIC has been adding to its corporate holdings and likes
industrial and financial bonds, including those of U.S. and
Australian banks, said Susan Buckley, the Brisbane-based asset
manager’s head of global fixed interest.  “It’s an opportunity for the brave to be dipping their
toes in,” Buckley, whose firm manages about A$25 billion ($25.9
billion) of cash and fixed-income assets, said in a telephone
interview. “That’s what you should be doing when there’s fear
and panic in markets. To be doing the opposite you have to be
thinking the world is going into global recession.”  Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG are among banks to cut forecasts
for global growth as the sovereign crisis that began in  Greece 
spreads to larger European economies and threatens the region’s
common currency, while U.S. job growth stagnates. The extra
yield investors demand to hold Australian corporate bonds surged
48 basis points this quarter to 225 basis points yesterday and
reached the highest since December 2009 on Sept. 12, while
spreads on U.S. company debt widened to 233, the highest since
October 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  ‘Healthy Shape’  U.S. firms reported average earnings-per-share growth of 19
percent in the current reporting season, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on more than 5,000 stocks. Investors have
poured more than $32 billion into U.S. bonds this year as of
Sept. 7, according to EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based research company.  “U.S. corporates are in healthy shape” with strong cash
balances and profits, while the market for their debt securities
remains liquid, Buckley said.  U.S. corporate bonds have returned 6.1 percent this year,
compared with a 8.6 percent gain on Australian notes, Merrill
Lynch indexes show. Australian  government bonds  returned 11
percent while Treasuries gained 8.1 percent.  Australia ’s entire stock of outstanding bonds, with
maturities out to 2023, is trading below the nation’s 4.75
percent benchmark  interest rate . Cash-rate futures indicate  an
89 percent chance that  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn
Stevens  will cut the benchmark by 100 basis points by year-end.  Stevens signaled a willingness Sept. 7 to keep interest
rates on hold while the nation’s consumers retrench and global
financial markets create instability for the “foreseeable
future.”  While the 10-year bond yield, currently at 4.14 percent,
may fall further if  market sentiment  doesn’t improve, investors
should avoid adding government debt at current levels as they
don’t reflect Australia’s growth prospects, Buckley said.  “The case is not there for easing interest rates here
while there’s still inflation pressures in the local economy,”
she said. “It’s not the time to be going long interest rate
markets, either here or globally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 