-- 
CAC 40 Benchmark Declines, Heads for Biggest Three-Day Slide Since 2008

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-09-13T10:21:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/cac-40-benchmark-declines-heads-for-biggest-three-day-slide-since-2008.html
French stocks headed for their
biggest three-day drop since November 2008, led by tumbling bank
shares, on speculation that lenders are struggling to fund
themselves and their debt ratings will be cut.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA slumped 7.6 percent as the country’s biggest
bank denied a Wall Street Journal article that said the Paris-
based lender cannot access funding in U.S. dollars. Societe
Generale SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  decreased more than 1
percent.  The benchmark  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  tumbled 2.5 percent to 2,783.32
at 12:17 p.m. in Paris, extending the gauge’s three-day loss to
9.9 percent. The broader SBF 120 Index dropped 2.4 percent
today.  U.S. money-market fund managers have cut their lending to
French banks, according to analysts at brokerages including
Deutsche Bank AG, as concern grows that  Greece  may default. The
banks may have their credit ratings cut as soon as this week by
Moody’s Investors Service because of their Greek holdings, two
people with knowledge of the matter said on Sept. 10.  “People’s frustration with this crisis is going to remain
high and the consequence of that is you should avoid the
banks,”  Neil Dwane , who helps oversee $154 billion as chief
investment officer at Allianz Global Investors’ RCM unit, said
in an interview on Sept. 8. “You wouldn’t know what you are
buying. We are underweight banks and don’t own any European
banks.”  Greek two-year notes fell today, pushing the yield on the
securities up 460 basis points to 74.15 percent as speculation
escalated that the European nation won’t be able to pay back its
debt. Moody’s placed the three French banks’ ratings on review
on June 15. The ratings company will focus on their holdings of
Greek public and private debt.  BNP Paribas, SocGen  BNP fell 7.6 percent to 24.14 euros, extending its three-
day plunge to 25 percent.  The WSJ cited an unidentified bank official as saying that
without access to dollars, BNP is creating a market in euros,
and if that doesn’t work, “the downward spiral will be hell,”
since “we will no longer be trusted at all and no one will lend
to us anymore.”  BNP denied the claim in an e-mailed statement, saying it
can finance its dollar needs at normal levels “directly and
through foreign-exchange swaps.”  Societe Generale (GLE) ,  France ’s second-biggest bank, retreated
2.5 percent to 15.18 euros. Thibault Nardin, a Morgan Stanley
analyst, cut his earnings estimates for SocGen and said the bank
will probably not pay dividends for the next two years.  Credit Agricole  lost 1.1 percent to 4.78 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  