-- 
Canada Second-Quarter National Balance Sheet Account (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-09-13T13:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/canada-second-quarter-national-balance-sheet-account-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s national balance sheet account report for the second
quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  National net worth increased 1.2% to $6.4 trillion in the
second quarter. On a per capita basis, national net worth was
$186,900 in the second quarter, up from $185,300 the previous
quarter.  Among non-financial assets, residential real estate
remained the major contributor to the increase in national
wealth during the quarter, accounting for over half of the gain.  Drop in share values reduces household net worth  Household net worth fell 0.3% in the second quarter, as the
increase in the value of residential real estate was more than
offset by the decline in the value of household holdings of
equities (including mutual funds) and pension assets. The
Standard and Poor’s / Toronto Stock Exchange composite index
fell 5.9%. Per capita household net worth fell from $185,500 in
the first quarter to $184,300 in the second quarter, marking the
first decline since the second quarter of 2010.  Note to readers  Canadian publicly traded companies have begun their
transition to International Financial Reporting Standards in the
first quarter of 2011. As all companies adopt the new reporting
standards over the next quarters, this will have an effect on
the National balance sheet accounts (NBSA). For more information
on some of these affects, consult the article “Impact of new
accounting standards on the financial and wealth accounts”.  The NBSA comprise the balance sheets of all sectors of the
economy: the persons and unincorporated business (households),
corporate, government, and non-resident sectors. They cover all
national non-financial assets and financial claims and their
associated liabilities outstanding in all sectors.  National net worth is national wealth less net foreign
liabilities (that is, what is owed to non-residents less what
non-residents owe to Canadians). Alternatively, it is the sum of
the net worth of the persons and unincorporated business,
corporate, and government sectors.  Household credit market debt comprises  consumer credit ,
mortgage, and loan debt of households, non-profit institutions
serving households, and unincorporated businesses.  Corporate equity is treated as a liability on the balance
sheet of the corporate sector since it represents a claim by
shareholders on the corporate sector. As a result, as equity
prices increase, corporate net worth will tend to decline,
reflecting the increase in the corporate sector’s equity
liabilities.  Quarterly series, at both book and market value, are
available from the first quarter of 1990. Annual market value
data are published from 1970, while book value estimates remain
available from 1961. Marketable securities are at market value,
unless otherwise stated. For more information on the market
value estimates, consult the National balance sheet estimates at
market value page of our website.  Important changes are coming to  Canada ’s System of National
Accounts (CSNA), starting in May 2012. These changes will affect
all users of CSNA products and statistics such as gross domestic
product, balance of payments, international investment, and
input-output tables.  For more information, consult the Canadian System of
National Accounts 2012 Historical Revision.  Credit market debt of the household sector grew in the
second quarter, as a result of both higher mortgage and consumer
credit borrowing. The ratio of household credit market debt to
personal disposable income ratio was up, as debt levels grew
faster than the growth in personal disposable income. The debt-
service ratio was unchanged from the previous quarter at 7.5%.
Home owners’ equity as a percentage of real estate assets edged
down further in the second quarter, as the credit market debt to
net worth ratio increased for the fourth straight quarter to
24.4%.  Government net debt up  Overall government net debt (expressed at book value)
increased to $772 billion in the second quarter from $753
billion the previous quarter. The ratio of net debt to gross
domestic product rose from 45.7% in the first quarter to 46.3%
in the second quarter. Bonds led the increase in total
government debt in the second quarter, with significant net
issues for both federal and provincial governments.  Corporate debt to equity edges up  Debt financing by private non-financial corporations edged
up while equity issuances slowed. Total credit market debt to
equity (expressed at book value) increased from 54.2% in the
first quarter to 54.9% in the second quarter.  Overall total asset growth of institutional investors (such
as trusteed pension plans and mutual funds) slowed in the second
quarter. The value of investments in shares decreased in the
second quarter. This was offset by an increase in the value of
holdings of federal and provincial government bonds.  Data for the third quarter will be released on December 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  