-- 
Canadian Dollar Trades Within 1 Cent of Parity on European Debt Concerns

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-09-13T16:02:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/canadian-dollar-trades-within-1-cent-of-parity-on-european-debt-concerns.html
Canada ’s dollar traded within one
cent of parity with its U.S. counterpart as stocks and
commodities fluctuated on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
erode demand for higher-returning assets.  The Canadian currency approached a seven-month low earlier,
before a report tomorrow forecast to show growth slowed in
Canadian industrial companies’ use of their production capacity
from April to June. Toronto-Dominion Bank reduced its forecast
for the nation’s growth. The currency erased losses after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel said she’s confident the euro’s
stability can be secured.  “Europe, and more specifically developments in  Greece , are
clearly dictating the flow in foreign exchange,”  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada , said by phone today from Toronto.  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 99.03
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 12:01 p.m. in Toronto, after earlier
falling as much as 0.5 percent to 99.77 cents. It closed at
99.27 cents yesterday, when it reached C$1.0027, the weakest
level since Jan. 31. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0098.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2 percent after
rising as much as 1 percent and falling 0.4 percent. The S&P
GSCI Spot Index of commodities was little changed after
increasing 0.6 percent and falling 0.4 percent.  Raw materials 
account for about half of Canada’s export revenue.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, reached the
weakest level since January yesterday against the greenback,
which touched the strongest since February versus Europe’s 17-
nation currency on speculation a Greek default will lead to a
spiraling sovereign-debt crisis and spread to banks.  Bonds Drop  Government bonds  fell for a second day, pushing yields on
Canada’s benchmark 10-year note up five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.19 percent. The yields dropped to 2.089
percent yesterday, the lowest since at least June 1989. The
price of the 3.25 percent securities due in June 2021 dropped 44
cents to C$109.27.  The loonie erased losses after German Chancellor Merkel
said she’s in constant contact with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  on the crisis.  Merkel, in a German radio interview broadcast today, warned
against allowing a Greek default because of the risk of
contagion for other euro-area countries. She said an
“uncontrolled insolvency” would further roil markets.  Canadian industrial companies’ use of their production
capacity slipped in the second quarter to 78 percent, from 79
percent in the previous three-month period, according to the
median of 13 estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  Statistics
Canada  releases the data tomorrow in Ottawa.  Lower Forecast  Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s second-largest lender,
lowered its forecast for the nation’s economic growth this year
and next to reflect a  U.S. economy  that had a deeper recession
than previously reported, according to Craig Alexander, the
bank’s chief economist.  TD cut its growth forecast to 2.2 percent this year, from
2.8 percent. It reduced the forecast for next year to 1.9
percent, from 2.5 percent, and raised the 2013 outlook to 2.6
percent, from 2.1 percent.  “The downgrade to Canadian growth this year and next is
largely based on a downgrade to the external environment in
which the Canadian economy is operating,” Alexander said today
in a telephone interview from Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  