-- 
Canadian Currency Rises From Almost Seven-Month Low as Stocks, Oil Advance

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-13T21:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/canadian-currency-rises-from-almost-seven-month-low-as-stocks-oil-advance.html
The Canadian dollar rose from
almost the weakest level in seven months as  risk aversion  eased
and commodities and stocks gained, improving the outlook for
currencies tied to growth.  Canada’s currency climbed versus 15 of its 16 most-traded
peers as crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, reached a one-
month high. The loonie, as the currency is called, weakened
earlier on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will erode demand for
higher-returning assets. Data tomorrow are forecast to show
growth slowed in Canadian industrial companies’ use of their
production capacity.  “The risk-off environment is taking a very small break,”
said Jose Wynne, head of North America foreign-exchange research
at Barclays Capital Inc., by phone from New York. “It’s not
that we’re expecting that to continue for much longer. We have a
bearish  U.S. dollar  view, more than a bullish Canadian view.”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, gained 0.7 percent to 98.57 cents per U.S. dollar
at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after earlier depreciating as much as 0.5
percent to 99.77 cents. The currency closed at 99.27 cents
yesterday, when it reached C$1.0027, the weakest level since
Jan. 31. One Canadian dollar buys $1.01456.  Canada’s dollar, which fell last month for the first time
since May on concern the global economy is headed for another
recession, rose today as the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index
of raw materials gained 0.5 percent in its first increase in
three days.  Crude oil for October delivery climbed as much as 2.6
percent to $90.52 a barrel in New York, the highest level since
Aug. 4, before trading at $89.79.  Raw materials  including oil
account for about half of Canada’s export revenue.  Contagion Risk  Canada’s currency reached the weakest level since January
yesterday against the greenback, which touched the strongest
since February versus the euro on speculation that a Greek
default will lead to a spiraling sovereign-debt crisis and
spread to banks. The euro was little changed today at $1.3678
and dropped 0.7 percent to C$1.3483.  “ Greece  has a serious risk of imminent default and the
market is questioning what level of catastrophe that will
entail,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
 National Bank of Canada , said by phone today from Toronto. “The
global backdrop is influencing the flow in all currencies,
Canada included.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained as much as 1.2
percent before trimming the gain to 0.9 percent after a report
that German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Greece
should not get any additional aid beyond what has already been
agreed upon. Canada’s S&P/TSX Composite Index was up 0.5 percent
after increasing 0.8 percent earlier.  Bonds Drop  Canada’s government bonds fell for a second day, pushing
benchmark 10-year yields up six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 2.20 percent. The yields dropped to 2.089 percent
yesterday, the lowest since at least June 1989. The price of the
3.25 percent securities due in June 2021 dropped 55 cents to
C$109.15.  The loonie erased losses after German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she’s confident the euro’s stability can be secured,
and French banks advanced after dismissing concern about their
access to funding.  Merkel, in a German radio interview broadcast today, warned
against allowing a Greek default because of the risk of
contagion for other euro-area countries. She said an
“uncontrolled insolvency” would further roil markets.  Gained for Week  The loonie gained 3.2 percent over the past week against
nine other developed-nation currencies traded by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback rose 3.1
percent. The U.S. is  Canada ’s biggest trade partner.  Canadian industrial companies’ use of their production
capacity slipped in the second quarter to 78 percent, from 79
percent in the previous three-month period, according to the
median of 13 estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  Statistics
Canada  releases the data tomorrow in Ottawa.  Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s second-largest lender,
lowered its forecast for the nation’s economic growth this year
and next to reflect a  U.S. economy  that had a deeper recession
than previously reported, Craig Alexander, chief economist at
the firm, said by phone today from Toronto.  TD cut its growth forecast to 2.2 percent this year, from
2.8 percent. It reduced the forecast for next year to 1.9
percent, from 2.5 percent, and raised the 2013 outlook to 2.6
percent, from 2.1 percent.  “The downgrade to Canadian growth this year and next is
largely based on a downgrade to the external environment in
which the Canadian economy is operating,” Alexander said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  