-- 
Central Banks Should Form Panel on ‘Spillover’ Risk, Report Says

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-09-13T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/central-banks-should-form-panel-on-spillover-risk-report-says.html
Central banks should take greater
account of the effect their monetary policies have abroad and
meet regularly to discuss spillover risks, according to a study
by economists including Mohamed El-Erian of Pacific Investment
Management Co. and Gavea Investmentos’ Arminio Fraga.  In a report published today by the Washington-based
 Brookings Institution , the economists proposed an International
Monetary Policy Committee to identify the unintended threats a
policy decision made in one economy poses to another. Large-
economy central banks should also pay more attention to the
global implications of their decisions, the study said.  “Where appropriate, they should consider coordinated
action to help stabilize the global economy in times of
stress,” the report said.  The study reflects mounting concern that the choices of
central banks increasingly carry implications for foreign
economies. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said a year
ago, for example, that a “currency war” was under way as low
 interest rates  in rich nations and China’s policy of controlling
the yuan led investors to push capital into economies such as
his, encouraging overvalued exchange rates and asset inflation.  While central bankers already meet regularly at meetings of
the  International Monetary Fund  and Bank for International
Settlements, the Brookings report said its proposed committee
would allow spillovers and coordination to be “discussed
explicitly.” The panel should issue a report to world leaders
assessing and justifying their policies from the perspective of
the world economy, pointing out areas of dissent or
inconsistency, it said.  ‘Inconsistencies’  “The need to issue periodic public reports can help
central bankers identify and publicly air the inconsistencies in
their policies,” the report said. “With time, this should
encourage them to internalize some of the external consequences
of their policies.”  The Brookings study said central banks should also twin
their traditional focus on low inflation with an explicit goal
of financial stability and make clear that monetary policies can
only be effective when they work in tandem with fiscal,
regulatory and structural policies.  Other authors of the report included former IMF economists
Eswar Prasad,  Carmen Reinhart ,  Kenneth Rogoff  and  Raghuram
Rajan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  