-- 
McGraw Bowing to Pressure Breaks Up Business Founded by Great-Grandfather

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-09-13T21:08:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/mcgraw-hill-chief-bowing-to-pressure-breaks-up-family-business.html
Under pressure from investors to
fix the ailing McGraw-Hill Cos., Chief Executive Officer Harold “Terry” McGraw III disregarded his family’s legacy when deciding
to break up the business founded by his great-grandfather in
1888.  “It’s not about me, it can’t be just about the family,”
McGraw said in a phone interview yesterday after announcing a
split of the company in two. “This is about a public company
that is serving shareholders, employees and customers.”  McGraw, 63, has worked at McGraw-Hill since 1980, hired by
his father, and has been CEO since 1998. Under his leadership,
McGraw-Hill’s  Standard & Poor’s  unit grew from a remote outpost
to the company’s most profitable business before drawing fire
for its role in the 2008 financial crisis and last month’s
downgrade of  U.S. debt .  After losing 41 percent of its value since the end of 2006
and challenges from investors including Jana Partners LLC,
McGraw-Hill said it would separate into two companies -- one
focused on education, the other on financial ratings and data.
McGraw will become CEO of McGraw-Hill Markets, effectively
ending the family’s management of the textbook-publishing
business.  “We’ve been in many configurations over those 123 years and
we’re all thinking very hard about how we make these the
greatest companies yet,” McGraw said. “If we get the customer
part right and respond to those changes then everyone will be
happy, family members too.”  Since 2005, revenue in the school education group has
declined 27 percent. Jana Partners, in an Aug. 22 breakup
proposal, called education a “drag” on the rest of McGraw-Hill.  S&P ‘Vilified’  The split means McGraw is placing his faith in S&P, where
he first took the helm in 1988 and which has become a lightning
rod for criticism.  S&P, along with Moody’s Investors Service, were blamed in
an April U.S. Senate report for helping fuel the global
financial crisis with inflated ratings for mortgage securities
packaged during the housing boom.  “They were just vilified by everyone for their failure to
see the risks in the mortgage-backed  securities market ,” said
Joel Harris, managing director of HM Payson & Co. in  Portland ,
 Maine , which owns McGraw-Hill shares. “There’s been a lot of
investor antagonism, frankly, for S&P.”  McGraw-Hill rose $1.24, or 3.1 percent, to $41.50 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
declined 27 percent in the past five years, compared with a drop
of 11 percent for the  S&P 500 Index .  Industrywide Phenomenon  “Terry shares some disappointment that we missed on those
ratings,” Chief Financial Officer Jack Callahan said in an
interview. “There are places, like many leaders, where he wishes
he could have one or two back in 2007 and 2008.”  McGraw attended  Tufts University  in Medford,  Massachusetts ,
and received an MBA from the  Wharton School  of the  University of
Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia. He worked for GTE Corp., now part
of Verizon Communications Inc., before joining the family
business.  He has taken the criticism of S&P seriously, and was
instrumental in establishing an ombudsman empowered to take
concerns about conflicts of interest to the CEO himself, said
Winfried Bischoff, chairman of Lloyds Banking Group Plc in
 London , and a McGraw-Hill board member since 1999.  While the CEO always bears some responsibility, there was
little McGraw could have done to ensure the accuracy of subprime
mortgage ratings, Bischoff said.  “It became an industrywide phenomenon,” he said.  ‘We Were Important’  When McGraw became head of the company’s financial services
unit -- including the S&P business bought in 1966 -- it made up
28 percent of the parent company’s operating profit, the company
said. Under his leadership, S&P increased its workforce and
expanded overseas. In 2010 financial services accounted for two-
thirds of that profit.  Old-timers, many of whom predated the purchase, viewed
McGraw skeptically at the outset, said  David Blitzer , chairman
of the S&P index committee, who has worked for McGraw-Hill since
1980.  McGraw began to hold monthly meetings for S&P’s top 300
executives that included discussions about the future of the
business and speakers such as then-New York Mayor  Rudy Giuliani 
and  Sandy Weill , who was Citigroup Inc.’s CEO, Blitzer said.  “The meetings were to give people a sense that S&P was
important to McGraw-Hill and had real growth potential,” Blitzer
said. “We were something, we were important, we were
substantial, and were going to grow the business and make a lot
of money.”  Index Business  McGraw also jumped on a quiet corner of the business where
he saw potential: the licensing of S&P’s indexes to mutual
funds. The division has grown from indexing the 500 largest U.S.
companies to more than 100,000 indices in markets globally.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Sloan Bohlen valued the
business at $1.7 billion.  “It was clear from the first time I met him, here was
someone clearly fascinated with money management and portfolio
design and indices,” Blitzer said. “He said ‘There’s a lot of
stuff here guys, let’s put it together and make it grow.’”  S&P’s index division grew to almost 300 employees from
about 25 in the mid-1990s, he said. Without McGraw’s vision,
“we wouldn’t be here today,” Blitzer said.  Education CEO  McGraw-Hill began publishing textbooks in 1927. The
education business has struggled in the past five years as
crimped budgets led states and school districts to spend less on
materials.  The company has “consistently underperformed its
potential,” Jana Partners said in its Aug. 22 breakup proposal.  As part of the split, McGraw-Hill said it will seek to cut
corporate expenses and administrative and technology costs off a
base of more than $1 billion, without specifying the extent of
the reduction.  McGraw-Hill said it will accelerate the pace of its share
buyback plan to $1 billion for the year, with $540.6 million
repurchased year-to-date. The company will also begin searching
for a CEO for McGraw-Hill Education, which expects to have
revenue of about $2.4 billion this year.  In a joint statement yesterday, Jana and  Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan  said they would review the proposed split.
Together, they hold 5.6 percent, according to an Aug. 22
regulatory filing.  Investors to Review  “The separation, cost-cutting program and accelerated
buyback will all be vital steps in reversing years of
underperformance at McGraw-Hill, and are critical parts of what
we were seeking for shareholders,” the investors said.  While Jana called for McGraw-Hill to be broken into four
parts -- with S&P’s index business as one of them -- McGraw said
two was the right number.  “This two-company approach will result in greater
 shareholder value  with less risk and complexity than other
approaches,” McGraw said yesterday on a conference call with
investors.  Moody’s put McGraw-Hill’s A3 senior unsecured ratings on
review for a possible downgrade, saying the spinoff of the
education unit will involve a “significant portion of
consolidated cash flow generation.” It also said it will review
bondholder exposure to the risks of litigation and regulation
associated with S&P.  In 2009, McGraw-Hill agreed to sell BusinessWeek magazine
to Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  The break-up plan “is an important first step in the right
direction,”  Peter Appert , an analyst for Piper Jaffray & Co.,
said in a note to investors. He called it “a pretty radical
development for the traditionally staid/conservative McGraw-
Hill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  