-- 
Chile’s Finance Minister Pledges to Keep Fiscal Discipline

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-13T15:21:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/chile-s-finance-minister-pledges-to-keep-fiscal-discipline-1-.html
Global investors are putting a
higher premium on fiscal discipline and value  Chile ’s commitment
to a balanced budget, even as protesters pressure the government
to increase spending, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said.  Chile is a net creditor and plans to post a fiscal surplus
equivalent to 1.3 percent of gross domestic product this year,
Larrain told a university forum in Santiago. Spending will rise
by less than economic growth this year and next, he said.  “Today the value of fiscal responsibility has grown in the
world,” he said. “Some say you have to forget about fiscal
discipline in the face of social demands. I want to reaffirm
that we won’t change our commitment by one millimeter and won’t
abandon fiscal responsibility.”  Chilean students are protesting for more  government
investment  in education, with many schools and state-run
universities paralyzed for the past three months. If the
government were to meet student demands, fiscal spending would
have to rise by 2.2 percent of gross domestic product, according
to a study by the Universidad de Chile.  The government is offering to spend an additional $4
billion on education over four to six years. Economic growth and
high copper prices will create enough revenue for the state to
fund education and social programs without having to raise
taxes, Larrain said.  “Additional revenue isn’t required to finance our
budget,” he said, adding the government is analyzing ways to
improve the tax regime. “Taxes aren’t a taboo subject,” he
said.  Bond Sale  As  Latin America ’s highest-rated borrower, Chile last week
sold $1 billion of dollar bonds at a record-low yield of 3.3
percent and sold $350 million in peso bonds to yield 4.4
percent, the ministry said  Sept. 7 .  The bond sale increases liquidity and establishes a
benchmark for Chilean companies issuing debt abroad as the
world’s largest copper producer creates contingency plans in
case the global economy deteriorates, the minister said.  Chile’s economy will expand about 6.5 percent this year,
growing less than 5 percent in the second half after 10 percent
and 6.8 percent growth in the first and second quarters
respectively, he said.  Market estimates that Chile’s GDP will grow 4.9 percent in
2012 are not guaranteed as exporters may suffer from a global
decline, Larrain told reporters after the speech. The government
will publish its growth forecast for 2012 at the end of this
month, he said.  “We aren’t immune, but are very well prepared,” he said
during the speech about the impact of a global deceleration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 