-- 
China Called On as Lender of Last Resort as Italy Faces Deepening Crisis

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-13T14:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/china-called-on-as-lender-of-last-resort-with-italy-joining-morgan-stanley.html
China’s status as the fastest-
growing major economy and holder of the largest foreign-exchange
reserves lured another bailout candidate as  Italy  struggles to
avoid a collapse in investor confidence.  Italian officials held talks in the past few weeks with
Chinese counterparts about potential investments in the country,
an Italian government official said yesterday, adding that bonds
weren’t the focus. Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti met with
Chinese officials in Rome earlier this month, his spokesman
Filippo Pepe said by phone today.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu, asked about
buying Italian assets, said Europe is one of her nation’s main
investment destinations, without specifically mentioning Italy.  Italy joins Spain, Greece,  Portugal  and investment bank
Morgan Stanley among distressed borrowers that turned to China
since the 2007 collapse in U.S. mortgage securities set off a
crisis that widened to engulf euro-region sovereign debtors.
Stocks rose on the potential Chinese investment in Italy even as
previous commitments failed to have a lasting impact.  “It’s a clear pattern of  China ’s intention to help
stabilize the euro area,” said Nicholas Zhu, head of macro-
commodity research for  Asia  at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group in  Shanghai  and a former World Bank economist. “The
benefit to China is that it will help in the perception of host
countries if China is viewed as a responsible stakeholder in the
global community.”  Bond Auction  Italy today sold 3.9 billion euros of a new benchmark five-
year bond at an average yield of 5.6 percent, compared with 4.93
percent the last time securities of a similar maturity were sold
on July 14. Demand was 1.28 times the amount on offer, compared
with 1.93 times at the previous sale.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond rose to 5.73 percent after
the auction, pushing the spread with the equivalent German
securities up 17 basis points to 400 basis points. The MSCI Asia
Pacific index of stocks advanced 0.3 percent after the Standard
& Poor’s 500 index gained 0.7 percent overnight.  Chinese Image  Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said today that he
would meet with finance officials from Russia,  India , China and
 South Africa  at the International Monetary Fund meetings in
 Washington  next week to discuss ways the so-called BRIC nations
can help  Europe  overcome its debt crisis.  His comments to reporters came after Sao Paulo-based Valor
Economico newspaper said that BRIC governments are considering
using part of their international reserves to increase purchases
of German or U.K.-issued debt.  For China, any purchases of European debt may allow the
world’s largest exporter to be seen as helpful as it rebuffs
calls to allow its exchange rate to appreciate at a faster pace.
The world’s second largest economy has amassed record currency
reserves of $3.2 trillion by selling yuan to limit gains.  Chinese policy makers are thinking in a “global context”
and about the need to prevent a “domino effect” in the
European debt crisis, Zhang Yansheng, a researcher affiliated
with the nation’s top economic planning agency, said today.  China’s central bank referred questions to the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange, which didn’t respond to a
request for comment. China Investment Corp., the nation’s
sovereign-wealth fund, also didn’t respond.  Italy’s bond-yields rose to a euro-era record last month as
the region’s sovereign debt crisis spread from  Greece , the first
to receive a European Union-led bailout. Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s government rushed a 54 billion-euro austerity
package to convince the  European Central Bank  to buy its debt.  Redemptions  Even so, the size of Italy’s debt -- at 1.9 trillion euros
more than Spain, Greece, Ireland and Portugal combined -- leaves
it vulnerable to any rise in borrowing costs as it refinances
maturing securities. The country still needs to sell about 70
billion euros of debt this year to cover its deficit and finance
redemptions.  “We have heard this story before with regard to the likes
of Spanish and Portuguese bonds, and in the end it was ECB
buying and EU bailouts that seemed to have taken place rather
than anything with a Chinese influence,” Gary Jenkins, a
strategist at Evolution Securities in  London , wrote in a
research note.  Any Chinese purchases of euro-region debt to date haven’t
produced a lasting cut in yield premiums for Greece, Portugal or
 Spain .  The extra yield investors demand to buy Greek 10-year debt
over German bunds is about 23 percentage points, up from 14
percentage points three months ago. The equivalent spread for
Portugal over  Germany  is 9.5 percentage points, up from 7.7
points over that period. Spain’s gap rose to 3.6 points from 2.5
points.  Too Big  “The issue with Europe is bigger than China alone can help
with,” said Ju Wang, a fixed-income strategist at  Barclays
Capital  in  Singapore , adding that Italy’s debt load alone is a
sum exceeding half the Chinese foreign-exchange reserves.
“China probably will continue to help to shore up the euro, but
its involvement in direct purchases of troubled Europe debt is
unlikely to be too aggressive.”  If Italy “falls” it may drag down Europe, the world and
China’s economy, said Zhang, a researcher at the Institute of
Foreign Economic Research affiliated to the National Development
and Reform Commission.  Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said today that
European policy makers should decide themselves whether they
need fiscal assistance from  Japan . U.S. Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner will travel to Poland on Sept. 16 to
participate in a meeting of European government finance
officials trying to contain the region’s debt crisis.  ‘Helping Hand’  Premier Wen Jiabao said in June that China can offer “a
helping hand” to Europe by buying a limited volume of sovereign
bonds. The Asian nation pledged that month to buy Hungarian
 government bonds  and agreed to extend a 1 billion euro loan for
the financing of development projects in the European country
that needed an International Monetary Fund-led bailout in 2008.  Spain’s prime minister secured a Chinese pledge to invest
in his nation’s faltering savings banks and in government debt
on an April visit to Beijing.  In October, Wen said China will buy Greek bonds to support
Greece’s shipping industry, while Chinese state-run banks agreed
to $267.8 million in loans to three Greek shippers. President Hu Jintao visited Portugal in November and said China is
“available to support, through concrete measures, Portuguese
efforts to face the impacts caused by the international
financial crisis.”  Investors may get a chance to hear Jiabao speak on Europe’s
crisis tomorrow, when he delivers remarks at the World Economic
Forum in Dalian, China.  “I don’t expect him to say that China will underwrite the
euro zone, hopes for which have episodically boosted prices of
risk assets this year,” said  Tim Condon , head of Asia research
at ING Groep NV in Singapore. “I expect he will utter
comforting generalities about underlying economic strength and
ability to resolve the debt problems.”  Diversification  Any Chinese purchases of euro-denominated debt may help it
diversify its reserves away from dollars. The biggest foreign
owner of U.S. government debt has doubled its holdings of
Treasuries in the three years through June to about $1.17
trillion.  China is playing a “white knight” role in assisting
Europe and buying itself goodwill that will enable it to
purchase more sensitive European assets such as technology
companies, according to Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros
Trading in a June report. The European Union still has an arms
embargo on China, imposed after the Tiananmen Square massacre in
1989.  Some of China’s investments have returned losses. China
Investment Corp. paid $3 billion for a 9.4 percent stake in
private equity firm Blackstone in 2007 at a 4.5 percent discount
to its initial public offering price of $31. The stock traded at
$12.31 yesterday, which translates to a loss of more than $1.7
billion loss for China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CIC, as the wealth fund is known, widened its investment
horizon to 10 years from five years, the company said in July.  “They are trying to be helpful by diversifying a little
within the euro zone community,” Michael Spence, a Nobel
laureate in economics, said while attending a conference in
Beijing today. “With relatively high yields, if there is a
credible plan in Italy -- Italy has very low private debt, its
public debt is relatively stable if they adopt sensible policies
-- so could be quite a good investment as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  