-- 
China’s Stocks Drop to One-Week Low as Data Fuel Policy Concern

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-13T07:48:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/china-s-stock-futures-drop-on-monetary-policy-tightening-concern.html
China’s stocks fell, dragging the
benchmark index to a one-week low, on concern the government may
intensify policy tightening after imports jumped to a record and
new lending increased.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  declined after the Beijing News reported
the central bank sold additional bills to major lenders, a step
to drain liquidity from the banking system. Among commodity
companies, Jiangxi Copper Co. and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.
retreated at least 1.7 percent. BYD Co., the automaker part-
owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., tumbled to a
record low on a bond-sale plan.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 26.45 points, or 1.1 percent,
to 2,471.31 at the 3 p.m. close. The gauge, which sank 1.2
percent last week, settled at its lowest level since Sept. 6.
The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  sank 1.1 percent to 2,720.28.  “Although there’s a small risk of a hard landing for
 China’s economy , a possible rebound in inflation and the impact
of worsening European debt crisis on the global economy still
remain the biggest concern to investors,” said Wu Kan, a  fund
manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.
“There’s also no sign that policies will be loosened in the
short term. Stocks might test a new low.”  China’s markets resumed trading after a holiday yesterday
during which the MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 2.3 percent on
speculation  Greece  may be nearing a default on its sovereign
debt. Italian officials have held talks with their Chinese
counterparts about potential investments in the euro region’s
third-largest economy, an Italian government official said.  Italian Investment  The Shanghai gauge has slumped 12 percent this year as the
central bank raised  interest rates  five times and ordered
lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves 12 times
since the start of 2010 to contain inflation. The stock gauge is
valued at 11.4 times estimated profit, the lowest on record
according to daily data compiled by Bloomberg dating back to
January 2006.  A spokesman for Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti 
declined to comment on possible talks on Chinese investments in
 Italy . News of the Chinese interest comes on the eve of a 7
billion-euro ($9.6 billion) bond sale.  Officials in German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government
are debating how to shore up the country’s banks should Greece
fail to meet the budget-cutting terms of its aid package, three
coalition officials said on Sept. 9. BNP Paribas SA, Societe
Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA may have their ratings cut by
Moody’s this week because of their holdings of Greek debt, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Additional Bills  ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, dropped 1 percent
to 4.14 yuan. Construction Bank, the second-largest, lost 0.9
percent to 4.53 yuan.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) , the
fourth-biggest, retreated 0.4 percent to 2.57 yuan.  The central bank sold more than 20 billion yuan ($3.13
billion) of additional bills to ICBC, Construction Bank,
AgriBank and some other lenders after they were judged to have
lent excessively, the Beijing News reports, citing an
unidentified person.  Liquidity will remain tight as capital inflows slow in the
near term, the China Securities Journal wrote in a front-page
editorial. There is currently no sign that monetary policy will
change as stabilizing prices remains the priority, the editorial
said.  Inbound shipments jumped 30.2 percent from a year earlier
to a record $155.6 billion in August, the customs bureau
reported over the weekend. Exports climbed 24.5 percent, more
than economists estimated. New lending rose to 548.5 billion
yuan last month, the central bank said on Sept. 11.  Inflation Easing  A measure of 48 material stocks slid 1.9 percent today, the
biggest loss among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups, on concern
tighter monetary policy will curb commodities demand.  Jiangxi Copper,  China ’s biggest producer of the metal, slid
1.9 percent to 30.75 yuan. Aluminum Corp., the listed unit of
nation’s biggest maker of the lightweight metal, dropped 1.7
percent to 8.72 yuan.  Signs have emerged that government policies may have helped
moderate inflation and growth. A statistics bureau report last
week showed inflation eased from a three-year high to 6.2
percent in August while industrial production expanded 13.5
percent, the smallest gain in three months.  BYD tumbled 6.3 percent to 21.13 yuan, its lowest close
since its debut on June 30. Shareholders approved a plan to sell
as much as 6 billion yuan of bonds in China, the company said in
an exchange statement.  Cement Stocks  Anhui Conch Cement Co. rebounded among cement stocks after
Citic Securities Co. said nationwide prices of the building
material rose 0.2 percent last week from the previous week.  Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, rose 1.3 percent
to 18.28 yuan, trimming its loss to 18 percent this month.
Huaxin Cement Co., the Chinese affiliate of Holcim Ltd.,
advanced 3.5 percent to 18.78 yuan.  Cement prices rose by as much as 40 yuan last week in the
provinces of Guangdong, Guangxi and Guizhou as power
restrictions strained supplies and inventories fell, analysts
led by Zeng Hao at Citic Securities wrote in a report today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  