-- 
Sina Shares Advance to Highest in Seven Weeks on Upgrade to Weibo Service

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-09-13T20:46:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/china-s-sina-corp-advances-to-six-week-high-in-new-york-trading.html
Sina Corp., the owner of  China ’s
third-most visited website and the Twitter-like Weibo service,
climbed to the highest level in seven weeks on speculation a new
version of its microblogging platform will increase usage.  The shares jumped 6.8 percent to $113.98 at 4 p.m. New York
time, the highest level since July 26. Sina led gains among
stocks in the New York Stock Exchange China Index, which climbed
0.7 percent.  Sina invited some users to test a new version of its Weibo
service today, according to a Brean Murray Carret & Co. LLC
report by analyst Fawne Jiang. The upgrade added features
including games and applications, message reminders and the
ability to send documents and pictures through private messages,
the report said.  “The upgrade is more towards a social network platform,
showing Sina is definitely working to become a full-blown social
network service provider,” New-York based Jiang said in a phone
interview. Sina “is going in the right direction from the point
of view of product development. In terms of monetization, it’s
still too early to say how fast Weibo will help prop up Sina’s
revenue.”  Jiang maintained a “buy” recommendation on Sina’s shares
with a 12-month price target of $128.  Beijing City’s Communist Party chief Liu Qi asked websites
to strengthen management and eliminate the spread of fake and
misleading information on microblogs after a visit to Sina on
Aug. 22.  Sina pledged to ensure that the information it provides
online is authentic and is committed to the “spread of advanced
culture,” according to a Sept. 9  proposal  it posted on its
website.  The Beijing-based company has leaped 66 percent this year,
the most among the largest U.S.-listed Chinese companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  