-- 
Al-Qaeda Poses ‘Ongoing’ Threat as Affiliates Take Initiative

-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 
2011-09-13T22:12:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/cia-director-says-al-qaeda-s-core-weakened-offshoots-grow-1-.html
While sustained attacks have
weakened al-Qaeda’s core leadership, the terrorist group’s
affiliates and “homegrown, violent” sympathizers remain a
significant threat to the U.S. and its allies, the nation’s top
intelligence and law enforcement officials said Tuesday.  The U.S. is still investigating possible threats directed
at  New York  and  Washington  that were picked up prior to the
tenth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, said Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano.  The intelligence hasn’t been resolved, and the threat is
“ongoing,” she  told  the Senate Homeland Security Committee in
Washington.  The officials spoke on Capital Hill hours after Islamic
militants attacked the American Embassy in Kabul and as al-
Qaeda’s leader,  Ayman al-Zawahiri , appeared online in a 62-
minute video cheering the Arab Spring uprisings.  Appearing at a rare joint hearing of the House and Senate
intelligence committees, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said that the intelligence community’s 16 agencies must
seek greater integration, information sharing and efficiencies
as they adjust to budget cuts after 10 years of growth.  The intelligence agencies must continue to hire talented
people with language, technological and other skills and to
continue to invest in research and development, he said. With
the federal budget tightening, they also must be “cold-hearted
and objective about systems and the contribution they make,” he
said, adding “the potential for savings here are huge.”  Shifting Initiative  Clapper and new Central Intelligence Agency Director David Petraeus, on the job eight days, offered a more measured
assessment of al-Qaeda than those from some other administration
officials.  “As al-Qaeda’s core has been weakened, we must recognize
that the initiative has been shifting somewhat to al-Qaeda’s
affiliates and sympathizers outside  South Asia ,” Petraeus told
the House-Senate hearing on the terrorist group and the efforts
to combat it.  “Despite being less able to conduct large-scale attacks,
al-Qaeda and its sympathizers do continue to train and deploy
operatives in small numbers for overseas plots,” he said.
“Many of these operatives have nationalities and backgrounds
that make them well-suited for targeting the  United States  and
 Europe .”  “Al-Qaeda’s operatives remain committed to attacks against
U.S. citizens at home and overseas, both to demonstrate strength
in the wake of Osama bin Laden’s death and to continue pursuit
of one of al-Qaeda’s principal goals -- forcing the United
States and a number of our allies to retreat from the world
stage,” said Petraeus. “Al-Qaeda’s leaders continue to believe
that this would clear the way for overthrowing governments in
the Islamic world and for the destruction of  Israel .”  ‘Homegrown’ Terrorists  Clapper said he’s concerned that American “homegrown
violent extremists” are inspired by the al-Qaeda message.
Increasingly sophisticated English-language propaganda that
provides guidance to carry out attacks on the U.S. homeland is
“easily available via the Internet,” he said.  Sen.  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat, said that
although more than half of al-Qaeda’s top leaders have been
eliminated, “a metastasizing set of groups” in  Pakistan , Yemen
and elsewhere poses new dangers.  Petraeus said that Zawahiri, who succeeded bin Laden, is a
less compelling leader who will have more difficulty than bin
Laden did “maintaining the group’s cohesion and its collective
motivation in the face of continued pressure.”  ‘Imminent Victory’  House Intelligence Committee Chairman Michael Rogers, a
Republican from  Michigan , said it’s a mistake to dismiss
Zawahiri as “feckless,” however.  In “The Dawn of Imminent Victory,” the video posted on
jihadist websites Tuesday and monitored by the Site Intelligence
Group, Zawahiri hails the Arab popular uprisings and said he
hopes they will establish true Islam and government based on
Sharia, or Islamic law.  Michael Olsen, director of the National Counterterrorism
Center, told the Senate Homeland Security Committee today that
“most observers view the non-violent successful tactics of the
Arab Spring demonstrators in Egypt and  Tunisia  as a repudiations
of al-Qaeda’s message and approach.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  