-- 
Cisco Expects Slowdown in Annual Sales Growth, Earnings Gain

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-09-13T21:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/cisco-plans-to-be-very-active-in-small-acquisitions-ceo-chambers-says.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  executives
predicted annual sales growth of 5 percent to 7 percent by 2014,
a slowdown from the range of 12 percent to 17 percent the
networking-gear maker had been predicting until this year.  The company also forecast per-share earnings growth of 7
percent to 9 percent in the coming three years, and operating
margins in the “mid-20s” percentage range,  San Jose ,
California-based Cisco said during a presentation to analysts
today. The earnings growth represents an improvement from last
quarter’s decline, and the operating margin would be higher than
last year’s 19.6 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  is eliminating jobs
and exiting businesses in a bid to revive sales growth and
reverse the slide that has knocked 19 percent off Cisco’s share
price this year. In all, 12,700 people have departed as part of
a cost-reduction effort, Cisco said.  “Although the new projections are woefully short of prior
estimates, the good news is that Cisco intends to boost
operating margins,”  Dave Novosel , an analyst at Gimme Credit
LLC, wrote in a research report. “The company plans to achieve
the margin expansion via headcount reductions and other cost
cutting measures.”  Chambers said he plans to remain at the company for another
three years. The board of directors and the management are
“completely in sync,” the executive said.  Even as it sheds workers, Cisco plans to be “very active”
in making smaller-sized acquisitions, Chambers said.  Pressure from Rivals  Chambers scrapped the four-year-old sales-growth forecast
in May amid lackluster demand and price pressure from rivals. To
cope, the company embarked on a strategy overhaul that included
shedding consumer businesses and scaling back a council-based
management structure that resulted in slower decision making.  Chambers used today’s conference to take verbal swipes at
two main rivals in the market for routers and switches.  Juniper
Networks Inc. (JNPR)  is the “most vulnerable I’ve ever seen them,” he
said. Cisco’s strategy is hurting  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , he said.  Cisco rose 26 cents to $16.35 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  