-- 
Coburn May Look to Block FAA, Highway Funding Deal in Senate

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 
2011-09-13T00:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/coburn-may-look-to-block-faa-highway-funding-deal-in-senate.html
An agreement to keep U.S. aviation,
highway and transit programs operating may be challenged by a
senator who wants to stop requiring states to spend money on
highway beautification and bicycle lanes.  Senator  Tom Coburn  will use “all procedural tools at his
disposal to force a vote” to block the requirement that states
set aside a portion of federal highway grants for so-called
transportation enhancements, said John Hart, a spokesman for the
Oklahoma Republican, by telephone.  “We’re not going to continue to spend money on that,”
Coburn said in an interview.  Asked about Coburn’s threat to block the extension measure,
Senate Majority Whip  Dick Durbin  of Illinois said “there’s an
active negotiation” to resolve it among Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat; House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican; House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a
California Democrat; and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell ,
a Kentucky Republican.  The FAA has operated under a series of short-term
extensions since its last multiyear spending bill expired in
2007. Its latest renewal runs out Sept. 16. Authorization for
highway and transit grants, as well as for the gas taxes that
fund them, has also relied on interim measures since expiring in
2009. The current extension expires Sept. 30.  Congressional leaders agreed Sept. 9 to continue current
funding for the FAA for four months and highway and transit
programs for six months, according to Representative  John Mica ,
the Florida Republican who chairs the House transportation
committee.  The House is expected to vote on the legislation tomorrow,
Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman for Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of
Virginia, said in a phone interview.  Enhancements, EAS  Coburn last month held up Senate action on an earlier
extension of aviation funding over a desire for deeper cuts than
the House sought to a program that subsidies air service to
rural communities.  His objection combined with Democrats’ opposition to making
any cuts to the program kept Congress from renewing the FAA’s
revenue-raising authority. That led to a two-week partial shut-
down of the agency, 4,000 worker furloughs and a temporary halt
to airport construction projects.  Durbin said he thought the talks among House and Senate
leaders would avert another partial shutdown.  Coburn first signaled he would block another renewal of
highway and transit money over the enhancements program last
month, before Mica announced a bipartisan agreement to maintain
funding at current levels.  President  Barack Obama ’s job-creation proposal, which he
outlined before Congress last week, requires states to devote 3
percent of any new highway funds they receive to the so-called
enhancements program, according to language released today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  