-- 
Cold Weather Grips U.S. This Week, Warmer Air Returns Next Week

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-13T11:47:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/cold-weather-grips-u-s-this-week-warmer-air-returns-next-week.html
Cold weather will grip the northern
U.S. for the rest of the week while heat keeps building up in
 Texas , according to  Matt Rogers , president of  Commodity Weather
Group LLC .  The upper Great Plains to the  Great Lakes  will have the
coldest weather through the end of the week, Rogers said in his
one- to five-day forecast. Texas will probably stay hot from now
until at least Sept. 27, he said in the note to clients.  The  National Weather Service  has issued a freeze watch
across  Minnesota  and North Dakota where low temperatures in some
areas may fall into the 20-degree Fahrenheit (minus 6 to minus 1
Celsius) range. A low of 34 degrees is expected in Fargo, North
Dakota, later today and 30 is predicted for tomorrow, according
to the weather service.  A low of 29 is forecast for Grand Forks,  North Dakota ,
tomorrow.  Natural gas traders use long-range temperature predictions
to gauge energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather
can increase demand for heating and cooling, and power plants
use about 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according to
Energy Department data.  Following this week’s cold snap, warmer weather will spread
across the northern U.S. until completely blanketing the country
by Sept. 23 to Sept. 27, with the exception of the U.S. South
and Pacific Northwest.  Texas Heat  Dallas is forecast to set a new high for the most days
above 100 degrees, according to the weather service. The Dallas-
 Fort Worth  region has had 69 days where the temperature was 100
degrees or more, tying an old mark set in 1980.  The high in  Dallas  is expected to reach 106 degrees today
and 99 degrees tomorrow, according to the weather service. Fort
Worth is expected to reach 105 degrees today and 99 tomorrow.  Texas had the hottest summer on record for any U.S. state,
with an average temperature of 86.8 degrees, according to the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Oklahoma was
second with an average temperature of 86.5 degrees.  The previous warmest summer was in Oklahoma in 1934, when
the average temperature was 85.2 degrees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  