-- 
Comair May Sell Some Planes as South Africa Airport Charges Rise, CEO Says

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-09-13T17:31:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/comair-may-sell-some-planes-as-south-africa-airport-charges-rise-ceo-says.html
Comair Ltd. (COM) , a South African air
carrier partly owned by British Airways Plc, may sell some
planes as a government plan to increase airport charges as much
as 70 percent would make low-cost travel unaffordable, joint
Chief Executive Officer Gidon Novick said.  “We will be reducing capacity because the market is going
to shrink,” Novick said by phone from Johannesburg today. “The
increase over five years will be 160 percent from the current
price.”  Comair operates the  Kulula.com  low-cost airline brand as
well as the British Airways franchise in southern  Africa . The
lowest fare of 300 rand ($41) will increase by 20 percent, which
will all go toward covering airport taxes, he said.  The  Airports Company South Africa  (ACSA), the nation’s
state-owned airports operator, will increase taxes at its
facilities by 70 percent starting Oct. 1, according to the
Government Gazette published on June 30. The government decides
the rate of increases.  “That will make  air travel  unaffordable for the emerging
market, those people who never used to fly before,” Novick
said. The company will pass on the extra costs to travelers, he
said.  1Time Holdings Ltd. (1TM) ’s cancellation of its route to Maputo,
in neighboring  Mozambique , from Johannesburg, was mainly because
of the high airport taxes, Chief Executive Officer Glenn Orsmond
said in a mobile-phone interview from Johannesburg today. The
move was announced in August.  ‘Unviable’ Route  “The airport charges of 520 rand one-way on the 45-minute
flight were too expensive, made the route unviable,” Orsmond
said. 1Time Airlines, the listed company’s low-cost airline,
terminated the route after just under a year of operations.  “There is no link between the airport taxes to the
services airlines receive, in the end we are subsidizing the
retail monuments,” Orsmond said, referring to shopping centers
in the airport.  In preparation for last year’s soccer world cup, ACSA spent
17 billion rand over three years, according to the company’s
 2010 annual report .  Both 1Time and Comair serve the budget segment of the
market, competing with the state-owned full-service carrier
 South African Airways  and three other airlines.  “These high taxes will reduce the airline market and
destroy jobs in the tourism sector,” said Orsmond. If the
government wishes to create jobs, he said, it “must charge
reasonable taxes and must be consistent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 Kwong11@bloomberg.net  