-- 
Company Bond Risk Falls From Two-Year High as French Banks Reject Concerns

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-09-13T21:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/company-bond-risk-falls-from-two-year-high-as-french-banks-reject-concerns.html
Benchmark gauges of corporate
credit risk in the U.S. and  Europe  fell from the highest levels
in more than two years as  France ’s biggest banks said they had
ample access to cash to counter a reduction in financing from
U.S. money-market funds as Europe’s debt crisis intensified.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on the debt of U.S. and
Canadian companies, decreased 4.4 basis points to a mid-price of
131.5 basis points as of 4:47 p.m. in  New York , according to
Markit Group Ltd. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings fell 9.2 basis points to
190.1. Swaps on an index tied to European banks and insurance
companies fell from a record.  The risk measures eased as Societe Generale SA’s Chief
Executive Officer,  Frederic Oudea , said France’s second-biggest
bank by market value has “plenty of buffers of liquidity” and
can do without access to U.S. money-market funds.  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA, France’s largest bank, said in an e-mailed statement that it
can finance its dollar needs at normal levels, denying a claim
in a Wall Street Journal opinion piece today that an unnamed BNP
official said the lender could no longer borrow in dollars.  “For our bank, the exposure to sovereign debt is low,
absolutely manageable,” Oudea said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in New York. “We have plenty of buffers of
liquidity and we are adjusting to the reduction in the money-
market fund exposure.”  Swaps on Paris-based Societe Generale eased from a record
high, falling 4.5 basis point to 430.4 basis points, according
to data provider CMA in  London . Contracts on BNP fell 5.4 basis
points to 299.3, CMA data show.  Senior Debt  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index, linked to the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers in Europe including  Societe
Generale (GLE)  and BNP, dropped 15 basis points from a record closing
price to 299, according to prices from JPMorgan Chase & Co. An
index linked to subordinated debt fell 14 to 536.  The swaps indexes typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian
said organizations such as the International Monetary Fund need
to act with European banks at risk of being engulfed in the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “We’re getting close to a full-blown banking crisis in
Europe,” El-Erian, Pimco’s chief executive officer and co-chief
investment officer, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  Short-Term Bets  Investors should avoid short-term bets on the direction of
credit markets, because the outlook surrounding the region’s
sovereign debt problems remains hard to predict, Bank of America
Corp. credit strategists led by Anurag Bhardwaj and Hans Mikkelsen wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  “While spreads are wide and price in very adverse
scenarios in many market segments, uncertainty is still too high
for a short-term outright trade in either direction,” the
strategists wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  