-- 
ConAgra Plans to Withdraw $5.18 Billion Ralcorp Bid if Talks Don’t Begin

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-09-13T22:37:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/conagra-to-cancel-5-18-billion-ralcorp-bid-by-sept-19-unless-talks-begin.html
ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  said it would
withdraw its $5.18 billion offer for cereal-maker  Ralcorp
Holdings Inc. (RAH)  by Sept. 19 if the company doesn’t enter
negotiations, ending a pursuit that began in March.  ConAgra sent Ralcorp a presentation on the merits of its
$94-a-share bid, and Ralcorp has been unwilling to engage in
discussions, Omaha, Nebraska-based ConAgra said today in a
statement.  “Ralcorp’s stock is down pretty dramatically, so clearly
the ball is their court,” said  Jack Russo , an analyst for
Edwards Jones & Co. in  St. Louis . “The pressure is on Ralcorp
to come up with a better plan for shareholders, and if they
don’t they are going to hear a lot of griping from
shareholders.”  Ralcorp, the St. Louis-based maker of Post cereals,
rejected ConAgra’s third offer in August after earlier spurning
bids of $86 and $82 a share. Ralcorp has said it plans to spin
off its Post Foods unit to focus on making private-label goods.  Ralcorp fell $7.89, or 9.3 percent, to $77.25 in late
trading on the New York Stock Exchange after closing up 15 cents
at $85.14. The shares gained 31 percent this year through the
close of regular trading today. ConAgra was little-changed in
late trading after declining 21 cents to $24.06 at 4 p.m. New
York time.  Matt Pudlowski, a spokesman for Ralcorp, didn’t return
phone calls seeking comment.  Purchasing Ralcorp would allow ConAgra to boost sales of
store-brand foods, a market that has grown as some cash-strapped
shoppers trade down. Ralcorp, which split from Ralston Purina
Co. almost 20 years ago, generated about $3 billion last year
from selling cereals, cookies and pasta under retailers’ own
brands. ConAgra will pursue other opportunities if this deal
doesn’t happen, the company said.  “It’s very clear that management wants to change up the
business mix,” Russo said. “How they go about doing that if
this doesn’t work out, I’m not sure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  