-- 
U.S. Small-Business Index Falls to 13-Month Low on Outlook

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-13T11:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/confidence-of-u-s-small-business-falls-to-13-month-low-on-economy-outlook.html
Confidence among U.S. small
businesses dropped to a 13-month low in August as fewer
companies projected better economic conditions and improving
sales, a private survey found.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
index decreased to 88.1, the weakest reading since July 2010 and
the sixth-consecutive decline, from 89.9 in July. The number of
small-business owners saying they expected the economy will
improve six months from now fell to the lowest level since 1980.  “Hope for improvement in the economy faded even further
through the month,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief
economist, said in a statement accompanying the index report.
“With such a dim outlook, owners are not going to do a lot of
hiring or expanding.”  Small-business owners have grown less confident that
conditions will improve as stagnant job growth weighs on
consumer sentiment. Households “uncertain about the future”
won’t “engage in the spending that would help lead us out of
the recession,” Dunkelberg said.  Six of the index’s 10 components decreased. The gauge of
expectations for better business conditions six months from now
led the decline, falling 11 points to a net minus 26 percent in
August. The drop brought business assessment of the economy to
the lowest level since the second quarter of 1980, when the
measure fell to minus 37, according to Dunkelberg.  Sales Expectations  Sales expectations also plunged. The net share of owners
projecting higher sales, adjusted for inflation, decreased 10
points to minus 12 percent, the weakest reading March 2009.
Twenty-five percent of respondents reported “poor sales” as
their top business problem.  A gauge of whether firms think this is a good time to
expand decreased one point to a net 5 percent, the survey
showed. The index of earnings trends fell by two points to minus
26 percent.  Confidence among U.S. consumers plummeted in August,
raising the risk the largest part of the economy will support
business less in coming months. The Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment fell last month to
the lowest level since November 2008. In the week ended Sept.4,
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to the second-
lowest level this year.  On the positive side, the NFIB’s measure of respondents
planning to hire over the next three months rose three points to
a net 5 percent, according to the report released today. Eleven
percent of businesses said they plan to hire, up one percentage
point from the prior month. Twelve percent indicated they plan
to cut staff, a one point increase from July.  Labor Department figures released on Sept. 2 showed
payrolls were unchanged in August, while the  unemployment rate 
held at 9.1 percent.  Stimulate Hiring  To help stimulate hiring, President Barack Obama yesterday
presented to Congress a $447 billion job growth package. The
proposal grants businesses a 3.1-point reduction on taxes they
pay on the first $5 million of their payroll, a limit that skews
the benefit toward smaller firms.  Plans for  capital investment  over the next few months
gained one point to 21 percent, according to the survey. A net
minus 5 percent plan to add to inventories, down two points from
July, and the lowest level since March 2010.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
giving a positive response and adjusting the results for
seasonal variations.  Limited Demand  Limited demand helped reduce inflationary pressures. The
same number of small business owners reported cutting average
selling prices as did those who reported raising them. A net 16
percent of business owners plan price hikes, down 3 points from
the prior month, according to the survey.  “The continued weakness in sales trends has blunted small
business’s ability to raise prices after two years of price
cutting to liquidate excess inventories,” Dunkelberg said.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s “assumption that the
spike in inflation would be short-lived may in fact have been an
accurate one.”  The NFIB report was based on 926 small-business owner
respondents through Aug. 29. Small businesses represent more
than 99 percent of all U.S. employers and have created 65
percent of all new jobs in the past 17 years, according to the
 U.S. Small Business Administration . A small business is defined
as an independent enterprise employing up to 500 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  