-- 
Sovereign, Bank Bond Risk Reach Records on Greek Debt Concerns

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-09-13T08:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/corporate-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against
default on European sovereign and bank debt rose to records on
mounting concern a default by  Greece  will trigger losses for
banks holding the government’s bonds.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments climbed six basis points to 359
basis points, an all-time high based on closing prices. The
Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on 25 banks and insurers
rose 12 basis points to 326, while the subordinated index was up
19 basis points at 569, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at
9:30 a.m. in London.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s vow to avoid letting
Greece go into “uncontrolled insolvency” because of the risk
of contagion for other euro-area countries has failed to
reassure investors. BNP Paribas SA stock fell more than 11
percent in Paris after an unidentified bank official told the
Wall Street Journal the French bank can’t borrow in dollars
because U.S. money-market funds are no longer lending to it.  “An endgame to Greece’s debt problem looks to be upon us
as policy makers are fast running out of options to boost
sentiment,” said Harpreet Parhar, a strategist at Credit
Agricole SA in  London . “There’s a lack of trust of bank balance
sheets.”  The cost of insuring corporate debt rose to the highest
levels in 2 1/2 years, JPMorgan prices show. Contracts on the
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 40 companies with mostly high-
yield credit ratings increased 13.5 basis points to 811. An
increase signals deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 5.5 basis points to 204.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.6 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Reierson in London at 
 areierson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  