-- 
Cowboys Without Aliens Made John Wayne, Clint Eastwood Stars: Rainer File

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-09-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/cowboys-without-aliens-made-john-wayne-clint-eastwood-stars-rainer-file.html
I love Westerns and wish Hollywood
made more of them. -- even when, as in “Cowboys & Aliens,”
they feature space invaders.  Until fairly recently, the Western was a malleable
mainstay. A good one could express everything from down-home
traditionalism (“Shane”) to manly heroics (“The
Professionals”) to Vietnam-era fury (“The Wild Bunch”).  Fine Westerns still occasionally crop up, like the remakes
of “True Grit” and “3:10 to Yuma.” These movies did well at
the North American box-office but not overseas, where many
Hollywood movies now earn more than half their money.  I was recently reminded of the sheer beauty of the genre
when I watched the Criterion reissue of John Ford’s
“Stagecoach” (1939), which made  John Wayne  a star. Orson Welles said he viewed it 40 times to learn film techniques
before directing “Citizen Kane.”  Filmed predominantly in Monument Valley on the Arizona-Utah
border, “Stagecoach” is about a motley crew of Western
archetypes crossing dangerous Apache territory. There’s the
gambler, the banker, the lush, the hooker-with-a-heart-of-gold
and the outlaw (Wayne’s Ringo Kid).  The battle scenes are breathtaking. Much of the risky stunt
work by Wayne’s double, Yakima Canutt, involved falling between
teams of charging horses.  Remington Influence  Ford made many other celebrated Westerns, including “She
Wore a Yellow Ribbon” (1949) and “The Searchers” (1956).  “Yellow Ribbon,” whose look was heavily influenced by
Frederic Remington’s Western paintings, stars Wayne as a
retiring cavalry officer. “The Searchers” (1956), which I
consider overpraised, is about a Civil War veteran trying to
hunt down the Comanches who captured his niece.  One of my favorite Ford Westerns is “My Darling
Clementine” (1946), Ford’s re-telling of the Shootout at the
O.K. Corral.  Henry Fonda , at his most lean-hipped and soft-
spoken, plays Wyatt Earp and the famed square-dance sequence is
a transcendent reimagining of American folklore.  Director Anthony Mann infused his Westerns with neurotic
intensity. Among his best are “The Furies” (1950), with Walter
Huston (in his last role) as a martinet cattle rancher, and
“The Far Country” (1954), where  Jimmy Stewart  plays a misfit
cattleman bringing his herd to  Alaska .  Sam Peckinpah’s Westerns --- including the elegiac “Ride
the High Country” (1962), the explosive “Wild Bunch” (1969)
and “Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid” (1973) --- are among the
most powerful in the genre. No filmmaker did more to bring out
both the savagery and the lyricism of the Old West.  Japanese Westerns  Westerns such as “The Professionals” (1966) and “The
Magnificent Seven” (1960) are marvels of storytelling. The
latter is a remake of Akira Kurosawa’s “Seven Samurai” (1954),
the greatest Western not set in the U.S. A close second is
Kurosawa’s “Yojimbo” (1961), starring Toshiro Mifune as a
samurai-for-hire and remade three years later as Sergio Leone’s
“Fistful of Dollars” with Eastwood.  “The Ox-Bow Incident” (1943), “High Noon” (1952) and,
to an extent, “Little Big Man” (1970) are socially conscious
without being preachy. Howard Hawks’s “Red River” (1948) has
Wayne and a young, intense Montgomery Clift squaring off in a
stirring cattle-drive redo of “Mutiny on the Bounty.”  Robert Altman’s “McCabe & Mrs. Miller” (1971) is a
beautiful, heartbreaking drama starring Warren Beatty as a
small-time hustler in an early 1900s mining town.  Brando, Eastwood  Eastwood’s “Unforgiven” (1992), where he stars as a
reformed killer, is one of the few Westerns that deeply explores
the emotional consequences of the violence seen on the screen.  “One-Eyed Jacks” (1961),  Marlon Brando ’s sole directorial
effort, is an underrated film in which he plays a cowboy bent on
revenge.  My list of overlooked Westerns also includes Philip Kaufman’s “The Great Northfield Minnesota Raid” (1972); Fred
Schepisi’s “Barbarosa” (1982) (starring  Willie Nelson  as a
wind-swept outlaw); Walter Hill’s “The Long Riders” (1980)
(with a great Ry Cooder score); and Irvin Kerschner’s “The
Return of a Man Called Horse” (1976), one of the rare pro-
Indian Westerns.  Good westerns can still be made. Just remember to leave out
the aliens.  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  fi1l2e@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  