-- 
Crisis Is No Time to Copy Danish Bail-Ins: Danske

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   N e j r a   C e h i c
-- 
2011-09-14T07:48:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/crisis-is-no-time-to-copy-danish-bail-ins-danske-chairman-says.html
European credit markets aren’t
ready to deal with the fallout of bank resolution laws similar
to those enacted in  Denmark , where senior bondholder losses cut
access to funding markets, the chairman of Danske Bank A/S said.  “The markets are right now too weak and too nervous,”
Eivind Kolding, the chairman of Denmark’s biggest bank, said in
an interview in  London . “Some patients might be called for.”  Denmark enacted a law in October making it the first
European Union member to force senior bank creditors to bear
losses within a resolution framework. Since then, two regional
lenders have collapsed and international investors have withheld
funding for most of the nation’s 120 banks. European regulators
are exploring the option of copying Denmark’s bail-in model in
an effort to protect taxpayers.  “In the long-term, this is the direction we should go,”
Kolding said.  The Basel-based Financial Stability Board, charged by the
Group of 20 nations to devise rules for too-big-to-fail banks,
is looking into ways to deal with troubled lenders “without
exposing the taxpayer to the risk of loss,” according to a July
19 consultation paper.  Still, there are signs that the latest bout of market
turmoil may be forcing regulators to tread with caution. The EU
is delaying proposals for senior bondholders of failing banks to
take losses in part because the measures may spook investors at
a time of market turbulence, two people familiar with the
situation said on Sept. 7.  Greek Default  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
will introduce draft legislation on the measures in October at
the earliest, rather than this month, said one of the people,
who declined to be identified because talks are continuing.  “It is important that people understand that dealing with
weak banks has a risk,” said Kolding, 51, who was elected
chairman of Danske Bank in March. “The question is: is it the
right time to do it?”  European banks are struggling with faltering economic
growth and a deepening debt crisis that are sapping confidence
in the continent’s financial institutions. Moody’s Investors
Service today cut the debt ratings of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s second- and third-largest banks,
because of their holdings of Greek bonds. The Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index fell 1.8 percent today as of
8:05 a.m. in London.  ‘Full-Blown’ Crisis  Europe is approaching a “full-blown banking crisis,”
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s chief executive officer and
co-chief investment officer Mohamed A. El-Erian said in an
interview yesterday with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  Jesper Berg, a senior vice president at Copenhagen-based
mortgage lender Nykredit A/S who helped write the Danish bail-in
law while working at the central bank, has also warned against
pushing through such rules during crises.  “Experience shows it would have been better to implement
the bail-in package in more stable times,” Berg said in an
interview this month. “As for  Europe ’s plans to implement
similar legislation, financial markets aren’t exactly calm right
now. It would be poison to the financial system in the region to
go ahead with something like this now, given the difficult
funding environment at present.”  Danish bank shares have fallen more than their Nordic peers
as funding costs have risen and the country’s property bust has
deepened. Copenhagen-based Danske has lost 52 percent this year,
compared with a 31 percent decline by Stockholm-based Nordea
Bank AB. DnB NOR ASA, based in Oslo, has dropped 35 percent.  Sidestepping Bail-Ins  The cost to insure the debt of Danske has more than doubled
since February, and was 72 percent higher than Nordea this week.  To spur takeovers and avoid more bail-ins, Danish lawmakers
last week passed the fourth bank rescue package in three years.
The legislation extends the maturity of state-guaranteed debt
and allows the government to take over bad loans from ailing
banks in the event of a merger. The central bank said last month
it will, starting Oct. 1, broaden its collateral rules to accept
bank loans as it seeks to counter a liquidity squeeze in the
Nordic country.  Denmark’s lenders are struggling to recover in an economy
grappling with a housing market in decline. Danish  house prices 
dropped 1.9 percent in the first quarter from the final three
months of 2010, the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks said
Aug. 23. The central bank last week cut its economic growth
forecast, and estimates gross domestic product will expand 1.25
percent this year, compared with a June forecast of 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Nejra Cehic in London at 
 ncehic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Coleman at   ecoleman4@bloomberg.net  