-- 
TCW Tells Jury Jeffrey Gundlach Stole Trade Secrets to Start DoubleLine

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-13T19:30:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/tcw-tells-jury-jeffrey-gundlach-stole-trade-secrets-to-start-doubleline.html
Ex-TCW Group Inc. chief investment
officer  Jeffrey Gundlach  engineered a scheme to use his former
employer’s trade secrets to start his own firm in 2009, TCW’s
lawyers told a  Los Angeles  jury in closing arguments.  The California state court jury must try to decide whether
Gundlach secretly plotted to set up DoubleLine Capital LP while
still at TCW or whether the company breached its contract with
him, as Gundlach alleges, and fired him to avoid having to pay
him hundreds of millions of dollars in fees on the distressed-
asset funds he set up in 2007 and 2008.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of Societe Generale SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, in January 2010, after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined DoubleLine. TCW claims it
suffered $344 million in damages from Gundlach’s alleged
interference with clients’ contracts and $222 million from a
claimed breach of fiduciary duty.  “They secretly stole, they secretly set up a Delaware
company,” TCW lawyer  John Quinn  told the jury today. “They
were preparing to eliminate TCW as a competitor.”  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and was named
Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  Six Weeks  The jury heard more than six weeks of testimony as the two
sides provided conflicting views of Gundlach’s falling out with
TCW Chief Executive Officer  Marc Stern  in 2009, which ended with
Stern’s buying Metropolitan West Asset Management LLC to run
TCW’s fixed-income group and firing Gundlach in December 2009.  TCW claims Gundlach had been increasingly hostile to Stern
and difficult to work with. Stern testified that he hadn’t
wanted to fire Gundlach because he was the most important
portfolio manager at TCW, managing more than half of the firm’s
$110 billion in assets under management.  Gundlach referred to Stern and TCW founder  Robert Day  as
“dumb and dumber,” Quinn said today.  Stern testified that he became suspicious of Gundlach after
a series of September 2009 meetings and instructed TCW’s in-
house lawyer to start monitoring the e-mail of Gundlach and
others in his group. The investigation showed Gundlach’s people
were downloading TCW’s proprietary information and looking for
 office space , Stern said.  ‘The Godfather’  “He was the pope and the godfather, he was above it all,”
Quinn said. “You haven’t heard him repent for anything.”  Gundlach has denied that DoubleLine used any of TCW’s
proprietary software systems and data.  Brad Brian, DoubleLine’s lawyer, said in his closing
statement today that handwritten notes from an August 2009
meeting of TCW’s senior executives show they had already decided
to fire Gundlach before there was evidence of his people
copying TCW data or registering a company in  Delaware .  It was “telling,” Brian told the jurors, that none of the
executives, including Stern, could recall during their trial
testimony what was said during that meeting. “They’re trying to
cover up that they decided to fire him,” Brian said. It’s “a
conspiracy of silence.”  Brian said TCW executives don’t want to admit they had made
up their minds about firing Gundlach months before they did
because it would undermine their damage claims in the case.  ‘Self-Inflicted’  “Their damages are self-inflicted,” Brian said. “They
knew if they fired Gundlach, they were going to lose clients and
lose assets.”  DoubleLine’s lawyers have argued that Stern started looking
to replace Gundlach as early as June 2009, about the time Stern
returned to active management. Gundlach and other senior
managers at TCW had opposed Stern’s return out of retirement and
had wanted the firm to be run by a management committee instead.  Gundlach had negotiated for him and his group to receive 60
percent of the performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
he set up in 2007 and 2008. The funds invested in mortgage-
backed securities that were downgraded and dropped in value with
the collapse of the U.S. housing market.  As the funds performed better than expected, Paris-based
 Societe Generale (GLE)  and TCW wanted to replace Gundlach with a less
expensive asset manager, DoubleLine’s lawyers said. TCW has
argued that Gundlach isn’t entitled to management and
performance fees from the funds after his firing.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 