-- 
Daimler Holds Talks With Aston Martin on Cooperation Over Luxury Maybach

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-09-13T11:50:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/daimler-s-zetsche-confirms-talks-with-aston-martin-on-maybach.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  is talking with Aston
Martin on a potential cooperation agreement for the Maybach
brand, as the Mercedes-Benz maker nears a decision on the future
of the ultra-luxury marque.  “We are close to a decision,” Chief Executive Officer
Dieter Zetsche said today at the International Motor Show in
 Frankfurt . Talks with Aston Martin “have taken place,” he
said, declining to provide details.  Maybach, a German luxury brand which had its heyday in the
1930s, has failed to mount a serious challenge to  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Rolls-Royce and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Bentley since
it was reintroduced in 2002. Sales, targeted at more than 1,000
a year, topped out at 600 cars in 2003 and sagged to 200 last
year. Rolls-Royce sold 2,700 autos in 2010, while Bentley
delivered 5,100.  The marque’s dwindling sales add to the challenges facing
Daimler after VW’s Audi passed Mercedes this year as the world’s
second-largest luxury-car brand. Daimler is also making a second
attempt to transform the Smart city car into a nameplate with
multiple vehicles, in a bid to attract younger urban drivers and
meet environmental standards.  “We’ve been talking to them for quite some time on various
topics, but have nothing new to report,” spokesman Matthew
Clarke said today by phone. Daimler and  Aston Martin  worked
together on the Gaydon, England-based carmaker’s 2009 Lagonda
concept car.  Sales Growth  Mercedes, based in Stuttgart, is starting a push for sales
growth at the Frankfurt show with a new generation of its B-
Class. The van-like compact, the first in a line of five small
cars, is part of the brand’s plan to overtake BMW and Audi as
the leader in luxury cars by 2020.   Daimler is investing 1.4 billion euros ($1.9 billion) to
produce the models, including a new factory in  Hungary . The
automaker is sticking to its investment plans as it targets a
record 1.35 million car deliveries this year, Zetsche said
today.  Concerns about a slowing economy haven’t affected orders
for cars or heavy trucks, which remain “very strong,” Zetsche
said. “We are investing in production because we know we’re
short on capacity.”  While a recession is unlikely, growth may slow next year,
though Mercedes expects to gain market share, Zetsche said. He
called on politicians to resolve debt problems and “restore  Aston Martin was sold by Ford Motor Co. to a group of
private investors including  Kuwait ’s Investment Dar Co. in 2007.
Its best seller is the Vantage coupe, with a price of about
$113,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Frankfurt at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  