-- 
Daimler Said to Consider Sharing Compact Platform With Infiniti

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-09-13T16:06:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/daimler-said-to-consider-sharing-compact-platform-with-infiniti.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , is considering sharing its
small-car platform with Nissan Motor Co.’s Infiniti brand, two
people familiar with the situation said.  The potential to expand cooperation between Infiniti and
the German company’s Mercedes-Benz division may be discussed
tomorrow at a joint press conference by Daimler Chief Executive
Officer Dieter Zetsche and Nissan CEO  Carlos Ghosn , the people
said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the talks are
private.  The executives are meeting journalists at the International
Motor Show in  Frankfurt  to discuss projects that Daimler plans
with the alliance of Nissan and  Renault SA (RNO) , the French carmaker
that Ghosn also heads. The tie-up, which the companies announced
in April 2010, could lower the costs of models they’re
developing for the low-margin compact segment.  Stuttgart-based Daimler and Kanagawa, Japan-based Nissan
declined to comment.  Small cars have become increasingly important for upscale
automakers to attract urban customers and meet demands from
regulators to lower fuel burn of their vehicles. Daimler set up
the partnership with Renault-Nissan to enable expansion in the
segment, especially to develop models for the German company’s
Smart city-car brand along with Twingo vehicles built by
Boulogne-Billancourt-based Renault.  Mercedes-Benz is at the Frankfurt show to introduce a new
version of the B-Class, the first in a line of five compacts
underpinning the manufacturer’s effort to retake the luxury-car
industry lead from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)  All five models
will share the same front-wheel-drive platform.  Under the original agreement, cooperation between Mercedes-
Benz and Infiniti was limited to supplying the Japanese luxury-
car manufacturer with diesel and gasoline engines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Frankfurt via 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Frankfurt via 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  