-- 
Dallas Stars Lenders Said to Vote in Favor of Pre-Packaged Bankruptcy Plan

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/dallas-stars-lenders-said-to-vote-in-favor-of-pre-packaged-bankruptcy-plan.html
The  Dallas Stars , the hockey team
owned by former billionaire  Thomas Hicks , won support from
lenders for a plan file bankruptcy and sell the club at an
auction, a person familiar with the results said.  Under the proposed bankruptcy plan, investor Tom Gaglardi,
chairman and chief executive officer of Sandman Hotels, Inns &
Suites, would be the lead bidder for the team, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the plan isn’t yet public.  Among lenders who voted, those holding more than two-thirds
of the Stars’ bank loans support the proposal, the person said.
The team plans to file bankruptcy, most likely in Wilmington,
Delaware, within the next few days and seek approval from a
judge to hold an auction, said another person involved in the
bankruptcy planning.  The Stars would be the fifth professional sports team to
file bankruptcy in the last two years. The Los Angeles Dodgers
baseball team filed in June, the Texas Rangers baseball team
filed last year and the Chicago Cubs baseball team filed in
2009, one year after former owner Tribune Co. went bankrupt.  The Phoenix Coyotes hockey team filed in 2009 and, like the
Rangers and the Cubs, was sold under court supervision. The
 National Hockey League  took ownership of the Coyotes and is
looking for a buyer willing to keep the team in  Arizona .  Forbes List  Hicks, 65, fell off the  Forbes list  of billionaires in
2010. Hicks’s holding company for the Stars and the Rangers
defaulted on $525 million in loans after missing interest
payments, Bloomberg data show.  When the Rangers filed bankruptcy, the same group of
lenders fought a proposal by the team and  Major League Baseball 
to sell the club without holding an auction to a group led by
 Chuck Greenberg  and Nolan Ryan in a transaction worth about
$575 million.  The lenders persuaded U.S. Bankruptcy Judge D. Michael Lynn
to require an auction, where the price went up to $593 million.
Because of the way the new sale was structured, money recovered
for creditors increased by about $100 million more than the team
would have received under the original deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  