-- 
Defense Chairman to Give ‘Significant’ Detail to Supercommittee

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-13T21:59:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/defense-chairman-to-give-significant-detail-to-supercommittee.html
 The Senate Armed Services
Committee by mid-October will present options for defense
spending cuts to the congressional panel charged with finding
$1.5 trillion over 10 years, its chairman said today.  The defense committee’s recommendations “will have to go
into some degree of detail” to guide the supercommittee, the
armed services panel chairman, Michigan Democrat  Carl Levin ,
said today in an interview.  Levin’s remarks are the first indication that the so-called
supercommittee, set up after the Aug. 2 Budget Control Act
became law, will be reviewing additional defense cuts beyond the
$330 billion over 10 years the Office of Management and Budget
has said would come from Pentagon spending. Pentagon budget
projections indicate the reduction is closer to $400 billion
over 12 years.  The Pentagon would be in line for another $492 billion in
automatic cuts -- or about $55 billion a year more -- if
Congress fails to act on the supercommittee’s recommendations,
the  Congressional Budget Office  said Sept. 12.  The prospect of additional defense cuts prompted committee
member Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona, Republican, to warn Sept. 8
he would quit.  “I am off of the committee if we are going to talk about
further defense cuts,” Kyl said at an event organized by the
 American Enterprise Institute , the Foreign Policy Initiative and
the  Heritage Foundation  in Washington.  Panetta Views  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , in a letter today to
Republican Senator Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia , said that “I
continue to emphasize that every program and activity must be on
the table.”  The Pentagon as part of its fiscal 2013 preparation is
“giving programs particularly close scrutiny” and the
portfolio of tactical aircraft “is not exempt from this
exhaustive review,” he said.  Panetta pointed to the $382 billion F-35 program, saying
“we are committed to making responsible investment decisions
that reflect” program status, force structure requirements and
the “department’s priorities.”  Panetta said the Pentagon has “strong support” for the
F-35 and “we are committed to ensuring that decisions are made
for the correct reasons and with a commitment toward overall
F-35 program success.”  Carter Commitment  Levin today secured a commitment from  Ashton Carter , the
White House nominee for deputy defense secretary, to provide
soon after confirmation a timetable for when he can submit the
Pentagon’s emerging options for defense cuts to meet that $330
billion goal and beyond.  It won’t be “final recommendations, but the options that
we’re considering,” Carter said. “Decisions haven’t been made.
The comprehensive review is surfacing those options even before
decisions are being made,” Carter testified, referring to the
Pentagon’s on-going review.  Carter is now the Pentagon undersecretary for acquisition.  “My expectation is that they are going to give us
recommendations for reductions both to meet” fiscal 2012
targets and “for longer term,” Levin said in the interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  