-- 
Deficiencies Found in U.S. Oversight of Seized Assets

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 
2011-09-14T19:17:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/deficiencies-found-in-oversight-of-seized-assets-u-s-says.html
(Corrects second paragraph in story that ran Sept. 13 to
show that the Marshals Service held $3.8 billion in assets.)  “Significant deficiencies” in the
U.S. Marshals Service’s oversight of seized property led to a
“loss of confidence” among federal prosecutors in the Bernard Madoff case, according to the  Justice Department ’s inspector
general.  The marshals’ Complex Asset Team didn’t consistently track
and record how property was managed and appraised, the inspector
general’s office said in a report today. The Marshals Service
held more than $3.8 billion in seized assets as of March 2011,
according to the report.  The asset team, which handles property requiring
specialized expertise, didn’t have procedures to prevent the
same employee from valuing and selling the same asset, according
to the report. A lack of “transparent procedures” and
oversight caused a New York prosecutor to lose confidence in the
team’s ability to sell two assets from the Madoff criminal case,
the inspector general found.  Madoff pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what has
been called the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in history, using money
from new clients to pay earlier investors. He is serving a 150-
year sentence in federal prison.  “We believe that the Complex Asset Team’s informal
approach to the valuation and disposal of assets undermined its
perceived competency among DOJ Asset Forfeiture Program
partners,” the report said.  $130 Million  Since 2005, the asset team has had a staff of two to four
people and has disposed of more than $130 million in assets,
including business and financial interests. The Justice
Department can seize and force the forfeiture of assets used in
illegal activities.  The Marshals Service has been “working aggressively” to
adopt the inspector general’s recommendations, said Lynzey
Donahue, an agency spokeswoman.  “We take our asset forfeiture responsibilities seriously
and have taken aggressive actions to increase the management and
oversight of the complex assets within the Asset Forfeiture
Fund,” Donahue said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  