-- 
Deposit Flight at European Banks Means Risk Piling Up at ECB

-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 
2011-09-14T14:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/deposit-flight-from-european-banks-means-collateral-risk-piling-up-at-ecb.html
European banks are losing deposits
as savers and money funds spooked by the region’s debt crisis
search for havens, a trend that could worsen economic and
financial conditions.  Retail and institutional deposits at Greek banks fell 19
percent in the past year and almost 40 percent at Irish lenders
in 18 months. Meanwhile, European Union financial firms are
lending less to one another and U.S. money-market funds have
reduced their investments in German, French and Spanish banks.  While the  European Central Bank  has picked up some of the
slack, providing about 500 billion euros ($685 billion) of
temporary financing, banks are cutting lending, which could slow
growth in their home countries. They’re also paying more to keep
and attract deposits -- or, in the case of Italy, selling bonds
to retail customers for five times the interest they offer on
savings accounts -- which will erode profitability.  “All of this is symptomatic of a lot of fear in the
European financial sector,” said Kash Mansori, senior economist
at Experis Finance in Charlotte,  North Carolina , which advises
U.S. and European companies. “It shows that even European banks
don’t trust each other anymore, so they’re taking their money
out of the EU system. It’s similar to the distrust that happened
worldwide in 2008.”  Deposit Erosion  Deposits by financial institutions in Greek banks, which
make up 21 percent of the total, have fallen by one-third since
the beginning of 2010, while those by non-financial firms and
residents dropped 9 percent, according to  Bank of Greece  data.  In Germany, deposits by financial institutions, which
account for one-third the total, declined 12 percent over the
same period and 24 percent since the September 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,  ECB figures  show. In France,
where the erosion started last year, the same type of deposits,
which make up half the total, are down 6 percent since June
2010. They have fallen 14 percent since May 2010 at Spanish
banks, where they account for one-fifth of the total.  Deposits include money kept in banks by individuals and
companies. Most of the short-term funding supplied by financial
institutions and money funds is counted as deposits by the ECB
and other central banks in Europe.  While retail deposits at Italian banks have fallen only 1
percent in the past year, the outflow of money from financial
institutions has exceeded $100 billion, a 13 percent decline,
according to  Bank of Italy  and ECB data.  Money-Fund Withdrawal  Some of the retail deposits have been invested in bank
bonds sold directly to retail clients that pay as much as 5
percent, compared with an average interest rate on deposits of
0.88 percent. Retail investors in  Italy  own about 63 percent of
bank debt, compared with a European average of 48 percent, data
compiled by the Bank of Italy and banking association ABI show.  In Portugal, where banks raised the interest rates they pay
savers, non-residents have reduced deposits by 19 percent since
March 2010.  The eight largest U.S. money-market funds halved their
lending to German, French and U.K. banks over the past 12 months
and stopped financing Italian and Spanish financial firms,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from investment reports.  A survey by  Fitch Ratings  showed that U.S. money-market
funds reduced their lending to European banks by 20 percent from
the end of May through July. The funds cut investments in
Spanish and Italian lenders by 97 percent, to German firms by 42
percent and to French ones by 18 percent, Fitch said. The Aug.
22 survey covers almost half the $1.53 trillion assets held by
money funds in the U.S.  Relying on ECB  Moody’s Investors Service today cut the long-term debt
rating one level on  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
the country’s second- and third-largest lenders by assets,
citing the euro-region sovereign debt crisis and concerns about
“the structural challenges to banks’ funding and liquidity
profiles.”  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s biggest lender, was kept on
review for a possible cut. BNP fell 4.3 percent at 4:02 p.m. in
Paris trading, while SocGen declined 8 percent.  Credit Agricole 
fell 2 percent.  To make up the deficit, firms are leaning on the ECB for
short-term funding. Borrowing by Italian lenders from the
central bank more than doubled to 85 billion euros between June
and August. Greek and Irish banks each took about 100 billion
euros from the ECB in August. Irish lenders also got 56 billion
euros from their domestic central bank. Portuguese banks
borrowed about 46 billion euros from the ECB, while Spanish
banks took 52 billion euros in July.  The ECB said today it will lend $575 million to two euro-
area banks, without identifying them, a sign that they’re
finding it difficult to borrow the U.S. currency in markets.  ‘Left With Garbage’  By accepting those countries’ bonds as collateral in
exchange for funds, the ECB is piling up risk, said Desmond Lachman, a fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  in
Washington. In the event of a default, the ECB’s losses would be
borne by the EU’s member states. Lending to the region’s banks
by the ECB and other central banks is about seven times the
capital of the Eurosystem, the consolidated balance sheet of all
euro zone central banks.  “If there are sovereign defaults, the ECB will be left
with garbage that has been accepted as collateral,” said
Lachman. “It’s putting EU taxpayers’ money at risk in a very
non-transparent way. But there’s no alternative. The ECB is the
only game in town.”  ECB Defends Actions  William Lelieveldt, a spokesman for the ECB in Frankfurt,
declined to comment about the risk to the central bank. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has defended his institution’s
actions. European banks have more collateral that they can place
with the ECB in exchange for additional financing if they need
it, he said Sept. 8 in Frankfurt.  “We stand ready to provide liquidity as we have done in
the past,” Trichet said.  The outflow of deposits is a measure of eroding trust in
the region’s financial system. Banks outside of Greece, Ireland,
Portugal and Spain have  $1.7 trillion  at risk in loans to those
countries’ governments and corporations, as well as guarantees
and derivatives contracts, according to the Bank for
International Settlements.  Concern that those nations will default or leave the EU and
devalue their currencies has hastened the flight, according to
Dimitris Giannoulis, a  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  analyst based in Athens.  People “are now afraid of the possibility of returning to
the drachma,” said Giannoulis, referring to the Greek currency
in circulation before the country adopted the euro in 2001.
“Just a headline is enough to spook depositors.”  Irish Banks Hurt  Irish banks have been the hardest hit. Losses on the
collapsing real-estate market and a government guarantee of bank
liabilities forced the nation to seek EU assistance in November.
The money started flowing out in early 2010 as confidence in the
government’s ability to support the banks waned, and it
accelerated later that year after Ireland’s rescue by the EU led
multinational companies to move deposits out of the country.  Ireland took control of five lenders and is winding down
two of them. Even Bank of Ireland, which wasn’t nationalized
because its losses weren’t as catastrophic, saw deposits dwindle
by 20 billion euros, or 23 percent, last year.  At  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , Ireland’s second-largest lender,
deposits declined 37 percent over the past 18 months. The bank
said July 25 that most of the drop occurred at the end of 2010
and in the first quarter of this year as companies pulled money
amid sovereign and bank downgrades. Deposits since the end of
the first half have been “broadly stable,” said  Alan Kelly ,
the lender’s director of corporate affairs and marketing, who
declined further comment.  ‘Afraid of Them’  While “the rate of outflow is falling,” Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said on Sept. 1 in Dublin, that hasn’t soothed
savers such as Phil Carey, an 86-year-old mother of eight from
Galway in western Ireland.  “I wouldn’t trust the banks,” said Carey, who keeps her
savings at  credit unions . “I’d be afraid of them. Look at the
money they gave to the builders and the terrible situation we’re
in now.”  It isn’t easy for retail depositors such as Carey to move
funds abroad. In Ireland, there has been some shift to units of
foreign banks operating in the country. RaboDirect, the Irish
online-banking unit of Utrecht, Netherlands-based Rabobank
Group, saw deposits rise about 40 percent in 18 months,
according to General Manager Roel van Veggel.  Tax Avoidance  While the implosion of Irish banks led the government to
seek an EU bailout, in Greece the state’s finances collapsed
first. Now Greek lenders are feeling the pain because they own
about 40 billion euros of their government’s sovereign debt. If
they have to take losses of 40 percent or more on those bonds,
it would wipe out all the capital held by the country’s banks,
the European Commission estimated in July. Greek government
bonds are already discounted by 60 percent in the secondary
market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In addition to fearing a drachma conversion, some affluent
Greeks are moving money out of the country to avoid having their
bank accounts become targets for tax collectors, said Antonio Ramirez, an analyst at KBW Inc. in  London .  “As the government starts looking for revenue, starts
fighting tax evasion, wealthy families move their money out,”
said Ramirez, who covers Greek, Irish and Portuguese banks.  That dynamic is also at work in Italy, according to Carlo
Alberto Carnevale-Maffe, a professor of business strategy at
Milan’s Bocconi University. Deposits at Milan-based  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank by assets, fell 4.4
percent in the year ended in June.  ‘Under the Mattress’  “People are moving deposits into safe goods such as gold
and safety-deposit boxes,” Carnevale-Maffe said. “They’re
simply putting the money under the mattress to avoid taxes.”  Intesa CEO Corrado Passera said on an Aug. 5 call that the
decline was the result of a decision to discontinue some
institutional funding and the sale of retail bonds.  “In terms of flight to quality, no, I must tell you that
we are not experiencing in our country anything like that,”
Passera said.  European lenders are also moving money out of the region.
The cash that foreign banks keep at the U.S. Federal Reserve has
more than doubled to  $979 billion  at the end of August from $443
billion at the end of February, according to Fed data. The
increase in bank deposits at the ECB has been smaller,
suggesting that healthy European firms are putting money in the
Fed instead of lending to weaker banks, according to economist
Mansori, who also writes a blog called “ Street Light .”  Bank Lending  “Do you want to keep your money at the Fed, which you know
will pay you back, or at the ECB, which has lots of periphery
euro zone country debt?” said Mansori.  The reluctance of European banks to lend to one another has
been on display since last month. The spread between Euribor and
the overnight indexed swap rate, which reflects the higher risk
of lending euros for three months versus overnight, widened to
0.85 percentage point on Sept. 13. The rate compares with 0.36
percentage point at the beginning of August.  Banks can’t continue to rely on the ECB for funding because
that’s a sign of being on “life support,” so they’ll have to
shrink their balance sheets, said KBW’s Ramirez. That means
reduced lending in countries where growth is stagnant.  Lending by banks in Ireland declined 9 percent in the past
year, 3 percent in Greece and Italy and about 1 percent in
Portugal and Spain, according to ECB data. Gross domestic
product in Italy expanded 0.8 percent in the second quarter from
a year ago and 0.7 percent in Spain. Greece’s economy shrank 7.3
percent, while Portugal’s contracted by 0.9 percent. Irish GDP
growth was 0.1 percent in the first quarter, according to the
latest data available.  Irish Cutbacks  Ireland said in March that its surviving banks would wind
down more than 70 billion euros of loans. Most of the reduction
will be lending to borrowers outside Ireland, which could hurt
growth in other EU countries. Greek banks, unable to sell
sovereign bonds they hold, will also have to trim their loan
books, according to Ramirez.  “It’ll aggravate the recession,” he said.  While banks say higher capital requirements will curb
lending and economic growth, it’s the lack of capital in the
European banking system that’s spooking depositors and other
creditors, said Lachman of the American Enterprise Institute.
That’s why the  International Monetary Fund  is pushing for
recapitalization of the region’s banks, he said.  Paying more for deposits to prevent them from leaving, as
banks in Ireland, Spain and Portugal are doing, will hurt banks’
chances of rebuilding capital through earnings. Offering higher
interest rates for retail bonds as Italian lenders have done
will cut into interest margins.  ‘Not Sustainable’  “It’s not sustainable for this type of pricing strategy to
continue,” Rabobank’s Van Veggel said about the high rates
Irish banks are offering for deposits. “But I don’t think rates
will start to come down until nervousness about European, and
indeed global, issues calm down.”  German and French banks are losing funds because they hold
the most debt linked to troubled euro zone countries, according
to Mark Schaltuper, an analyst at Business Monitor
International, a London-based consulting group. Investors and
creditors worry that German and French lenders will face losses
on their holdings in the event of a default, he said.  “European policy makers are kicking the can down the road,
waiting for banks to recapitalize slowly so they can take these
losses over time,” said Schaltuper, the firm’s chief European
analyst. “Until the debt situation in the periphery is sorted
out, these funding troubles won’t end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 