-- 
Deutsche Telekom Wants `German Cloud’ to Shield Data From U.S.

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-09-13T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/deutsche-telekom-wants-german-cloud-to-shield-data-from-u-s-.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Systems
information technology unit is pushing regulators to introduce a
certificate for German or European cloud operators to help
companies guard data from the U.S. government.  T-Systems plans to lure customers by emphasizing the
security of its servers, over which it delivers its Internet-
accessed computing services, Reinhard Clemens, the division’s
chief executive officer, told reporters in Bonn on Sept. 12.
This includes shielding clients from government access such as
that allowed by the U.S. Patriot Act, he said.  “The Americans say that no matter what happens I’ll
release the data to the government if I’m forced to do so, from
anywhere in the world,’” Clemens said. “Certain German
companies don’t want others to access their systems. That’s why
we’re well-positioned if we can say we’re a European provider in
a European legal sphere and no American can get to them.”  Deutsche Telekom and other telecommunications companies are
promoting cloud-computing offerings as a safe way for businesses
to outsource their data centers. A government seal may fence off
the cloud offerings of T-Systems and European competitors such
as Atos SA and  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  and give them an advantage over
U.S. rivals such as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Some of the surveillance powers of the U.S. Patriot Act,
passed after the Sept. 11 attacks, have been opposed by some
lawmakers and outside groups, including civil liberties
activists.  “A German cloud” would be a “safe cloud,” Clemens said.  U.S. Exit  Deutsche Telekom in March agreed to sell its T-Mobile USA
unit for $39 billion to  AT&T Inc. (T)  The German company is
currently trying to salvage the deal after the  Justice
Department  sued Dallas-based AT&T and T-Mobile on Aug. 31,
saying a combination of the two companies would substantially
reduce competition.  The global market for cloud services may surge to $148.8
billion in 2014 from $68.3 billion in 2010, according to
researcher Gartner Inc. T-Systems predicts it will generate 2
billion euros ($2.74 billion) more in revenue between 2009 and
2015, mostly from delivering software and data storage to
customers via the Internet.  A German certificate could be issued by the country’s
Technical Inspection Association, based on guidelines developed
by the Federal Office for Information Security, Clemens said.
The office is in talks with European Union officials to develop
common standards across the region, which may result in a
European certificate, he said.  Reliability Issues  Telecommunications companies also need to convince clients
about the reliability of cloud services.  In May, SAP AG’s head of global solutions, Sanjay Poonen,
said an outage on  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s cloud-computing services
earlier this year, and a controversy around  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s delays
in providing e-mail services to 30,000 city employees in  Los
Angeles  could make it harder for the  software industry  to
convince clients to use cloud computing services.  In the U.S., a group led by Salesforce.com and VCE, a cloud
services provider founded by Cisco Systems Inc. and EMC Corp.,
sent a report to the government on July 26, urging it to
accelerate government and commercial uptake of cloud
technologies.  Apple Inc., aiming to capitalize on a shift away from
personal computers, this year introduced the iCloud service that
stores music and other files online and keeps devices
synchronized wirelessly. The product will let users move their
“digital life” from PC hard drives to remote data centers in
the “cloud,” the company said at the time.  Talks About Standards  In the European Union, Commissioner  Neelie Kroes ,
responsible for the region’s  Digital Agenda , has asked providers
and users of cloud computing to participate in talks about data
protection and privacy as well as technical and commercial
standards.  “The cloud is critical to  Europe ’s growth,” Kroes  said  in
March. She said the European Union needs to develop the right
legal framework, encourage more technology research and push the
public sector to use cloud computing.  T-Systems’ sales from cloud products are increasing by 49
percent a year, Clemens said, without giving a total sales
figure.  Companies that operate their own servers tend to run their
systems at only as much as 68 percent of capacity because they
need to provision for spikes in use, Clemens said. Capacity use
in T-Systems’ cloud is higher, he said, declining to provide a
figure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  