-- 
Diabetes Killing One Every Seven Seconds Spurs Global Call for More Action

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-09-14T00:27:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/diabetes-killing-every-7-seconds-spurs-call-for-global-action.html
Diabetes afflicts 366 million
people, killing one every seven seconds, according to the
 International Diabetes Federation , which said new estimates of
the global burden should spur greater action from world leaders.  The number of sufferers was pegged at 285 million worldwide
in 2009. Since then,  China  reported 92.4 million people with the
condition, more than double the federation’s estimate. That’s
helped ratchet up health-care spending on diabetes to $465
billion, federation officials said at the  European Association
for the Study of Diabetes conference  in Lisbon yesterday.  “This emphasizes how we’ve been underestimating the
prevalence of diabetes,” Andrew Boulton, president-elect of
EASD and a professor of medicine at the  University of Manchester ,
said at the meeting.  The findings were released six days before world leaders
meet at the  United Nations  in  New York  to discuss a global plan
to fight diabetes, stroke, cancer and other so-called non-
communicable diseases. Surging rates of obesity-linked chronic 
illnesses threaten economic growth and undermine social and 
economic development, governments said in a draft political 
declaration.  Asia  accounts for about 60 percent of the global population
of diabetes sufferers, said Paul Zimmet, who heads a World Health
Organization collaborating center for diabetes epidemiology. The
latest estimates reflect the burden in China, which wasn’t fully
recognized in the diabetes federation’s previous tally, he said.  China Underestimated  “It became pretty clear that that might be an
underestimate when the Chinese released figured about a year ago
saying they have nearly 100 million people with diabetes,” said
Zimmet, who is also a director of the Baker IDI Heart and
Diabetes Institute in  Melbourne . “The figures only strengthen
the concern about the impact of diabetes from a public health
and economic point of view.”  The International Diabetes Federation, an umbrella group of
more than 200 national associations, estimates 4.6 million
people die annually because of diabetes. Four of every five
people with the disease live in  developing countries , with most
affected men and women being of working age, it said last year.  “Diabetes is a massive challenge the world can no longer
afford to ignore,” Jean Claude Mbanya, the federation’s
president, said in a statement yesterday. “The clock is ticking
for the world’s leaders. We expect action from their meeting
next week at the UN that will halt diabetes’ relentless upwards
trajectory.”  The UN meeting on Sept. 19 and 20 aims to encourage a
“whole of government and whole of society” response to non-
communicable diseases, including a reduction in risk factors
such as smoking and unhealthy diets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  