-- 
Dithering European Leaders Are Defaulting to the ECB: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-13T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/dithering-european-leaders-are-defaulting-to-the-ecb-on-debt-crisis-view.html
If this summer has shown us
anything, it is this:  Europe ’s leaders are unwilling, unprepared
or unable to take the necessary measures to solve the
continent’s financial crisis. More and more, it seems, the well-
being of world markets rests with the  European Central Bank .  The latest developments in  Greece , where a bailout package
adopted in July is threatening to fall apart, make clear the
danger of the piecemeal solutions that have been deployed so
far. Austerity measures are deepening the Greek recession,
lessening the government’s chances of paying its debts. European
stocks are gyrating, and Italian bond yields have been rising
again as investors worry that the trouble could spread to banks
and larger governments. Meanwhile, European voters are wearying
of failed bailouts, eroding the already limited ability of
elected leaders to solve the euro area’s problems.  As Bloomberg News reported, German officials are talking
about contingency plans to protect their banks in the event of a
Greek default, suggesting that they think -- as U.S. officials
did ahead of the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy in
2008 -- that a bit of foam on the runway might suffice. They are
woefully mistaken.  The market reaction to a disorderly Greek default would put
pressure on other countries -- including  Spain ,  Italy  and
possibly even  France , with a combined total of more than 5
trillion euros in sovereign debt -- to do the same. The
resulting losses for Europe’s thinly capitalized banks, and for
the U.S. institutions that have lent them hundreds of billions
of dollars, could trigger a credit freeze bad enough to send the
world economy into a deep recession.  Best Solution  Ultimately, as Bloomberg View has advocated, the best
solution would be to create a centralized authority -- like the
U.S. Treasury -- with the power to collect taxes, issue debt and
provide temporary support to countries that run into economic
trouble. Such an authority could replace the euro area’s panoply
of government obligations with jointly backed euro bonds,
creating a market large and liquid enough to rival the one
occupied by  U.S. Treasury  bonds. The bonds’ sound backing would
provide markets with assurance that any debt-reduction deals for
Greece and other governments would be final, allowing banks to
draw a line under their own losses, recapitalize and move on.  Unfortunately, the signals from Europe’s markets have yet
to generate the kind of political will needed for what amounts
to a deepening of the European Union, and politicians’ dithering
has wasted precious time. Greece could default in a matter of
weeks, while issuing euro bonds would require EU members to
amend the union’s governing treaty and change some of their
constitutions -- a process that could take years.  Avoiding Disaster  In the short term, then, somebody other than German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
will have to take on the task of avoiding disaster. The only
candidate is ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet . Unlike Merkel
and Sarkozy, Trichet is not constrained by short-term political
concerns, and the ECB has access to an almost unlimited
resource: the power to print euros. It has already demonstrated
a willingness to use that power by purchasing tens of billions
of euros in Spanish and Italian bonds to keep those governments’
borrowing costs from skyrocketing.  In its simplest form, ECB intervention would entail the
central bank buying Greek and other euro-area  government bonds .
To keep countries’ borrowing costs in check until European
leaders come up with a more comprehensive solution, such
purchases would go far beyond the 440 billion euros available to
the European Financial Stability Facility (the euro area’s
bailout vehicle). The ECB would be buying bonds from banks at an
artificially high price, leaving the central bank to suffer
losses if and when some of the debts are written off.  More Activist  The ECB could also be more activist, spurring governments
to restructure their debts and get their fiscal affairs in
order. The central bank, for example, could pledge to buy newly
issued bonds at full face value only if governments adopt
credible rules to balance their budgets over the economic cycle;
the bank would guarantee existing euro-area debt at only half
its face value. Market prices for existing debt would quickly
fall to what investors believed governments could actually
afford to pay, putting them in a position to negotiate debt-
relief deals with creditors. As with the issuance of euro bonds,
this approach would require governments to recapitalize banks
that take heavy losses as a result of debt restructurings.  To be sure, ECB intervention would come at great cost,
including threatening to undermine the central bank’s inflation-
fighting mandate. It would not substitute for a real fix to the
euro area’s flaws. Europe is reaching a point, though, where
aggressive ECB action could be the lesser of all possible evils.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 