-- 
Djokovic Charms U.S. Open Crowds to Win More Than Third Grand Slam of 2011

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/djokovic-charms-u-s-open-crowds-to-win-more-than-third-grand-slam-of-2011.html
Novak Djokovic won more than a
title at the  U.S. Open . He charmed crowds that cheered for his
opponent in the semifinals and pleaded with him to double fault
three years ago.  Djokovic, a 24-year-old Serb, won 6-2, 6-4, 6-7 (3-7), 6-1
against defending champion  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  last night to
capture his third Grand Slam title of the year. He spent much of
this tournament playing to the often boisterous fans at the
National Tennis Center in  New York .  He danced on court after two of his matches and wore a FDNY
cap, honoring the New York firefighters who died on Sept. 11,
while claiming his championship trophy a day after the 10th
anniversary of those terrorist attacks.  “I just want to give my compassion to the people of
9/11,” he said in an on-court ceremony following the final.
“This is more important than a sport. We are playing sport,
it’s great, we are enjoying, but we cannot even realize how
lucky we are to live and to be able to do something we love, so
all our support.”  Djokovic, the top seed, strengthened his place atop men’s
tennis with a four-hour win over Nadal, becoming the sixth man
to win three Grand Slam championships in a single year and
improving his season record to 64-2.  Djokovic also beat Nadal, 25, in the Wimbledon final in
July and won the Australian Open in January. The only one of
tennis’ four major tournaments he failed to capture this year
was the French Open, where he lost to  Roger Federer  in the
semifinals. His victory last night came in a rematch of the 2010
U.S. Open final, which was won by Nadal, this time the second
seed from Spain.  ‘It Keeps Coming’  “The results that I’ve had this year are amazing,
definitely something that I haven’t expected,” Djokovic said in
a news conference. “But it keeps coming.”  Djokovic needed a medical timeout early in the fourth set,
calling a trainer onto the court to work on his back. He
returned from the break to win five of the last six games in the
match.  The 4-hour, 10-minute contest featured long points,
including a 31-shot rally in the third set. The third game of
the second set lasted 22 points and 176 shots, with eight deuces.
There were 30 rallies in the match that lasted at least 15
strokes.  Nadal had his serve broken 11 times in 18 games in the
final after losing serve 13 times in his six previous matches in
the tournament.  Nadal, ranked No. 2 behind Djokovic on the ATP World Tour,
has lost all six of his matches this year against the Serb and
said he has to focus on how to break that streak.  Six Straight Losses  “Six straight losses, for sure that’s painful,” Nadal
said in a news conference. “But I am going to work every day
until that changes. I have an easy goal right now.”  Djokovic won $1.8 million for the championship, while Nadal
got $900,000.  Only five other men have won three majors in a year since
the Open era began in 1968. Nadal did it last year to join
Federer of  Switzerland , Mats Wilander of  Sweden ,  Jimmy Connors 
of the U.S. and  Rod Laver  of  Australia , who swept all four Grand
Slam titles in 1969.  Djokovic reached the final by recovering from a two-set
deficit and two match points to beat Federer, a five-time
champion who was seeded No. 3.  Few Endorsements  Djokovic hasn’t been able to turn his success on court into
a flood of endorsements. He has four sponsors listed on his
website: Austrian racket manufacturer  Head NV (HEAD) , Italian clothing
brand Sergio Tacchini International, Serbian telecommunications
company Telekom Srbija and German nutritional supplement brand
FitLine.  Federer is still the sport’s top money maker with 10 deals,
even without a major triumph since a men’s record-extending 16th
Grand Slam championship at the 2010 Australian Open. The 30-
year-old from Switzerland makes $47 million a year from prize
money and endorsements from companies such as  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Swiss
bank Credit Suisse Group AG and Swiss luxury watch brand Rolex,
according to an estimate by Forbes magazine in May.  Nadal makes $31.5 million annually from matches and
sponsors. He’s got nine deals, including Nike, Giorgio Armani
SpA and Spain’s largest insurer,  Mapfre SA. (MAP)   Djokovic has doubled his income to more than $20 million,
about half from tennis winnings. He’s needed more Grand Slam
victories to break into bigger deals, according to Nigel Currie,
director of London-based sports marketing agency brandRapport.  “Djokovic has come along at a time where Federer and Nadal
have got the big deals,” Currie said in an interview before the
U.S. Open started last month. “This season, he’s emerged from
their shadows and it takes time to get past them and for the
world to realize this guy is the genuine article.”  43 Straight Wins  Djokovic, who became the world’s top-ranked player
following his Wimbledon win, began a run of 43 straight
victories when he led Serbia to its first Davis Cup title in
December. The streak ended at the  French Open , leaving him one
win shy of tying the record of 41 wins to start a season, set by
 John McEnroe  in 1984.  His other defeat this year came against Britain’s  Andy Murray  last month in Cincinnati, when Djokovic quit the match
because of a shoulder injury at 6-4, 3-0.  Nadal was trying for his 11th Grand Slam singles title,
which would have tied him with Laver and  Bjorn Borg  for fourth
on the men’s career list. Federer has 16, followed by Sampras
(14) and  Roy Emerson  (12).  Australia’s Samantha Stosur won the women’s championship
two days ago with a 6-2, 6-3 victory against  Serena Williams  of
the U.S.  The finals were delayed one day after rain wiped out almost
two full days of competition last week and the tournament was
extended to a third week for the fourth straight year.  Booed in 2008  Djokovic was booed in Arthur Ashe Stadium for his angry
remarks following a win in the 2008 quarterfinals against
American  Andy Roddick . Fans had yelled out “double fault” as
he prepared to serve in that match.  Djokovic said last night that the crowd, which was rooting
mostly for Federer in the semifinals three days ago, was evenly
split between the two players in the final. Cheers of “No-vak”
mixed with cries of “Vamos, Rafa!”  “In many moments I had the crowd chanting my name, and it
was great support,” Djokovic said. “Everybody has their own
favorite tennis player. I’m still new in this business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at the National Tennis Center at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson at the National Tennis Center at   mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 