-- 
Novak Djokovic Beats Nadal at U.S. Open

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-09-13T02:18:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/djokovic-beats-nadal-at-u-s-open.html
Novak Djokovic strengthened his
place atop men’s tennis with a four-set, four-hour win against
 Rafael Nadal  in the U.S. Open final, becoming the sixth man to
win three Grand Slam championships in a single year.  Djokovic, a 24-year-old Serb and the top seed, improved his
season record to 64-2 with a 6-2, 6-4, 6-7 (3-7), 6-1 victory
over Nadal, the second seed from  Spain , at the National Tennis
Center in New York. It was a rematch of the 2010 U.S. Open final
won by Nadal.  Djokovic also beat Nadal, 25, in the Wimbledon final in
July and won the Australian Open in January. The only one of
tennis’ four major tournaments he failed to capture this year
was the  French Open , where he lost to  Roger Federer  in the
semifinals.  “I think I played a great match from the start to the
end,” Djokovic said in a news conference. “When you play that
well, you must enjoy, you must bring a smile on your face,
because it’s all going on your side.”  Djokovic needed a medical timeout early in the fourth set,
calling a trainer onto the court to work on his back. He
returned from the break to win five of the last six games in the
match.  “It’s an incredible feeling,” Djokovic said in an on-
court interview. “I’ve had an amazing year and it keeps
going.”  Long Match  The 4-hour, 10-minute contest featured long points,
including a 31-shot rally in the third set. The third game of
the second set lasted 22 points and 176 shots, with eight deuces.
There were 30 rallies that lasted at least 15 strokes in the
match.  Nadal had his serve broken 11 times in 18 games in the
final after losing serve 13 times in his six previous matches in
the tournament.  “I’m disappointed, but you know what, this guy is doing
unbelievable things,” Nadal said in an on-court interview.
“What you did this year is probably impossible to repeat.”  Nadal, ranked No. 2 behind Djokovic on the ATP World Tour,
has lost all six of his matches this year against the Serb and
said he has to focus on how to break that streak.  “Six straight losses, for sure that’s painful,” Nadal
said in a news conference. “But I am going to work every day
until that changes. I have an easy goal right now.”  Djokovic won $1.8 million for the championship, while Nadal
got $900,000.  Three Majors  Only five other men have won three majors in a year since
the Open era began in 1968. Nadal did it last year to join
Federer of  Switzerland , Mats Wilander of  Sweden ,  Jimmy Connors 
of the U.S. and  Rod Laver  of  Australia , who swept all four Grand
Slam titles in 1969.  Djokovic reached the final by recovering from a two-set
deficit and two match points to beat Federer, a five-time
champion who was seeded No. 3.  Djokovic hasn’t been able to turn his success on court into
a flood of endorsements. He has four sponsors listed on his
website: Austrian racket manufacturer Head NV, Italian clothing
brand Sergio Tacchini International, Serbian telecommunications
company Telekom Srbija and German nutritional supplement brand
FitLine.  Federer is still the sport’s top money maker with 10 deals,
even without a major triumph since a men’s record-extending 16th
Grand Slam championship at the 2010 Australian Open. The 30-
year-old from Switzerland makes $47 million a year from prize
money and endorsements from companies such as  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Swiss
bank  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Swiss luxury watch brand Rolex,
according to an estimate by Forbes magazine in May.  Nadal’s Deals  Nadal makes $31.5 million annually from matches and
sponsors. He’s got nine deals, including Nike, Giorgio Armani
SpA and Spain’s largest insurer, Mapfre SA.  Djokovic has doubled his income to more than $20 million,
including $10.1 million in tennis winnings this season. He’s
needed more Grand Slam victories to break into bigger deals,
according to Nigel Currie, director of London-based sports
marketing agency brandRapport.  “Djokovic has come along at a time where Federer and Nadal
have got the big deals,” Currie said in an interview before the
 U.S. Open  started last month. “This season, he’s emerged from
their shadows and it takes time to get past them and for the
world to realize this guy is the genuine article.”  Djokovic, who became the world’s top-ranked player
following his Wimbledon win, began a run of 43 straight
victories when he led Serbia to its first Davis Cup title in
December. The streak ended at the French Open, leaving him one
win shy of tying the record of 41 wins to start a season, set by
 John McEnroe  in 1984.  No Impact  His other defeat this year came against Britain’s  Andy Murray  last month in Cincinnati, when Djokovic quit the match
because of a shoulder injury at 6-4, 3-0. He said during the U.S.
Open that the injury hadn’t affected his play in  New York .  Djokovic became the first player to win five ATP World Tour
Masters titles in one season, when he won the Rogers Cup in
 Montreal  last month.  Nadal was trying for his 11th Grand Slam singles title,
which would have tied him with Laver and  Bjorn Borg  for fourth
on the men’s career list. Federer has 16, followed by Sampras
(14) and  Roy Emerson  (12).  Australia’s Samantha Stosur won the women’s championship
yesterday with a 6-2, 6-3 victory against  Serena Williams  of the
U.S.  The finals were delayed one day after rain wiped out almost
two full days of competition last week and the tournament was
extended to a third week for the fourth straight year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at the National Tennis Center in New York,
at   rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  