-- 
Dollar Libor May Rise to 0.5 Percent, Barclays Says

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-09-14T14:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/dollar-libor-may-rise-to-0-5-percent-by-december-barclays-says.html
The rate banks say they pay each
other for three-month dollar loans may rise to a one-year high
if European policy makers fail to stymie investors’ concern the
region’s debt crisis is worsening, according to Barclays Plc.  The three-month dollar London interbank offered rate, or
Libor, will reach 0.5 percent by the end of the year, Barclays
strategist  Joseph Abate  wrote in a note to clients Sept. 12.
Libor was fixed today at 0.34911 percent, according to the
London-based British Bankers’ Association. The rate has risen
this year from as low as 0.245 percent on June 15.  European efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis have
failed to quell speculation that  Greece  may default on its debt
and that the crisis may spread. The yield on the Greek two-year
note reached a record 77 percent yesterday. Investors question
the ability of Greece to implement austerity moves fast enough
to get a sixth payment from last year’s 110 billion-euro ($151
billion) bailout.  “Unless there is some sort of clarity out of  Europe  and
some type of resolution to the sovereign-debt crisis there is
really nothing to prevent Libor from going higher,” said New
York-based Abate in a telephone interview yesterday. “There is
stress in the financial system. We’ve already seen the volume of
commercial paper issuance falling, with the amount of daily
issuance down by about half, and the term of the paper being
issued has shortened up. ”  Paper Levels  U.S. commercial paper outstanding declined $32 billion to
$1.066 trillion in the week ended Sept. 7, according to Federal
Reserve data. That was the lowest since the market, which has
fallen for eight weeks, reached $1.063 trillion in the period
ended March 9, according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  The difference, or spread, between the dollar Libor and the
overnight index swap rate, known as the Libor-OIS spread was
26.9 basis points today, up from as narrow as 11.8 basis points
this year on June 16. The spread is an indirect measure of the
availability of funds in the money market and of banks’
willingness to lend.  Credit Agricole SA and  Societe Generale  SA,  France ’s
second- and third-largest banks, had their long-term credit
ratings cut one level by Moody’s Investors Service, which now
plans to examine the impact of tighter financing markets on
French lenders. The country’s lenders top the list of Greek
creditors with $56.7 billion in exposure to private and public
debt, according to a June report by the Basel, Switzerland-based
Bank for International Settlements.  Dollar Needs  “Banks operate globally and a lot of the European banks
need dollars,” Abate said. “Because of the increase in
counterparty risk, the unwillingness to lend to a European
counterparty has picked up and that is being reflected in the
higher cost of Libor, the cost of raising dollars.”  The top 10 U.S. prime money-market mutual funds cut their
assets invested in securities including commercial paper issued
by European banks in July to the lowest level since 2008 as the
region’s debt crisis got worse, according to  Fitch Ratings . U.S.
prime money fund managers also reduced risk by shortening
maturities with more than 20 percent of funds’ investment in
French banks’ certificates of deposits with maturities of seven
days or fewer at the end of July, a threefold increase in the
shorter maturities compared with the end of June, according to
Fitch.  Societe Generale said yesterday it planned to free up 4
billion euros in capital through asset sales by 2013 to reassure
investors about its finances. The Paris-based bank holds about
900 million euros in Greek bonds, Societe Generale said
yesterday in a statement.  Funding Rate  ICAP Plc’s three-month New York Funding Rate of unsecured
bank costs was 0.4435 percentage point today, 9.4 basis points
above Libor. The gap touched 9.7 basis points this week, the
largest since February 2009. The rate was as low as 0.2428 this
year on June 9.  ICAP unveiled the measure of U.S. bank rates in June 2008
after the accuracy of Libor was called into question. Banks in
the anonymous ICAP survey are asked to quote a rate at which a
representative A1/P1 credit rated institution would likely
obtain dollar funding in the market, as opposed to where their
own funding costs are, as in the British Bankers’ Association
Libor survey.  “The rise in the three-month New York funding rate to over
43 basis points also seems to signal that there is a lot of
momentum behind the Libor rise,” Abate said. “Of all the other
 interest rates  out there, the rise in Libor seems to be
lagging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  