-- 
EBay’s Dispute With Craigslist Being Probed by U.S. Prosecutors

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/ebay-pledges-cooperation-in-justice-department-probe-of-craigslist-dispute.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  said it’s cooperating
with a U.S. Justice Department investigation of its dispute with
Craigslist Inc.  Prosecutors are investigating whether EBay employees stole
confidential information from Craigslist, according to a copy of
a grand jury subpoena. The online classified company claims in a
lawsuit in state court in San Francisco that EBay stole the
information to start a competing online ad site when the two
companies were negotiating over EBay buying a stake in
Craigslist.  “We will cooperate with any inquiry related to the
disputes between EBay and Craigslist,” Amanda Miller, an EBay
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail. “EBay believes that
Craigslist’s allegations against EBay are without merit.”  The Sept. 7 grand jury subpoena of Craigslist seeks
information pertaining to “incidents where EBay employees
engaged in alleged criminal activities and misconduct focused
around the misappropriation of proprietary/confidential
information from Craigslist.”  The incidents include a February 2005 request by Pierre Omidyar, EBay’s chairman and founder, for information about
Craigslist’s approach to adding new cities and advance notice of
plans to launch new cities, according to the subpoena.  EBay Classifieds  In March 2007, without Craigslist’s knowledge or consent,
Brian Levey, EBay’s deputy general counsel, forwarded
Craigslist’s confidential financial information from 2004 and
2007 to members of a team starting an EBay online classified ad
site, according to the subpoena.  Troy Sauro, an attorney for San Francisco-based Craigslist,
and Jack Gillund, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s office in
 San Francisco , declined to comment on the investigation.  “It’s a further escalation of a conflicted relationship
between EBay and Craigslist,”  Gil Luria , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles , said in a phone interview.
“What’s for sure is it’s going to be continually harder for
EBay to influence Craigslist and realize the value of its
investment in Craigslist.”  EBay, based in  San Jose , California, bought a 28 percent
stake in Craigslist in 2004. The company developed an online
classified site called Kijiji in 2007. The site was renamed
EBayClassifieds.com.  Threat to Craigslist  Craigslist owners James Buckmaster and Craig Newmark then
enacted takeover defenses in an attempt to strip EBay of its
board seat on grounds that the minority shareholder posed a
threat to their company.  EBay sued Craigslist in  Delaware , alleging the company’s
so-called poison-pill plan was enacted to punish it for starting
a competing site. EBay won a ruling last year throwing out the
poison-pill plan and upholding most of its rights as a minority
investor.  “Craigslist asserted allegations of misconduct against
EBay as a defense in the Delaware case, but the Delaware court
did not rule in Craigslist’s favor on the defense,” Miller said
in the e-mail.  Craigslist sued EBay in state court in San Francisco
alleging breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, negligent
misrepresentation and violation of California securities law.
EBay has denied wrongdoing and claims Craigslist breached terms
of a shareholders’ agreement between the two companies.  The lawsuit case is Craigslist v. EBay, 475276, Superior
Court of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  