-- 
Egyptians Cheer Erdogan as Turkey Seeks Strategic Partnership With Egypt

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-09-13T00:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/egyptians-cheer-erdogan-as-turkey-seeks-partnership-with-egypt.html
Thousands of cheering Egyptians
greeted Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  at about
midnight in Cairo, where he arrived to establish a strategic
partnership.  The crowd waved Egyptian, Libyan and Turkish flags, as well
as those of the premier’s governing Justice and Development
Party, while chanting, “Egypt-Turkey: one fist” and “brave
Erdogan welcome to your second home.”  Turkey’s prime minister is visiting  Egypt  for the first
time since the ouster of longtime leader  Hosni Mubarak . He had
publicly called on Mubarak to step down in a televised speech
broadcast at Tahrir Square, the revolution’s epicenter.  The premier’s hard line against Israel is also attracting
supporters in Egypt, where tensions culminated in an attack on
the Israeli embassy last week.  “Turkey-Egypt hand in hand, greetings to Egypt’s youth, to
the Egyptian people,” Erdogan said while raising a joint fist
with his counterpart, Prime Minister Essam Sharaf.  Turkey ’s prime minister will meet with religious, military
and civilian leaders during his two-day stay, before moving on
to Tunisia and  Libya  to meet with transitional leaders.  The Turkish and Egyptian prime ministers plan to sign an
agreement today establishing a Turkish-Egyptian high-level
strategic council, according to Erdogan’s schedule.  Erdogan said he won’t visit the Gaza Strip during his
three-country tour, which had been a matter of speculation for
the past week. He said a trip during his current tour is “out
of the question,” although he is “longing to visit Gaza as
soon as possible,” according to state-run Anatolia news agency.  The Turkish prime minister’s popularity in the Arab world
surged as he has frayed relations with Israel by demandingg an
apology for the killing of Turkish activists on a flotilla to
Hamas-controlled  Gaza Strip  last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  