-- 
Emerging Stocks Drop, Entering Bear Market, on Greece Debt Woes

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-13T21:07:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/emerging-market-stocks-drop-a-third-day-on-china-greece-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, with
the benchmark index entering a  bear market  by slumping 20
percent down from its May peak, on concern Greece will default
and deepen the global economic slowdown.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.6 percent to
964.43 at 4:30 p.m. New York time, the lowest close since August
2010. The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 1.1 percent and the
Taiex Index slid 2.9 percent in Taipei as trading returned after
holidays in the two markets. Benchmark indexes in Brazil and
Hungary declined.  The chance of a default by Greece in the next five years
has soared to 98 percent, credit-default swaps showed. The so-
called troika of the International Monetary Fund,  European
Central Bank  and European Commission representatives will return
to  Greece  this week, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in an
interview with Berlin-based broadcaster Inforadio.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will hold a
conference call with Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
tomorrow to discuss developments in Greece and the euro area,
his office in Athens said.  Italy’s Treasury sold five-year bonds at an average yield
of 5.6 percent, compared with 4.93 percent on July 14, the last
time securities of a similar maturity were sold.  “With the Greek drama yet to conclude and the market
uncertain of the end game,  risk reduction  has been in full
force,” analysts at BNP Paribas SA including Bartosz Pawlowski
in London wrote in an e-mailed report. “The focus remains on
developments in the euro zone.”  Index Drops  The MSCI emerging-market index has dropped 16 percent this
year, more than the 11 percent decline by the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index
of developed stocks. Companies on the emerging-market gauge are
trading at 9.1 times estimated 12-month earnings, compared with
10.2 times for stocks in developed markets.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage points, to 3.83 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s
biggest bank by market value, declined 1 percent. Foxconn
Technology Co. sank 6.4 percent in Taipei after the computer-
case maker reported sales in August more than halved.  HTC Corp. (2498) ,
Asia’s second-largest smartphone maker, lost 4.9 percent in
Taiwan after the stock was lowered to “neutral” from
“overweight” at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The BSE India Sensitive Index fell 0.2 percent in Mumbai.
South Korea’s market was shut.  Bovespa Slumps  The Bovespa index fell 0.3 percent, its third day of
declines, as prospects for further interest-rate cuts diminished
after  Brazil ’s retail sales rose more than analysts forecast.
Retail sales rose 1.4 percent in July from the previous month,
the national statistics agency said today. That compares to a
median projection for a 1 percent increase among 32 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Lojas Renner SA and BR Malls Participacoes SA led declines
for companies that depend on domestic demand as traders drove up
yields on interest-rate futures.  Hypermarcas SA, Brazil’s fifth-largest consumer-goods
company by market value, fell 1.2 percent.  Oil rose for a second day in New York before data forecast
to show that crude supplies declined a second week in the U.S.,
the largest consumer of the commodity.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose 1.9 percent in Istanbul and
the lira climbed by 1.1 percent versus the dollar.  Turkish stocks are expensive and will only rally when the
European sovereign-debt crisis diminishes, JPMorganCazenove
said.  The nation’s shares trade at around 8.5 times their
estimated 12-month forward price-to-earnings ratio and investors
could find “a lot of places that are cheaper than Turkey in
absolute terms as well as cheaper relative to their own
histories,” wrote JPMorgan analyst David Aserkoff in a report,
giving Russia and Poland as cheaper examples.  South Africa’s rand appreciated 1.5 percent versus the
dollar, snapping a three-day losing streak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  