-- 
EPA Rules Delay on Cement, Boilers Backed in Vote by House Subcommittee

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-13T16:39:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/epa-rules-delay-on-cement-boilers-backed-in-vote-by-house-subcommittee.html
A U.S. House committee panel voted
to delay Environmental Protection Agency rules that would limit
pollution from cement plants and industrial boilers.  The Energy and Commerce Committee’s panel on Energy and
Power, on a voice vote today, approved legislation that
Republicans said will mesh with President Barack Obama’s bid to
boost spending on roads, bridges and ports.  “It makes no sense for the administration to encourage
infrastructure on the one hand, while saddling the cement
industry with costly regulations on the other,” Representative
Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican who is the subcommittee’s
chairman, said before the vote.  Republicans in Congress have proposed measures to scuttle
or postpone regulations put in place or being developed by the
EPA, saying business owners need encouragement to spur economic
recovery.  “The one thing that is not debatable is the jobs crisis
right now,” Representative Brian Bilbray, a California
Republican, said before the vote. “Jobs are more important than
any other item right now.”  The subcommittee acted on measures that would delay limits
on mercury from cement-plant smokestacks and on toxic releases
from industrial boilers at factories such as refineries and
chemical manufacturers.  The EPA is reworking the boiler standards and planning a
revision by the end of October with the rules in effect in
April. Gina McCarthy, deputy administrator of the EPA, told the
panel last week that the Obama administration opposes both
measures and doesn’t need the extra time.  Some Democrats said they hoped Republicans would agree to
amend the provision so that they could support it before the
measures comes up for a vote in the full committee. The
lawmakers are seeking a “definite timeline” in the legislation
for when the rules will be issued, something lacking from the
these measures, said Representative Mike Doyle, a Pennsylvania
Democrat.  The cement measure is H.R. 2681 and the boiler measure is
H.R. 2250.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  