-- 
Electric Supplies at Risk Under EPA Rules, FERC Member Says

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-09-14T14:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/epa-rules-may-put-u-s-power-supplies-at-risk-ferc-member-says.html
Environmental Protection Agency
rules might constrain U.S. electricity supplies, especially when
customer demands are highest in summer and winter, a member of
the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  said.  Electric utilities may be unable to build new transmission
lines to cope with the anticipated closing of coal-fired plants
if the proposed EPA rules to cut pollution take effect,
Commissioner Philip Moeller told the Republican-led House Energy
and Commerce Committee at a hearing today.  “I remain concerned that the timeline for electric utility
planning and implementation is not compatible with the EPA
timelines for its new regulations,” Moeller said today in
 Washington . “I see a need for FERC to become further involved
in the reliability implications of EPA actions.”  Moeller was named by President  George W. Bush  in 2006 and
re-nominated by President  Barack Obama  this year. He is a former
congressional aide and was director of the Washington office of
 Alliant Energy Corp. (LNT) , the owner of electric utilities in the
Midwest.  His testimony was seized on by Republican lawmakers as a
warning that the EPA isn’t only harming the American economy; it
also may undercut the reliability of the electric grid.  “The Obama EPA’s unprecedented regulatory agenda brings
with it a number of unprecedented problems,” Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican and chairman of the energy and
power subcommittee of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, said
today at the hearing.  State Regulators  State regulators from Georgia,  Utah  and  West Virginia 
offered similar warnings, according to their prepared testimony
posted yesterday on the committee’s website.  In “15 years of regulating the electric utility industry,
I have never seen the number, the breadth, or the potential
impact that this whole group of regulations will have on the
industry and on my constituents,” Stan Wise, chairman of the
 Georgia  Public Service Commission, said in his testimony.  The EPA is considering or has already approved measures to
curb sulfur dioxide or nitrogen oxide in the eastern U.S. and
 Texas , limit mercury emissions and regulate coal ash and cooling
water.  Comments by Moeller and Wise on implications of the EPA’s
proposals to limit pollutants from power plants contrast with
the assessment of FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff, who said the
industry can add capacity to compensate for closed plants.  Industry Capability  Examining possible generator retirements alone isn’t enough
to determine how the EPA’s proposed regulations will affect
reliability, Wellinghoff said.  “I believe that given enough information and time, the
electric industry can plan to meet whatever EPA regulations
become final,” he said.  Democrats said today that the EPA rules would only force
the closure of older  power plants  that haven’t installed modern
pollution control equipment.  “Regardless of the EPA’s rules, these old plants are being
replaced by modern gas plants,” Representative Henry Waxman, a
California Democrat, said at the hearing. “Reliability of the
electric grid is an important topic and it should not be used as
an excuse to block important public health protections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net 
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  