-- 
Merkel Vows to Avert ‘Uncontrolled’ Greek Insolvency on Contagion Concern

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   M a r i a j o s e   V e r a
-- 
2011-09-13T15:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/merkel-says-uncontrolled-greek-insolvency-must-be-avoided-radio-reports.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said Greece is taking the right steps to get its next bailout
payment, warning against allowing a Greek default because of the
risk of contagion for other euro-area countries.  Merkel, in a German  radio interview  broadcast today, said
that an “uncontrolled insolvency” would further roil markets
spooked by the prospect of a Greek default. The euro region
currently has no system for “orderly” insolvency until the
permanent rescue fund is established in 2013, she said.  “The top priority is to avoid an uncontrolled insolvency,
because that wouldn’t just hit Greece and the danger that it
hits everyone, or at least a number of other countries, is very
big,” Merkel told Berlin-based broadcaster Inforadio. “I have
made my position very clear: that everything must be done to
keep the euro area together politically, because we would very
quickly face a domino effect.”  Merkel’s comments are a rebuff to calls by members of her
ruling coalition to consider allowing  Greece ’s insolvency and
exit from the currency union as it struggles to satisfy the
terms of its aid package. They also belie government plans to
support German banks in the event that Greece goes into default.  The interview, posted on the website of the chancellor’s
 Christian Democratic Union  party, is “typical Merkel,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co.,
said by telephone from Hamburg.  Interview ‘Tone’  “It does not completely rule out an orderly default,
except that the entire tone of the interview very clearly
suggests that her position is that she expects Greece to qualify
for the next tranche,” he said. That she mentions the European
Stability Mechanism allowing for orderly defaults from 2013
“suggests that she does not expect Greece to default now.”  Greece’s 10-year bond yield rose 109 basis points, or 1.09
percentage point, to 24.63 percent as of 5:08 p.m. in Berlin,
after earlier climbing to a euro-era record of 25 percent.  The euro traded near its weakest level in a decade against
the yen and fluctuated versus the dollar, declining less than
0.1 percent to $1.3676.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will hold a
conference call with Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
tomorrow to discuss developments in Greece and the euro area,
his office in Athens said.  Merkel, asked later at a press conference with Finnish
Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  whether she saw Greece defaulting,
called for the Greek government to be given time to reduce its
debt and carry out the necessary economic reforms.  ‘Yearning’ for Answers  “We all feel a yearning, that there might be one buzzword
that solves the problem we have in the euro area, in other words
the debt crisis, whether it’s euro bonds, insolvency or other
words,” Merkel said. “That won’t happen. I’m deeply convinced
of that. Rather, it will be a very long, step-by-step process.”  Philipp Roesler, the vice chancellor and economy minister
who heads Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition partner, said
in an op-ed published in Die Welt newspaper yesterday that there
can be no “taboos” when considering action “to stabilize the
euro in the short term,” including a Greek insolvency.  Germany ’s best-selling Bild newspaper today cited his
comments as a factor unsettling markets. Merkel slapped him down
in her radio interview, saying that “everybody should weigh
their words very carefully.”  “What we don’t need is unrest in the financial markets,”
she said. “The uncertainties are big enough as it is.”  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , a CDU member like
Merkel, denied that Roesler was calling for Greece to be allowed
to go into default.  ‘Catastrophe’ Planning  “He didn’t put the plan on the table, he said you can’t
rule anything out,” Schaeuble said in an interview with ZDF
television late yesterday. “A government has to consider what
should happen in case of a catastrophe.”  German coalition officials stepped up their criticism of
Greece last week after a delegation from the European
Commission,  European Central Bank  and  International Monetary
Fund  suspended a report on progress made in  Athens  in meeting
the terms of its rescue program. The delay threatened to derail
the next payment to Greece due next month.  Merkel offered her backing for Papandreou’s government,
saying that a team of officials from the three institutions is
returning to Athens this week, which “suggests that Greece has
taken care of a few things” to meet the bailout conditions.  “Everything I hear out of Greece is that the Greek
government has hopefully seen the writing on the wall and is now
doing the things that are on the agenda,” she told Inforadio.  Merkel’s “entire tone is that she is encouraging Greece to
do what it takes and if Greece does what it takes, the next
tranche will be paid,” said Schmieding.  While she leaves open a back door to possible Greek
insolvency, “the escape clause is not the message,” he said.
“The message is she will not expect an escape clause to be
used.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg. 