-- 
Ethiopia Builds 10 New Sugar Plants As It Aims to Become Leading Exporter

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-09-13T09:43:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/ethiopia-builds-10-new-sugar-plants-as-it-aims-to-become-leading-exporter.html
Sugar Corp.,  Ethiopia ’s state-owned
producer, said it started building 10 new factories and is
inviting private investment as part of a plan to become one of
the world’s 10 biggest exporters of the crop.  The project, which has raised concern among environmental
activists, involves constructing plants and establishing farms
at a cost of about 80 billion birr ($4.6 billion) in four
regions in the Horn of Africa country, Abay Tsehaye, director
general of the Addis Ababa-based company, said in an interview
on Sept. 7. The government is undertaking the work because
Ethiopian private firms are “not financially and technically
ready to do such huge enterprises.”  “The government has given focus to sugar development. In
the coming 15 years, we hope to be one of the top 10 exporters,”
Abay said. “The reason we have this target is Ethiopia has big
potential in terms of climate and in terms of soil and water
resources, which is very favorable for sugar production.”  Ethiopia,  Africa ’s biggest coffee grower, unveiled a five-
year plan in December that targets annual economic growth of as
much as 14.9 percent by expanding agriculture and boosting
savings to fund investment. The plan aims to transfer 3.3
million hectares (8.2 million acres) of land to investors by
mid-2015.  Foreign investment is being sought to develop other
projects on 5 million hectares of land that has been identified
for sugar production, Abay said.  “Many are coming and asking because they know the potential
of Ethiopia, they know the favorability of climate, soil and
availability of cheap land,” said Abay, a former national
security adviser.  Sugar Imports  Ethiopia imported 150,000 metric tons of sugar last year.
The government aims to become self-sufficient in the crop by the
end of 2013 and increase production almost eightfold to 2.3
million tons by mid-2015, leaving a surplus for export of 1.25
million tons, according to Abay. The world’s tenth-largest
producer in 2009, the U.S., grew 27.5 million tons, according to
the  United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization .  Sugar Corp. was established under Prime Minister Meles Zenawi’s office in November to oversee construction and run the
state-owned projects, Abay said. The company is accountable to
Meles so that he can give “direct, immediate decisions,” he
said. The projects are in Beles in the central Amhara region;
Wolkait in the northern Tigray area; Kesem in the northeastern
Afar regional state; and in the South Omo Zone of the Southern
Nations Nationalities and Peoples’ region, Sugar Corp. spokesman
Yilma Tibebu said in e-mailed and texted responses to questions
on Sept. 8.  ‘Disaster’  Six factories in South Omo, along with plantations that the
company says will cover 150,000 hectares, are a “development
disaster in the making” for 17 ethnic groups living in the area,
Peter Bosshard of  International Rivers , the U.S.-based advocacy
group, said in an e-mailed response to questions on Sept. 6.
“Grabbing land and water for sugar plantations will spell
ecological collapse and hunger for the 500,000 indigenous
people” of the zone, he said.  The Kuraz Project will be irrigated by water from the Omo
River discharged from the under-construction Gibe III hydropower
plant, according to Abay. Local communities support the scheme
and the displaced population will be “very minimal” as the farms
are in “barren areas,” he said.  As many as 100 members of the Mursi, known for wearing lip
plates and who number about 7,000, and Bodi ethnic groups have
been jailed for opposing the plan and others are being repressed
by security forces, the London-based advocacy group for tribal
peoples  Survival International  said on Sept. 6. Large-scale
farms will cover as many as 300,000 hectares in South Omo and
“tens of thousands” of workers will move to the area, the group
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  ‘Social Transformation’  Without using coercion, the plan is to transform South Omo
residents “socially, economically and culturally,” Abay said.
Those affected will be compensated for lost earnings and given
land at least equal to previous holdings, he said.  Groups campaigning against the plans have selfish motives,
according to Abay. “They want these people to remain as
primitive as they used to be, as poor as they used to be, as
naked as they used to be, so that they will be specimens for
research and an agenda for raising funds,” he said. Previously
impoverished communities will be “far better off” as they will
benefit from irrigated land, improved social services, support
from agricultural experts and job opportunities, according to
Abay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 