-- 
EU Utility Stocks Lose $270 Billion on State Actions, Citi Says

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-09-13T16:04:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/eu-utility-stocks-lose-270-billion-on-state-actions-citi-says.html
European government intervention
has cut 200 billion euros ($270 billion) from utility shares
since January 2009 and may depress them further as states impose
costly climate targets and debts rise, Citigroup Inc. said.  “The capital markets have given the European utility
sector a resounding vote of no confidence,”  Peter Atherton  and
Sofia Savvantidou, London-based analysts at Citigroup, said in a
note. “The sector is the worst performer in Europe since start-
2009, and the underperformance is actually getting worse.”  Twenty-seven state actions over the past 18 months,
including an increase in Portuguese corporate taxes and an
emergency review of so-called feed-in tariffs in the U.K., have
weighed on shares, Citigroup said today. Developers of new gas-
fired, nuclear and wind-power plants have also faced rising debt
costs as lenders limit access to funds amid economic stagnation.  The combined market capitalization of European utilities
has fallen 21 percent since January 2009, compared with a 13
percent increase in the value of their U.S. counterparts,
Citigroup said. If European companies had matched U.S. gains,
their value would have been 200 billion euros higher, it said.  “The level of underperformance has been unique to
Europe,” the analysts said. “The utility sectors in  North
America ,  Latin America , and  Asia  have performed much more
strongly.”  Climate-change  targets in particular are proving to be
“hugely expensive,” Citigroup said, adding that a drop in
demand and lower earnings forecasts have also trimmed gains.  Carbon Cuts  The European Union cap-and-trade program, the world’s
largest, forces utilities to buy permits to cover excess carbon
output as it chases a target to slash emissions by 20 percent in
2020 from 1990 levels.  Britain, aiming to get 15 percent of its energy from
renewable sources by 2020, plans to install more than 8,000
offshore  wind turbines  by then. In  Germany , the world’s largest
solar market, developers built 7,400 megawatts of photovoltaic
capacity last year, driving total capacity to 17,200 megawatts.  “Governments across  Europe  are scrambling to rebalance
between the three drivers on energy policy -- combating climate
change, affordability, and security of supply -- but they are
trying to do that without actually changing any of the key
targets that were agreed half a decade ago,” Citigroup said.  The Bloomberg European Utilities Index has dropped 23
percent this year, compared with a 14 percent decline in the
World Utilities Index. Europe’s utilities have underperformed
the wider market by 33 percent since 2008, according to
Citigroup.  As costs rise, customer bills have climbed. Retail energy
tariffs across the region will gain 24 percent by 2014 from 2010
levels, the analysts said. Spanish consumers may see their bills
jump 47 percent over the period, while German households could
see a 31 percent increase, according to Citigroup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  