-- 
Stocks Rise as French Banks Rebound; Treasuries Slump, Oil Gains

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-13T20:38:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/euro-weakens-on-greek-debt-concerns-as-most-asian-stocks-commodities-rise.html
U.S. stocks rose,  Europe ’s
benchmark equity index rebounded from a two-year low and
Treasuries fell as French banks dismissed concerns over their
access to funds and investors watched for signs of progress in
efforts to tame the euro region’s debt crisis.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.9 percent at 4
p.m. New York time. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.9 percent.
Societe Generale SA, which had plunged 8.1 percent, rallied 15
percent and BNP Paribas SA added 7.2 percent following a 12
percent retreat after the French banks said they are able to
finance their operations. Yields on 10-year Treasuries climbed
four basis points to 1.99 percent. Oil futures increased 2.3
percent. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell, extending its
drop since this year’s peak to 20 percent.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she’s “very
optimistic” that Finland’s demands for special collateral as
part of the Greek bailout package will be met. Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  will hold a conference call with
Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  tomorrow to discuss
developments in  Greece  and the euro area.  “It’s all about Europe,” Tom Wirth, who helps manage $1.6
billion as senior investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust
Co., in Elmira, New York, said in a phone interview. “Maybe the
possibility of European authorities saying something could bring
more certainty. We know there are opportunities out there.”  The S&P 500 briefly pared gains after Rheinische Zeitung
reported that German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
Greece wouldn’t get more aid.  ‘Default Big’  Greece should default on its bonds to stop a deterioration
of the economy, said Mario Blejer, a former  Bank of England 
adviser who took the reins of Argentina’s central bank after its
2001 default on $95 billion. Yields on one-year Greek bonds
climbed to more than 130 percent today.  “Greece should default, and default big,” Blejer, who was
an adviser to Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  from 2003 to
2008, said in an interview in Buenos Aires. “You can’t jump
over a chasm in two steps.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 had fallen as much as 1.5 percent.
Equities rebounded after  Societe Generale (GLE) , France’s third-
largest bank by assets, said it could resist a freeze in dollar
financing from U.S. money-market funds, which cut their lending
to European banks amid the euro debt crisis.  “Even if it were to go to zero, there would be no
problem,” Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” with Erik Schatzker and Deirdre Bolton. The bank could withstand a
freezing of financing from U.S. money-market funds “forever,”
Oudea said.  BNP Dispute  Nicolas Lecaussin, director of development at France’s
Institute for Economic and Fiscal Research, wrote in an opinion
piece in the Wall Street Journal today that an unidentified BNP
Paribas official told him the bank could no longer borrow in
dollars.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  denied the claim in an e-mailed statement,
saying it is able to finance its dollar needs at normal levels
“directly and through foreign-exchange swaps.”  Banks in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 3.6 percent,
the most among 19 industries, after they retreated 2.2 percent.
The S&P 500 Financials Index added 0.6 percent. Morgan Stanley
climbed 3.3 percent.  The Dow Jones Transportation Average, considered a proxy
for the  U.S. economy , rallied 3.4 percent. Delta Air Lines Inc.
jumped 8.3 percent, United Continental Holdings Inc. advanced
7.4 percent and Kansas City Southern added 5.9 percent.  Bear Market  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.6 percent, extending
its slump since peaking on May 2 to 20 percent, meeting the
common definition of a  bear market . Brazil’s Bovespa slumped 0.3
percent and the Shanghai Composite Index slumped 1.1 percent.  Treasuries extended their losses as the government sold $21
billion in 10-year notes at a record low yield and concern eased
that Europe’s debt crisis may cripple the region’s financial
institutions.  The notes drew a yield of 2 percent, below the previous
record of 2.140 percent at last month’s offering. The average
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 of the  Federal
Reserve ’s 20 primary dealers was for a yield of 1.998 percent
The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total
bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.03, compared
with an average of 3.13 at the previous 10 sales.  Silver futures added 2 percent while natural gas climbed
2.5 percent and gold increased 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  