-- 
Euro Rises From Almost a 10-Month Low Versus Dollar as Stocks Post Gains

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-09-13T21:24:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/euro-strenthens-from-almost-10-month-low-versus-u-s-dollar-as-stocks-gain.html
The euro rose from almost the
lowest level against the dollar since February as stocks gained,
spurred by a recovery of French bank shares and stronger
investor demand for higher-yielding assets.  The 17-nation currency weakened earlier after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas Sarkozy
failed to announce joint initiatives on the region’s debt
crisis, as speculation said they would. French banks advanced
after dismissing concern about access to funds. Currencies of
commodity-exporting countries, such as  South Africa ’s rand and
the Canadian dollar, rose as raw-material prices increased.  “There’s been an aggressive turnaround in sentiment toward
French banks, and that’s why you’re seeing the euro hold in
here,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist
at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “The euro looks a little
bit stronger, but all the issues and problems that got us here,
nothing has changed in the last 24 hours.”  The euro ended the day little changed at $1.3678 at 5 p.m.
in  New York , after sliding to $1.3495 yesterday, the lowest
level since February. It earlier rose as much as 0.4 percent.
The shared currency fell 0.4 percent to 105.25 yen, after
touching 103.90 yesterday, the lowest since June 2001.  The currency briefly pared gains after German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Greece wouldn’t get more aid.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.9 percent after
earlier falling as much as 0.4 percent.  Merkel Views  Merkel said in an interview with the Berlin-based
broadcaster Inforadio she won’t let Greece fall into
“uncontrolled insolvency” because the risk of contagion for
the other euro-zone countries “is very big.” The so-called
troika of the  International Monetary Fund ,  European Central Bank 
and European Commission representatives will return to Greece
this week, Merkel said.  Societe Generale SA, which had plunged 8.1 percent, rallied
15 percent and BNP Paribas SA added 7.2 percent following a 12
percent retreat after the French banks said they are able to
finance their operations.  The rand snapped three days of declines and Canada’s dollar
rose for a second day.  “We’re having a positive global macro backdrop and some
technical conditions that favored a correction in the rand’s
weakness,”  Michael Roche , an emerging-market strategist at MF
Global in New York.  Commodities Move  The rand advanced 1.5 percent to 7.3032 to the greenback.
The Canadian dollar strengthened 0.7 percent to 98.57 cents per
 U.S. dollar .  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
rose 0.5 percent and crude oil added 2.3 percent to $90.21 a
barrel in New York. Oil is  Canada ’s biggest export  A spokesman for Sarkozy, Franck Louvrier, rejected a report
by Reuters that he and Merkel would announce today joint
initiatives on Greece to stem the debt crisis.  Options traders turned the most bearish on the euro this
week in almost eight years, signaling the currency may extend
its 4.8 percent drop this month, as Europe struggles to stem the
sovereign-debt crisis.  The premium for options granting the right to sell the euro
over those that allow for purchases reached the most yesterday
since at least October 2003, when Bloomberg began tracking the
data. Bets on a drop in the 17-nation currency outnumbered
wagers on a gain last week by the most since January, reversing
a so-called net-long position two weeks ago.  Options Trend  “I don’t see any fundamental reason why the downward trend
in the euro should stop,”  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency
strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said in an interview.
“It’s a combination of a euro-area debt crisis that’s going
into a new round and the impression that the ECB is more willing
to play a more proactive role in this crisis and use  interest
rates  to support” weaker economies, he said.  Italy ’s Treasury sold 3.9 billion euros ($5.3 billion) of
five-year bonds at an average yield of 5.6 percent, compared
with 4.93 percent on July 14, the last time securities of a
similar maturity were sold. Demand was 1.28 times the amount on
offer, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.93 at the
previous sale. The Treasury had aimed to sell a maximum of 4
billion euros.  The euro was boosted yesterday after an Italian government
official said talks had been held with Chinese counterparts
about potential investments in  Europe ’s third-largest economy.
The purchase of Italian bonds was not the focus of the meetings,
which took place in the past few weeks, the official said on
condition of anonymity, without specifying which assets may be
involved.  China Role  “The story itself provided some interest, but I don’t
think necessarily it turns the tide,” said  Jeremy Stretch ,
executive director of foreign-exchange strategy in  London  at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. “The problem for Italy is
the size of the stock of debt. It’s a pretty big hole and even
the Chinese would struggle to fill that one up on an ongoing
basis.”  The cost of insuring against default on European sovereign
and bank debt rose to records on mounting concern a default by
 Greece  will trigger losses for banks holding the nation’s bonds,
according to CMA. Credit-default swaps signal a 98 percent
probability of default.  The euro has dropped 4.8 percent against the dollar this
month.  The yen strengthened as  risk aversion  earlier prompted
investors to buy the currency as a refuge. It has appreciated
2.9 percent in the past week, the best performer among 10
developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes.  The yen tends to appreciate during economic and financial
turmoil because  Japan ’s current-account surplus makes the nation
less reliant on foreign capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  