-- 
Europe Close to Banking Crisis, El-Erian Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-09-13T14:59:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/europe-close-to-banking-crisis-el-erian.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed A. El-Erian said organizations such as the International
Monetary Fund need to act with European banks at risk of being
engulfed in the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “We’re getting close to a full-blown banking crisis in
 Europe ,” El-Erian, Pimco’s chief executive officer and co-chief
investment officer, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “We are in a
synchronized global slowdown. There’s very little confidence in
economic policy making both in Europe and the U.S.”  The  World Bank  and the IMF  meet  Sept. 23-25 in  Washington 
as European officials work to keep the currency union from
unraveling while weighing whether to allow Greece to default.
French banks have become a focal point because of their holdings
of bonds issued by the euro region’s most-indebted nations,
topping the list of Greek creditors with $56.7 billion in
overall exposure, according to a June report by the  Bank for
International Settlements .  “The light should be flashing yellow, if not red, in
Washington, D.C., and hopefully the IMF meeting can be the
catalyst for getting to a common analysis and setting the stage
for the G-20,” El-Erian said from Pimco’s Newport Beach,
California-based headquarters. The firm oversees about $1.34
trillion of assets as the world’s largest manager of bond funds.  Funding Speculation  BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s biggest lender, was forced to deny
an opinion piece in The Wall Street Journal today that cited an
unidentified official as saying the bank could no longer borrow
in dollars.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she’s “very
optimistic” that Finland’s demands for special collateral as
part of the Greek bailout package will be met. Greek Prime
Minister George Papandreou will hold a conference call with
Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy tomorrow to discuss
developments in  Greece  and the euro area.  In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  called on Congress on
Sept. 8 to pass a plan that would inject $447 billion into the
economy through infrastructure spending, subsidies to local
governments to stem teacher layoffs and cutting in half the
payroll taxes paid by workers and small-business owners. Tax
cuts account for more than half the dollar value of the
stimulus.  Obama’s job plan is an “important first step,” El Erian
said. “It remains to be seen whether it will be enough. It has
taken way too long.”  ‘Further Behind’  Job growth stalled last month and the  unemployment rate  has
hovered around 9 percent for more than two years. Obama’s job-
approval ratings are falling to new lows as public doubts about
his stewardship of the economy rise. Public opinion of Congress
has dropped even lower.  “Not enough Republicans have come on board,” El-Erian
said. “When President Obama started talking about how he was
going to pay for all this, he started getting a lot of
opposition. We need to overcome this as a nation, otherwise
we’re going to fall further behind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  