-- 
Euro Weakens Versus Dollar, Yen as Greece Woes Raise Region’s Debt Costs

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-09-14T07:29:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/euro-holds-four-day-loss-versus-yen-as-greece-concerns-haunt-bond-auctions.html
The euro declined against the
dollar and yen on concern Greece’s debt woes will raise
borrowing costs for other countries in the region, including
Spain, which is due to sell bonds tomorrow.  The euro weakened versus the yen for a fifth day after
 China ’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  signaled developed nations should cut
deficits and create jobs rather than relying on his country to
bail out the world economy. The dollar held a two-day slide
against  Japan ’s currency before data that may show U.S. retail
sales growth moderated in August. Australia’s dollar dropped for
a fifth day versus the greenback as Asian shares slid.  “Over the next week or two, the bias would be to the
downside because you keep seeing a deterioration in sentiment,”
said Mike Burrowes, a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand
Ltd. in Wellington. “That’s pressuring the euro lower.”  The euro fell 0.5 percent to 104.75 yen as of 8:23 a.m. in
 London  from 105.25 in  New York  yesterday. It reached 103.90 on
Sept. 12, the lowest since June 2001. The shared currency
dropped 0.4 percent to $1.3625. The dollar was little changed at
76.87 yen from 76.96.  The MSCI Asia Pacific index of stocks slumped 1.9 percent,
while the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index declined 0.3 percent.  “Countries must first put their own houses in order,” Wen
said today at the World Economic Forum in Dalian, China. He
reiterated his message in June that China can offer “a helping
hand” to Europe through investing there and called on the
European Union and the U.S. to open their markets in return.  Bond Sales  Spain  is scheduled to auction securities maturing in 2019
and 2020 tomorrow. Italy sold 3.9 billion euros ($5.3 billion)
of five-year notes yesterday at an average yield of 5.6 percent,
up from 4.93 percent at the previous auction. Demand dropped to
1.28 times the amount on offer, from 1.93 times.  “The bigger elephant in the room is really what’s
happening in Italy and Spain where you’re seeing their bond
yields rise and getting close to levels where potentially it
becomes impossible for them to fund themselves in the market,”
Bank of New Zealand’s Burrowes said.  The euro maintained losses after Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded ratings for French banks  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and
 Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)   The ratings company cut Societe Generale’s debt and deposit
ratings by one notch to Aa3 from Aa2 and said it was extending
its review of the bank’s C+ Bank Financial Strength rating.
Moody’s downgraded Credit Agricole’s long-term ratings to Aa2
from Aa1 “on Greek exposures” and cut the bank’s BFSR rating
to C from C+.  The euro has depreciated 1.3 percent in the past month, the
second-worst performer tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency indexes after the Swiss franc.  Papandreou Call  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou holds a conference
call with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy today to discuss developments in his nation and
the euro area.  Merkel, in a German radio interview broadcast yesterday,
said that an “uncontrolled insolvency” would further roil
markets spooked by the prospect of a Greek default. The euro
region currently has no system for “orderly” insolvency until
the permanent rescue fund is established in 2013, she said.  The so-called troika of the  International Monetary Fund ,
 European Central Bank  and European Commission representatives
will return to  Greece  this week to review the nation’s economy,
the German chancellor said. Following the review the team will
make a recommendation on the release of the sixth tranche of
loans under a bailout secured in May of last year.  Retail Sales  The dollar headed lower against the yen before reports that
may indicate the  U.S. economy  is slowing, boosting speculation
the Federal Open Market Committee will add monetary stimulus at
its Sept. 20-21 meeting.  Federal Reserve policy makers will meet for two days this
month, rather than the single day originally scheduled, to
“allow a fuller discussion” of the economy and the central
bank’s possible response, according to Chairman Ben S. Bernanke.  U.S. advance retail sales rose 0.2 percent in August
compared with a 0.5 percent advance in July, the median estimate
of a Bloomberg News survey of economists showed ahead of
Commerce Department figures today. A  producer price index 
remained flat last month, after gaining 0.2 percent in July,
according to a separate survey.  Australian’s currency weakened against most of its major
peers after the statistics bureau released new methodology for
calculating seasonally adjusted inflation that indicated the
 Reserve Bank  of  Australia ’s core measures may have been lower
last quarter.  “These are considered the RBA’s preferred measures of
inflation and it’s something that may weigh on the Aussie as it
heats up the argument that inflation is not such a significant
issue now,” said Chris Weston, an institutional trader at IG
Markets in Melbourne.  The so-called Aussie slid 0.8 percent to $1.0233, after
earlier reaching $1.0187, the least since Aug. 11. It dropped
0.9 percent to 78.66 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  