-- 
Europe Stocks Fluctuate, U.S. Futures Drop; BNP Falls

-- B y   J U L I E   C R U Z
-- 
2011-09-14T22:26:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/european-stock-futures-rally-bhp-may-move.html
European stocks swung between gains
and losses, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index traded near a two-
year low, as bank shares reversed their earlier losses. U.S.
futures dropped, while Asian shares were little changed.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  lost 3.3 percent as  France ’s largest bank
denied an article in the Wall Street Journal that said it was
having problems obtaining funding in U.S. dollars. Cairn Energy
Plc sank 10 percent, for the largest drop on the Stoxx 600,
after abandoning its second oil well in less than two months.  The Stoxx 600 slid 0.1 percent to 218.65 at 12:48 p.m. in
 London  after climbing as much as 1.4 percent and dropping as
much as 1.5 percent. The gauge has fallen 25 percent from this
year’s peak on Feb. 17 as European and U.S. economic reports
trailed forecasts, adding to concern that the global economic
recovery is at risk. The retreat has left the gauge trading at 9
times the estimated earnings of its companies, the lowest
valuation since March 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “There is a serious risk of a further escalation of the
crisis,”  Tammo Greetfeld , an equity strategist at UniCredit SpA
in Munich wrote in a report. “Success in stabilizing the euro
zone depends even more on effective reforms being implemented
soon. We remain underweight euro zone equities.”  French Bank Capital  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent today, while
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in December lost
0.6 percent.  Former Bank of England Deputy Governor  Howard Davies  said
France will have to provide capital to its banks because private
investors appear unwilling to provide funds.  “There’s no alternative now in France but for the
government to provide new capital,” Davies said. “The French
government are going to have to stand up, and within the next
two to three days, the French government will have to
recapitalize their banks.”  U.S. money-market fund managers have cut their lending to
French banks at a pace that may force the lenders to raise
capital by selling assets, according to William Prophet, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  Prime money funds in the U.S. reduced their holdings in
certificates of deposits issued by French banks by about 40
percent in the three months through Aug. 11, Prophet wrote in a
Sept. 9 report, based on a review of seven of the 10 largest
funds eligible to purchase corporate debt.  Representatives of the so-called troika of the
 International Monetary Fund ,  European Central Bank  and European
Commission representatives will return to  Greece  this week,
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in an interview to be
broadcast today.  Italy, China Talks  Italy’s Treasury sold 3.9 billion euros ($5.3 billion) of a
new benchmark five-year bond at an average yield of 5.6 percent,
compared with 4.93 percent the last time securities of a similar
maturity were sold on July 14. Demand was 1.28 times the amount
on offer, compared with 1.93 times at the previous sale. The
Treasury had aimed to sell 4 billion euros.  Italian officials have held talks in the past few weeks
with Chinese counterparts about potential investments in the
country, an Italian government official said yesterday, adding
that bonds weren’t the focus.  -- Editors: Will Hadfield, Andrew Rummer  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  