-- 
Rajaratnam Arrest Made Ex-AMD Worker ‘Paranoid,’ He Tells Jury

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/ex-amd-worker-says-galleon-arrests-made-him-fearful-of-u-s-charges.html
An ex- Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
employee told jurors that the 2009 arrest of Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam on insider-trading charges caused him
to fear that he was suspected of passing tips to the hedge fund.  “I was pretty scared, pretty paranoid,” Mark Anthony Longoria, a former AMD manager told a federal court jury in New
York. “I thought I was the individual giving out information
that they were referring to.”  Longoria, who pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the
U.S., testified yesterday at the insider-trading trial of James Fleishman, a Primary Global Research LLC executive. The  Mountain
View , California-based firm, also known as PGR, matches
employees of public companies with fund managers for a fee.  Fleishman, of  Santa Clara ,  California , is charged with two
counts of conspiracy for his role in what prosecutors say was a
scheme in which technology-company employees, working as
consultants for PGR, passed secret tips to fund managers.
Fleishman, who has pleaded not guilty, faces as long as 25 years
in prison if convicted.  Longoria testified he gave confidential information about
AMD to Fleishman and fund managers “two or three times” while
moonlighting as a PGR consultant from 2006 until 2010. Longoria
said he couldn’t remember when he had specifically passed this
information, or say whether he had given Fleishman specific
information on revenue.  Call to Fleishman  Longoria said that after he read about the arrest of
Rajaratnam and five others on Oct. 16, 2009, he phoned Fleishman
that day to find out if PGR did business with Galleon.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  wiretapped that call,
which was played for the jury.  “Do you guys do business with Galleon?” Longoria asked
Fleishman. “I wasn’t sure. I was like really getting nervous, I
said ‘Man, that name sounds familiar’ and then it even said in
there that they were trading AMD. And I was like ‘Oh crap!’ It
made me extremely nervous. I’m like ‘God, dang it! What the hell
is going on!’”  Fleishman told Longoria that Primary Global didn’t work
with Galleon. “I know I can tell you point blank they are not a
client,” he said.  Rajaratnam, the billionaire co-founder of Galleon, was
convicted in May of 14 counts of conspiracy and securities fraud
in what the U.S. said is the biggest probe of  insider trading 
involving  hedge funds . He is scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 27.  Government Suspect  During the October 2009 recorded call, Longoria told
Fleishman he feared he was the person suspected by the
government of being Rajaratnam’s source on AMD. At Rajaratnam’s
trial earlier this year,  Anil Kumar , a former McKinsey & Co.
managing director, testified he leaked information to Rajaratnam
about an AMD acquisition and that the fund manager had also
obtained inside information about AMD from Danielle Chiesi, a
stock trader.  “I was just really freaking out when I read that,”
Longoria told Fleishman during the call. “So there’s no way
they can tie them back to me. Because, oh my God!”  Fleishman replied, “Hopefully this will just kind of …”  “Blow over,” Longoria said.  Longoria concluded his testimony yesterday at the trial
before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff.  Four People Arrested  Longoria was one of four people arrested in December 2010
by federal prosecutors in  New York  in an overlapping insider-
trading probes involving Galleon and other funds by  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office.  He pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities and
 wire fraud , securities fraud, wire fraud and making false
statements to prosecutors and FBI agents. He faces as long as 50
years in prison.  Longoria was the firm’s most popular consultant, doing
hundreds of calls with clients, a former PGR manager told jurors
last week.  On the wiretapped call with Fleishman, Longoria expressed
concern that he had done expert networking-consultations with
Spherix Capital LLC, a  San Jose , California-based fund founded
by Richard Choo-Beng Lee and Ali Far.  He said fellow AMD employee in the finance department who
had passed information to him had mentioned a fund “Spherix”
to him.  Sealed Records  Court records that were sealed at the time show that both
Lee and Far had pleaded guilty and were cooperating with the
U.S. in October 2009, before Rajaratnam was arrested. The pleas
were made public the next month.  Longoria testified yesterday that during his time
consulting for PGR, he made as many as 600 calls with PGR
clients, averaging about 200 per year, being paid $300 per call.
He admitted fabricating information he passed while working as a
PGR consultant and falsely billing the firm for calls he never
had with fund-manager clients.  Of the 15 people charged by Bharara’s office in the expert-
networking probe since November, 12 have pleaded guilty. One,
Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was convicted
at trial in June of  securities fraud  and conspiracy. Fleishman
is the second to go to trial.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-cr-32, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 