-- 
Mexico Expects U.S. to Accelerate Anti-Drug Aid, Espinosa Says

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 
2011-09-13T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/mexico-expects-u-s-to-accelerate-anti-drug-aid-espinosa-says.html
Mexico  expects the U.S. to
accelerate the disbursement of aid to strengthen its fight 
against drug gangs and put back on track a $1.4 billion 
program that has been hamstrung by delays in recent years, 
Foreign Affairs Minister Patricia Espinosa said.  Espinosa, in an interview yesterday, said both U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
promised to disburse $500 million this year in equipment and aid
for police training as part of the bilateral Merida Initiative.
Mexico expects to receive complete financing of the multi-year
program by next year, she said.  “We got off to a slow start in part because this is a
completely new cooperation plan,” Espinosa, 52, said at
Bloomberg’s offices in Mexico City. “We now see that it’s
advancing more quickly.”  U.S. anti-narcotics aid to Mexico suffered delays even as
the death toll from President Felipe Calderon’s crackdown on
drug gangs surged to over 35,000 victims since he took office in
2006. Mexico received at least $480 million in U.S. aid under
the program since it was signed in 2008 by Calderon and former
President  George W. Bush , with $380 million arriving between
2008 and 2010, according to data from the Foreign Ministry.  The shortfall in U.S. assistance has delayed the delivery
of equipment including polygraph machines and Black Hawk
helicopters needed to combat drug traffickers. It has also
delayed the training of Mexican officials, according to the GAO
report.  Until a year ago the U.S. had delivered only about 9
percent of the promised aid to Mexico and Central America
because agencies involved lacked staff and funding, the U.S.
Government Accountability Office said in a report in 2010.  Economic Impact  Mexico’s government estimates that drug-related violence
shaves 1.2 percentage points off output annually in  Latin
America ’s second-biggest economy. The country’s benchmark IPC
stock index has risen 26 percent since Calderon took office
vowing to eliminate the cartels that transport 90 percent of the
cocaine entering the U.S. The peso has lost 11.5 percent against
the  U.S. dollar  over the same period.  As part of the effort to deepen security cooperation with
the U.S. along the border, the government will continue to allow
U.S. drones to conduct non-piloted surveillance flights over
Mexican territory, Espinosa said.  The flights, first announced by Mexico in March, are
carried out with the government’s permission on a case by case
basis and do not violate the nation’s sovereignty, Espinosa
said. Opposition lawmakers have criticized the government for
allowing the flights over Mexican territory.  “It will depend on the operational basis and on the
targets being chased,” Espinosa said.  2012 Elections  Espinosa said she is hopeful the U.S. and Mexico will
continue to cooperate on security issues along the border though
the direction of policy will depend on the outcome of
presidential elections to be held next year in both countries.  “We have a very complex problem that requires a long
period of time to be resolved,” said Espinosa, a former
ambassador to  Austria  who has served as Mexico’s chief diplomat
since Calderon took office.  Relations with the U.S. became strained earlier this year
after Calderon criticized then-U.S. ambassador Carlos Pascual
for complaining about Mexican security forces in a secret cable
divulged by the WikiLeaks website. Calderon’s rebuke came after
Clinton, in September 2010, said that rising drug violence in
Mexico was beginning to resemble Colombia 20 years ago.  Arson Attack  Pascual resigned in March and was replaced by Anthony Wayne, whose previous posting was in  Afghanistan .  Calderon renewed his criticism of the U.S. in August after
52 people were killed in an arson attack on a casino in
Monterrey allegedly perpetrated by members of the Zetas drug
gang.  “I earnestly ask you to end once and for all the criminal
sales of assault weapons to the criminals that operate in
Mexico,” Calderon said in a speech following the attack.  In addition to fighting the flow of illegal narcotics,
Mexico and the U.S. are negotiating an agreement to regulate the
development of  oil fields  that straddle the nations’ maritime
border in the  Gulf of Mexico , Espinosa said.  “We want to have a judicial framework that will allow us
to protect our national assets and we expect to have it done by
the end of this year or early next year,” Espinosa said.  In past years, Mexico has raised concerns that companies
drilling on the U.S. side of the Gulf near Mexico’s border may
extract oil that belongs to Mexico.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  