-- 
Mexican Bond Yields Rise to Highest in Six Weeks on Europe Debt

-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-09-13T21:24:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/mexico-peso-posting-longest-losing-streak-since-june-on-europe-debt-crisis.html
Mexico ’s peso bond yields climbed
to the highest level in six weeks on mounting concern that
Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso-denominated bond due
in 2024 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6.63
percent at 5 p.m. New York time, according to data from Banco
Santander SA. The price of the security fell 0.26 centavo to
129.67 centavos per peso.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Greece is taking the
right steps to get its next bailout payment, warning against
allowing a Greek default because of the risk of contagion for
other euro-area countries. Merkel, in a German radio interview
broadcast today, said that an “uncontrolled insolvency” would
further roil markets spooked by the prospect of a Greek default.
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will hold a conference
call with Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  tomorrow
to discuss developments in Greece and the euro area,
Papandreou’s Athens office said.  “We’re back in this risk-off trade environment given all
the sovereign risk pressures in the euro zone, continued
concerns about the growth outlook in the U.S.,” Aryam Vazquez,
a New-York based emerging markets economist at Wells Fargo &
Co., said in a phone interview. “The markets are really, really
uncertain as to what’s going to happen in Europe.”  The peso declined 0.3 percent at 12.8840 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 12.8429 yesterday. It has fallen 4.2 percent this year, the
second-worst performer among major Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after  Argentina ’s peso.  Traders didn’t trigger any of the dollar options available
today, the central bank said on its website. The bank has been
buying as much as $600 million through the options every month
since March 2010 to bolster foreign reserves. They allow the
central bank to accumulate dollars, insuring against outflows of
capital and limiting the peso’s appreciation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  