-- 
Mexico Downplays Chances for Free-Trade Agreement With Brazil

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 
2011-09-13T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/mexico-downplays-chances-for-free-trade-agreement-with-brazil.html
Mexico ’s Foreign Minister Patricia Espinosa downplayed prospects for a free-trade agreement with
Brazil, saying Latin America’s biggest economy has dragged its
feet in trade talks with other nations.  “Brazil currently has trade negotiations under way that
date far back with many different countries,” Espinosa said in
an interview in Bloomberg’s Mexico City offices yesterday.
“This makes us think that it’s a country in which there isn’t
much flexibility for a negotiation.”  Mexican President Felipe Calderon and former Brazilian
leader  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  vowed last year to start talks
on a free-trade pact. A deal would help Mexico diversify trade
away from the U.S., which buys 80 percent of its exports, though
it may be thwarted by  Brazil ’s efforts to boost protection for
manufacturers being hurt by a rally in its currency and
increased competition from  China .  Espinosa said that while “it’s difficult” to determine if
Calderon will be able to sign a trade agreement with Brazil
before his term ends in November 2012, the government is putting
forth its best effort.  “We’re willing to start a good faith dialogue in the
interest of our bilateral relationship and for the good of our
societies,” Espinosa said.  Brazil-Mexico Trade  Mexico’s trade surplus with Brazil surged to $478 million
in the first seven months of 2011 compared with $19 million in
the same period a year ago, led by a jump in car sales,
according to Brazilian trade ministry data. Annual trade last
year between the two countries jumped to $7.6 billion.  Lorenza Martinez, Mexico’s under secretary of industry and
commerce, said in a July 27 interview with Bloomberg in  Tokyo 
that Brazil’s “tariff barriers” have impeded progress on a
trade accord.  Lula’s successor,  Dilma Rousseff , has been raising tariffs
and stepping up anti-dumping measures to protect manufacturers
hurt by a currency rally that’s fueling a surge of imports.
Brazil’s real has rallied 36 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
since the end of 2008, more than all 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil was tied with  Fiji  and ranked 127th out of 179
countries in the Heritage Foundation’s 2011  ranking of trade
freedom  around the world. The Washington-based policy research
organization cited Brazil’s high tariffs, restrictive licensing
rules and taxes as barriers to freer trade. Mexico was ranked
72nd.  While a deal with Brazil may be harder to achieve, Espinosa
said she expects Mexico’s Congress to approve a free-trade
agreement with  Peru  signed in April. Mexican exports to Peru
would nearly triple to $2.7 billion under the agreement,
according to the Economy Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  