-- 
Facebook Automates Lists of Friends to Rival New Service From Google

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-13T18:24:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/facebook-automates-friend-lists-to-take-on-google-s-rival-social-network.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s largest
social network, is simplifying tools to automate lists of
friends who can see posts and photos as it steps up competition
with a new rival service from  Google Inc. (GOOG)   So-called Smart Lists, set to debut this week, will
generate groups of friends for Facebook users based on common
attributes in their profiles such as a family, city, school or
employer, said Mike Schroepfer, vice president of engineering.
The optional feature eliminates the need to create lists from
scratch, and also lets members be manually added or deleted.  “You have all sorts of different shades of gray in terms
of how you interact with people,” Schroepfer said. “We wanted
to make sure the product had a richer set of tools to allow
people to control that experience.”  Facebook is adding functions to keep users on the site amid
competition for Web surfers’ attention from rivals including
Google+, which had about 29 million users at the end of July,
according to ComScore Inc. Google+ debuted in June to take on
Facebook with streamlined sharing options linked to circles of
friends most likely to want an image or message, such as family
or fans of a certain sports team.  “This is clearly aimed directly at Google+,” said  Josh Bernoff , an analyst at Forrester Research Inc. in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , in an interview. “This may blunt the Google+
desire a little bit, but managing lists has historically been a
little challenging on Facebook and I’m not sure this will fix
that.”  ‘Close Friends’  Palo Alto ,  California-based Facebook , with more than 750
million users, originally rolled out a Friend List feature in
2007. The company is now refining tools to manually create lists
such as “close friends” or “acquaintances.” While users will
see all posts, such as photos or messages, from close friends in
the feed, they’ll see less from acquaintances.  Users can create a restricted list, such as friends from
college or high school a decade ago, enabling them to only see
public posts.  They can also use Smart Lists to automatically generate a
list of all their friends who attended the same university
identified in their profile.  The added features come after the company strengthened
privacy settings to give users more control over who views
messages, photos and other shared items. Facebook began placing
many of the privacy controls next to content that can be shared,
instead of in a separate section that is harder to find.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 