-- 
Faltering Aussie Economy Diverging as New Zealand Surges: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-09-14T07:28:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/faltering-aussie-economy-diverging-as-new-zealand-surges-australia-credit.html
The economic outlooks for  Australia 
and New Zealand are diverging the most in at least five years in
the  bond market .  Investors expect the central bank to boost New Zealand’s
key interest rate 48 basis points within a year, the biggest
forecast rise in the developed world, as the country rebounds
from its deadliest earthquake in eight decades, Credit Suisse
Group AG indexes show. Australia will make the biggest cuts by
lowering borrowing costs 155 basis points, the data show. The
203-basis-point gap between the gauges is the widest since the
indexes began in 2006.  New Zealand’s “growth is generally better balanced than in
Australia and policy setting is more stimulatory,” said
Jonathan Cunliffe, London-based head of global macro strategy at
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which manages $298 billion
worldwide. “We would have a preference for owning long-dated
Australian government bonds versus their New Zealand
counterparts.”  Australian and New Zealand bonds had the world’s best
returns in U.S. dollar terms in the past year, as their
governments use revenue from exports to  China  to target budget
surpluses at a time when leaders from  Washington  to  Rome  are
struggling to rein in debt burdens. Australia, the only
developed nation to avoid recession over the past 20 years,
faces its weakest jobs market since 2009. New Zealand last
quarter had the strongest annual employment growth since 2007.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and 12 other banks say New Zealand rate
rises this year will narrow the rates gap between the nations.  Rate Outlooks  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard, 60, will
leave the official cash rate at a record-low 2.50 percent
tomorrow, according to all 15 economists surveyed Sept. 9 by
Bloomberg News.  Australian central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens , 53, kept
borrowing costs unchanged on Sept. 6 for a ninth straight
meeting at 4.75 percent, the highest in the developed world.
Four of 24 economists expect him to cut rates this year, 19
estimate no change and  Adam Carr  of ICAP Australia Ltd. expects
a 25 basis-point increase, according to a Sept. 13 survey.  A separate Credit Suisse gauge shows an 8 percent chance
for an increase tomorrow, making Bollard the sole developed-
world central bank governor markets judge may contemplate
raising interest rates even as share markets plunge on concern
 Greece  will default.  N.Z. Dollar Surges  The  New Zealand dollar  surged 12 percent over the past six
months against its peers in the Group of 10 currencies, the
strongest advance among Bloomberg’s Correlation-Weighted
indexes. Australia’s rose 1.2 percent, the data show.  New
Zealand ’s benchmark 10-year bond yield was 4.45 percent as of
5:21 p.m. in Sydney today, the most relative to its Australian
counterpart in a year. The Australian note yielded 4.09 percent,
or 212 basis points more than U.S. Treasuries.  Bollard signaled in July the nation’s strengthening economy
may allow him to reverse the 50 basis-point cut he made in March
to revive confidence after earthquakes struck the southern city
of Christchurch, including a Feb. 22 temblor that killed more
than 180 people, wrecking homes and closing the central business
district.  Demand for New Zealand’s milk, wool and timber exports, is
helping spur an economy that confounded the central bank by
shrugging off the Christchurch disasters to expand in the first
quarter at the fastest pace since 2009.  QIC, a Brisbane-based asset manager with about A$25 billion
($25.5 billion) of cash and fixed-income investments, has
reduced holdings of New Zealand bonds that it added after the
earthquake, said Susan Buckley, head of the firm’s global fixed-
interest unit.  Australian Bonds  “Australia has been a far more liquid market for global
investors to take their positions, whereas New Zealand suffers
from the illiquidity aspect,” she said. “You don’t want to be
the last one to exit long positions in New Zealand, that can
hurt.”  The New Zealand dollar is the world’s 10th most-traded
currency with $59.9 billion in average daily transactions. The
government has the equivalent of $48.4 billion of bonds on
issue, according to Bloomberg data.  Australia has $195.8 billion in sovereign debt outstanding
and its currency is the world’s fifth most-traded, accounting
for 7.6 percent of daily turnover in  currency markets . Average
daily transactions across currency spot, forward and swaps
markets amounted to $280.7 billion in April 2010, compared with
$331.8 billion for all other Asia-Pacific currencies excluding
 Japan , tracked by the Bank of International Settlements’
triennial survey.  Manufacturing Contrast  New Zealand manufacturing sales values have increased for
seven straight quarters, the longest stretch since the period
ending in June 2001, Statistics New Zealand reported yesterday.  Australia’s manufacturing and construction industries are
showing the strains from the so-called Aussie’s climb to a
record high and the RBA’s decision to raise  interest rates  on
seven occasions between October 2009 and November 2010. Stevens
said Sept. 7 policy makers have the flexibility to “maintain
steady settings” while global markets are unstable.  The total of unemployed Australians rose for a fourth
straight month in August, the longest stretch of advances since
March 2009, when the global economy was falling into recession.  Corporate Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian dollar
corporate bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt
surged 48 basis points this quarter to 225 and reached 227 on
Sept. 12, the highest since 2009, according to indexes compiled
by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  The spread between Australia’s three-month bank bill yield
and the rate to swap floating interest payments for fixed ones,
a key gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend, was at 62 basis points
today, up from 24.1 basis points on Dec. 31. A similar measure
in New Zealand was at 36 basis points.  New Zealand’s gross domestic product will grow 2.5 percent
in 2011, the first time the smaller nation’s economy has
outpaced Australia since 2004, Bloomberg surveys of economists
show. Australia will expand 1.84 percent, its second-slowest
annual pace in the past two decades, the surveys show.  A rebound in exports after floods at the start of the year
closed coal mines drove Australian GDP’s 1.2 percent growth in
the second quarter, the statistics bureau said Sept. 7.  The contrasting outlooks have some of  Asia ’s biggest bond
investors betting that the larger nation’s debt will overtake
New Zealand’s as the developed world’s biggest gainers over the
past year.  Best Bonds  New Zealand  government bonds  delivered a 24 percent return
in U.S. dollar terms over the past year, including reinvested
interest, the most among 21 developed nations tracked by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analyst
Societies. Australian debt has climbed 22 percent.  “Australian bonds will rally,” said Sungjin Park, who
heads the $58.1 billion debt division at Samsung Asset
Management Co. in  Seoul ,  South Korea ’s largest private bond
investor. “The economy is weakening and the central bank will
consider easing.”  Park, who added to his holdings of the securities earlier
this year, said Australian 10-year bond yields may fall to about
3.7 percent by year-end and drop another percentage point in
2012, while the currency will be sustained by foreign demand for
the nation’s commodity assets and higher-yielding bonds.  Aussie Record  Australia’s dollar gained 8.8 percent against the U.S.
currency in the past 12 months and bought $1.0222 as of 5:26
p.m. in Sydney. It reached $1.1081 on July 27, the most since
exchange controls were scrapped in 1983. New Zealand’s dollar
touched 88.43 U.S. cents on Aug. 1, the highest since it was
freely floated in 1985.  Bond investors are estimating Australian consumer prices
will rise at an annual 2.47 percent pace over the coming five
years, down from this year’s high of 3.14 percent on May 6,
according to the gap between indexed government debt and bonds
that aren’t linked to inflation. That’s the highest among eight
developed markets tracked by Bloomberg data.  Kei Katayama, who leads the foreign fixed-income group in
 Tokyo  at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., has held a greater
percentage of Australian investments than the benchmark he uses
to gauge performance all year.  He trimmed his New Zealand holdings in August as the
currency rose past levels that were justified by the pace of
growth, he said. Daiwa manages 4.96 trillion yen ($64.5 billion)
of assets.  “Australia’s economy is weakening relative to New
Zealand’s, but we don’t expect Australia to slow down
severely,” Katayama said. “Yields are attractive compared to
other low-yield countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 