-- 
Defendent in U.S. FDA Insider-Trading Case Charged With Child Pornography

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-13T16:54:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/fda-insider-trading-defendant-andrew-liang-faces-child-pornography-charges.html
Andrew Liang, accused of joining an
insider-trading scheme with his father, a U.S. Food and Drug
Administration chemist, was charged with possessing child
pornography found in the course of the fraud investigation.  Liang, and his father, Cheng Yi Liang, who worked for the
FDA’s  Center for Drug Evaluation and Research , allegedly reaped
at least $3 million from trading on nonpublic information
related to drug-approval applications.  Liang was charged today in federal court in  Maryland  with
one count of possessing child pornography. The government asked
that Liang forfeit a MacBook laptop computer seized at his
Gaithersburg, Maryland home during raids by the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation  in March and April.  Liang’s lawyer, Timothy Sullivan, didn’t immediately return
telephone messages seeking comment on the new charge.  If convicted, Liang faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in
prison and a $250,000 fine. Liang would also be required to
register as a sex offender. Liang is free pending a court date,
which has yet to be scheduled, said Marcia Murphy, a spokeswoman
for U.S. Attorney Rod Rosenstein.  Prosecutors charged the Liangs in March with conspiracy,
 wire fraud  and  securities fraud . The maximum penalty for the
fraud charges is 20 years in prison.  The insider-trading case has been postponed because “the
parties are near resolution of this matter,” David Salem,
assistant U.S. attorney, said in an Aug. 29 filing.  The new case is U.S. v. Andrew Liang, 11-cr-00501. The
insider trading cases are U.S. v. Chen Yi Liang, 8:11-mj-01236-
WGC, and U.S. v. Andrew Liang, 8:11-mj-01237-WGC, U.S. District
Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  