-- 
FDIC Approves ‘Living Wills’ Rule for Largest Bank Failures

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-09-13T20:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/fdic-to-vote-on-living-wills-for-largest-bank-failures.html
U.S. regulators approved two sets
of guidelines that banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  will have to follow in drafting plans to protect the
broader economy in the event of their own collapse.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. board voted unanimously
today to release a joint final rule laying out what the largest
and most complex financial firms must include in so-called
living wills they’re required to file. The panel also approved
contingency planning guidelines for insured banks.  “The approval of these two rules marks an important
turning point in the FDIC’s implementation of its systemic
resolution responsibilities under the Dodd-Frank Act,” acting
chairman Martin J. Gruenberg said before the votes at an FDIC
meeting in Washington. The  Federal Reserve  is still required to
approve the living-wills rule before it can become final.  Congress, in the Dodd-Frank Act, expanded regulators’
authority to seize and unwind lenders in response to the market
tumult that followed the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The new rules are designed to eliminate
the need for bailouts by giving the FDIC power to liquidate
large firms whose failure could threaten the financial system.  “The events of 2008 clearly demonstrated that complacency
regarding resolution planning is not a strategy,” James Wigand,
the director of the FDIC’s Office of Complex Financial
Institutions, said during the meeting.  Banks with at least $50 billion in  assets  will have to file
plans, as will any firm designated as systemically important by
the Financial Stability Oversight Council. Currently there are
124 firms who are covered by the rule.  Blueprint  Regulators are requiring financial firms to file plans that
are developed under the context of the  bankruptcy code , with
each designed to give a blueprint for how a firm could be taken
apart. Subsidiaries with critical operations or core functions
would also have to be addressed in resolution plans, a senior
FDIC official said before today’s meeting.  The final rule changes the filing timeline from an April
draft  proposal  released by the FDIC and Fed, moving toward a
tiered phase-in based on the total of non-bank assets held by
firms. Companies with more than $250 billion in non-bank assets
would be required to file the plans by July 1, 2012. Firms with
non-bank assets between $100 billion and $250 billion would be
required to file by July 1, 2013, and all other firms would be
required to submit plans by December 2013.  Comment Letters  The proposal drew more than 15 comment letters from banks
including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) 
and  Banco Santander SA. (STD)  Banking trade groups including the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association and the
British and Japanese banking associations also weighed in,
seeking clarity on rules, and assurances of confidentiality for
proprietary information.  In shaping the proposal, the FDIC, Fed and Federal Reserve
Bank of New York also held a May meeting with more than 45
lawyers and executives from the banks that are forced by law to
comply, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , according to a meeting  disclosure  on the FDIC website.  The agency also approved unanimously a separate rule
dictating resolution plans for FDIC-insured banks with more than
$50 billion in assets. Those plans, which would be filed
concurrently with the resolution plans required by Dodd-Frank,
would be filed with the FDIC.  The rule, which the agency began drafting before the
completion of the Dodd-Frank Act, would apply to 37 banks and
thrifts, according to a senior FDIC official. Thirty four of
those firms would be required to file resolution plans with the
Fed because of the size of their parent company.  The rule would have an effective date of Jan. 1, 2012, and
would be subject to a 60-day public comment period.  ‘Just Beginning’  “The real hard work is just beginning,” said  Thomas Curry , an FDIC board member nominated by President  Barack Obama 
to serve as comptroller of the currency. “In terms of the
actual development and review of the respective resolution
plans, I think it’s critically important that the agencies
exercise substantial judgment and review these plans in a
thorough and balanced manner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  