-- 
Financial Crisis Took Away ‘Deep Pocket’ Investors, IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-09-13T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/financial-crisis-took-away-deep-pocket-investors-imf-says.html
Private institutional investors
such as pension funds may no longer help stabilize markets as
they shy away from riskier long-term assets, the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  Long-term investors, including insurance companies, have
changed allocation strategies since the beginning of the global
financial crisis amid growing liquidity and sovereign-debt
risks, the IMF said in a chapter of its Global Financial
Stability  report  released today.  Risk awareness and new rules “may push these institutions
away from their traditional role of taking on longer-term risky
assets, potentially dampening the positive impact of one class
of ‘deep pocket’ investors that are willing to hold illiquid
assets through market downturns,” IMF economists wrote.  Fears of a renewed global recession amid  Europe ’s debt
crisis have caused stocks to tumble around the world and forced
Japan and  Switzerland  to intervene to stop their currencies
appreciating as investors seek havens. Group of Seven finance
chiefs last week vowed to support banks and buoy slowing
economic growth.  Private institutional investors are accepting lower returns
rather than taking more risks, the IMF said in the report. At
the same time, some of them need to deliver fixed future
payments, which is more difficult in an environment of low
 interest rates  in advanced economies, the IMF said.  More Aggressive  With regulations forcing insurance companies to hold the
bulk of their assets in safe products, they might become more
aggressive with the remainder of their portfolio in order to
meet required earnings, according to the report.  As a result, emerging economies that have seen their share
of investment rise may become more vulnerable to sudden changes,
according to the report.  “With many first-time investors taking advantage of the
relatively better economic performance of these countries, the
risk of a reversal cannot be discounted if fundamentals -- such
as growth prospects or country or global risk -- change,”
according to the report. “For larger shocks, the impact of such
reversals could be of the same magnitude as the pullback in
flows experienced during the financial crisis.”  The vacuum left by private investors could be filled by
sovereign asset managers, who could take on the longer-term risk
as their share of global assets grows, the IMF suggested.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  