-- 
For $261 Million Montreal Hall Has Quebec Beech, Bland Exterior

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/for-261-million-montreal-hall-has-quebec-beech-bland-shell-architecture.html
Unfinished walls and raw-wood
handrails greeted patrons at the new home of the  Montreal
Symphony  on the evening of its inaugural concert last week. At
least the auditorium was ready for its big night -- barely.  The stakes were high. Beyond the estimated $261 million
cost (C$259 million), a poor opening night can be disastrous.  Think of Philadelphia’s  Kimmel Center , which opened with a
garish gala and before the complicated adjustable acoustics were
ready. The misfire contributed to the image problems and
financial distress of one of America’s greatest orchestras.  La Maison Symphonique de  Montreal  is a Kimmel descendant.
The same theater-planning and acoustical firm, Manhattan-based
Artec, largely dictated the shape of both venues.  Rather than collaborate with the architect, Toronto-based
Diamond and Schmitt, Artec insisted on handing in a fully
developed design for the room and its acoustics. Principal Jack
Diamond hired his own acoustician,  Robert Essert , of London-
based Sound Space, who made adjustments.  It will be months before the true character of the hall
reveals itself. The tunable elements comprise nine wavelike
white panels hanging from the ceiling that can be raised and
lowered.  That’s far fewer than Kimmel, yet there has been almost no
time to fiddle with them.  The idea is for the orchestra to choose configurations
appropriate to, say, a Baroque piece or Mahler.  Music Director Kent Nagano showed off the hall’s dynamics
with three pieces by Quebec composers and Beethoven’s Ninth.
Whispered flute notes floated in “Envol: Alleluia,” composed
by Gilles Tremblay. In the burnished and enveloping grandeur of
the Beethoven, the room helped the music bloom.  Restrained Informality  Gently undulating walls of honey-colored Quebec beech taper
inward to wrap the broad stage of the 2,100-seat auditorium.
Three rear balconies rise above the orchestra to push those
seats much closer to the stage than a more conventional so-
called shoebox hall, like  Boston ’s, does.  The side walls are scalloped with narrow balconies that bow
outward, extending them along both sides of the stage.  There’s no gilt proscenium scribed with curlicues so the
stage feels nestled within the audience.  Though  Frank Gehry ’s spectacular  Walt Disney Concert Hall 
in  Los Angeles  builds anticipation in a way Montreal’s room
fails to do, Diamond’s restraint pays off in an informality that
invites the audience to listen. He avoids the glitzy chandeliers
and lugubrious velvet that suggest elderly eras replete with
fur-stoled dowagers.  Concrete Bunkers  Outside, Diamond beckons passersby with a vitrine that
showcases patrons milling on four tiers of lobbies wrapped in
glass. But the bland building shrinks in the face of the
assertive mediocrity of its neighboring concrete bunkers, the
bombastic Place des Arts collection of culture palaces.  With an unassuming entrance on St. Urbain, a side street,
the hall at least opens the Place des Arts to a lively
entertainment district that has grown around it. You can follow
your Mozart with a jazz-club chaser.  To avoid delays and cost overruns, the Quebec government
handed off most of the design and all construction, financing
and management of the building to a consortium called SNC-
Lavalin Group Inc.  I’m skeptical of buying architectural apples and financial
oranges in one big package. If the proposed cost looks good
while the architecture is only so-so, guess what wins.  So I am left wondering if the building’s underpowered urban
presence may be one of the tradeoffs accepted to make the whole
package work. Artec was so concerned about maintaining the
integrity of its design that it insisted on not being part of
the consortium.  Arts organizations, starved for building-project cash, will
watch this privatized-management idea closely.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own. Island Press recently pubblished his book, “The
Agile City.”)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 