-- 
Four Seasons to Develop Resort at Walt Disney World With Dune

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-09-13T16:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/four-seasons-to-develop-resort-at-florida-s-walt-disney-world-with-dune.html
Four Seasons Hotels Inc., the
luxury chain founded in 1961, will develop a property at Walt
Disney World Resort in  Orlando ,  Florida , in a $360 million deal
with Silverstein Properties Inc. and Dune Real Estate Partners.  The 444-room hotel is scheduled to open in 2014, Toronto-
based Four Seasons said in a  statement  today. The hotelier,
which purchased the land from Disney in August 2008, will have a
30 percent stake in the resort and will operate it. Grupo
Financiero Inbursa, based in Mexico City, will provide $190
million in construction financing for the project.  “This is an irreplaceable asset,” Daniel Neidich, chief
executive officer of New York-based Dune Real Estate Partners,
said in the statement, “a rare opportunity in a remarkable
location, with a prestigious brand that we believe will provide
attractive returns to our investors for many years to come.”  In addition to the hotel, the property will include as many
as 40 Four Seasons Residence Club units and as many as 90
private homes. The resort will feature several restaurants,
including a rooftop venue with views of Disney’s Magic Kingdom,
a spa with 18 treatment rooms, a fitness center, three pools and
sports facilities including tennis courts, a basketball court
and climbing wall.  Dune is the project’s majority investor, according to the
statement. Silverstein Properties, based in  New York  and led by
CEO Larry A. Silverstein, will oversee development and
construction at the site.  The project will encompass the Tom Fazio-designed Osprey
Ridge golf course, which will be renovated and managed by Four
Seasons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  