-- 
France, U.S. Should Push Europe to Strengthen Military: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-13T00:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/france-u-s-should-push-europe-to-strengthen-military-capabilities-view.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
embrace of the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  might be the
last best chance to reverse the decline in Europe’s defense
capabilities.  In an  Aug. 31 address  to French ambassadors, Sarkozy said
that in  Libya , NATO “turned out to be a crucial tool in the
service of our military operations.” This is a dramatic change
from the traditional French ambivalence toward the alliance. But
this new attitude doesn’t change the disproportionate share of
the burden that the U.S., France and the U.K. bear for NATO’s
operations. The good news is that by making NATO an important
part of his national-security strategy, Sarkozy now has a
powerful reason to push other Europeans to contribute their fair
share.  Sarkozy understands the problem. In the speech, he
forcefully decried  Europe ’s declining defense capacity and lack
of political will. “Europeans,” he said, “must assume more of
their responsibilities,” or “experience a rude awakening.”
France and the U.K., he noted, account for half of combined
defense spending by all members of the European Union.  This is unsustainable. France is struggling with budgetary
problems, and the French people are unlikely to support robust
military spending if other European nations receive a free pass.  Defense Spending  Sarkozy’s words are music to the ears of U.S. and NATO
officials who have been making this point for years. In the
early 1980s, European countries contributed about 33 percent of
total NATO defense spending; this year, it’s about 20 percent.
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the alliance’s secretary-general and a
former prime minister of  Denmark , has said Europe’s
unwillingness to pay for defense means it will have less
influence internationally and less capability to resolve cross-
border disputes.  Although each of the NATO allies has agreed to lay out 2
percent of their gross domestic product on defense, the European
allies spent an average of 1.7 percent of GDP in 2010 (compared
with 5.4 percent for the U.S.). European expenditures are
expected to decline further in the near future, and even the U.K.
is planning cuts.  For the last 10 years, Europeans found it easy to dismiss
what they viewed as U.S. heavy-handedness on security matters.
But with Sarkozy now joining the call for change, it will be
much harder to label this an American problem, reflecting U.S.
attitudes.  Threat Perception  Most Europeans still don’t see a threat that justifies
increased defense spending, nor are they yet comfortable with
the idea that NATO should become an expeditionary force able and
willing to send troops far from the alliance’s borders.  In addition, as most European countries focus on deficit
reduction, getting them to spend more on defense probably isn’t
a realistic goal.  Instead, Sarkozy should develop a strategy with President
 Barack Obama  to change the way European alliance members spend
their money, aimed at improving defense capabilities. The two
leaders should try to persuade the Europeans to allocate their
budgets more efficiently by pooling resources, sharing
procurement, and having the smaller allies specialize in
particular tasks.  For example, the Czechs have taken on the task of providing
a defense against chemical, nuclear and biological weapons for
all NATO forces; other allies don’t have to duplicate that
capability. By having a group of countries buy the same
equipment, the alliance can get lower prices from defense
contractors.  Other cost-reducing initiatives are already in place. Some
NATO members have cut the size of their armed forces, but made
those that remained more effective. Twelve allies formed a
consortium to buy three  C-17 air transports  that none of them
could afford on their own. The Netherlands and  Belgium  share a
naval headquarters.  Building on that foundation will require difficult
political decisions. Rasmussen should devise a plan to boost
capabilities while reducing costs and force NATO’s members to
accept it or reject it as one package. If that doesn’t happen,
the alliance’s members will continue to endlessly talk about the
problem without solving it, as each country seeks to protect its
parochial interests.  NATO has been unable to resolve this fundamental issue for
many years. A joint French-American plan has a chance to break
this deadlock. The irony is that Sarkozy will soon find out that
it isn’t the U.S., but his fellow Europeans who are the biggest
obstacle to his vision of  France  as a leader of NATO.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 