-- 
French Novelist Houellebecq Goes Missing, Dutch Publisher Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-09-13T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/french-novelist-houellebecq-goes-missing-before-tour-dutch-publisher-says.html
Michel Houellebecq, the French
writer whose novels address sex tourism, sado-masochism and
cloning, failed to show up for a scheduled reading tour of the
Netherlands and  Belgium  and cannot be reached by his  publishers .  “We really don’t know what is happening,” said Barbara
Simons, a spokeswoman for Het Beschrijf, the literary
organization that arranged the tour. “It’s bizarre. There has
been no news and he hasn’t arrived.”  Simons said neither Houellebecq’s French publisher, nor his
agent, nor his translator knows where the 53-year-old writer is.
Houellebecq, who won  France ’s most prestigious literary prize
last year, lives a reclusive life in southern  Spain , according
to Het Beschrijf.  His trademarks are dark humor, biting social criticism,
frequent philosophical allusions and a bleak vision of human
relationships. Viewed as a prophet and genius by some,
Houellebecq has been accused by others of misogyny, inciting
racial hatred, moral bankruptcy and pornography.  He was scheduled to read from “La Carte et le
Territoire,” the book for which he won the 2010 Prix Goncourt,
on the occasion of its translation into Dutch. Readings were
planned from Sept. 12 to Sept. 15 in Amsterdam, The Hague, and
Brussels.  “The Map and the Territory” in English, the new novel is
the story of an artist called Jed Martin who falls for a
beautiful Russian named Olga, gains success with his portraits,
and becomes entangled in a police investigation.  Psychotic Depression  Houellebecq’s first novel, which critics said may have been
semi-autobiographical, dealt with psychotic depression. The
author suffered a long period of unemployment and depression in
the 1980s, according to a biography on a  website  compiled by
fans of the author.  In “Atomised,” his second, he took on the themes of sex
addiction and molecular biology. “The Possibility of an
Island,” published in 2005, is a science-fiction satire that
encompasses cloning and Schopenhauer, while “Platform” deals
with sex tourism, terrorism and prostitution.  He cites Baudelaire, Aldous Huxley, Kant,  Thomas Mann  and
Bret Easton Ellis among his influences, while he has written a
biography of horror writer H.P. Lovecraft.  A spokeswoman for Houellebecq’s French publisher, 
Flammarion Groupe in Paris, today said that she was not 
informed of the situation and couldn't comment.  Piet Joostens, who organized the readings, said he was not
aware that anyone had reported Houellebecq’s absence to the
police.  “I wouldn’t panic yet,” he said. “We have no concrete
evidence that he is a missing person. Of course we are worried.
It has happened before that he doesn’t answer e-mails, but it is
rare for him not to show up to meet his public.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 