-- 
U.K. Stocks Advance; Benchmark FTSE 100 Index Gains 0.7% in London Trading

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-13T16:32:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/ftse-stocks-retreat-amid-european-debt-concerns-barclays-hsbc-decline.html
U.K. stocks climbed, snapping a
two-day selloff for the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , as banks
rebounded from earlier losses.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Lloyds Banking Group
Plc jumped more than 4 percent. Inmarsat Plc gained 2 percent
amid speculation the company could be a takeover target.  Sage
Group Plc (SGE)  and  Centrica Plc (CNA)  also climbed as analysts recommended
the shares.  The FTSE 100 rose 44.63, or 0.9 percent, to 5,174.25 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London, having earlier lost 1.2 percent. The
gauge last month slumped 7.2 percent, dragging equities to their
cheapest valuation compared with estimated earnings since March
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The FTSE All-
Share Index gained 0.8 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
rallied 1.5 percent.  “Traders are looking for any reason to buy at moment and
this market is probably due a rally,” said Ian Murrell, an
analyst at Pritchard Stockbrokers Ltd. in  London  “Investors
want to buy banks for a market bounce but certainly not in any
belief that the banking crisis is over.”  Stocks slumped yesterday as speculation mounted that
 Germany  is preparing for Greece to default and as two people
with knowledge of the matter said Moody’s Investors Service may
downgrade French banks because of their Greek holdings. The
rating company placed BNP Paribas SA,  Societe Generale  SA and
Credit Agricole SA on review in June.  RBS, Lloyds  RBS gained 5.3 percent to 21.88 pence after tumbling more
than 8 percent the previous two sessions. Lloyds rallied 4.2
percent to 31.83 pence today and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  advanced 4.7
percent to 148.3 pence.  U.K. lenders followed European banks higher after  BNP
Paribas (BNP) , France’s biggest bank, and Societe Generale rejected
concerns over their access to funding. Both stocks dropped more
than 8 percent earlier today, before closing higher.  Inmarsat gained 2 percent to 486.2 pence. Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Sukawaty said it is “natural” for private-
equity firms to consider an investment in the satellite company
but said “there has been no formal approach.”  The London-based Times today cited bid speculation from a
private equity company without saying where it got the
information.  Sage Upgrade  Elsewhere, Sage Group gained 2.4 percent to 254.3 pence as
Exane BNP Paribas raised its recommendation for the shares to
“neutral” from “underperform.” Centrica gained 1.2 percent
to 292.5 pence as Morgan Stanley raised its recommendation for
utilities to “in line” from “cautious” and named the U.K.
company as a “top pick.”  IG Group Holdings Plc (IGG)  also advanced, climbing 3.6 percent
to 444 pence. The owner of the IG Index spread-betting brand
said it benefited from an “absolute blowout” in sales as a
result of market turmoil in August. Sales surged 26 percent in
the three months to Aug. 31.  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  paced declining shares, dropping 8.2
percent to 287 pence. The Scottish  oil company  focusing on
Greenland plugged the Gamma-1 exploration well after failing to
find a “reservoir or hydrocarbon shows.”  Cairn last month plugged the LF7-1 exploration well, about
300 kilometers off Nuuk, Greenland’s capital, after failing to
find oil.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  dropped 3 percent to 1,930 pence after
Citigroup Inc. downgraded the silver producer to “sell” from
“neutral,” saying the company’s earnings could be hit as the
price of silver falls more than gold in a  bear market .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  