-- 
Full-Time MBA Applications Continue to Decline

-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-09-13T20:49:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/full-time-mba-apps-decline-for-a-third-year.html
Fewer students are applying to
full-time graduate business and law schools, steered away by
concerns about costs and job prospects, according to two
reports.  The average number of applications for two-year, full-time
MBA programs declined almost 10 percent from last year, the
 Graduate Management Admission Council  said today. About two-
thirds of the 199 programs that responded to its survey reported
a drop, continuing a trend that began in 2009, according to the
Reston, Virginia-based nonprofit group.  “The caution in this year’s survey for full-time MBA
programs is unsurprising in the current economy as students
weigh the financial and time commitments required to pursue a
graduate business degree,” Dave Wilson, the council’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement on the group’s website.  GMAC, which groups about 200 business schools worldwide,
administers the  Graduate Management Admission Test , required by
many business schools.  Flexible MBA programs didn’t see the same declines. About
54 percent of part-time programs reported the same or greater
application volume compared with last year, while 58 percent of
executive MBA programs saw the same or increased volume.  These groups “fared better, as students were able to
continue to work while they completed their course work,”
according to the report.  At law schools, applications dropped almost 10 percent for
the fall of 2011 -- to 78,900 from 87,500 last year -- according
to preliminary data from the  Law School Admission Council .  Students appear to be leery of taking on debt for law school
in a slow job market, Wendy Margolis, a spokeswoman for the
Newtown, Pennsylvania-based nonprofit group, said in a telephone
interview. The group’s members are law schools.  “People are really thinking more carefully about why they
want to go to law school and what their goals are,” Margolis
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 