-- 
GE Sets Oct. 17 for $3.3 Billion Buffett Stake Redemption

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-09-13T22:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/ge-sets-date-to-redeem-buffett-stake.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  set a date of
Oct. 17 for a $3.3 billion payment to repurchase preferred stock
sold to Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  as financial
markets froze in October 2008.  The shares, callable after three years at a 10 percent
premium, helped Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  raise
another $12 billion from public markets two weeks after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy. GE disclosed the
date today in a U.S. regulatory filing.  Buying back the stake is a priority for Immelt and Chief
Financial Officer Keith Sherin, who told investors on a July
conference call that Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE is
concentrating on using cash in the near term to repurchase
common shares and increase the dividend.  “This will allow them more flexibility to potentially
increase the dividend,” said Nicholas Heymann, an analyst with
William Blair & Co. in  New York  who has a “market perform”
rating on the stock. The quarterly payout is 15 cents a share.  For Buffett, the redemption of the shares will mean an end
to the 10 percent annual dividend that GE paid his Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire for the preferred stock. Sherin said
last year that GE was considering an early repurchase of the
shares to save an annual dividend payment of about $300 million.  Payment Breakdown  Next month’s payment for the preferred shares will be $3
billion for the stock plus a $300 million premium, GE said in
the filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  At the time Buffett bought the preferred shares, he also
acquired warrants to buy about $3 billion of common stock with a
strike price of $22.25 a share for five years. GE rose 40 cents
to $15.41 today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  GE slashed the dividend on its common shares in 2009 to
help preserve cash, the first cut since 1938. Since then, GE has
raised the dividend three times. The quarterly payout may rise
to 17 cents in December, and to 20 cents by the end of 2012,
according to a Bloomberg projection.  GE said in July it had $91 billion in cash on its balance
sheet at the end of the second quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  