-- 
Geithner to Take Crisis Message to Europe Talks

-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-09-13T18:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/geithner-said-to-take-crisis-message-to-eu-finance-chiefs-at-poland-talks.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  plans to urge European Union finance ministers to step
up their crisis-fighting strategy when he meets with them this
week in Poland, a euro-area official said.  The official spoke on condition of anonymity because
preparations for the meeting, which takes place in Wroclaw,
Poland, on Sept. 16 and 17, are confidential. It will be the
first time Geithner has attended a session of  Europe ’s Economic
and Financial Affairs Council, known as Ecofin.  The visit “underlines the nervousness of the
administration in the U.S. about what’s happening in Europe”
and the effect the region’s debt crisis is having on U.S.
financial markets,  Julian Jessop , chief global economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in an interview today.  The trip to Wroclaw will be Geithner’s second to Europe in
a week. He returned to Washington on Sept. 10 from a Group of
Seven finance ministers and central bankers meeting in
Marseille, France, where he urged European leaders to “act more
forcefully.”  “I think they’re going to have to demonstrate to the world
they have enough political will,” Geithner told Bloomberg
Television on Sept. 9. He said the U.S. has “a huge interest in
helping the Europeans through this and we’re going to do
everything we can to encourage them to act more forcefully.”  The G-7 finance chiefs vowed in Marseille to support banks
and try to bolster slowing economic growth.  ‘Necessary Actions’  “We will take all necessary actions to ensure the
resilience of banking systems and financial markets,” the
officials said in a Sept. 9 statement. “Concerns over the pace
and future of the recovery underscore the need for a concerted
effort at a global level in support of strong, sustainable and
balanced growth.”  Geithner is interested in the  Poland  meeting because it
includes officials from all 27 EU nations, a broader group than
the Group of Seven, said a Treasury official who declined to be
identified because details of Geithner’s plans haven’t been made
public.  The Treasury secretary’s trip has “no specific goals” and
is “part of his regular communication/consultation with his
European counterparts,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
told reporters today.  More Decisive  Geithner could urge European leaders at the Poland meeting
to be more decisive, said  Phillip Swagel , who was an assistant
Treasury secretary for economic policy in the George W. Bush
administration. “If they’re going to support the countries in
trouble, do it,” Swagel said. “Or Germany and  France  should
just decide they’re going to focus on their own banks.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian
said today that organizations like the International Monetary
Fund need to act with European banks at risk of being engulfed
in the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “We’re getting close to a full-blown banking crisis in
Europe,” El-Erian, Pimco’s chief executive officer and co-chief
investment officer, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “We are in a
synchronized global slowdown. There’s very little confidence in
economic policy making both in Europe and the U.S.”  The  World Bank  and the IMF meet Sept. 23-25 in Washington
as European officials work to keep the currency union from
unraveling while weighing whether to allow  Greece  to default.
French banks have become a focal point because of their holdings
of bonds issued by the euro region’s most-indebted nations,
topping the list of Greek creditors with $56.7 billion in
overall exposure, according to a June report by the Bank for
International Settlements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  