-- 
Gillard to Back Australia Media Inquiry After News Corp. Hacking Scandal

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-09-13T06:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/gillard-to-back-australia-media-inquiry-after-news-corp-hacking-scandal.html
Australia  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government will hold an inquiry into the nation’s
media following the phone hacking scandal surrounding the now
closed  News Corp. (NWS)  London tabloid the News of the World.  Communications Minister Stephen Conroy is working out the
scope of the inquiry and details will be announced soon,
Conroy’s spokesman Lyall Johnson said in a phone interview. It
has not yet been determined whether it will be a parliamentary,
independent or judicial probe, he said.  Demands for an investigation intensified after Gillard
demanded and got a  retraction  and apology for the printing of a
falsehood last month by the Australian, a newspaper owned by
News Corp.’s local unit News Ltd. The Greens party, whose
support Gillard’s Labor party needs to retain power, said it is
working with her to determine the extent of an inquiry that
should consider the role of an “independent umpire.”  "Information is the currency of democracy and we need a
review to assess whether the  media industry  has been devalued,"
Greens Senator and party leader  Bob Brown , said in comments e-
mailed to Bloomberg News. "A robust inquiry which can promote
media diversity and ensure the public’s recourse when wrong
behavior occurs would serve Australia well."  The U.K. scandal means the local arm of  Rupert Murdoch ’s
News Corp. has "hard questions" to answer, Gillard said July 20,
without being specific. News Ltd. Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer John Hartigan has said the Australian newspapers were
free of the practices seen in Britain.  Hacking Allegations  Murdoch shut down the 168-year-old News of the World, owned
by News Corp. since 1969, following allegations it hacked into
the mobile phone of a 13-year-old murder victim and he has since
pulled his $12.5 billion bid to gain full control of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   News Ltd. owns 120 metropolitan, regional and rural
newspapers, including The Australian and the Daily and Sunday
Telegraph, and accounts for about 70 percent of the nation’s
newspaper market.  A meeting of Labor lawmakers in Canberra today heard
demands that Murdoch be forced to sell some of News Ltd.’s
Australian newspapers, the Australian Financial Review said on
it web site, citing party-room sources that weren’t identified.  Conroy said in July that Murdoch’s  Daily Telegraph , the
best-selling newspaper in Australia’s largest city of Sydney, is
“running a campaign on regime change.”  Opposition Liberal-National leader Tony Abbott today said
the government’s decision “looks like a naked attempt to
intimidate the media.”  “There is no evidence of any significant new problems in
the media in Australia,” Abbott told reporters in Canberra.  Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP competes with  News Corp. (NWSA) 
in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  