-- 
Gingrich Agrees With Obama on Need to Extend Payroll Tax Cuts

-- B y   P e t e r   C o o k   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-09-13T20:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/gingrich-agrees-with-obama-on-need-to-extend-payroll-tax-cuts.html
Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ,
while criticizing President  Barack Obama ’s economic policies,
said he agrees with the president on the need to extend a
payroll-tax break for millions of Americans.  “I am against tax increases in the middle of a
depression,” Gingrich, a Republican presidential candidate,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today. “We
should extend tax cuts for working Americans just as I would
extend the Bush tax cuts.”  In addition to continuing the tax decreases passed under
former President  George W. Bush , Gingrich said he favors
eliminating the tax on  capital gains  and inheritances and would
cut the corporate rate to 12.5 percent from 35 percent. He also
said he wouldn’t support efforts to end tax breaks for oil and
gas companies.  “I am not for raising taxes on American companies,” he
said. “I am for reducing taxes on American companies.”  Gingrich, 68, is trying to gain traction in a race for the
White House dominated by other Republican hopefuls. The Georgia
Republican highlighted his experience working on federal budgets
and said he expects to be “fully competitive” by the start of
the primary election season in January.  An Aug. 29-Sept. 1 Washington Post-ABC News poll put
Gingrich in sixth place among Republican-leaning voters. Texas
Governor Rick Perry led in that poll, followed by former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin took third place even though she hasn’t declared her
candidacy for the White House.  Gingrich spoke today from Tampa,  Florida , the site of a
Republican presidential debate last night. He said history shows
that the early frontrunners aren’t always the final candidates.  “If you go back and look at this stage in 2007, you’d have
said that  Hillary Clinton  would have been running against Rudy Giuliani,” Gingrich said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Cook in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  