-- 
GM Eyes Profitability in Europe Operations Along With Ford on Improvements

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-09-13T18:31:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/gm-eyes-profitability-in-europe-along-with-ford-on-improvements.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , U.S. automakers trying to boost the results of their
European units, are moving to break even or turn a profit in the
market this year amid the continent’s economic problems,
executives said.  “This time two years ago our operations in Europe were in
severe difficulty, losing a lot of money,”  Nick Reilly ,
president GM Europe, told reporters today at the Frankfurt motor
show. “Two years later, the atmosphere is totally different.”  GM, based in  Detroit , is trying to end losses in Europe,
which have totaled $14.5 billion since 1999. Ford’s surprise $51
million pretax loss in Europe in 2010’s fourth quarter began a
40 percent slide in its share price this year through yesterday.
Pretax profit in Ford’s European operations plunged 45 percent
to $176 million in this year’s second quarter.  “ Wall Street  expects you to be making profit all over the
world, including Europe,”  Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst
with IHS Automotive, said in an interview on the floor of the
auto show.  The efforts by GM and Ford come as Europe has become
entangled in concerns about sovereign debt, including a possible
default in  Greece  which has imperiled the stability of the euro.  “We’re worried, yes,” Reilly said. “Having said that, so
far we have seen no impact on our order intake.”  GM’s Target  GM’s goal for Europe is to be “profitable by just better
than break-even before restructuring charges,” Reilly said.
“In 2012, we won’t have those restructuring charges. They’re
mostly done. We’ll get the full 12 month benefit of the
restructuring that we’ve done.”  Those operations include Opel, which should turn a
“healthy profit” next year, Karl-Friedrich Stracke, head of
Opel and Vauxhall told reporters.  The company’s European operations earned $102 million
before taxes and interest in the second quarter following a
first-quarter loss of $390 million, including a writedown of
goodwill. Without that cost, GM’s European operations would have
generated a first-quarter profit of $5 million.  GM Europe  sales increased 7.7 percent to 912,000 vehicles
during the first six months from the first half of 2010. That
increased its market share in Europe to 8.8 percent from 8.7
percent. The gain was largely driven by sales increases in
Germany and  Russia .  GM’s European Changes  The company, which went through a U.S. bankruptcy
reorganization in 2009, also revamped its European operations,
including paring production capacity by 20 percent, closing a
plant in  Belgium  and cutting 8,000 jobs.  The U.S. restructuring has helped GM’s balance sheet in
 North America , which drove much of its second quarter profit of
$2.52 billion as sales increased by 19 percent to $39.4 billion.  “We don’t have anything like that here,” Reilly said,
explaining why GM’s turnaround in Europe is one year to 18
months behind its U.S. efforts. “You either liquidate or you
get through it” in Europe.  GM expects the total Europe market to be 19.2 million or
19.3 million this year with sales reaching 19.6 million next
year, he said.  The automaker has been unable to raise prices in Europe to
compensate for labor rates in  Germany , its primary manufacturing
center on the continent.  Ford’s Prospects  While Ford has had profits in the region, it has seen its
business slow in Europe. Ford’s operating profit margin in
Europe fell to 2 percent in the second quarter, from 4.3 percent
a year earlier. The company has said its goal for this year is
to have a global automotive operating margin of 7.3 percent.  “We expect to be profitable this year,” Chief Financial
Officer  Lewis Booth  said in an interview yesterday in advance of
the motor show, repeating an earlier forecast.  Ford’s sales in its 19 main European markets fell  2.2
percent  this year through August and its share of sales in the
region declined by 0.3 percentage points.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally is trying to use  fuel
efficiency  and technology including voice-activated stereos to
command more respect and cash from car buyers in Germany,
 Europe ’s largest market. Ford has doubled the size of its stand
for the Frankfurt show.  The company’s European results have been erratic the past
three quarters. After the fourth-quarter loss, Ford’s first-
quarter European profit more than doubled to $239 million. Then
came the second-quarter’s 45 percent decline.  Ford of Europe finished the first half of 2011 with $469
million in Europe profit before taxes, up from $429 million
during the first half last year.  “Europe is, as everyone knows, a very competitive
environment,” Booth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Frankfurt at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  