-- 
Gold’s ‘Perfect Storm’ to Continue on Haven Demand, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-09-13T04:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/gold-s-perfect-storm-to-continue-on-haven-demand-morgan-stanley-says.html
Gold’s “perfect storm” is
expected to continue on renewed investor demand for haven
assets, potentially driving the metal to its 1980 inflation-
adjusted record, according to Morgan Stanley.  The firm retains a positive view on gold for its role as
portfolio insurance against a “formidable cocktail” of macro
challenges including financial systemic risk, concern of a
double dip recession and sustained low interest rates, its
analysts including  Peter Richardson  wrote in a report.  The outlook for gold is now in favor of the firm’s “bull
case” target of $1,625 an ounce this year and $1,819 an ounce
in 2012, they said. Bullion now has an estimated 85 percent
probability of trading between $1,819 an ounce and $2,085 an
ounce next year, according to Morgan Stanley’s calculations.  “As the source of downside risk to growth is the result of
policy error in relation to the handling of sovereign debt in
which the outcome is likely to be an extended period of negative
real interest rates in the developed world, the forecast risk in
gold is skewed firmly to upside,” the analysts wrote.  The firm’s “base case” calls for gold to average $1,511
an ounce this year and $1,624 an ounce in 2012. Immediate-
delivery gold, which reached a record $1,921.15 an ounce on
Sept. 6, has averaged $1,523 this year. It traded at $1,832.57
an ounce at 12:19 p.m. Singapore time.  Gold is still below its nominal high after accounting for
inflation. Spot gold’s $850 an ounce peak in January 1980 is
equivalent to $2,330.51 today after adjusting for inflation,
according to the U.S. Labor Department’s inflation  calculator .  Bull Market   Bullion is in the 11th year of a bull market, the longest
winning streak since at least 1920 in  London , as investors seek
to diversify away from equities and some currencies, as well as
hedge against inflation. The metal is up 29 percent this year,
outperforming global stocks, commodities and Treasuries.  “We would expect a meaningful challenge to the previous
inflation adjusted all-time high gold price” on increased risks
from the contagion effects of the debt crisis in  Europe ,
continued uncertainty over  U.S. debt  and the likelihood of
extended low rates in response to weakness in the  U.S. economy ,
the analysts said.  The  Federal Reserve  pledged to keep its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low at least through mid-2013 to revive a
recovery that’s “considerably slower” than anticipated. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  is “prepared to employ”
additional tools to bolster an economy hobbled by weak hiring
and anemic household spending, it said Aug. 9.  Gold is also benefiting from the changing foreign exchange
environment, according to Morgan Stanley, as low rates in the
U.S. will provide little support for the dollar. Bullion, priced
in dollars, typically moves inversely to the U.S. currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  