-- 
Gold Futures Decline as Concerns on Europe’s Debt Woes Ease

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-14T19:18:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/gold-may-advance-for-second-day-as-european-debt-risk-drives-haven-demand.html
Gold futures fell as the prospect
of financial support from  China  eased concern that the European
debt crisis will worsen, eroding demand for the metal as a
haven.  China is willing to buy the bonds of nations hit by the
debt crisis, said  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a vice chairman of the
National Development and Reform Commission, according to Caijing
magazine. Equities rallied in the U.S. for a third day, and the
dollar rose against a basket of major currencies, reducing the
appeal of gold as an alternative investment.  “ Europe  is trying to find ways to ward off the crisis,”
Tom Pawlicki, a Chicago-based analyst at MF Global Holdings
Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “The dollar being slightly
up is also acting against gold.”  Gold futures for December delivery fell $3.60, or 0.2
percent, to settle at $1,826.50 an ounce at 1:59 p.m. on the
Comex in  New York , after slumping as much as 0.9 percent.  Prices still are up 44 percent in the past year and touched
a record $1,923.70 on Sept. 6 as Europe’s crisis deepened.
Moody’s Investors Service lowered credit ratings for Societe
Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA, two of  France ’s three
largest banks by assets. French lenders top the list of Greek
creditors.  “The market had already discounted this piece of news,”
Pawlicki said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has said she won’t let
 Greece  fall into “uncontrolled insolvency” because the risk of
contagion for countries that share the common European currency
“is very big.” German and French leaders expressed support for
Greece remaining in the euro monetary union.  Gold Outlook  Gold has gained 29 percent in 2011, heading for the 11th
straight annual gain.  The price may surge to $2,500 by 2013, said Richard O’Brien, the chief executive officer of Newmont Mining Corp.,
the largest U.S. gold producer.  “There’s going to be a lot of volatility, up, but
volatile,” O’Brien said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Dalian, China. “That’s the key point, up but volatile. I don’t
think there’s a lot of downside.”  Silver futures for December delivery gained 66 cents, or
1.6 percent, to close at $40.533 an ounce on the Comex,
declining for the third time in four sessions.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
October delivery rose $2.40, or 0.1 percent, to $1,815.90 an
ounce, advancing for the second straight day. Palladium futures
for December delivery fell $7.50, or 1 percent, to $721 an
ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in Mumbai at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  