-- 
Gold Will Slump on Hedge Fund Redemptions, Pension Says

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-09-13T19:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/gold-will-slump-on-hedge-fund-redemptions-pension-partners-says.html
Gold may slump as much as 20
percent over the next two months as hedge funds sell to meet
redemptions from investors, said Michael A. Gayed, the chief
investment strategist at Pension Partners LLC.  Investors probably will pull more money out of hedge funds
after this year’s drop in global equity markets, according to
Gayed, who manages $140 million at New York-based Pension
Partners. To meet the demand for cash, hedge funds may sell
“substantial amounts” of their holdings in gold, which has
rallied 29 percent this year, he said.  “The reason behind doing this is related to the
disposition effect, which is the idea that traders tend to hold
on to losing positions, and sell winning ones earlier,” Gayed
said in a Sept. 9 interview in New York.  Gold is in the 11th year of a  bull market , the longest
winning streak since at least 1920 in  London , and reached a
record $1,923.70 an ounce in New York on Sept. 6. The MSCI World
Index has dropped 12 percent this year.  Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by billionaire  John Paulson , has lost 34 percent this year in his largest hedge
fund, according to two people familiar with the firm.  Paulson’s Advantage Plus Fund, which seeks to profit from
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies, lost 15
percent last month, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the fund is private.  The firm’s Gold Fund, which can buy derivatives and other
gold-related investments, is the only dollar-denominated fund
that has gained this year, surging 21 percent after jumping 18
percent last month. As of June 30, Paulson was the largest
holder in SPDR Gold Trust, an exchange-traded fund linked to the
metal, with 31.5 million shares, or 7.4 percent of outstanding
stock, according to regulatory filings.  Gold futures for December delivery gained $16.80, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $1,830.10 on the Comex in  New York . The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is down 7.2 percent this year, while
the dollar slipped 2.5 percent against a basket of six major
currencies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  