-- 
Greece Should ‘Default Big,’ Says Man Who Managed Argentina’s 2001 Crisis

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 
2011-09-13T23:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/greece-should-default-big-to-address-debt-woes-argentina-s-blejer-says.html
Mario Blejer, who managed
Argentina’s central bank in the aftermath of the world’s biggest
sovereign default, said  Greece  should halt payments on its debt
to stop a deterioration of the economy that threatens the
European Union.  “This debt is unpayable,” Blejer, who was also an adviser
to  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King from 2003 to 2008, said
in an interview in Buenos Aires. “Greece should default, and
default big. A small default is worse than a big default and
also worse than no default.”  World Bank  and International Monetary Fund officials will 
meet in Washington Sept. 23-25 as European Union officials work 
to keep the currency union from unraveling and the Greek crisis
worsens.  Europe  is facing “a full-blown banking crisis” said
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., in an interview yesterday.  Rescue programs backed by the IMF and  European Central Bank 
are “recession-creating” efforts that will leave Greece
saddled with more debt relative to the size of its economy in
coming years and stifle growth, Blejer said. A Greek default
would push  Portugal  to do the same and would put Ireland “under
tremendous pressure to at least symbolically default” on some
of its debt, he added.  ‘Totally Ridiculous’  “It’s totally ridiculous what is going on,” Blejer, 63,
said. “If you assume that these countries do everything that is
in the program, they do all these adjustments and
privatizations, at the end of 2012 debt-to-GDP will be bigger
than this year.”  The statements by Blejer, who ran Argentina’s central bank
in the months after its default on $95 billion in debt, put him
at odds with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who said the risks
of contagion from a Greek default are too big and that an
“uncontrolled insolvency” would further agitate turbulent
global markets.  German coalition officials stepped up their criticism of
Greece last week after a delegation from the European
Commission, European Central Bank and IMF suspended a report on
progress made in  Athens  toward meeting the terms of its rescue
program. The delay threatened to derail a payment to Greece due
next month.  “It doesn’t make sense to give money to Greece so Greece
can pay the Germans back,” Blejer said when asked about the aid
programs. “All these projects, all the euro projects don’t make
sense economically.”  ‘Recipe for Disaster’  Domenico Lombardi, a former IMF board official and a senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington , said a
“disorderly default” in Greece would be “a recipe for disaster.”  “The spreading of the European crisis has gone so far that
it would be really impossible to contain its spillover effects
to the rest of the euro area,” Lombardi said in an interview.  An orderly default with private investor engagement would
be better for Greece, he said.  Greece’s government now expects the economy to shrink more
than 5 percent this year, more than the 3.8 percent forecast by
the European Commission, as austerity measures deepen a three-
year recession. Prime Minister George Papandreou approved a plan
to help repair the  budget deficit  at the weekend amid swelling
resistance from Greeks.  It costs a record $5.8 million upfront and $100,000
annually to insure $10 million of Greece’s debt for five years
using credit-default swaps, up from $5.5 million in advance on
Sept. 9, according to CMA.  ‘Very Complicated’  Blejer didn’t advocate Greece leaving the  euro zone , which
he said would be a “very complicated” move that would force a
rewriting of business contracts and would push more lenders
toward bankruptcy. Germany and  France  will have to bear the
brunt of financing efforts to help Greece and other countries
that default re-start their economies, he said.  “Someone will have to pay,” said Blejer, who is a vice
chairman of mortgage bank  Banco Hipotecario SA (BHIP)  and a board
member of energy company  YPF SA. (YPFD)  “If they are not willing to
pay for the euro they will have to get out of the euro.”  Greece’s 10-year bond yield rose 94 basis points, or 0.94
percentage point, to 24.48 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York , after
earlier climbing to a euro-era record of 25 percent.  Italian borrowing costs also jumped at a 6.5 billion-euro
($8.8 billion) bond auction yesterday as contagion from Europe’s
debt crisis leaves investors shunning the region’s most-indebted
nations. Italy’s Treasury sold 3.9 billion euros of a benchmark
five-year bond to yield 5.6 percent, up from 4.93 percent for
similar maturity securities sold in July.  Argentina  Crisis  Blejer took the reins of Argentina’s central bank for five
months starting in January 2002, when the country was reeling
from the effects of its default and the loss of four presidents
in just over two weeks. The government had just ended the peso’s
one-to-one peg with the dollar when Blejer accepted the position
from then-President Eduardo Duhalde.  To help stabilize the currency after the devaluation,
Blejer created short-term bonds known as lebacs that paid an
annual interest rate of as much as 140 percent, he said.  Argentina’s economy shrank 10.9 percent in 2002 before
starting a nine-year growth streak, aided by rising commodity
prices and an expansion in neighboring  Brazil .  Blejer left the central bank in June 2002 after disputes
with then-Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna over lifting
restrictions on the withdrawal of bank deposits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  