-- 
Groupon Makes Foray Into E-Commerce, Taking on Amazon in U.K.

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/groupon-makes-foray-into-e-commerce-discounts-challenging-amazon-in-u-k-.html
Groupon Inc. has begun offering
discounts on products sold over the Web in the U.K., thrusting
the Internet-coupon company into closer competition with the
likes of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)   The Chicago-based company is advertising discounts of more
than 80 percent off products to its U.K. customers. When users
purchase a  product deal , they receive a code to enter into the
manufacturer’s website for a discount on their online order.  Groupon, which makes most of its revenue selling daily
deals for local restaurants, hotels and other merchants, may be
able to bolster its growth by adding vouchers for e-commerce
sites. With its ability to send discounts to more than 115
million e-mail subscribers, Groupon could attract sellers that
normally hawk their wares on Amazon and EBay, said Scot Wingo,
chief executive officer of ChannelAdvisor Corp.  “One thing they do have that Amazon and EBay don’t have is
the permission to touch over 100 million people daily,” said
Wingo, whose Morrisville, North Carolina-based company provides
services for online merchants. “There’s $500 million to $1
billion in sales they could drive just because of the scale of
their subscriber base.”  Groupon’s National Deals feature has offered mattresses
from  UK-Bedding , teeth-whitening kits from  Whitening
Professionals  and customized photo albums from  Albelli . In each
case, Groupon has sold more than 10,000 items.  Coming to America?  “It seems to be working really well, and I’m guessing once
they get it to the point they feel good about it, they can bring
it to the U.S.,” Wingo said.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, declined to
comment on the effort.  Andrew Mason , Groupon’s CEO, referred to the initiative to
sell products in an internal memo sent to employees on Aug. 25
that was obtained by Bloomberg News. He called it a success.  “We sold $2 million worth of mattresses in the U.K. -- in
one day!” Mason wrote in the memo.  The company’s main competitor in the U.S. is  Washington ,
D.C.-based LivingSocial, which is backed by Amazon. LivingSocial
is experimenting with new kinds of deals as well. The company
plans to offer a discount with Whole Foods Market Inc. today
that gives users $20 worth of groceries for $10. It’s the first
nationwide grocery offer by a daily-deal company, said Andrew
Weinstein, a spokesman for LivingSocial.  Groupon is expanding its services in other ways. The
company has begun selling discounted concert tickets through a
partnership with Live Nation Entertainment Inc. and cheap hotel
stays through an alliance with Expedia Inc.  Groupon filed earlier this year to raise $750 million in an
initial public offering. It’s now postponing the IPO because of
the volatile stock market, people familiar with the matter said
earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  