-- 
Libya’s Opposition Forces May Have Committed War Crimes, Amnesty Says

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-13T12:21:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/libyan-transitionall-forces-may-be-guilty-of-war-crimes-amnesty-reports.html
Libya’s new leaders must stop their
forces from committing abuses such as indiscriminate attacks on
civilian areas and mass killings of prisoners that may amount to
crimes against humanity,  Amnesty International  said.  The National Transitional Council should make clear to its
forces that “unlawful killings and other violent attacks”
against civilians will not be tolerated, the London-based group
said in  a report  today.  Amnesty said it found evidence that fighters opposed to
 Muammar Qaddafi  carried out “indiscriminate attacks, mass
killing of prisoners, torture, enforced disappearances, and
arbitrary arrests.” It also said pro-Qaddafi forces were guilty
of  war crimes  and may have committed crimes against humanity.  Libya’s new authorities have repeatedly called on their
forces to respect law and order and refrain from revenge
attacks. It was a message relayed again yesterday by NTC
Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil in his first public address in
Qaddafi’s former stronghold of Tripoli, the capital.  “No retribution, no taking matters into your own hands and
no oppression,” Jalil said. “I hope that the revolution will
not stumble because of any of these things.”  The “new  Libya ” will follow the rule of law and respect
the tenets of Islam, he said.  Sharia Law  “We push for a state of law, for a state of prosperity, for
a state that will have Islamic sharia law as the basis for
legislation,” he said in a speech broadcast on Libyan
television. “We are a Muslim nation with a moderate Islam and we
will keep that.”  It urged the transitional council to stop arbitrary
detentions, stamp out racism and xenophobia among its fighters
against black Africans and treat detainees humanely.  The council “must make a complete break with the abuses of
the past four decades and set new standards by putting human
rights at the center of their agenda,” Claudio Cordone, senior
director at Amnesty, said in the statement. “The onus now is on
the NTC to do things differently.”  Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril, head of the council’s
executive committee, said in a Sept. 11 televised press
conference in the capital that bringing anti-Qaddafi fighters
under civilian control was a priority.  The council must also bring all detention centers under the
control of the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights and ensure
that arrests are only conducted by official bodies rather than
council fighters, Amnesty said.  The rights group said it documented “a brutal settling of
scores” by some NTC forces, including the lynching of pro-
Qaddafi soldiers after their capture.  “A top priority must be to assess the state of the justice
sector and start its reform, to ensure due process and deliver
access to justice and reparation for victims,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 