-- 
Microsoft May Disappoint With 19 Percent Dividend Boost: Tech

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-13T12:46:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/microsoft-may-disappoint-with-19-percent-dividend-boost-tech.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s
largest software maker, is likely to raise its dividend 19
percent as early as this week, frustrating investors who are
clamoring for a bigger payout from its $52.8 billion cash hoard.  The projected increase -- to 19 cents a share per quarter,
from 16 cents, based on data compiled by Bloomberg -- would be
similar to last year’s rise. While Microsoft’s board is aware of
the shareholder demands, it will probably stick with the usual
increase, a person familiar with the board’s thinking said.  Microsoft’s cash and short-term investments swelled 43
percent in the past fiscal year. With the shares losing more
than 7 percent of their value in 2011, more investors want the
company to boost its payout. Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  has said that Microsoft’s dividend policy is to raise
payments in line with annual gains in operating income, which
climbed 13 percent in the year that ended in June.  “That cash is better in our hands than theirs,” said Pat Becker Jr., a fund manager at  Portland , Oregon-based Becker
Capital Management Inc., which oversees $2.2 billion in assets,
including Microsoft shares. “I’d hope they’d raise it more.”  In light of investor sentiment, Microsoft is considering a
larger increase, said the person familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be named because the decision is private. Still,
the board is more likely to retain its policy of raising the
payout in line with operating income, the person said.  Peter Wootton, a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to
comment.  Smaller Than Average?  Microsoft has paid out about 25 percent of earnings as
dividends since starting the payments in 2003, according to
Bloomberg data. Dividend-paying companies with similar market
valuations to Microsoft are paying closer to 40 percent to 50
percent, the data show.  Returning more cash to investors also may be hindered by
Microsoft’s overseas holdings. About  $45 billion , or 85 percent,
of Microsoft’s cash and short-term investments is outside the
U.S., the company said a July 28 regulatory filing. Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft would have to pay taxes if the
company brings it into the U.S. to use for dividends.  About half of the company’s annual cash flow from
operations is generated outside the U.S.,  Heather Bellini , an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York , said in a Sept.
6 report. That leaves about $15 billion to $17 billion available
for dividends and share repurchases in the current fiscal year,
she said. Bellini anticipates that the dividend will rise to 18
cents to 20 cents.  Microsoft shares rose 15 cents to $25.89 yesterday on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has declined 7.2 percent this
year.  Technology Peers  Among technology company peers, Microsoft’s payout falls in
the middle.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Sage Group Plc and SAP AG are paying a
larger portion of earnings, while Oracle Corp., Hewlett-Packard
Co. and CA Inc. pay less, Bloomberg data show.  Bloomberg dividend forecasts look at seven criteria,
including dividend history and public estimates. A payout
increase to 19 cents would boost the yield to 2.9 percent from
2.5 percent currently, according to Bloomberg data.  “If Microsoft were to match its peers on payout ratios, it
would equate to a dividend yield increase to 6 percent from the
current 2.6 percent, and include an approximate doubling of the
company’s dividend,” said Neil Herman, an analyst at
Ticonderoga Securities, in a research report last month.  The shares might surge past $35 if the board decided to
“majorly boost the company’s dividend,” Herman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  