-- 
Microsoft Unveils Windows 8 Tablet Software to Take on IPad

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-13T18:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/microsoft-unveils-windows-8-tablet-software-to-challenge-ipad.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  unveiled an
upcoming version of its  Windows operating system  that can run
handheld touch-screen computers, aimed at narrowing the lead of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad in the market for tablets.  Software developers will be able to download a preview of
the program, called Windows 8, tonight, the company said. The
product lets users display favorite applications, people and
information in tiles on the main screen. It will allow ultra-
thin personal computers and tablets to turn on instantly and run
all day on a single charge.  Microsoft is under pressure to put out a new version of
Windows capable of running smaller, thinner tablet computers
with battery life to rival that of the iPad. In the meantime,
Windows sales have missed analysts’ estimates for three straight
quarters and personal-computer sales have stalled as consumers
favor tablets over  notebook computers  running the software.  “It’s very important for them to get this right,” said
Sid Parakh, an analyst at McAdams Wright Ragen, who suggests
buying Microsoft shares. “They can’t compete with what’s out
there today in tablets.”  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft took the wraps off
Windows 8 today at a  conference  for developers in Anaheim,
 California , without saying when it will go on sale. The product,
previewed in June, is an attempt to vault Microsoft into a fast-
growing market controlled by Apple and Google Inc.’s Android
software.  Tablet Market  Sixty million media tablets will ship in 2011, and 74
percent of those will be Apple’s iPads, according to an August
forecast by  IHS Inc.  The global market is expected to rise to
275.3 million units in 2015, with Apple forecast to claim 43.6
percent of the market at that point.  In the quarter that ended in June, Apple sold 9.3 million
iPads. About 20 percent of them went to customers who would have
otherwise bought a Windows PC, estimated  Colin Gillis , an
analyst at BGC Partners LP in  New York .  The need to compete has led Microsoft for the first time to
offer a Windows computer operating system that runs on chip
technology from  ARM Holdings Plc. (ARM)  The program is the biggest
operating-system change Microsoft has made since Windows 95,
Microsoft Vice President Julie Larson-Green said in June.  Windows 8’s design resembles Microsoft’s software for
mobile phones in its use of digital tiles instead of icons to
help users move between programs.  ‘Re-imagined Windows’  “From the chipset to the experience, Windows 8 re-imagines
what Windows can be,” Sinofsky said in a keynote address today.
Developers at the conference will get a prototype tablet
computer with the Windows 8 preview software. The machine was
made by Samsung Electronics Co. and runs an  Intel Corp. (INTC)  chip.  Like Microsoft’s Windows 7, the new software has touch-
controlled tiles that can be automatically updated to display
information from applications on the computer’s start screen.
For example, a weather application can tell users that the
forecast is sunny without requiring them to open the app.  The software also will run on desktop and laptop computers
via a touch screen, mouse or keyboard. Windows 8 will run
“virtually all” of the existing Windows applications, the
company said in today’s statment.  Besides the new design, called Metro, the software also
offers the option of switching to the regular desktop look
available in Windows now. By switching to that mode, users can
employ Windows 7 apps and devices.  Windows Store  The software will have a Windows Store for selling apps,
and apps can work together and share information.  Microsoft first released a version of Windows for tablet
computers in 2002, though the devices used a stylus and had few
programs tailored to the new form. Many were as large as regular
notebooks and had similar battery life.  Tablets caught on in 2010 when Apple released the iPad,
promising 10 hours of battery life. Since then, companies
including Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. have started selling touch-screen tablets running Google’s
Android software.  Microsoft also said it’s approaching 450 million copies
sold of its current operating system, Windows 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  