-- 
High-Frequency Trades May Face Tougher Regulation in EU Market-Abuse Rules

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-13T16:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/high-frequency-traders-may-face-tougher-eu-market-abuse-rules.html
The European Union is considering
listing “specific examples of strategies using algorithmic
trading and high-frequency trading” that should be banned and
punished by regulators as market manipulation.  The measures to increase investor protection and reduce
volatility are part of plans to clamp down on market abuse in
the region, according to a draft of the proposals obtained by
Bloomberg News.  “There are particular automated strategies that have been
identified by regulators which, if carried out, are likely to
constitute market abuse,” the European Commission document
says. “Further identifying abusive strategies will ensure a
consistent approach in monitoring and enforcement by competent
authorities.”  High-frequency traders have come under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May of last
year, during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points.  The proposal “gives an indication as to where the
commission expects European regulators’ collective attention to
be focused post flash-crash,” Darren Fox, a financial-services
lawyer at Simmons & Simmons LLP in  London , said in an e-mail.  The Brussels-based commission targets so-called layering,
in which traders place large orders they have no intention of
allowing to go through, and quote stuffing, in which investors
seek an advantage by delaying data feeds.  Tricking Computers  “Spoofing,” in which market participants try to trick
other computers into making decisions that can be exploited for
profit, would also be banned.  The EU move follows investigations by U.S. regulators into
the practices of high-frequency traders.  The European measures should “be clear, decisive and
consistent internationally,” Etay Katz, regulatory partner at
law firm Allen & Overy LLP in London, said in an e-mail. The
proposal “does not appear to meet any of these objectives in
that there is no substantive impact analysis nor a
differentiation between good and bad conduct.”  The plans have a “vague reliance on the intent of the
order-placing activity which has always proven very difficult to
fathom,” Katz said.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has said
the tougher market-abuse rules are needed because current
sanctioning powers for regulators are too weak and are not
appropriate to deal with innovative trading activities.  Market Manipulation  Traders made about 13.3 billion euros ($18.2 billion) from
market manipulation and insider dealing on EU equity markets in
2010, according to a commission study prepared in tandem with
the proposals.  That figure “likely underestimates the true extent of
market abuse as it only encompasses equity markets,” the
commission study says.  Under the proposals, regulators would get the power to set
maximum fines for financial-services companies of at least 10
percent of their annual sales. Individual traders would face
fines of at least 5 million euros for the worst infractions.  Traders found guilty of “intentionally” engaging in
insider dealing and market manipulation should face criminal
sanctions that are, “effective, proportionate and dissuasive,”
according to the draft rules.  Under the EU plans, which would need approval from
governments and members of the European Parliament, unsuccessful
attempts to manipulate markets should also be punished.  Financial Turmoil  Jacques de Larosiere, the former head of the  International
Monetary Fund  and the Bank of France, called on the EU to
bolster its sanctions in a 2009 report on the roots of the
financial turmoil that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Some EU states already use criminal sanctions to uphold
financial services laws. In the U.K.,  insider trading  carries a
maximum sentence of seven years in prison.  The rules, which would amend an existing EU law against
market abuse from 2003, would also bolster measures against
insider trading on commodities derivatives.  “Under the current market abuse framework investors in
commodity derivatives may be less protected than investors in
derivatives of financial markets,” the document says. To avoid
this, insider information rules for commodity derivatives should
also include “price sensitive” data on primary markets, the
document says.  Punish Traders  Regulators should also be required to punish traders who
make transactions on primary commodity markets to influence the
value of related derivatives, and vice versa, the document says.  The use of derivatives to manipulate the price of
foodstuffs and other raw materials is of “notable concern,”
the commission’s impact study says, as it is currently not
prohibited in the EU, and can lead to “distorted” prices that
harm the real economy.  The commission is also seeking to improve protection of
people who come forward to reveal market abuse at financial
firms.  “Whistle blowing can be a useful source of primary
information and may alert competent authorities to cases of
suspected market abuse,” the EU draft says. There should be
“the possibility of financial incentives for persons who
provide competent authorities that leads to a monetary
sanction.”  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for the commission, declined
to comment on the content of the draft proposals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  