-- 
Illinois Says Hospitals No Longer ‘Poorhouses’ Shielded From Tax

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-13T09:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/illinois-says-hospitals-no-longer-poorhouses-shielded-from-tax.html
More than a dozen hospitals in
 Illinois  face the prospect of paying millions of dollars in
property taxes or, in some cases, shutting down as a result of a
state ruling denying exemptions for three nonprofit healthcare
providers.  The uncertainty has prompted at least one hospital to
postpone a $23 million construction bond sale while several
others that built facilities say they won’t be able to pay the
bill if they lose the break.  “We’ll go out of business without it,” said Tracy Bauer,
chief executive officer of  Midwest Medical Center  in Galena, a
25-bed hospital that is on the hook for a $2.3 million property
tax bill if its nonprofit exemption is revoked.  The challenge to such exemptions comes as Illinois
confronts two financial stresses -- the state’s $8 billion in
unpaid bills and hospitals struggling with cuts in Medicare and
Medicaid payments.  While other states have battled for decades in court over
the obligation to treat the poor in exchange for tax breaks,
Illinois intensified the fight on Aug. 16 when its Revenue
Department denied exemptions for facilities in Chicago,
Naperville and Decatur, saying they provided too little charity
care.  “This really exposes the tip of a very big iceberg that
has to deal with tax-exempt property in general and what tax
breaks contribute to the community,” said  John Colombo , a
professor at the  University of Illinois  College of Law in
Urbana-Champaign.  Windfall for Schools  A reversal of the exemptions would represent a windfall for
school districts, which collect the lion’s share of property
taxes and have watched state aid shrink and revenue fall during
the economic and housing slide.  “There are school districts that are so hungry for this
money,” said Pat Schou, executive director of the Illinois
Critical Access Hospital Network. “There’s a tug and pull in
these communities.”  The lobbying group for the state’s towns and cities
supports the decision to collect the money.  “In a perfect world, everybody ought to pay property
taxes,” said Larry Frang, executive director of the  Illinois
Municipal League .  This is a fight with roots that go back centuries, when the
fear of God persuaded governments not to tax churches because
they worried about “getting struck down by a lightning bolt,”
Colombo said. Many hospitals gained exemptions because of their
religious affiliation or care for the indigent.  ‘Poorhouses’ No More  “Hospitals aren’t poorhouses anymore,” Colombo said.
“Just because they were exempt in 1900 doesn’t mean they should
be exempt in 2011. The world is different.”  The Illinois Revenue Department is to rule in the coming
months on the tax-exemption status of 15 hospital groups
involving hundreds of parcels of property, said spokeswoman
Susan Hofer. The  Illinois Hospital Association , the industry’s
lobbying arm, has asked for a moratorium on decisions “until a
legislative solution can be worked out,” said Danny Chun, a
spokesman.  There are no clear statutory guidelines, though the
Illinois constitution and a 2010 state  Supreme Court  ruling
provide guidance. The constitution states that exemptions can be
granted when property is used “exclusively” for “charitable
purposes.”  High Court Ruling  The state’s highest court used that standard in a case
involving an Urbana hospital, Provena Covenant Medical Center,
which challenged the state’s denial of tax-exempt status. In a
March 18, 2010 ruling, the court noted that “a mere 302” of
the hospital’s 110,000 patients received free care in 2002.
Provena “failed to meet its burden” that the hospital was used
“exclusively for charitable purposes,” the court said.  Although the decision’s immediate impact was confined to
Provena, it put other nonprofits on notice. About 75 percent of
hospitals in Illinois are nonprofits, according to a 2009 report
from the Chicago-based  Center for Tax and Budget Accountability .  The center reported that in metropolitan Chicago nonprofit
hospitals received $489.5 million in tax exemptions and
delivered charity care valued at $175.7 million.  “For the most part, hospitals are very good members of the
community,” said Ralph Martire, executive director of the
center. “That doesn’t mean you evade the legal standard. If
you’re not doing that in an adequate amount, you lose your
exemption.”  Jobs Rebuttal  The rebuttal from hospitals is rooted in economics --namely
jobs. The Illinois jobless rate in July was 9.5 percent, above
the national average of 9.1 percent, and the hospital
association said its members provide more to their communities
than can be measured by charity care.  “Hospitals are the one sector still creating jobs,” Chun
said. “Do you want to jeopardize that?”  Some lawmakers are pushing for a more clearly defined
standard. State Senator Iris Martinez, a  Chicago  Democrat,
proposed that hospitals devote 3 1/2 percent of their patient
load to charity care as a requirement to receive the tax break.
She said the situation cries out for clarity.  “You have some hospitals that are making big revenues and
not doing charity care,” Martinez said. “Billions in revenues
without charity. Let’s be real.”  The hospital association rejects a specific amount and
opposes Martinez’s bill, which remains bottled up in a
committee.  Hospitals Waiting  Other hospitals are awaiting a decision from the state on
their tax-exempt status. Mark Rossi, chief operating officer of
Hopedale Medical Complex in Bloomington, said the uncertainty
forced the hospital to shelve a $23 million construction bond
sale.  “We were in the process of designing a brand-new hospital,
and then this thing happens,” Rossi said in a telephone
interview.  If the hospital doesn’t get a tax exemption on the land on
which the facility would be built, the annual tax liability
would be about $400,000 annually, Rossi said. “That matches our
profits,” he said.  At the Midwest Medical Center in Galena, a new       $45.5
million replacement hospital would be hit with a $2.3 million
total obligation if the facility lost its exemption.
Construction for the addition began before the Provena decision.  “These small hospitals did not know this was going to be
an issue,” said Schou, of the Illinois hospital network. “It’s
quite a mess.”  With high unemployment and governments struggling to
provide services, the pressure will build for Illinois lawmakers
to broker a compromise that would preserve tax exemptions while
boosting charity care, Colombo said.  “I don’t think this is going to just blow over,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
Tjones58@@bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  