-- 
IMF Urges ‘Structural Reforms’ in Belarus Before Further Aid

-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 
2011-09-13T17:26:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/imf-urges-structural-reforms-in-belarus-before-further-aid-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
urged Belarus to show “commitment to strong policies and
structural reforms” before the former Soviet republic qualifies
for more financial aid.  “The authorities’ efforts to resolve the crisis have so
far been insufficient to restore market confidence,” the
Washington-based lender said in a report on its website today
after talks with Belarus that concluded Aug. 29.  The former Soviet republic, which is struggling with a
balance-of-payments crisis that forced a 36 percent devaluation
of the ruble in May, has requested a new stabilization loan from
the IMF in June after receiving $3.5 billion in 2009. The
government is seeking as much as $8 billion from the IMF,
according to Prime Minister Mikhail Myasnikovich.  The central bank of Belarus, which yesterday raised its
refinancing rate for the ninth time this year to a European high
of 30 percent, will allow the national currency to trade freely
starting tomorrow.  The IMF expects Belarus’s GDP to grow 5.5 percent in 2011
and slow to 1.5 percent in 2012, while the 12-month inflation
rate will accelerate to over 50 percent by the end of the year.  The unsettled political situation in Belarus, including
political prisoners, the breakup of protests by force and
western sanctions against the government are further risks, the
IMF said.  Political Concerns  Comments from the IMF on the release of political prisoners
are unacceptable, President  Alexander Lukashenko  said September
9 in Minsk, cited by Belta. “What does it have to do with
IMF?” Lukashenko was quoted as saying.  OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s biggest lender, agreed to grant a $1
billion loan to potash producer Belaruskali, the Belorussian
government announced yesterday. The move will provide cash as
Belarus struggles with its current-account deficit.  Belarus also received a $3 billion loan from the Russia-led
Eurasian Economic Community in June after agreeing to implement
a set of measures to stabilize its economy.  “The announced measures include a  tightening of
macroeconomic policies and structural reforms,” the IMF said.
“However, they are not being consistently implemented: the
multiple exchange-rate system persists and  interest rates  are
still negative in real terms.”  The nation’s debt burden remains “manageable” even as the
“substantial” amount of short-term liabilities exposes it to
“rollover risk,” according to the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  