-- 
IMF Says Countries Must Identify Shocks Leading to Systemic Risk

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-09-13T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/imf-says-countries-must-identify-shocks-leading-to-systemic-risk.html
Individual countries must develop a
clear understanding of the sources of shocks leading to  systemic
risk  before developing comprehensive policies, the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  In a chapter of the Global Financial Stability Report, the
IMF said that credit growth and asset price growth together are
“powerful signals of systemic risk” buildup. The spread
between the London interbank offer rate and the overnight
indexed swap rate, combined with the yield curve, “could signal
an imminent crisis,” according to the IMF.  “Effective monitoring of systemic risk and effective
policy responses depend critically on accurate identification of
the sources of shocks,” the IMF wrote. “The source of shocks
drives movements in variables that are associated with systemic
risk buildup. Differences in the financial structure of the
economy change the magnitude of the effects of shocks but not
their direction.”  The IMF said in the report released today that identifying
systemic risk requires a model focused on interactions between
the financial sector and the real economy. These recommendations
come as various countries, including the U.S. and the European
Union, are trying new regulatory structures for detecting
systemic risk.  These policy instruments differ according to country-
specific circumstances, the IMF said. Still, it encouraged
countries to facilitate coordination of  exchange rate , monetary
and risk policies.  Further, the IMF endorsed countercyclical  capital
requirements  to build buffers. While the requirements are
untested, the IMF said they dampen both the real and financial
cycles and the adverse impact of the crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  