-- 
Falling Import Prices Provide Household Relief

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-13T12:58:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/import-prices-in-u-s-decrease-for-second-time-in-three-months.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. fell in August for the second time in three months as the
cost of oil and food dropped while autos stabilized.  The 0.4 percent decline in the import-price index followed
a 0.3 percent increase in July, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. Economists projected a 0.8 percent
decrease, according to the median of 52 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Prices excluding fuel rose 0.2 percent.  Slower growth in  Europe  and emerging economies like  China ,
together with less U.S. demand, may restrain the cost of goods
from abroad. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week
said “transitory” influences that had pushed up some prices
will wane, and that the central bank had tools to spur growth if
necessary.  “We’re going to see further moderation over the next few
months,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “Business
pricing power is getting zapped by a sluggish U.S. recovery.
We should see relief,  not only in import but also in consumer
prices, and that should  provide a lift to household purchasing
power.”  Stock-index futures were little changed, erasing earlier
losses, after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she’s
confident Europe will find a solution for  Finland ’s objections
to  Greece ’s bailout and American retail sales increased. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in December
was at 1,156.90 at 8:55 a.m. in  New York , down less than 0.1
percent from yesterday’s close.  Survey Results  Projections for import prices ranged from a decrease of 2
percent to a 0.1 percent increase, according to the Bloomberg
survey.  Compared with a year earlier, import prices rose 13
percent, today’s report showed, down from a revised 13.8 percent
increase in the 12 months ended in July that was smaller than
previously estimated.  The cost of imported petroleum fell 2.1 percent from the
prior month and was up 44 percent from a year earlier.  Import prices excluding all fuels increased 5.3 percent
from August 2010, after rising 5.4 percent in the year ended in
July.  Swing in Oil  “The biggest swing factor in import prices is always crude
oil,”  Paul Ashworth , chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in Toronto, said before the report. “Headline inflation
should come back down, but  core inflation  perhaps will continue
to rise for a bit,” he said, referring to prices excluding food
and fuel.  Imported food was 0.8 percent less expensive last month.
Costs of imported automobiles was little changed, which may
reflect the easing of supply constraints following the disaster
in Japan.  Toyota Motor Corp. is among carmakers offering better
pricing after inventories recovered following the earthquake and
tsunami. The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker is starting a
blitz of U.S. model releases, some of them with cheaper price-
tags, to regain sales lost to rivals such as Hyundai Motor Co.
after three years that included recession, recalls and the
earthquake.  Japanese Cars  Toyota last month unveiled the 2012 Camry in Hollywood,
 California , with price reductions ranging from $200 to $2,000 on
the top-end, four-cylinder Camry,  Bob Carter , group vice
president of U.S. sales, said in an interview.  Consumer goods  excluding vehicles showed a 0.3 percent gain
and were up 2 percent over the past 12 months, the biggest year-
over-year increase since November 2008. Costs for clothing made
overseas climbed 1.2 percent last month.  Cincinnati, Ohio-based  Macy’s Inc. (M)  is passing on higher
costs on selected brands by adding new designs and details to
its products while other items saw no price increases, Chairman
 Terry Lundgren  told a conference call this week.  The retailer and its venders agreed to “try to find some
unique ways to add value to the product even if the price was
going to be even higher than just the raw material cost,”
Lundgren said. At the same time, some products, such as shoes
and handbags saw cost pressures that were “not significant.”  Goods from China  Imported goods from China increased 0.1 percent, and were
up 3.9 percent over the past 12 months. It was the biggest year-
over-year gain since October 2008.  “We see little indication that the higher rate of
inflation experienced so far this year has become ingrained in
the economy,” Bernanke told the Economic Club of  Minnesota  last
week. “Inflation is expected to moderate in the coming
quarters,” he said, citing the waning of “transitory”
influences like high fuel prices and global supply disruptions
linked to  Japan ’s disaster.  Still, core prices have moved up on a year-on-year basis.
The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes food and fuel,
rose 1.6 percent in July from a year earlier. Fed policy makers
aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.7 percent to 2 percent,
according to their June forecast.  U.S. export prices increased 0.5 percent after declining
0.4 percent the previous month, today’s figures showed. Prices
of farm exports increased 2.2 percent while those of non-farm
goods climbed 0.3 percent.  Lower Dollar  The drop in the value of the dollar, which makes American
goods cheaper overseas, may also be giving U.S. companies an
opportunity to raise prices to shore up profits. The cost of
exported autos rose 0.4 percent in August and was up 2.3 percent
over the past 12 months, the biggest year-to-year gain since
February 1992.  The price of consumer goods shipped overseas excluding
autos climbed 5.9 percent over the past 12 months, the biggest
gain since records began in 1983.  The dollar was down 8.1 percent from the end of May 2010 to
Sept. 9 against a trade-weighted basket of major commercial
partners.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Data on producer prices come
out tomorrow, and the consumer-price index will be released the
following day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  