-- 
Inmarsat Says Natural for Private Equity to Mull Investment; Shares Surge

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-13T12:52:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/inmarsat-says-natural-for-private-equity-to-mull-investment-shares-surge.html
Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Sukawaty said it is “natural” for private-
equity firms to consider an investment in the biggest provider
of satellite services to the maritime industry.  “There has been no formal approach,” Sukawaty said in an
interview in Paris today. “Given our good long-term growth
prospects and given our current stock value, it’s a natural
thing for private equity to consider an investment in
Inmarsat.”  Inmarsat, the most volatile of telecommunications stocks in
the Stoxx 600 index in the last month, advanced as much as 2.9
percent in London trading following Sukawaty’s comments. The
shares have declined 26 percent since  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger
Capital Partners said in October it would sell its holding.  Falcone, who had considered a full takeover of Inmarsat in
2008, then opted to sign a spectrum agreement with Inmarsat to
roll out high-speed mobile Internet services in the U.S. The
London-based company’s spectrum accord with Falcone’s
Lightsquared Inc. helped first-half profit to climb 28 percent.  The annual payment stream from Lightsquared alongside
Inmarsat’s investment in new satellites to expand naval
communication services mean investors’ interest should “come as
little surprise,” said Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analyst
Chris Alliott.  High Profit Margins  Satellite companies are attracting investors by providing
some of the highest profit margins in the technology industry,
making them safe investment targets as the sovereign debt storm
batters Europe and global markets.  Inmarsat’s 2010 profit margin rose to 59 percent from 57
percent a year earlier. That compares with 32 percent for
Vodafone Group Plc, the world’s biggest mobile-phone operator,
and 30 percent for Apple Inc., the world’s largest technology
company, according to Bloomberg data.  Dish Network Corp., the second-largest U.S. satellite-
television provider, this year agreed to buy DBSD North America
Inc. for about $1 billion. EchoStar Corp., a provider of
television set-top boxes and satellite services, agreed to buy
Hughes Communications Inc. for $2 billion including debt in
February.  Inmarsat in August raised its interim dividend by 10
percent to 15.4 cents and said it plans to repurchase stock for
as much as $250 million because of its “strong” financial
position. Rupert Pearce is set to replace Sukawaty, who will
become executive chairman, on Jan. 1.  Inmarsat gained as much as 13.9 pence in London and was up
6 pence, or 1.3 percent, at 482.6 pence at 1:43 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  