-- 
Iran Prepared to Free Americans Jailed on Spying Charges for $500,000 Each

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-09-13T14:41:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/iran-prepared-to-free-americans-jailed-on-spying-charges-for-500-000-each.html
Two U.S. citizens sentenced to
eight years in prison in  Iran  for spying and illegal entry can
be freed by paying $500,000 each, their defense lawyer said.  Masoud Shafiei said the Revolutionary Court summoned him
today and informed him of the terms. The lawyer said he then
relayed the information to the families of the Americans,  Josh
Fattal  and  Shane Bauer , and is awaiting their response. The men
would be freed “immediately” after payment is arranged,
Shafiei said in a telephone interview in Tehran.  Fattal and Bauer will be released “in a couple of days”
on humanitarian grounds, President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  told NBC
News in an interview aired today. Ahmadinejad is scheduled to
visit the U.S. to attend the United Nations General Assembly
meeting in  New York  next week.  The men’s continued detention has added to tensions between
Iran and the U.S., which says the Persian Gulf country may be
seeking to build nuclear weapons. Iran rejects the allegation
about its atomic work and says it needs the technology to secure
energy for its growing population.  Bauer and Fattal, both 29, were sentenced Aug. 21 and have
filed an appeal. They were detained in July 2009 upon entering
Iran and said they had mistakenly crossed the border while
hiking in Iraq. The U.S. has repeatedly called for their
release.  Sarah Shourd , a U.S. citizen who was arrested with
them, was released in September 2010 on $500,000 bail. She left
Iran immediately and didn’t return to stand trial.  Proposal for Swap  In February 2010, Ahmadinejad said Iran may be ready to
exchange the detainees for Iranians held in the U.S., an
overture that was dismissed by the State Department.  Shafiei said he told the Swiss Embassy of the offer to free
Bauer and Fattal. The embassy has handled American interests in
Iran since 1981, a year after the U.S. ended diplomatic
relations with Iran following the taking of hostages at its
embassy in Tehran during the  Islamic Revolution .  Shourd and Bauer, a freelance journalist and photographer,
are engaged, according to  freethehikers.org , a website set up to
help gain the Americans’ freedom. They had lived together in
Syria’s capital, Damascus, where she learned Arabic and taught
English. Fattal is an environmentalist who was visiting Damascus
before they headed to Iraq, according to the website.  Bauer is a Minnesota native, Fattal is from Pennsylvania
and Shourd is from  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 