-- 
Isle of Man Approached on Gas Production, Carbon-Capture Project

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-09-13T15:38:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/isle-of-man-approached-on-gas-production-carbon-capture-project.html
The Isle of Man, a self-governing
British Crown dependency in the  Irish Sea , has been approached
to host a trial gas production and carbon-capture project as the
island seeks to become a hub for exports of renewable energy.  The development would drill down to unmined coal under the
Irish Sea, partially burn it to produce so-called syngas in a
process known as gasification and store emitted carbon dioxide
back in the seams, Ken Milne, senior manager for the island’s
energy policy, said without indentifying the company involved.  “Ideally, we’d like a small-scale trial of the technology
to show it works, and then it can scale up,” he said. The gas
typically consists of hydrogen, which may be used as fuel, and
carbon dioxide that can be captured and stored, Milne said.
Digging for the underwater coal may be “directional” from
onshore rather than involving drilling at sea, he said.  The island, which requires less than 100 megawatts of power
in peak hours for its 81,000 residents, is host to more than  100
clean-technology  companies because of its tax rates. It aims to
export about 2 gigawatts of offshore wind power, Milne said.  “We really see ourselves being a major exporter of
renewable energy, far more than the  Isle of Man  could ever
use,” he said. The island plans to boost its use of energy from
renewable sources to 15 percent from 3 percent now, Milne said.  Investors are interested in the Isle of Man as intellectual
property they develop may be held on the island, where most
companies pay zero income tax, he said in  London .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  