-- 
Israel Surrounded as Arab Spring Turns Darker: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-09-13T00:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/israel-surrounded-as-arab-spring-darkens-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
The  Middle East  is plunging toward
crisis. The early promise of Tahrir Square has been supplanted
by dismay that the Egyptian authorities -- such as they are --
allowed mobs to lay siege to the Israeli embassy in Cairo this
past weekend.  Not long ago,  Turkey  and Israel were strategic partners.
Now, relations between those two key U.S. allies are in ruins.
When a recent United Nations  report  on the deadly confrontation
between the Israeli military and a flotilla of Gaza-bound
activists that sparked this crisis largely exonerated Israel,
Turkey reacted by threatening to send warships to the eastern
Mediterranean.  And the Jewish state faces a miserable month at the UN,
where the Palestinians, who have refused to meet  Israel  at the
negotiating table, are planning to seek recognition as an
independent state, with potentially catastrophic consequences
for both sides.  “As the months of Arab Spring have turned autumnal, Israel
has increasingly become a target of public outrage,” the New
York Times’ Ethan Bronner  wrote this weekend  from  Jerusalem .
“Some here say Israel is again being made a scapegoat, this time
for unfulfilled revolutionary promises. But there is another
interpretation, and it is the predominant one abroad -- Muslims,
Arabs and indeed many around the globe believe Israel is
unjustly occupying Palestinian territories, and they are furious
at Israel for it.”  Two Interpretations  The first interpretation -- that Israel is a scapegoat for
the failures of the Arab Spring (and many other previous
ailments afflicting the Middle East) -- is self-evidently true.
The attack on the Israeli embassy grew from a rally in  Tahrir
Square  called “Correcting the Path.” Its organizers meant to
pressure the country’s military rulers to accelerate political
changes. It is easier to burn an Israeli flag than reform the
Egyptian government. And Israel, of course, did not cause
Egypt’s economic woes, nor is it responsible for violence in
 Syria , poverty in  Algeria  or illiteracy in Yemen.  The second interpretation of recent events -- that Arabs
and Muslims are furious at Israel for occupying Palestinian
territory -- is superficially true, but it neglects to take into
account a relevant and complicating fact: Israel’s crises with
Egypt and Turkey are both rooted in an Israeli decision to
relinquish Palestinian territory.  Forgotten History  Here is a bit of recent, though apparently forgotten,
history: In 2003, the then-prime minister of Israel, Ariel Sharon, announced that Israel would unilaterally withdraw about
8,500 settlers from its 21 settlements in the  Gaza Strip , and
pull out its army as well. The territory would be handed over,
in its entirety, to the  Palestinian Authority .  In the summer of 2005, he executed the plan, ordering the
Israeli army to expel the settlers. It would have been better,
for many reasons, for Sharon to have negotiated this handover
directly with his adversaries. But the fact remains that Israel
gave the Palestinians of Gaza what they claimed they wanted:
their territory, which they said would become part of their
independent state.  How did Gazans respond? First, looters destroyed the vast
settlement greenhouses that could have formed the basis of a new
Gaza economy. Then, voters elected into power Hamas, a terrorist
organization devoted to the annihilation of Israel. Gaza quickly
became a launching pad for rocket attacks against Israeli towns.  In response, Israel blockaded Gaza to keep weapons from
reaching its enemies. It was this blockade that pro-Hamas
activists, many of them from Turkey, were trying to breach when
their flotilla was boarded by Israeli forces last year. Nine
activists were killed. The flotilla raid, and the subsequent
collapse of relations between the two countries, can be traced
in large part to Sharon’s decision.  Gaza and Sinai  In  Egypt , the story is similar. The attack on the embassy
in Cairo -- which forced Israel to send air force planes to
Egypt to rescue its diplomatic personnel -- was part of an angry
reaction to the accidental killing of at least three Egyptian
soldiers last month. (The exact number killed is disputed.) The
problem began when a group of terrorists, including some
reportedly from Gaza, crossed the Israeli border from Egypt’s
 Sinai Peninsula  and killed eight Israelis. The Israeli security
forces, in pursuit of the terrorists, mistakenly killed the
Egyptian soldiers. The Israeli government later formally
expressed regret for the incident.  Most of the protesters in Cairo cared not at all about a
terrorist invasion of Israel from Egyptian territory, or about
the murdered Israelis themselves. Their only concern was what
they saw as Israel’s criminal response.  Why, after decades of quiet, has the Egypt-Israel border
become so tumultuous? Two reasons: The interim Egyptian
government has lost control over the Sinai since the revolution,
and Gaza, which borders the Sinai, has been transformed by Hamas
into a weapons-importing and terror-exporting mini-state. And
how did this come about? Sharon brought this about, by ceding
Gaza to the Palestinians.  This is not, by the way, an argument against territorial
compromise. Israel’s prime minister,  Benjamin Netanyahu , needs
to find a creative solution to the problem posed by his
country’s continued occupation of much of the  West Bank . But
that job is made much more difficult by Israel’s enemies, who
choose to ignore Israel’s last attempt at giving up territory.
And it is made more difficult still by Israeli voters, who, when
confronted by demands for further territorial compromise, look
to Gaza and say, “Not so fast.”  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 