-- 
Italy, Spain Sell $24 Billion of Debt at Higher Yields; Bonds Gain on Sale

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-09-27T11:06:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/italy-sells-5-3-billion-of-bonds-as-borrowing-costs-climb-demand-drops.html
Italy  and  Spain  sold 17.7 billion
euros ($23.9 billion) of debt and their bonds rose after the
sale even as both countries had to pay more to borrow than a
month ago.  Italy sold 8 billion euros of 182-day bills to yield 3.071
percent, up from 2.14 percent at the last auction of similar-
maturity debt on Aug. 26. The Rome-based Treasury also sold 76-
day bills at 1.808 percent and zero-coupon bonds due in 2013 at
4.511 percent. Spain’s interest costs also rose as it sold 3.22
billion euros of three- and six-month bills, just below the
maximum target for the auction.  Spain’s auction was “a very good result” and “in the
near term, assuming  Greece  receives its disbursement, we are in
for at least a short period of relatively less volatile
markets,” said  Matteo Regesta , senior interest-rate strategist
in  London  at BNP Paribas SA, referring to Greece’s next bailout
payment. “The yield was a little bit up, but nevertheless the
take-up was significant and the yield pick-up not massive.”  The  European Central Bank  began buying Spanish and Italian
debt in August after concern about a Greek default sent their
borrowing costs soaring to euro-era highs. A euro-area central
bank official said yesterday that the ECB is likely to debate
restarting covered-bond purchases and may discuss interest-rate
cuts to ease funding strains at its Oct. 6 policy meeting.  Spreads Narrow  The premium investors demand to hold Italian and Spanish
10-year bonds instead of German bunds narrowed after the sale,
as European stocks gained for a third day. The Italian spread
eased to 369 basis points from 381 basis points yesterday and
the extra yield on Spanish debt narrowed to 319 basis points
from 333 basis points yesterday.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who met Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  today in Berlin, has stepped up her
defense of the euro. Merkel said on Sept. 9 closer financial and
economic coordination “is the only way forward” to escape the
crisis. Countries sharing debt in the form of joint bonds may be
possible in the “distant future,” she added on Sept 21.  A debt of 1.9 trillion euros -- more than Spain, Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  combined -- leaves Italy vulnerable to any
advance in yields as it refinances maturing debt. Today’s sale
will help cover the redemption of 8 billion euros of bills on
Sept. 30. Italy still faces 55 billion euros of bill maturities
before the end of the year.  Funding Needs  Spain has one bond redemption left this year of 14 billion
euros, and expiring bills worth about 23 billion euros,
according to data from the  Treasury  in  Madrid . The Treasury says
it times its redemptions to coincide with peaks in tax-revenue
collection, while government data show it had 40 billion euros
in cash at the Bank of Spain at the end of June.  Demand for the Italian 182-day bills today was 1.74 times
the amount on offer, compared with 1.66 times last month. The
bid-to-cover ratio for the Spanish three-month debt was 2.47
times, down from 7.62 times last month, while the six-month note
was 3.95 times oversubscribed, compared to 3.6 last month.  Divisions among European leaders on aiding Greece and
protecting Spain and Italy from the crisis are sapping demand
for those nations’ bonds. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  called on European governments on Sept. 24 to
strengthen the region’s 440 billion-euro bailout fund, saying
that failure to stem the crisis risks “cascading default, bank
runs and catastrophic risk.”  In return for the ECB bond purchases, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  delivered a 54 billion-euro austerity package that
aimed to eliminate Italy’s budget deficit in 2013, one year
earlier than planned. The plan wasn’t enough to stop  Standard &
Poor’s  from cutting the nation’s credit rating on Sept. 19.  Adding to uncertainty in the euro region’s periphery,
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero dissolved
Parliament yesterday before early elections on Nov. 20. While
the assembly is disbanded, any decrees the government may pass
to tackle the crisis must be approved by an extraordinary
procedure at the assembly’s permanent committee. While Zapatero
said yesterday that he didn’t plan any “significant” measures
before the election, he will act “if necessary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net 
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  