-- 
Mitsui Fudosan May Make First Warehouse Investment Through Property Fund

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-09-13T07:48:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/mitsui-fudosan-may-make-first-warehouse-investment-through-property-fund.html
Mitsui Fudosan Co.,  Japan ’s biggest
developer by sales, said it may start investing in storage and
distribution centers in the country for the first time amid
rising demand and stable returns for logistics facilities.  Mitsui Fudosan Investment Advisors Inc., an asset
management unit of the property company, aims to invest in
warehouses through a private real estate investment trust that
may start as early as January, said Akira Ikeda, a managing
director at the Tokyo-based company. The fund, which targets
pension funds and other institutional investors, will also
include assets such as office buildings, apartments and
commercial real estate in Japan, he said.  The vacancy rate for warehouses in  Tokyo  fell by more than
half to 7 percent in June from a peak of 20 percent in September
2009 due to a lack of new supply, according to  CB Richard Ellis
Group Inc. (CBG)  A maganitude-9 earthquake on March 11 and tsunami
that damaged and destroyed more than 46,000 commercial and other
types of non-residential properties highlighted the need for
newer facilities that are quake resistant, Ikeda said.  “The attraction of distribution facilities is that they
tend to offer stable returns,” Ikeda said in an interview in
Tokyo. “Rental movement is less volatile than other types of
real estate. Such type of properties is one of our targets.”  Industrial spaces returned 10 percent on average for the
year ended May 31, twice that for residential properties, while
office buildings offered 0.2 percent of return, according to
London-based Investment Property Databank Ltd.  Private REIT  The developer may invest in distribution centers as early
as this current fiscal year ending March 2012, through a private
REIT or private fund, Ikeda said on Sept. 8.  Mitsui Fudosan may set up the private REIT initially with
as much as 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) in assets and aims to
expand the fund to about 600 billion yen over a 10-year period,
Ikeda said. The open-ended fund targets a return of about 4
percent with a loan-to-value ratio of 40 percent, he said,
adding that the details are still under discussion.  Mitsui Fudosan, which was established in 1914 as a real
estate division of Mitsui Company, may become the third firm in
Japan to set up a private REIT that targets investors including
pension funds, he said.  Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc. (3231)  was the first to set up a
private REIT with 20 billion yen in November and said it plans
to double its assets to 40 billion yen with real estate
including office buildings, rental apartments and a distribution
center by the end of March 2012, according to the company.  Mitsubishi Estate  Mitsubishi Estate Co., Japan’s biggest developer by market
value, established a fund that invests in office, apartments and
commercial space in March with 30 billion yen and said it aims
to increase the size to as much as 500 billion yen in the next
10 years.  Japanese developers are betting on the need for Japanese
pensions to increase their property investments, which now make
up only 1 percent of their $2.46 trillion assets. That compares
with 12 percent in  Australia  and 6 percent in the U.S.,
according to a report by UBS Global Asset Management.  Shares of Mitsui Fudosan gained 2.3 percent to 1,229 yen at
the close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. They are down 24 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  