-- 
News Corp.’s James Murdoch to Be Recalled by U.K. Parliamentary Committee

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-13T17:20:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/james-murdoch-to-be-recalled-by-u-k-parliament-committee-in-hacking-probe.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Deputy Chief Operating
Officer James Murdoch was asked to testify for a second time on
phone hacking to the U.K. Parliament’s Culture Committee after
former employees challenged statements he made to the panel.  Murdoch, 38, will be recalled after the committee has heard
from  Les Hinton , the former chairman of the U.K. newspaper unit
News International, panel chairman  John Whittingdale  told
reporters in London today. News Corp. was also sued by a victim
of the 2005 London terror attacks and was accused by investors
in the U.S. of ignoring misconduct at subsidiaries.  Last week, Tom Crone, the lawyer for the now defunct News
of the World newspaper until July, and  Colin Myler , a former
editor, said they told Murdoch in 2008 about an e-mail that
suggested hacking at the tabloid went beyond a rogue reporter.
Murdoch disputes this and told the committee in July that he
hadn’t realized until late 2010 that hacking was widespread.  “We will have some more questions based on what we’ve
heard that we will want to put to James Murdoch,” Whittingdale
told  Sky News . Murdoch will be “happy” to attend, News Corp.
said in an e-mailed statement.  The phone-hacking scandal not only led to the closure of
the News of the World, it also forced News Corp. to drop a
takeover bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  At least 16
people have been arrested, among them  Andy Coulson , Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s former communications chief and an ex-
News of the World editor.  Terrorist Attacks  As well as Murdoch and Hinton, the panel will also hear
testimony from  Mark Lewis , a lawyer for phone-hacking victims,
and Farrer & Co., which has represented the company in some
hacking cases.  News International was today sued by the mother of a victim
of the July 7, 2005, terrorist attacks claiming that reporters
hacked into voice mail to get stories regarding her son.  The complaint was added today to a group of test cases that
will determine the level of appropriate damages in phone hacking
lawsuits. The latest case, filed by Sheila Henry, is the first
lodged by a victim of a crime,  Hugh Tomlinson , a lawyer for some
phone-hacking plaintiffs, said at a hearing.  The News of the Word has been sued by dozens of celebrities
and politicians, including actor Jude Law and former Deputy
Prime Minister John Prescott, who claim the paper accessed their
voice mails for stories. The tabloid was also accused of hacking
into the voice mail of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler’s phone.  Tomlinson said News Corp. had located “tens of thousands
of documents” during the discovery process and an e-mail
database had been reconstructed.  ‘Humble Day’  In the U.S., shareholders that sued the company’s directors
earlier this year over alleged nepotism, accused them in an
amended complaint of ignoring conduct by subsidiaries that led
hundreds of millions in damages.  James Murdoch  and his father Rupert, 80, News Corp.’s chief
executive officer, were questioned by lawmakers for three hours
on July 19.  Rupert Murdoch  called it “the most humble day of my
life.” Both men said they weren’t responsible for hacking and
trusted subordinates to run News International, their U.K.
publishing unit.  Myler and Crone met with James Murdoch for less than 15
minutes in 2008 to discuss the settlement of a privacy complaint
filed by  Gordon Taylor , chief executive of the Professional
Footballers’ Association. They told Murdoch the company had to
settle because Taylor’s lawyers had produced a transcript of
voicemails typed by a reporter at the newspaper and marked “for
Neville,” they said at a committee hearing last week.  “I think everybody perfectly understood the seriousness
and significance of what we were discussing,” Myler told the
panel.  ‘I Probably Did’  Asked if he had told Murdoch that this appeared to be a
reference to Neville Thurlbeck, the paper’s chief reporter,
Crone replied, “I’ve got a feeling I probably did.”  James Murdoch said neither Myler nor Crone told him that
wrongdoing extended beyond reporter  Clive Goodman  and private
investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , who both went to jail in 2007.  “As I said in my testimony, there was nothing discussed in
the meeting that led me to believe that a further investigation
was necessary,” Murdoch said in a statement. “They did not
show me the e-mail, nor did they refer to Neville Thurlbeck.”  Murdoch has said he agreed to the payment -- more than 10
times the record court award in a privacy case at the time -- on
advice of outside counsel.  More Questions  Hinton, who quit as chief executive officer of News Corp.’s
Dow Jones & Co. unit in July as the phone-hacking scandal
spread, now lives in the U.S. When he last gave evidence to the
committee, in September 2009, he did so by video link, an option
that the committee will offer him this time.  Hinton will face questions about his decision to authorize
a payment of a year’s salary to Clive Goodman, the News of the
World’s royal reporter, when he fired him in 2007 after he was
jailed for phone-hacking. Goodman later received a further
150,000-pound ($240,000) payment to settle an unfair dismissal
claim.  Hinton wrote to the panel Aug. 31 that he had nothing
further to add to previous testimony on the subject.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  