-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Gain as Europe Concern Eases

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-09-13T23:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/japanese-australian-stock-futures-advance-as-european-debt-concern-eases.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures rose as French banks dismissed concerns over their
access to funds, easing concern that Europe’s debt crisis will
worsen.  American depositary receipts of Honda Motor Co., Japan’s
second-biggest carmaker by revenue, gained 0.9 percent from the
closing share price in  Tokyo . Those of  Sony Corp. (6758) , a consumer
electronics exporter that earns more than 20 percent of its
revenue from Europe, rose 0.4 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, jumped 1.2 percent after crude
prices advanced.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,590 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
8,570 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,580
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index rose 0.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was
little changed in Wellington.  “The main banks’ rejection of funding concerns will
decrease excessive worries on the European debt issues,” said
 Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. “With the mounting default concern in Greece,
investors had been increasingly worried about fund-raising as
European banks have a lot of Greek bonds.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. In  New York , the index advanced for a second day, rising
0.9 percent yesterday, after  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s biggest
bank, and Societe Generale SA, the country’s No. 3 lender by
assets, rebounded in Paris trading after rejecting concerns over
their access to funding.  ‘Manageable’  Societe Generale Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea 
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in New York that
the bank’s exposure to European sovereign debt was
“manageable” and that it could do without access to U.S.
money-market funds.  Stocks briefly trimmed gains in New York after a report
that German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said Greece
should not get any additional aid beyond what has already been
agreed upon.  Greece should default on its bonds to stop a deterioration
of the economy, said Mario Blejer, a former Bank of England
adviser who took the reins of Argentina’s central bank after its
2001 default on $95 billion.  Oil Rises  Crude oil for October delivery advanced 2.3 percent to
$90.21 a barrel in New York yesterday, the highest settlement
since Aug. 3 on speculation a report today will show supplies
fell in the U.S., the biggest oil-consuming country.  Futures increased before the Energy Department report that
may show supplies declined by 3 million barrels last week
because of storms in the Gulf of Mexico. Prices also advanced
after German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she’s confident
 Europe  will find a solution for Finland’s objections to Greece’s
bailout.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 14 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 6.7 percent drop by the  S&P
500  and a 20 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.8 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 11.8 for the S&P 500 and 9.2
times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 