-- 
Kenya Proposes Constitutional Amendment to Delay Elections by Four Months

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-09-13T14:43:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/kenya-proposes-constitutional-amendment-to-delay-elections-by-four-months.html
Kenya ’s Cabinet proposed the first
amendment to the East African nation’s one-year-old constitution
to postpone national elections by four months to allow time to
prepare for the vote.  Article 101 of the current constitution, signed into law in
August 2010, says elections should be held on the second Tuesday
of August every fifth year. Under the proposal, a vote scheduled
for next year would be held on Dec. 17 and not Aug. 14.  “Cabinet found the date to be appropriate in view of the
government budgetary cycle and the time required for
preparations for the next elections,” it said in a statement e-
mailed by the Presidential Press Service in Nairobi, the
capital, today.  Ethnic clashes erupted after Kenya’s last election in
December 2007 when the result was disputed by supporters of
incumbent President Mwai Kibaki, and his main rival  Raila Odinga , the current prime minister. The new constitution was
promised in a power-sharing accord reached in February 2008 that
ended two months of violence in which an estimated 1,500 people
died and another 300,000 were forced to flee their homes.  Former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who
helped broker the agreement, said last month Kenya must enact
“key” political reforms, including appointing new commissioners
to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, before
the next elections are held.  The proposed amendment will probably be passed by lawmakers
because this type of change to the constitution requires only a
two-thirds majority vote in parliament, not a referendum as
other articles require, Paul Muite, a former member of
parliament and lawyer, said by phone from Nairobi today.  Kenya,  East Africa ’s biggest economy, is the world’s
biggest exporter of black tea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 