-- 
Kenya Continues Search for Pipeline-Blast Victims; Death Toll Rises to 82

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-09-13T15:40:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/kenya-continues-search-for-pipeline-blast-victims-death-toll-rises-to-76.html
The death toll from yesterday’s
pipeline explosion near the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, rose to at
least 82 people, the Kenyan  Red Cross  said.  “We have retrieved six more bodies this morning,” Daniel
Mutinda, the Red Cross’s disaster risk reduction officer, said
by phone today. The Red Cross is providing shelter and food for
more than 100 people affected by the blast, he said.  About 118 people were injured in the blaze that took place
when leaking fuel from a pipeline operated by  Kenya  Pipeline Co.
spilled into a storm drain and ignited close to the Mukuru slum,
about 11 kilometers (7 miles) east of Nairobi, said Thomas
Atuti, the police chief for the area. Some people who caught
fire jumped into a nearby river and drowned, he said.  Investigations into the exact cause of the latest explosion
are under way, police spokesman  Eric Kiraithe  said in an e-
mailed statement late yesterday. Kenya Pipeline is conducting an
internal study and is extending its “sincere apologies” to the
people who lost family members and property or were injured,
Managing Director Selest Kilinda said in Nairobi today.  The company recovered about 67 percent of an estimated
50,000 liters (13,200 gallons) of oil in the spill, he said.  Kenya Pipeline, the state-run company in charge of the
pipeline that runs from the port city of  Mombasa  through Nairobi
to western Kenya, has repaired the rupture and the system is
operating normally, said Operations Manager Philip Kimelu.  President Mwai Kibaki called on Kenyans to observe two
national days of mourning starting tomorrow, the Nairobi-based
presidency said in an e-mailed statement today.  Kenya’s worst petroleum accident occurred in January 2009,
when 94 people died after a gasoline tanker overturned and burst
into flames at Molo in the Rift Valley province, about 167
kilometers northwest of Nairobi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 