-- 
Finra ‘Ready’ to Oversee Investment Advisers

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-13T18:05:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/ketchum-says-finra-uniquely-positioned-to-oversee-advisers.html
The head of Wall Street’s self-
funded regulator said the group would be ready to assume
oversight of investment advisers in addition to broker-dealers
if that’s what Congress decides.  Richard Ketchum , chairman and chief executive officer of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, told lawmakers at a
House Financial Services Committee hearing today that his
Washington-based group would create a unit to oversee advisers.  Finra “would establish a separate entity with separate
board and committee governance to oversee any adviser work, and
would plan to hire additional staff with expertise and
leadership in the adviser area,” Ketchum told members of the
House panel’s capital markets subcommittee.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who
leads the Financial Services Committee, has drafted a bill that
would put one or more self-regulatory groups in charge of
overseeing retail advisers, under the authority of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. That bill and proposed new
standards for how broker-dealers treat clients were examined by
lawmakers at today’s hearing.  Bachus’s bill is “a thoughtful approach to addressing the
critical need for increased adviser regulation,” Ketchum said.
A self-regulator for investment advisers is “the most practical
and efficient way to address this critical resource and investor
protection issue” and Finra is “uniquely positioned” to be
involved in such a system, he said.  High-Profile Frauds  The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted last year, directed the SEC to
look into the practices of financial advisers in response to
high-profile frauds such as the Bernard Madoff Ponzi scheme that
were exposed in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. The SEC’s
study concluded that the agency needs to address its inability
to inspect a sufficient number of investment advisers on a
regular basis.  The report presented options including using new SEC fees
to pay for an expanded inspections program or moving investment
advisers under a self-regulatory organization.  David Bellaire, general counsel and government-affairs
director for the Financial Services Institute, an advocacy group
for independent broker-dealers and advisers, said in an
interview that investor protection would be “enhanced” by
having a single self-regulatory organization such as Finra.  “A fractured regulatory oversight creates dark corners for
people to hide,” Bellaire said.  User Fees  David G. Tittsworth, executive director of the Investment
Adviser Association, told lawmakers that his Washington-based
group favored “an appropriate user-fee provision” to allow the
SEC to remain as the advisers’ direct regulator.  Bachus called the fees “unworkable” and said the idea
“essentially amounts to an expansion of the SEC.”  Bachus asked Ketchum, who had said his organization accepts
some responsibility for missing the Madoff fraud as one of his
regulators, whether Finra would be willing to accept
“enhanced” oversight from the SEC.  Ketchum said Finra accepts “that oversight should be more
thorough and more complete,” as recommended in an independent
study of the SEC by the  Boston Consulting Group .  Broker Standards  In another Dodd-Frank mandate, the SEC is studying a
tougher conduct standard for brokers. An agency study released
in January, which was also examined today, concluded brokers
should operate under a parallel standard to registered
investment advisers, putting their customers’ interests first
when doling out personalized advice.  “I’m not sure why such a rulemaking would be under
consideration now or at any point,” said Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican who leads the capital markets
subcommittee. The SEC shouldn’t write a rule unless it “comes
forward with a reason backed by credible and real data that a
uniform fiduciary standard is necessary to address an actual
problem,” Garrett said.  “People that are doing the same things should be subject
to the same laws and regulations,” said Tittsworth, whose group
lobbies for SEC-registered investment advisers.  The SEC plans to propose the so-called fiduciary duty
before the end of the year, according to its Dodd-Frank
rulemaking calendar.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to
be more specific about timing.  “It could do some harm, particularly to the middle-income
market,” Terry K. Headley, president of the National
Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors, said of a
fiduciary standard for brokers. His group isn’t “diametrically
opposed” to the idea. He said it is concerned that it could
limit consumer access to less expensive, commission-based
services traditional to brokers.  ‘Suitability’ Standard  Supporters of the higher standard cite the public’s
frequent inability to tell the difference between types of
investment advice, as noted by the SEC. Broker-dealers are now
held to a “suitability” standard, in which they only must
recommend a product consistent with their clients’ goals,
strategies and risk tolerance. Under a fiduciary standard, a
broker would have to show that the investment is the best choice
for the client.  “Regulatory standards in this area are notably weak and
inconsistent, promoting investor confusion and setting an
unreasonably low bar for professional conduct,” said  Barbara Roper , director of investor protection for the Washington-based
 Consumer Federation of America , in her testimony today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 