-- 
Korean Wind Farm Helps Shipyards Challenge Siemens

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-28T13:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/korea-s-offshore-wind-farm-helps-shipyards-challenge-siemens.html
(Corrects seventh paragraph of story published on Sept. 14
to remove erroneous reference to previous projects.)  South Korea’s investment in a 9.2
trillion won ($8.4 billion) offshore wind farm may help domestic
shipbuilders challenge  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Vestas Wind Systems A/S in
the global turbine market.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.,  Daewoo Shipbuilding  & Marine
Engineering Co. and Samsung Heavy Industries Co., the world’s
three largest shipyards, will likely bid next year for work
making and installing turbines at the 2.5-gigawatt project,
according to the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy . The government
will help pay for the offshore farm, the largest announced in
 Asia , to cut energy imports and promote local technology.  “The offshore wind farm is very important because it will
let South Korean manufacturers showcase their products,” said
Hur Sung Duck, an analyst at HI Investment & Securities Co. in
Seoul. “It’s crucial to have a track record if you want to sell
overseas.”  South Korea has also backed smaller wind farms at sea and
on land as local companies try to break into the offshore-wind
sector that attracted $11 billion in global investments last
year. Shipbuilders are drawing on their technological expertise
in building oil-rigs.  “South Korean companies can penetrate into this market
quite fast because they already have some of the technology,”
said Cho In Karp, head of research at Heungkuk Securities Co. in
 Seoul . “They can not only produce the turbines, but also
install them at sea.”  1.39 Million Homes  The offshore wind farm, to be built at least 20 kilometers
(12 miles) off the southern city of Yeonggwang, will have 500 5-
megawatt turbines that will produce enough electricity to power
about 1.39 million households annually, according to the
 ministry . As many as 20 turbines will be installed in the first
phase by 2013, it said in November. The government also aims to
seek private investment for the project.  The country’s three largest shipyards will compete for
tenders, along with STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co., the world’s
fourth biggest shipyard, and Doosan Heavy Industries &
Construction Co., according to the ministry. Overseas companies
aren’t able to bid.  Jeju Island  South Korea , which imports almost all of its energy needs,
intends to spend 40 trillion won on renewable energy by 2015,
according to the ministry. The plans also include a 60-megawatt
offshore wind farm off Jeju Island, which will use Doosan Heavy
turbines. The 250 billion-won project is due to be completed by
June 2014. Doosan Heavy, Unison Co. and Seoul-based Samsung
Heavy also supplied turbines for a 22-megawatt onshore wind farm
near Incheon, which started operations in July.  Hyundai Heavy, based in Ulsan, South Korea, fell 5.4
percent to 288,000 won in Seoul trading today. The company,
Samsung Heavy and Daewoo Shipbuilding have all dropped more than
30 percent in the city this year. Seoul’s benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI) 
has fallen 15 percent in 2011, while the Bloomberg  Wind Energy 
Index, which tracks 64 stocks worldwide, has dropped about 20
percent.  Global offshore wind farm capacity may jump to 20 gigawatts
by 2015 from about 3 gigawatts last year because of a shortage
of available sites on land, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  China  may install 4.5 gigawatts of offshore wind
capacity by 2015, the London-based researcher has forecast.  More Power  Offshore parks can generate more power than those on land
because winds blow 40 percent more often at sea, according to
the  European Wind Energy Association . That can help offset
construction costs that are generally more expensive than for
on-land projects. A 2-megawatt turbine is about 120 meters tall,
excluding any underwater support structures.  Risks to return on investment in the offshore-wind sector
have deterred commercial lenders, Bloomberg New Energy Finance
said in May. The global economic slowdown and European debt
crisis may also damp investment and turbine-makers’ earnings.
Onshore turbine prices have fallen for three years because of a
slowdown in spending.  To help win offshore contracts, the Korean shipyards are
touting experience from building structures for  oil companies 
and from laying underwater pipes and cables. In the planned
Korea wind farm, cables will need to stretch as far as 80
kilometers to get electricity from the turbines to the onshore
substations. Hyundai Heavy has laid underwater gas and oil
pipelines that stretch a combined 5,300 kilometers, according to
the shipyard.  ‘Total Solution’  “That gives us an advantage over companies already in the
offshore wind power market,” said Kim Kweon Tae, senior
executive vice president of Hyundai Heavy’s low-carbon energy
division. “We will be providing a total solution.”  Siemens retains an edge because of its track record in
building offshore wind farms and connecting them to grids, as
well as its range of support services, said spokeswoman Eva-
Maria Baumann.  Experience is “absolutely paramount,” said Anders Soe- Jensen, president of Randers, Denmark-based Vestas’s offshore
arm, when asked about competition from South Korean shipyards.  Hyundai Heavy has invested more than 440 billion won in its
solar and wind-power businesses, including building factories in
South Korea and China. It generated about 600 billion won of
sales from renewable energies last year, compared with 11.3
trillion won from building ships, oil rigs and offshore units.
It also makes excavators and power stations.  ‘Competitive Advantage’  “Experience from the offshore and marine markets can
represent a competitive advantage,” said Steen Broust Nielsen,
a director at Hojbjerg, Denmark-based Make Consulting, which
advises companies like  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc on wind energy. “It could also address some of the
offshore supply-chain constraints, such as the bottlenecks we’ve
seen in available vessels.”  Samsung Heavy is building a wind-power factory near its
shipyard in Geoje, South Korea. Seoul-based Daewoo Shipbuilding
has spent about 72 billion won on buying turbine-maker DeWind
Inc. and building a turbine plant in Trenton,  Canada .  “Offshore wind power is just getting started,” said
Daewoo Shipbuilding’s Chief Executive Officer Nam Sang Tae. The
Seoul-based shipyard is also working with local companies on
designing products, he said.  Hyundai Heavy is developing a 5.5 megawatt turbine,
suitable for offshore farms, and it may make a 10-megawatt unit,
Kim said. It is also considering opening wind farms and turbine
factories in the U.S. and  South America . In the solar-power
sector, it has formed ventures with Saint-Gobain Group and KCC
Corp.  “This is an inevitable direction we all have to take,”
Kim said. “It’s just that it could be bumpy along the way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  