-- 
Caxton’s Bruce Kovner to Step Down After 28 Years With Law to Become CEO

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-09-13T19:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/kovner-retiring-after-28-years-running-caxton.html
Bruce Kovner , the billionaire co-
founder of Caxton Associates LP, is retiring from the $10
billion hedge fund, ending a three-decade run during which he
traded everything from soybeans to Japanese yen futures and
returned twice as much as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Andrew Law, chief investment officer, will take over from
Kovner as chairman and chief executive officer on Jan. 1, the
New York-based firm said today in a letter to investors. Peter D’Angelo, 64, Caxton’s president and co-founder, will retire.  “After 34 years in the trading business and more than 28
years leading Caxton, the time has come to hand the leadership
of the company to a new generation,” Kovner, 66, wrote in the
letter. “I do so knowing that I will miss the adrenalin rush of
confronting markets every day but also confident that new
leadership will carry on the traditions, style and substance of
Caxton’s successful history.”  Kovner is attempting a rare handover of power in the $2
trillion hedge-fund industry, where some of the most successful
managers, including  Stanley Druckenmiller  and  George Soros ,
chose to transform their firms into family offices rather than
put another trader in charge. A family office usually oversees
money for a wealthy individual and their relatives.  “In a lot of cases, the founder is the firm,” said Brad Alford, head of Alpha Capital Management LLC in Atlanta, who has
invested in hedge funds for two decades. “All these guys say
they have deep benches, but the founders are the glue that keeps
these places together.”  Macro Pioneer  Kovner declined to comment beyond the letter. He has been
preparing for his exit since 2008, when he named Law, a 45-year-
old former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managing director, as CIO.  A one-time college instructor and  New York City  cab driver,
Kovner opened Caxton in 1983, one of the first hedge-fund
managers who sought to profit from macroeconomic trends by
trading a variety of assets, including stock indexes, bonds,
currencies and commodities. Among the best-known managers, only
Druckenmiller, who turned his Duquesne Capital Management LLC
into a family office in August 2010, and Soros, who followed
suit this July with his New York-based Soros Fund Management
LLC, had longer tenures at the helm of a macro fund.  Kovner’s main Caxton Global Investment fund has returned an
average of 21 percent a year since inception, compared with an
average gain of 11 percent including dividends by the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. The $7 billion fund had one losing year, in
1994, when it fell 2.5 percent. Since 1983, the S&P has fallen
in five calendar years, including a 37 percent decline in 2008.
The top returns have helped Kovner amass a fortune estimated at
$4.5 billion, according to Forbes magazine.  $12 Billion  The fund over its lifetime has produced cumulative net
gains for investors of more than $12 billion, according to
Kovner’s letter and an estimate by LCH Investment NV, a  money
manager  based in Curacao. That ranks Caxton at seventh among the
industry’s most-profitable funds. Soros Fund Management LLC tops
the list with gains of $35 billion through the end of last year,
according LCH.  Unlike many top hedge-fund managers who started buying
stocks while still in high school, Kovner took a roundabout
route to trading.  After getting a bachelor’s degree from  Harvard University 
in 1966, he started a Ph.D. program at its John F. Kennedy
School of Government, only to give up four years later.  Credit-Card Startup  In the mid-1970s, he became interested in financial
markets, according to “Market Wizards,” a 1989 book by Jack
Schwager. He started trading, borrowing $3,000 on his MasterCard
and turning it into $45,000 in a matter of months, before losing
$23,000 of his nest egg on a disastrous soybean wager.  It was that bet that taught Kovner an important lesson.
“When something happens to disturb my emotional equilibrium and
my sense of what the world is like, I close out all positions
related to that event,” he told Schwager.  A few months later, he answered an ad to be an assistant
trader at Commodities Corp., a Princeton, New Jersey-based firm
that traded everything from cocoa to corn to currencies. The
head of firm, Helmut Weymar, was so impressed on his first
meeting with Kovner that he made him a full trader instead.
After six years at the firm, which was later bought by Goldman
Sachs, Kovner opened Caxton.  Rational, Disciplined  When Kovner was asked by Schwager what made him a
successful trader, Kovner said: “First, I have the ability to
imagine configurations of the world different from today and
really believe it can happen. I can imagine that soybean prices
can double or that the dollar can fall to 100 yen. Second, I
stay rational and disciplined under pressure.”  Law, who grew up in Cheshire,  England , and earned an
undergraduate degree in economics at the University of
Sheffield, joined Caxton in 2003. He is based in  London  and
spends a week out of each month in New York, a practice he said
he will continue.  He previously worked at Chemical Bank, where he started at
23, and Goldman Sachs, where he rose to be head of proprietary
trading in London.  At Caxton, Law manages about 20 percent of the assets of
the flagship fund, including leverage, or about $3.5 billion.
This year the fund is down about 1 percent, according to
investors who asked not to be identified because the information
is private, about the same as the Bloomberg macro hedge-fund
index.  Learning to Listen  Law’s trading style has always been similar to Kovner’s, he
said in an interview in his office on Park Avenue in  Manhattan .
Yet the older man drove home some important lessons.  “I’ve learned to listen to the markets more,” said Law,
meaning that he pays close attention to how markets move
relative to one another, and how they react to events. He
depends on these observations, rather than what he calls
“abstract fundamental preconceptions,” to forecast future
price movements.  Law also embraces Kovner’s practice of cutting risk when he
doesn’t understand what’s going on in markets, something that
Law did in May and June of this year. “Bruce has done this many
times in his career,” he said.  Starting next year, Law will institute an operating
committee to run the day-to-day business of the firm. Its
members will include Law; John Forbes, chief operating officer
and chief financial officer; Mike Bolitho, who oversees back-
office functions; and Scott Bernstein, general counsel. Caxton
will limit the amount of money it will take from new investors,
a step known as a “soft close.”  Minority Stakes  Kovner and D’Angelo will remain investors in the fund and
will retain “substantial minority stakes” in the firm, Law
said.  Kovner, who will keep an office at Caxton, will continue to
pursue his many outside interests, including the arts, education
and politics, according to his letter to investors. He is
chairman of Juilliard’s board and vice chairman of  Lincoln
Center  for the Performing Arts. He’s a managing director of the
 Metropolitan Opera  and a trustee of the  American Enterprise
Institute .  A promoter of education reform, Kovner founded the School
Choice Scholarships Foundation, which provides money to low-
income students in  New York  City so they can attend the primary
schools of their choice.  He will also continue to make investments in drug and
medical-technology companies. He currently sits on the board of
Lexington, Massachusetts-based Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp.,
which is developing drugs to fight cancer and diabetes.  “Most of all I look forward to spending more time on the
simple pleasures of life with family and friends,” he wrote.
“I may even be able to have a little more time at the piano!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  