-- 
NBA, Players’ Union Make ‘Little or No Progress’ in Lockout Negotiations

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/nba-players-union-make-little-or-no-progress-in-lockout-negotiations.html
National Basketball Association
owners and players failed to move closer to lifting a lockout
that may delay the start of the season.  Five hours of talks between the full bargaining committees
for both sides at a midtown Manhattan hotel yesterday yielded
“little or no progress” on a new labor accord, union Executive
Director  Billy Hunter  told reporters.  National Basketball Players Association President  Derek Fisher  of the  Los Angeles Lakers  said the deadlock makes it less
likely that the regular season, set to begin on Nov. 1, will
start on time. No talks are scheduled to work toward ending the
lockout that management imposed on July 1.  “We’re not marching toward getting a deal done at this
time,” Fisher told reporters. “Because of the calendar, we
can’t come out of here feeling training camp and the season will
start on time.”  The groups exchanged economic proposals during meetings
last week and the sides are “on the road” to reaching
agreement on the basis of a new labor accord, NBA Commissioner
 David Stern  told reporters yesterday.  The owners are looking for a new salary-cap system -- how
much each team can pay its players -- to improve competitive
balance in the league. The union’s concessions are tied to
keeping the system unchanged to continue the contract security
that players currently enjoy.  “It shouldn’t be the case that they’re coming in to tell
us if they’re willing to make economic concessions, we should be
willing to accept the existing system, which from our
perspective doesn’t work,” NBA Deputy Commissioner Adam Silver
told reporters.  $300 Million Loss  The NBA had about $4.3 billion in revenue last season, with
teams losing a collective $300 million, according to Stern.  The union may get a response to the unfair labor practice
charge it filed in May with the  National Labor Relations Board 
by Oct. 1, Hunter said.  Owners are scheduled to meet tomorrow in  Dallas , with union
members convening the same day in  Las Vegas , where some players
are taking part in a training series run by the  Impact
Basketball Academy .  Stern said he doesn’t anticipate announcing the
postponement of training camps, which are due to begin in the
first week of October, at the conclusion of those meetings.  In 1998, the last time there was an NBA lockout, the first
postponement came on Sept. 24, when the league delayed training
camp, which was set to begin Oct. 5. The season was shortened to
50 games from 82 after an agreement was reached in January 1999.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  