-- 
Nomura Is Said to Plan to Cut About 5% of Europe Staff as Banks Trim Costs

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-09-14T06:36:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/nomura-said-to-plan-eliminating-about-5-of-jobs-in-europe-to-pare-costs.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s
largest brokerage, is preparing to trim about 5 percent of jobs
in  Europe  to reduce costs, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The cuts may be announced as early as today, the people
said, declining to be identified because the information is
confidential. Fewer than 400 positions will be eliminated
globally, with the majority in Europe, one of the people said.  Nomura joins  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
global rivals in trimming jobs as faltering economic growth and
Europe’s debt crisis threaten to curb trading income and
investment-banking revenue. The Tokyo-based company, which
bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and European units
in 2008, said on July 29 that it plans to reduce expenses at its
wholesale unit by about $400 million annually.  “Job cuts will be inevitable under such market
conditions,” said Katsunobu Komizo, chief executive officer at
recruitment firm Executive Search Partners Co. in  Tokyo .
“Investors cannot wait for so long and expect the bank to get
fruits in a short term.”  Joey Wu, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Nomura, declined to
comment. Nomura had 4,436 employees in Europe as of June 30,
most of whom are employed in its wholesale unit, which includes
its investment banking and trading operations in London.  European Loss  Nomura shares fell 2 percent, to 290 yen in Tokyo. The
stock dropped to its lowest close in almost 37 years earlier
this week on concern that slowing growth in the global economy
may hinder overseas expansion plans.  The company’s international units posted a pretax loss of
32.8 billion yen ($425 million) in the quarter ended June 30,
the biggest in at least five quarters. In Europe, the company
lost 31.7 billion yen, and in  Asia  it lost 1.5 billion yen.  “Nomura will be able to increase its income by cutting
human costs,” Komizo said.  Global banks including those in the U.S. and Europe have
announced 120,000 job cuts this year, according to Bloomberg
Industries. Combined revenue for the 20 largest global
investment banks was down 8 percent in the first half, after a
23 percent drop in the same period last year, Barclays Capital
analysts said in a report last month.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, said on
Sept. 12 it will eliminate 30,000 jobs in the next few years,
while London-based HSBC said last month it will cut 30,000 jobs
worldwide by the end of 2013.  Domestic Strength  Nomura, which employs about 22,000 people in  Japan , remains
the dominant investment bank in its home market. It is the No. 1
equity underwriter in the country so far this year and the top
adviser for mergers and acquisitions, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The brokerage is also the top arranger of Japanese initial
public offering this year by the number of completed offerings,
according to Bloomberg data.  Nomura and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  were among four banks
chosen to manage Nikko Asset Management Co.’s IPO, three people
with knowledge of the proposed sale said earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  