-- 
Nova Kreditna Bank to Fail Profit Target as Economy Slows

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-09-13T13:42:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/nova-kreditna-bank-to-fail-profit-target-as-economy-slows-1-.html
Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.,
will “have difficulties” in reaching the profit target for the
group this year as the Slovenian economy slows.  Non-performing loans at Slovenia’s second-biggest bank by
assets “have peaked,” Andrej Plos, the chief financial officer
of the Maribor-based lender, said in a Webcast via the Ljubljana
stock exchange today. The lender expected net income this year
to reach 28 million euros ($38 million), the bank said in
January.  “Our profit guidance for the group in 2011 will be
difficult to achieve as the economy is quite weak,” Plos said.
“The  construction industry  and financial holdings are the
biggest drag on our balance sheet, but I expect the ratio of
non-performing loans has peaked. By the end of the year, it
should be at pretty much the same level as in 2010.”  Slovenian banks, including the two largest Nova Ljubljanska
Banka d.d. and Nova Kreditna, are still struggling with the
impact of the 2009 recession in Slovenia, when the economy
tumbled 8 percent, among the most hit in the euro region. The
export-driven economy is slowing as demand wanes following the
governments’ austerity measures and as  Europe ’s debt crisis adds
to uncertainty over the global recovery.  Nova Kreditna, which is majority owned by the Slovenian
government, hasn’t adjusted the price of bonds it holds that
were issued by Spain, Portugal and  Italy , Plos said today
without specifying the amount of the securities the bank holds.  Slovenia’s economic recovery is at risk as the global
economy slows and Europe’s savings measures to trim debt
undermine demand, the central bank in Ljubljana, led by Governor
Marko Kranjec, said Sept. 6. Growth in gross domestic product in
the former Yugoslav nation slowed to an annual 0.9 percent in
the second quarter from 2.3 percent in the first three months.  GDP is forecast to advance 1.8 percent this year, according
to Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic .  -- Editors: James M. Gomez, Andrea Dudikova  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  