-- 
Novartis Increases Forecast for Annual Savings From Alcon to $350 Million

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-13T16:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/novartis-increases-forecast-for-annual-savings-from-alcon-to-350-million.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Europe ’s second-
biggest drugmaker by sales, raised its sales target and cost
savings forecast for Alcon, the eye-care company it finished
acquiring this year.  Alcon aims to expand sales by a high-single to low-double-
digit percentage, Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis said in a
statement today. The maker of contact lenses and equipment for
eye surgery previously forecast growth in the mid- to high-
single digits. Novartis expects savings in the unit of $350
million a year by 2013, it said, compared with previously
forecast savings of $300 million.  Productivity improvements across Novartis contributed to
more than $1.2 billion in savings in the first half, and the
total for the year will probably exceed the $1.9 billion
achieved in 2010, the drugmaker said. It hadn’t previously
predicted 2011 cost savings.  “If you look at their quarterly numbers, they are taking
out costs, but they’ve never communicated future cost savings in
such a way that people can plug it into their models,”  Jack Scannell , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in  London ,
said in an interview today. “This may be one of the reasons the
stock has been a bit of a disappointment. A more explicit
approach will give investors a bit more confidence.”  Share Performance  Novartis rose 55 centimes, or 1.2 percent, to 48.35 Swiss
francs at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Zurich. The stock
has declined 8.2 percent this year including reinvested
dividends, compared with a 0.2 percent gain for the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Novartis is betting on Alcon, which it bought in stages for
$50 billion starting in 2008, and new products such as the
Gilenya multiple sclerosis pill to boost sales as older products
such as the Diovan hypertension drug face competition from
generics.  Trevor Mundel, the global head of development for the
pharmaceutical division, is leaving Dec. 1 to join the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation  as executive director of the global
health program, Novartis said in the statement. His successor
will be named shortly, the company said.  Novartis executives were speaking to analysts in London
today about the company’s strategy and the integration of Alcon,
which Novartis finished acquiring in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  