-- 
NY Investor Starts Online Marketplace to Match Startups, Funds

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/ny-investor-starts-online-marketplace-to-match-startups-funds.html
 AngelSoft , a New York company that
makes software for investors, is creating an online marketplace
to introduce potential backers to entrepreneurs, betting on an
uptick in financial matchmaking from the service.  Founded in 2004 by New York angel investor  David Rose , 54,
AngelSoft is launching the site for early investment in startups
and changing its name to Gust today. The service, which is
available to AngelSoft’s 150 venture-capital funds and 35,000
angel investors, adds features for entrepreneurs to post their
progress confidentially as well as to manage  investor relations .  Investors will be able to use Gust’s software to search for
new opportunities, filter incoming requests for financial
backing and track their portfolios. To create a full network,
Gust will have to attract entrepreneurs from companies like San
Francisco-based AngelList network, which matches them to
investors, said Matt Harris, a venture capitalist at  New York- 
based Village Ventures.  “As a business plan, having software that investors use
and tacking on an entrepreneur-facing entity, that’s sort of the
dream, that’s what OpenTable did for restaurants,” Harris said.
San Francisco-based  OpenTable Inc. (OPEN)  allows diners to search for
restaurants and make reservations, while providing restaurants
an online booking and table management system.  Until now AngelSoft has provided software applications used
mostly by angel investors to manage their deal flow and
collaborate with other investors.  Standardizing Information  “Right now, there’s no way of standardizing the
information or standardizing the transactions,” said Rose, 54,
who is also chairman of the New York Angels investing group.
“If you get everyone on the same platform, you make it easier
and help bring in an enormous amount of capital.”  AngelList founder Naval Ravikant  said he’s not worried
about users flocking to Gust for the investor-relations
component. At least 12,000  startups  have applied to join
AngelList since it started in February 2010, including 68
yesterday, Ravikant said in a telephone interview.  “Most professional high-quality angels and individuals use
a very sophisticated tool to manage deal flow. It’s called e-
mail,” Ravikant said.  Harris, who has been in  venture capital  since 1995, said
the number of requests he receives for funding has increased in
recent years, a trend that might boost demand for a service like
Gust.  Venture capital invested $7.6 billion in 768 deals with
private companies in the second quarter, according to  CB
Insights , a New York-based company that tracks venture capital
and angel investment. It was the third straight quarter of
growth, the group reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York At 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  