-- 
Obama’s Insurance-Buying Mandate in Health Care Struck Down by U.S. Judge

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-13T22:12:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/obama-s-insurance-buying-mandate-in-health-care-struck-down-by-u-s-judge.html
The requirement in the 2010 health-
care law that most Americans buy insurance or pay a fine is
unconstitutional, a federal judge in  Pennsylvania  ruled.  U.S. District Judge Christopher C. Conner in Harrisburg
today said Congress exceeded its powers under the federal
Constitution when it included in the act President  Barack Obama 
signed last year the provision requiring almost all Americans to
have medical insurance starting in 2014.  “The federal government,” Conner said, “is one of
limited enumerated powers, and Congress’s efforts to remedy the
ailing health-care and health-insurance markets must fit
squarely within the boundaries of those powers.”  Three federal appeals courts have weighed in on the issue
since June 29. A Cincinnati three-judge panel backed the
provision 2-1, while one in Atlanta rejected it by the same
vote. The U.S. appeals court in Richmond on Sept. 8 declined to
rule on two separate challenges, citing jurisdictional grounds.  The Harrisburg ruling, if appealed, would be heard by the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia, which hasn’t yet ruled on
the merits of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  ‘Constitutional’ Act  “The  Department of Justice  believes -- as appellate courts
have already held -- that the Affordable Care Act is
constitutional,”  Tracy Schmaler , a spokeswoman for the federal
agency, said in an e-mailed statement.  She declined to say whether the U.S. would appeal Conner’s
decision.  The case before Conner was filed by Gregory Bachman, 56,
and Barbara Goudy-Bachman, 48, a married couple with two
children, living in Etters, Pennsylvania, according to the
court’s ruling.  The couple, who told the court they were self-employed,
challenged the constitutionality of the mandate, arguing that
their health insurance premiums had exceeded the cost of their
mortgage payments and that since dropping their coverage in
2001, they’ve been able to pay their expenses “in full out of
current assets,” according to today’s ruling.  The U.S. contended that the health care services market is
unique in that the Bachmans cannot truly “opt out” from
participation in it simply by choosing to be uninsured.  ‘Uncharted Territory’  Acknowledging the Atlanta and Cincinnati appellate rulings,
Conner said “both decisions spotlight the individual mandate’s
voyage into unchartered territory of constitutional law.”  Neither the court, nor the parties, had found any precedent
addressing Congress’s ability to regulate a market solely
because it is unique, Conner wrote.  Until such time as the U.S. Supreme Court addresses that
issue, the health care act “cannot withstand constitutional
scrutiny,” Conner said.  The  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Thomas More Law Center, which
lost the June 29 appellate ruling in Cincinnati, has petitioned
the high court for review of the decision.  The case is Goudy-Bachman v.  U.S. Department of Health  and
Human Services, 10-cv-763, U.S. District Court, Middle District
of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  