-- 
Obama Visits Boehner’s Ohio to Pitch School Spending in His U.S. Jobs Plan

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-09-13T19:42:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/obama-in-ohio-to-pitch-school-spending.html
A day after presenting Congress
with legislation for his $447 billion jobs proposal, President
 Barack Obama  used an Ohio high school as a backdrop to promote
the plan that includes $25 billion in public school renovations.  “It puts people back to work and it puts more money in the
pockets of working Americans,” Obama said at Fort Hayes Arts
and Academic High School in Columbus, where he spoke outdoors to
a crowd estimated by local officials at 3,250 people. “My
question to Congress is, ‘What on earth are we waiting for?’”  Showcasing a renovated school in the home state of House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, Obama pressured
Republican congressional leaders who say the U.S. can’t afford
more stimulus spending.  The president urged lawmakers to “pass this bill” as soon
as possible, reprising the theme of his speech to a joint
session of Congress last week. The audience of supporters,
including some who said they were invited through their churches
or a teacher’s union, chanted the demand in unison.  Obama repeated his promise that measures he proposed would
be paid for, and said the plan would employ “tens of thousands
of construction workers” in  Ohio  and could save the jobs of
14,000 teachers, police officers and firefighters in the state.  Obama said working Americans can’t wait for the 2012
presidential election before Congress acts. “They need action,
and they need action now,” he said.  Unemployment Rate  The event’s staging, with loudspeakers blaring music by
 Stevie Wonder , evoked Obama’s campaign rallies before the 2008
election except that Obama, seeking re-election, now faces a 9.1
percent unemployment rate and a Republican-led  House of
Representatives .  Ohio could get $985 million for work at elementary, middle
and high schools, supporting an estimated 12,800 jobs, said U.S.
Education Secretary Arne Duncan. “This is not a partisan
issue,” Duncan said on a conference call.  Duncan said school modernization is “the right plan at the
right time” as the administration looks for ways to reduce the
nation’s 9.1 percent  unemployment rate .  A multimillion-dollar upgrade at the Fort Hayes school
improved the students’ learning environment and created local
jobs, said  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman. The
administration estimates the school plan would create hundreds
of thousands of construction, engineering and maintenance jobs
and help as many as 35,000 public schools.  ‘Bad Before He Came’  Evelyn Johnson, 70, a retired hospital worker who
volunteered for Obama in 2008 and came to the Columbus event
with her church group, said the economy isn’t the president’s
fault. “It was bad before he came,” she said.  Obama yesterday proposed offsetting the price tag of his
jobs plan by increasing taxes for high earners, private equity
managers and oil and gas companies starting in 2013. Those
provisions have been rejected by congressional Republicans in
the past and the party’s leaders in the House said their
opposition hasn’t changed.  Release of the jobs plan sets the stage for a political
fight with Republicans in Congress that will frame Obama’s
strategy for a re-election campaign next year.  “If Congress refuses to pass this bill, middle-class
families will get hit with a tax increase,” Obama told the
crowd today.  In unscheduled remarks yesterday to a forum of majority
black community organizations, faith groups and college
students, Obama sought to enlist his supporters behind the jobs
proposal.  ‘Pump This Up’  “I want you guys to pump this up,” Obama told the group
at the White House. “I need people to be out there promoting
this and pushing this and making sure that everybody understands
the details of what this would mean, so that one of two things
happen: Either Congress gets it done, or if Congress doesn’t get
it done people know exactly what’s holding it up and we’re able
to continue to apply pressure.”  Tomorrow, Obama will go to Apex,  North Carolina , to speak
at a small business that the administration says would benefit
from Obama’s proposals.  While Obama won Ohio and North Carolina in 2008, the states
will be battlegrounds for both parties next year. Obama carried
Ohio with 51.5 percent of the vote in 2008, after Republican
 George W. Bush  won it in 2004 and 2000. He narrowly won in North
Carolina in the last election with 49.7 percent of the vote to
Republican  John McCain ’s 49.4 percent. Before 2008, North
Carolina last was won by the Democratic presidential candidate
in 1976.  Jobs Package  The job-promotion package Obama first outlined in a Sept. 8
speech to a joint session of Congress is weighted toward tax
cuts, which account for more than half the dollar value of the
plan.  The centerpiece is a cut in the  payroll tax , which covers
the first $106,800 in earnings and is evenly split between
employers and employees. Obama would reduce the portion paid by
workers next year to 3.1 percent from 4.2 percent now. The rate
was reduced by two percentage points under the terms of a tax
deal reached last year. That cut is set to expire Dec. 31, which
would push the  tax rate  back to 6.2 percent.  Spending Plans  The plan also would provide money for improving roads,
bridges and railroads, modernizing schools and helping states
keep teachers and emergency workers on the job.  Obama’s proposal would spend $30 billion on schools, with
$25 billion going to public schools and $5 billion to community
colleges.  The details of Obama’s proposals drew criticism from House
Republican leaders, who last week had sought to strike a posture
of bipartisan cooperation with the president’s efforts to jump-
start job creation. Republicans focused on the provisions
intended to offset the cost of the payroll tax cuts and spending
by raising levies on higher income individuals and oil and gas
companies.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , of  Virginia , said today
he expects the tax increases Obama is proposing to pay for his
plan will be split off from measures to cut taxes for workers
and small businesses. The more contentious parts of the
legislation may have to be put off until after the 2012
election, he said.  ‘Agree to Disagree’  “We’ll have to agree to disagree on some of the things
that will have to be decided on in public debates surrounding
the next election,” Cantor told reporters after giving a speech
in  Washington . “Republicans are not going to accept tax
increases if the goal is to grow the economy.”  White House budget director Jack Lew said yesterday that
the debate pits tax breaks for investment fund managers, the oil
and gas industry and corporate jet owners against spending on
infrastructure and teachers, and tax cuts for middle-income
people.  “That is not a hard choice for most Americans,” he said.  The  Democratic National Committee  is airing ads in
Columbus,  Cleveland  and in seven other states to promote Obama’s
plan. The first round of ads, entitled “14 Months,” features
clips from Obama’s speech to Congress last week saying the
nation can’t wait until the next election for action, the DNC
said in a release.  Ohio Republicans  Ohio Republicans have argued that Obama’s policies haven’t
helped the economy.  State Republican Chairman Kevin DeWine said Obama went to
Columbus to pitch the 2009 stimulus, saying it would keep
unemployment below 8 percent. “The failure of the first
stimulus plan couldn’t be more apparent” to the 528,000 Ohio
residents who are unemployed, he told reporters on a conference
call today.  The state’s unemployment rate was 9.0 percent in July,
compared with 8.6 percent in January 2009 when Obama took office
and 9.1 percent in February 2009 when the stimulus bill was
passed, according to the Ohio Bureau of Labor Market
Information. The state lost a net 65,900 jobs from February 2009
through July, or 1.27 percent, federal labor data show.  Governor  John Kasich , a first-term Republican, said he
likes the idea of a payroll-tax reduction and hopes the
president and Congress can work out a deal, he said.  “The country’s really struggling economically, there’s no
doubt about it,” Kasich told reporters after an event yesterday
in Columbus. “This is not a time for partisanship. This is a
time to figure out a way in which we can get things moving in
the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 