-- 
Obama Soul Mate Down Under Looks Down and Out: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-09-13T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/obama-s-soul-mate-down-under-may-be-down-and-out-william-pesek.html
It’s as predictable as political
leadership gets: When things go awry at home, escape overseas
for a while, grip and grin with a foreign head of state and
change the subject.  Barack Obama  may have this tried-and-true strategy in mind
as he plans to visit Australia, which is about as far as a U.S.
president can get from the rancor in Washington. Yet as he meets
with Prime Minister Julia Gillard in November, it will be hard
not to wonder about the weak leadership imperiling not only
their economies, but also the world at large.  The similarities between Gillard and Obama are striking.
Both are trailblazers -- Australia’s first female leader, the
U.S.’s first black one -- who pledged to change the tone in
their capitals. Both are likable politicians who inspire
visceral and often inexplicable dislike and face daunting levels
of opposition from cynical foes out to derail their every
effort. Both confront a news media that has swung from fawning
to churlish.  Obama is struggling to get any legislation passed while the
economy stalls and U.S. standing wanes. Gillard’s inability to
get her policies passed risks squandering a once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity to harness the benefits of a mining boom and prepare
for when the resources run out.  So maddened are their opponents that they forget what they
once stood for. Gillard can’t garner support for a refugee bill
that lawmakers probably would have supported before June 2010,
when she came to power. Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  now
opposes an emissions-trading system his party championed a few
years ago.  Bad Hands  In the U.S., Republicans are down on Obama’s plan to cut
payroll taxes, something they would have supported in an instant
in the past. In both cases, the opposition would rather hand
leaders political defeats than stay true to their own
convictions.  What’s more, both Obama and Gillard were, to varying
degrees, dealt bad hands of cards.  Australia’s economy steered around the worst of the 2008
financial crisis, its national budget isn’t far from balance and
exporters have a reliable customer in  China . One might argue
that Gillard’s predicament is partly of her own making as an
ouster of predecessor  Kevin Rudd  in a political coup fueled
public discontent.  On Autopilot  Yet Gillard inherited a long to-do list because Rudd (2007
to 2010) and John Howard (1996 to 2007) had largely left the
economy on autopilot. Most of the heavy lifting was done by past
prime ministers like Bob Hawke (1983 to 1991) and Paul Keating
(1991 to 1996). Howard and Rudd opted to coast and ride China’s
boom. Gillard doesn’t have that luxury as the world economy
slides anew.  Obama faces a far more intractable set of obstacles. A
variety of crises came to a head as he entered the White House
in 2009. Yet Republicans have taken an over-our-dead-body
position against Obama’s every effort.  The only answer for Gillard and Obama is to get radical --
be bold, think big and fight for your ideals. Neither leader
seems set to do that, or able to sell their messages. Much the
same can be said of the rest of the world, not to mention  Asia .  Japan ’s growing list of premiers since 2000 is a who’s who
of weak leaders. From  India  to  Malaysia  to  South Korea , Asians
are struggling amid tepid stewardship. Those with vision and
backbone, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia and Benigno Aquino of the Philippines, are up against institutionalized
corruption fighting their every move.  China to Rescue  Europe  too is a mess.  Germany ’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
personifies the long list of leaders needing opposition support
just to stay in power. As Greece burns and euro-area credit
ratings get slashed, leaders are looking to a developing nation
for help. Italy is the latest to reach out to China about buying
its bonds. Who needs the  International Monetary Fund  when China
is ready to step up with its surplus cash?  And if you think we’re going to get leadership from the
Group of 20, you’re dreaming. It’s great that this broader, more
representative group replaced the Group of Seven. The time when
the G-7 could have its way with markets passed long before
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008.  The trouble is, which G-20 leader is coming to the table
with new and innovative ideas? In a more perfect world,
Australia would be doing just that. For all its challenges, it
boasts the kinds of statistics officials in Brussels, Tokyo and
 Washington  would kill for. While the  Federal Reserve  and  Bank of
Japan  hold  interest rates  at zero, Australia’s central bank has
set overnight rates at 4.75 percent. That gives it plenty of
monetary ammunition should world growth crash.  Front Line  Australia is also on the front lines of globalization’s
biggest challenges: the effects of climate change, an aging
population, immigration, a widening gap between rich and poor,
creaky infrastructure and an education system that needs an
overhaul to maintain competitiveness. On these and other issues,
ones shared by Obama, Australia’s voice should be sought early
and often.  Yes, Gillard and Obama will have much to discuss come
November. That is, if she’s even in office. Canberra is abuzz
with talk that the Labor Party will soon dump Gillard and go
with Rudd once again. Stranger things have happened, as
Gillard’s peer in Washington can tell you all about, too.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 