-- 
Oil Rises in New York, Topping $90 on Forecast of Shrinking Inventories

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-13T20:57:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/oil-rises-a-second-day-in-new-york-on-forecast-of-shrinking-inventories.html
Crude climbed above $90 a barrel in
New York to the highest level in almost six weeks on speculation
a report tomorrow will show supplies fell in the U.S., the
biggest oil-consuming country.  Futures increased 2.3 percent before the Energy Department
report that may show supplies declined by 3 million barrels last
week because of storms in the Gulf of Mexico. Prices also
advanced after German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she’s
confident Europe will find a solution for Finland’s objections
to Greece’s bailout.  “We are probably going to see a big drop in tomorrow’s
report because of Tropical Storm Lee and the remnants of
 Hurricane Irene ,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research
at PFGBest in Chicago. “There’s also talk that the Europeans
will announce new ideas for the bailout for Greece.”  Crude oil for October delivery advanced $2.02 to $90.21 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Aug. 3. Prices have increased 17 percent in the
past year.  Prices slipped from the settlement after the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles fell 5.05 million barrels to 344.2 million. October
oil gained $1.58, or 1.8 percent, to $89.77 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:33 p.m.  Brent oil for October settlement declined 36 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $111.89 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  Exchange.  The European benchmark contract’s premium to U.S. futures
narrowed to $21.68 from $24.06 yesterday and the record of
$26.87 on Sept. 6, based on settlement prices.  Weaker Brent  “We’re seeing Brent get weaker, which makes sense given
Europe’s economic problems and the prospect that we’ll soon
start to see dribs and drabs of Libyan oil come on the market,”
said  Rick Mueller , a principal with ESAI Energy LLC in
Wakefield, Massachusetts.  The Energy Department may say crude inventories dropped to
350.1 million barrels last week, according to the median of 14
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline
stockpiles probably fell 500,000 barrels to 208.3 million, the
survey showed.  Output in the  Gulf of Mexico , which accounts for 27 percent
of U.S. supply, was cut 61 percent last week after Tropical
Storm Lee shut production platforms.  Oil in  London  fell after the  International Energy Agency 
reduced its estimate of 2012 global oil demand by 400,000
barrels a day and for 2011 by 200,000. Worldwide demand will
rise by 1.2 percent to 89.3 million barrels a day this year and
by 1.6 percent to 90.7 million next year.  ‘Long and Difficult’  The full resumption of Libyan exports following the ouster
of  Muammar Qaddafi  will be “long and difficult,” the Paris-
based agency said in a monthly report. The IEA is an energy
policy adviser to 28 industrialized nations including the U.S.,
Japan and Germany.  Merkel said she’s “very optimistic” that  Finland ’s
demands for special collateral as part of the Greek bailout
package will be met within the parameters of measures agreed by
euro-area leaders. Merkel spoke in Berlin today after meeting
with Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen .  Katainen said Sept. 7 that his country may not contribute
to a second Greek bailout package if demands for collateral in
exchange for new loans aren’t met. Finland is at the center of a
collateral dispute that threatens to stall Greece’s second
rescue package and exacerbate Europe’s debt crisis.  Demand for Collateral  Merkel said that Greece is taking the right steps to get
its next bailout payment, warning against allowing a Greek
default because of the risk of contagion for other countries. An
“uncontrolled insolvency” would roil markets, she told Berlin-
based broadcaster Inforadio.  “These markets are on a hair trigger,” said Bill O’Grady,
chief market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in
 St. Louis . “Every rumor coming out of Europe has an impact
because nobody knows how the euro crisis will be resolved. It’s
clear that without further help Greece is toast.”  Italian officials spoke in the past few weeks with Chinese
counterparts about investing in the country, an Italian official
said yesterday. Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  met with
Chinese officials in Rome earlier this month, his spokesman
Filippo Pepe said by phone today. Italy joins Spain, Greece,
Portugal and investment bank Morgan Stanley among distressed
borrowers that have turned to  China  since 2007.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 742,518
contracts as of 4:33 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 745,286
contracts yesterday, little changed from the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.49 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 