-- 
Older Teens Benefit Least From Rules Aimed at Safe Driving, Study Finds

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-09-13T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/older-teens-benefit-least-from-rules-aimed-at-safe-driving-study-finds.html
Older  teen drivers  are more likely
to have fatal crashes in states with restrictions aimed at
protecting inexperienced young drivers in a study that may spur
policy makers to re-evaluate the programs.  The rules limit passengers and night-time driving for
beginners younger than age 18. While the states with the
strictest restrictions experienced a lower rate of fatal crashes
among 16-year-olds, the rate was higher for 18-year-olds,
according to  research  released today in the Journal of the
 American Medical Association .  The study is one of the first to suggest that driving
restrictions may not help keep older teenagers safe behind the
wheel, said Anne McCartt, senior vice president of research at
the  Insurance Institute for Highway Safety  in Arlington,
 Virginia , who wrote an accompanying editorial in the journal.
More studies are needed to determine if some teens are delaying
getting their license until after they turn 18 when most state
graduated licensing programs end, she said.  “It’s great we’re saving 16-year-old drivers,” said Scott
Masten, the lead author and a research manager with the
 California  Department of Motor Vehicles in  Sacramento . “Our
goal was to make them safer drivers. How can we save more lives?  “I hope this starts some discussion,” Masten said in a
Sept. 12 telephone interview. “As the laws are currently
implemented, we’re not saving older teen lives. Why?”  Laws Changing  Graduated driver licensing  programs vary by state and the
laws are changing, Masten said. As of July, all 50 states and
the  District of Columbia  have enacted these programs, he said.  Generally, the laws require teens first to obtain a
learner’s permit mandating they drive under an adult’s
supervision. In  California , teens may apply for a learner’s
permit at age 15 1/2, which they are required to hold for at
least six months, Masten said. California teenagers can obtain a
driver’s license at 16 that allows them to drive on their own,
but bans any passengers younger than 20 and prohibits driving
from 11 p.m.-5 a.m. The  restrictions  lift a year after a
teenager obtains the license, he said.  “The approach is meant to allow the extensive learning
that occurs during the initial several months of driving to be
gained in realistic -- yet the safest possible -- conditions,”
the authors wrote.  Two Decades of Data  Researchers in the study analyzed fatal crashes involving
16- to 19-year-old drivers for all U.S. states and  Washington ,
D.C. from 1986 to 2007. They ranked states based on strong
programs with passenger and night-time restrictions, and weaker
programs that had only one of the two limitations. The groups
were compared with states that at the time had no similar rules.  In states with the strongest programs, a 12 percent
increase in fatal crashes occurred involving 18-year-old drivers
compared with states that had no restrictions, Masten said. In
those with weaker programs, there was a 10 percent increase.  Sixteen-year-old drivers in states with strong programs had
a 26 percent reduction in fatal accidents compared with those in
states with no laws, while 16-year-olds in states with weaker
programs had a 16 percent reduction in fatal crashes, Masten
said.  The researchers also saw evidence of a reduction in fatal
crashes for 17-year-olds in states with the driving
restrictions, he said.  The work for the study was completed as part of Masten’s
doctoral dissertation at the University of  North Carolina  in
 Chapel Hill .  Study Limitations  Masten and his colleagues noted their research is limited
because the best available data are for fatal motor vehicle
crashes, which are often associated with alcohol abuse and
excessive speeding.  Crashes involving 16- and 17-year-olds tend to occur
because they aren’t experienced drivers and fail, for example,
to check their blind spots, Masten said. For older teens,
alcohol use and speeding are more often reasons for accidents
regardless of the driving restrictions.  In states with graduated license programs, 18-year-olds
seem to have more accidents because they didn’t get enough
practice driving at a younger age or “they are skipping out on
driving before age 18 and are complete novices,” he said.  McCartt, with the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety,
said if today’s findings are true and teens are waiting until 18
to avoid graduated licensing laws, policymakers should consider
strengthening regulations. In  New Jersey , the minimum age for an
intermediate license is 17 and graduated licensing restrictions
apply to all new license applicants younger than 21, according
to the editorial.  “We don’t know for sure whether graduated licensing makes
older teens less safe, safer or has no effect,” McCartt said
today in a telephone interview. “If there is a benefit or a
dis-benefit, we haven’t tested the hypotheses for why this might
be. We need to learn more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  