-- 
Carl Lewis Wins as Ex-Olympian Restored to New Jersey State Senate Ballot

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-13T20:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/olympic-gold-medalist-carl-lewis-s-name-put-back-on-new-jersey-ballot.html
Olympic track-and-field gold
medalist  Carl Lewis  won a second federal appeals court ruling
allowing his name on the ballot for a  New Jersey  state senate
seat.  Lewis, a 50-year-old Democrat who has been vying for a
place on the ballot for the state’s Eighth Legislative District,
persuaded the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Philadelphia  to reverse a
Sept. 7 ruling barring his name from the list of candidates.  Today’s ruling reinstates Lewis as the Democratic party
nominee. Lewis won an uncontested primary election in June after
the appeals panel temporarily barred a ruling by New Jersey’s
top elections official that Lewis was ineligible to run because
he didn’t meet state residency requirements.  New Jersey Secretary of State Kim Guadagno, a Republican
who also serves as lieutenant governor, refused to certify Lewis
as a candidate last month. U.S. District Court Judge Noel Hillman ruled Sept. 6 that Guadagno’s decision and the state’s
four-year residency requirement didn’t violate Lewis’s
constitutional rights. Ballots for the November race are
scheduled to be printed by Sept. 18.  “Today’s decision puts this matter with the voters of the
Eighth Legislative District where it rightfully belongs,”
 William M. Tambussi , one of Lewis’s attorneys, said in an e-
mailed statement. “The voters now have a meaningful choice.”  Fred Snowflack, a spokesman for Guadagno, said she was
“reviewing the decision” and declined to comment further.  Bought a Home  The case turned on whether Lewis was a resident of the
state before a Nov. 8, 2007, cutoff. Lewis grew up in New Jersey
before moving to Texas and California. Lawyers for the nine-time
Olympic gold medalist said he bought a home in New Jersey in
2005, which made him a state resident.  Guadagno said the record showed Lewis didn’t buy his
current home until Nov. 16, 2007, eight days after the cutoff.
She also argued that Lewis certified he was a  California 
resident each time he voted there in three elections in 2008 and
one in 2009.  A divided three-judge appeals panel ruled that Hillman
erred in upholding the state’s finding that Lewis didn’t meet
residency requirements.  “The state has failed to demonstrate a compelling state
interest in the application of this durational residency
requirement to this particular candidate,” U.S. Circuit Judge
Thomas Ambro said in a one-page ruling.  Lewis has been campaigning to represent a district that has
traditionally elected Republicans. Incumbent Dawn Marie Addiego,
a Republican, was appointed to fill the vacancy left by  Phil Haines , who was tapped for a judgeship.  The federal case is Lewis v. Guadagno, 1:11-cv-02381, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden). The appeal is
Lewis v. Guadagno, 11-3401,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Third
Circuit (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 