-- 
Homebuilders Seek Reprieve as Higher Loan Limits Expire

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/homebuilders-press-for-reprieve-as-higher-loan-limits-expire.html
There’s at least one economic
policy issue on which Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
President  Barack Obama , and Republican leaders in the U.S. House
of Representatives agree: All say it’s time for the federal
government to begin scaling back the size of home mortgages it
buys or insures.  That’s scheduled to happen on Oct. 1, when limits on loans
backed by the  Federal Housing Administration  and government-
controlled mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac 
will drop from the record highs set in the aftermath of the 2008
financial crisis. In high-cost areas, the cap will fall from
$729,750 to $625,500.  Still, even with the political momentum strongly against
them, real estate agents and homebuilders are pressing for a
last-minute reprieve, setting the stage for a renewed debate on
 Capitol Hill  about whether reducing government backing for loans
will destabilize an already weakened market.  “While housing is really struggling to recover, we don’t
understand why we continue to put impediments to that recovery
in place,” Ron Phipps, president of the National Association of
Realtors, said in a telephone interview as he visited Washington
last week. “We are going to take this to the 11th hour, or
frankly, the 11th hour and the 59th minute.”  Realtors Resist  The NAR and the National Association of Homebuilders --
whose members include  Pulte Group Inc. (PHM) ,  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  and
 KB Home (KBH) , among others -- have found some lawmakers who agree
with their cause. Bipartisan legislation has been introduced in
the House and Senate that would extend the current loan limits
for two more years. Sponsors of a House bill last week wrote a
 letter  urging fellow lawmakers to add the measure to an upcoming
spending bill.  “We cannot -- at this time -- rely on private lenders to
provide reasonably priced, long-term, fixed-rate mortgages when
they have showed great reluctance to do so over the past few
years,” the letter said.  The central question is just how far-reaching the effects
of dropping the limits would be. Some proponents of the change,
including the Obama administration, say the number of loans
affected would be relatively small.  A  study  this year by the FHA found that if the lower loan
limits had already been in effect, only 3 percent of the nearly
1.24 million loans it insured in 2010 and 2 percent of the
284,000 loans it backed in the first four months of 2011
wouldn’t have qualified.  The reductions will affect buyers in 669 counties with
relatively high  home prices , out of the nation’s 3,334 counties,
the FHA found.  High End  Proponents of lower limits say government programs
shouldn’t be helping the higher end of the market.  “I don’t think FHA was ever intended to help those higher-
income individuals buy their homes,” Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican and chairman of a House
Financial Services panel, said during a hearing last week. “I
believe FHA should only be used to help lower-income individuals
and first-time homebuyers.”  At a congressional hearing in July, Bernanke suggested the
private mortgage market was ready to finance larger loans. And
with political pressure mounting to find ways to scale back
government support of the housing market, the Obama
administration singled out changing loan limits as a near-term
solution in a white paper on housing that the White House
released in February. Carol Galante, acting chairman of the FHA,
told lawmakers last week that the administration still views
that as “an important thing to do.”  Private Capital  “We do want private capital to come back into the
market,” she said at a  hearing  of a House finance panel. “We
think that’s a first step at stepping back FHA’s role in the
market.”  Federal backing for loans works in a couple of ways. The
FHA provides  mortgage insurance  to some borrowers who otherwise
don’t earn enough or have enough of a down payment to qualify
for a prime loan. With an FHA loan, buyers can put down as
little as 3.5 percent.  In addition, borrowers can get better  interest rates  if
their loan is small enough to qualify for purchase by  Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac. The government-sponsored enterprises, which
have been under U.S. conservatorship since 2008, package the
loans they buy into mortgage-backed securities and sell them.  Loan limits are based on median home prices in each county,
but they don’t go any lower than $271,050.  That floor will
remain unchanged.  Some analysts argue that because home prices have fallen,
that floor for government-backed loans is now artificially
propping up the market, and should also be dropped.  Government Guarantee  “Given what has happened to falling home prices, you’re
really aggravating the situation,” said Basil Petrou, managing
partner of Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics Inc.
“It’s a 100 percent government guarantee, with all the problems
that generates, applied to a family that can afford a mortgage
which is significantly higher than what the average person in
their area can afford.”  Researchers at George  Washington  University released a
study in June suggesting that the FHA could reduce its loan
limits by 50 percent and still serve 95 percent its target
market of low- and moderate-income borrowers.  The problem is that the limits have stayed high while
median home values have dropped, said Finance Professor Robert Van Order, one of the authors of the study.  Values Decline  “While property values go down, loan limits of all sorts
have gone up,” he said in a telephone interview.  “You’ve got
a lot of places where the limits reached a peak a few years ago
and they’ve stayed there.”  The housing industry is fighting back with predictions that
a broad swath of American borrowers will be affected, not just
the wealthy, if the limits are lowered.  The  National Association of Home Builders  released a study
by an in-house economist in June that said a reduction in loan
limits would make 5 million homes ineligible for government-
backed funding and 12.2 million homes ineligible for FHA-insured
mortgages.  “I think there’s a misunderstanding that it just impacts a
few high-cost states,” said Phipps of the NAR.  “The reality
is that it’s going to impact 42 states and over 660 individual
counties. Its reach is profound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 