-- 
On Social Security, Rick Perry Protests Too Much:Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-09-13T00:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/on-social-security-perry-protests-too-much-commentary-by-ramesh-ponnuru.html
The increasingly sharp campaign-
trail exchanges between  Mitt Romney  and  Rick Perry  about Social
Security reflect a long-running division among Republicans about
the program.  Perry, the governor of  Texas , stands with those Republicans
who never made their peace with a universal pension program run
by the federal government. Romney, the former governor of
 Massachusetts , argues that the program is worthwhile but that
its growth needs to be reined in, and that Perry’s rhetoric will
backfire.  Conservative Social Security reformers are used to siding
with Republicans who boldly point out the program’s flaws, and
thus a lot of them are defending Perry from what they see as
Romney’s unfair attacks. But Romney’s approach is more likely to
convince the public that Republicans can be trusted to reform
Social Security rather than demolish it.  Perry has said that Social Security was an unconstitutional
enlargement of federal power and has talked about turning it
over to the states. He has called it a “Ponzi scheme,” a
“failure by any measure” and “a monstrous lie.” He hasn’t
proposed specific changes to it other than saying that any
reforms should leave existing retirees and near-retirees
unaffected.  Romney, on the other hand, has said that he supports the
program but that it needs changes to make it sustainable. He has
favorably mentioned raising the  retirement age , instituting
personal accounts and means-testing benefits. But appearing to
be hostile to the program, he has warned, will get Republicans
“ obliterated .”  Lessons of History  Party history suggests that Romney is correct. In 1936, Alf
Landon ran on a platform of repealing Social Security and won
only two states. In 1964,  Barry Goldwater  said the program
should be made voluntary, got hammered by Republicans and
Democrats alike for the remark, and then spent the rest of the
campaign running away from it -- before he, too, was crushed.  Ronald Reagan  took a different approach. In the 1980
debates, he said that Social Security was out of actuarial
balance and that he would appoint a  task force  to fix it. But
the main point on which he insisted was that he supported the
program and wouldn’t cut benefits for retirees. Members of
Congress who went further than that lost seats in the 1980s.  Ever since, Republicans who have sought to reform Social
Security have adopted Reagan’s attitude. In 2000 and 2004,
 George W. Bush  repeatedly praised the program and at no point
allowed any negative words about it to escape his lips -- while
also saying that it needed reform. Although Bush was unable to
secure passage of the changes he sought, such as starting
personal accounts and moderating the growth of benefits,
Republicans who supported his plan did not suffer politically.
(Republicans lost a lot of seats in 2006 and 2008, it’s true,
but vocal supporters of reform didn’t lose at an especially high
rate and very few races turned on the issue.)  Public Opposition  Polls do not suggest that public opinion has changed enough
that a frontal attack on Social Security is now a feasible
strategy for Republicans in a general election. The public
worries that the program is unsustainable on its current path.
And it is: The program has an unfunded  liability  of some $16
trillion. But in a Gallup  poll in January , only 34 percent
favored cutting Social Security spending -- and the percentage
among Republicans was identical.  A  Pew poll  taken in June found that 60 percent of the
public thought it was more important to preserve benefits than
to cut the deficit; just 32 percent disagreed. A  Kaiser Family
Foundation poll  last October found that Americans tend to think
the Democrats (44 percent) would do a better job than the
Republicans (29 percent) at fixing Social Security.  If anything, changes in public opinion have made reformers’
job harder. According to Gallup,  31 percent  of non-retirees say
they expect to rely on Social Security as a major source of
income later in life. That percentage  has been increasing 
in recent years, as Americans have grown less confident in their
ability to fund their retirements with 401(k)s.  Fund of Trust  Conservatives often say that the Social Security Trust Fund
lacks assets that will help pay for the program (because it
merely contains IOUs from the rest of the federal government).
But both polling and history suggest that Republicans have no
fund of trust to rely on, either. It’s not going to be easy to
persuade Americans to go along with major changes to Social
Security, and it’s going to be impossible for anyone who seems
opposed to the program on principle.  Americans might listen to someone who calls Social Security
a “ Ponzi scheme ,” if he goes on to explain that what he means is
that it cannot deliver the benefits it promises without
significant reforms. But someone who seems eager to get the
federal government out of the business of ensuring retirement
security altogether will find a less receptive audience.  So Romney is right. He could, in fact, sharpen his
argument. If Republicans run against Social Security -- or even
allow the impression that they’re against it to stand -- it’s
not just they who will be obliterated. It’s the prospect of
reform.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 