-- 
Options Most Bearish on Euro Since 2003 as Debt Crisis Deepens

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-09-13T15:44:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/options-most-bearish-on-euro-since-2003-as-debt-crisis-deepens.html
Options traders turned the most
bearish on the euro this week in almost eight years, signaling
the currency may extend its 4.8 percent drop this month, as
 Europe  struggles to stem the sovereign-debt crisis.  The premium for options granting the right to sell the euro
over those that allow for purchases reached the most yesterday
since at least October 2003, when Bloomberg began tracking the
data. Bets on a drop in the 17-nation currency outnumbered
wagers on a gain last week by the most since January, reversing
a so-called net-long position two weeks ago.  The slide in the euro reflects waning confidence that
Europe will avert a Greek default and contagion infects banks,
while German growth stalls. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet ,
who as recently as June 30 signaled the need for higher
borrowing costs, said Sept. 8 that there were “downside risks”
to the economic outlook, prompting traders to scale back bets
that rates would increase.  “I don’t see any fundamental reason why the downward trend
in the euro should stop,”  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency
strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said in an interview.
“It’s a combination of a euro-area debt crisis that’s going
into a new round and the impression that the ECB is more willing
to play a more proactive role in this crisis and use  interest
rates  to support” weaker economies, he said.  The euro was little changed at $1.3674 as of 11:41 a.m. in
New York, swinging between gains of as much as 0.3 percent and
losses of 0.9 percent. The 17-nation currency weakened 0.4
percent to 105.19 yen after falling yesterday to the lowest
level since 2001.  Risk Reversals  The so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate reached minus
4.33 percentage points yesterday, and was at minus 3.87 percent
today. A negative rate signals greater demand for euro puts
relative to calls. Calls grant the right to purchase a currency,
while puts allow for sales. The rate was minus 1.16 percentage
points on Jan. 14.  Euro puts that give traders the right to sell the currency
at $1.25 “are in demand,” signaling traders see room for
further weakness, Olivier Korber, a currency-derivatives
strategist at Societe Generale SA in Paris, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Morgan Stanley lowered its year-end forecast for the euro
to $1.30 today, analysts including  Hans Redeker , head of
foreign-exchange strategy in  London , wrote in an investor note.
Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its year-end forecast for the euro on
Sept. 8, to $1.30 from $1.40,  Jens Nordvig , global head of Group
of 10 foreign-exchange strategy in New York at Nomura, wrote in
a note.  Bond Yields Climb  Investors sold the euro as government bond yields among the
euro-region’s most-indebted nations climbed. Italy’s two-year
yields rose to the highest since before the  European Central
Bank  began buying the nation’s debt last month, as concern the
debt crisis is worsening sapped demand at a note sale today.  Greek two-year notes slid for a 10th day, pushing yields
above 76 percent, as credit-default swaps showed the nation has
a 98 percent chance of default in the next five years. Italy
sold 3.9 billion euros ($5.3 billion) of five-year notes at an
average yield of 5.60 percent, up from 4.93 percent at the
previous auction of similar-maturity debt in July. Demand
dropped to 1.28 times the amount on offer, from 1.93 times.  Inflation Risks  The euro region’s inflation risks are broadly balanced and
no longer on the upside, Trichet said last week after the
central bank’s meeting, when policy makers kept the main rate at
1.50 percent. He called for “strong vigilance” on price
pressures in June, a term he has used in the past to signal an
imminent increase in borrowing costs.  Germany ’s economy, Europe’s biggest, grew 0.1 percent last
quarter from 1.3 percent in the first three months of the year
as the region’s debt crisis weighed on confidence, data on Aug.
16 from the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden showed. The
worse-than-expected GDP data add to signs Europe is flirting
with a renewed economic slump.  France ’s recovery unexpectedly
ground to a halt in the second quarter, Italian and Spanish
expansion remained sluggish and  Greece ’s economy contracted.  The economy faces “particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks,” Trichet said at a press conference
in  Frankfurt  on Sept. 8. The ECB cut its 2011 growth forecast to
1.6 percent from 1.9 and to 1.3 percent from 1.7 percent for
2012. Inflation forecasts were left unchanged at 2.6 percent for
2011 and 1.7 percent for next year. The central bank aims to
keep inflation just below 2 percent.  Euro-Dollar Volatility  Implied volatility on one-month options for the euro-
dollar exchange rate jumped this week to 17.86 percent, the
highest since May 21, 2010. The rate is up from 12 percent at
the end of last month, and as low as 9.1 percent this year on
April 5. Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set
option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in the
underlying currency.  “The options market is more bearish now on the euro than
it was in May 2010,” said Korber. “There is a crisis of
confidence taking place toward the euro and the political
situation in the region.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators’ net wagers on a
depreciation of the euro climbed to 36,443 in the week ended
Sept. 6, the largest so-called net short position since January
and a reversal from net-longs of 2,539 on Aug. 23, data from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed
last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  