-- 
OTP Bank Declines for Third Day After Orban Backs Swiss-Franc Loan Plan

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-13T15:26:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/otp-bank-declines-for-third-day-after-orban-backs-swiss-franc-loan-plan.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. declined for a third
day after a suspension yesterday and the forint fell to a year-
low as Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  confirmed a plan to force
banks to accept losses tied to foreign-currency mortgages.  OTP fell as much as 8.3 percent and weakened 2.7 percent to
3,638 forint at the 5 p.m. end of trading in Budapest.  Hungary ’s
second-largest mortgage lender Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt,
or FHB, dropped 3.2 percent to 570 forint, helping to drag the
benchmark BUX index 0.3 percent lower. Hungary’s forint
depreciated as much as 1 percent to the weakest in a year.  Hungary wants to allow fixing the franc at more than 20
percent below market rates for early repayments, Orban said in
parliament yesterday. Austria’s government criticized the
measure, which may cause “enormous losses” to banks, according
to a letter sent by Finance Minister Maria Fekter to the
Hungarian Economy Ministry.  “The step is detrimental to financial stability, while the
interference into private contracts decreases the predictability
and trust in the economy overall,” analysts at  Erste Group Bank
AG (EBS) , including Zoltan Arokszallasi in Budapest, wrote in a
research report today. “Banks’ willingness to lend would be
lowered from the already suppressed levels. These all worsen the
prospects for a Hungarian economic recovery.”  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks,
including Erste,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
and  Bayerische Landesbank , and in mortgages with FHB.  ‘Stands Behind’  Hungary’s government “stands behind” OTP and FHB, Orban
said yesterday. Foreign-owned lenders are already withdrawing
profits and funding from Hungary regardless of the latest plan
on loans, he told parliament.  The forint depreciated 0.9 percent to 284.6 against the
European common currency, the weakest closing level since Sep.
9. 2010. It slumped 0.9 percent to 236.5 per against the Swiss
franc, a third day of declines.  Hungary’s plan may hurt lending, growth and public
finances, according to Standard and Poor’s, which rates the
country’s debt a step above junk,  Frank Gill , a London-based
senior director at S&P, said in a telephone interview today.  “Should the Hungarian parliament accept the proposal the
forint is likely to suffer once again,” Carolin Hecht, a
Frankfurt-based strategist at Commerzbank AG, wrote in a
research report today.  Hungarian  government bonds  maturing in June 2022 slumped
for a fourth day, lifting the yield 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 7.45 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  