-- 
Toyota to Invest 26 Billion Yen in New Indonesia Car Plant

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   F e m i   A d i
-- 
2011-09-13T06:49:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/toyota-to-invest-2-9-trillion-rupiah-on-new-plant-in-indonesia.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the biggest
carmaker in  Asia , plans to build a second factory in  Indonesia 
at a cost of 26.3 billion yen ($341 million) to help boost sales
in emerging markets.  The plant, adjacent to Toyota’s existing factory in
Karawang, will have capacity to build 70,000 vehicles a year and
will supply the domestic and export markets, Masahiro Nonami,
president at PT Toyota Motor Manufacturing Indonesia, said today
in Jakarta.  Toyota is setting up a production hub complete with a
network of suppliers in Indonesia as it aims to get half its
sales from emerging markets by 2015. With domestic demand
slowing and a strong yen reducing export earnings, Japanese
carmakers including Toyota and  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  are investing
to expand output in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy, where
rising incomes may boost car sales to 1 million a year by 2013.  “To ultimately cut production costs, automakers need to
bring their entire network of suppliers overseas,” said Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at consulting company Carnorama in Tokyo.
“With  import taxes  and shipping costs, companies need to do
more than to simply take assembly plants overseas.”  Toyota rose 0.9 percent to 2,649 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
Tokyo trading.  Karawang Plant  Karawang Plant No. 2 is scheduled to start production in
early 2013, Toyota said in a faxed statement.  Karawang Plant No. 1 has annual capacity of 110,000
vehicles and builds the Kijang Innova minivan and Fortuner
sport-utility vehicle, while the second plant will make new
vehicle models, the company said. Toyota said it will have
annual local capacity of 180,000 vehicles in early 2013.  “The market continues to grow very fast here, and we saw
the need for additional production,” Toyota’s President  Akio Toyoda  said today in Jakarta.  Four Toyota affiliates are scheduled to begin operations in
the country in June, said Kosuke Ishida, a spokesman for Toyota
Tsusho Corp., a trading company owned by the carmaker. Toyota
Tsusho set up a consulting company in Indonesia last month to
help Toyota’s suppliers and other companies enter the market.  For vehicles produced in Indonesia, “Toyota is trying to
switch to locally supplied parts,” Toyoda said. “For a healthy
development of the  auto industry , we need a very solid base for
parts sourcing.”  Suzuki is spending 30 billion yen to build an engine
factory in Indonesia by March, the Hamamatsu, Japan-based
automaker said in June.  ‘Produce Locally’  “Japanese carmakers are looking to produce locally, rather
than export from  Japan ,” Toyota Tsusho’s Ishida said. Income
growth in Indonesia helped boost industrywide car sales in the
nation to a record 700,000 last year, he said.  Indonesia projects its gross domestic product will rise as
much as 7 percent next year. Toyota expects its sales in the
country to exceed 300,000 vehicles this year after rising to a
record 281,000 in 2010.  Deliveries in Indonesia may soon match those in  Thailand ,
where Toyota sold 326,007 vehicles last year, Yasuhiro
Takahashi, Toyota’s group manager of operations for the Asia and
Oceania regions, said Sept. 5.  “Income levels are rising and demand for cars to transport
people is growing,” Takahashi said.  Toyota, the biggest carmaker in Indonesia, entered the
country in 1971.  Daihatsu Motor Co., 51 percent owned by Toyota, makes the
Avanza minivan at one of its two nearby plants and supplies it
to the parent company, which sold 141,000 units of the model in
Indonesia last year.  Indonesia’s gross domestic product increased 6.49 percent
in the three months to June from a year earlier, the  Central
Bureau of Statistics  said Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  