-- 
Toyota Says It Resumes Full North American Output, Plans Engine Increase

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-09-13T23:41:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/toyota-resumes-full-north-american-output-plans-engine-increase.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  resumed full
production at all North American plants this week and said it
will expand U.S. output of small engines as  Japan ’s largest
automaker works to boost sales slowed by a March earthquake.  As of this week, “all plants and suppliers in North
America are at full speed, and most are working overtime,”
Steve St. Angelo, executive vice president for North American
engineering and manufacturing, told reporters yesterday in
Torrance,  California . “Our parts problems are now behind us.”  Toyota will also add production of four-cylinder engines at
its plant in Huntsville, Alabama, St. Angelo said. The company
will hire 240 more workers at the factory, which already makes
six- and eight-cylinder engines for Toyota models built in the
region, he said. Four-cylinder output will start late this
month, said  Mike Goss , a Toyota spokesman.  The company briefly halted production after Japan’s record
earthquake and tsunami in March and lost sales in markets
including the U.S. as reduced supplies of parts and power in
Japan led to vehicle shortages. Through August, the Toyota City,
Japan-based automaker’s U.S. sales fell 7.8 percent as the
industrywide total rose 10.5 percent.  Toyota already makes four-cylinder engines in Georgetown,
Kentucky, and Buffalo, West Virginia. The added production will
be for Corollas to be built at the company’s Blue Springs,
Mississippi, plant, which opens in November, St. Angelo said in
an interview yesterday at the company’s U.S. museum in Torrance.  Production of the 2012 Camry that goes on sale this week is
accelerating at the Georgetown plant, the company’s largest in
 North America , said St. Angelo, who joined Toyota in 2005  after
working for the former General Motors Corp. for 30 years.  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is also based in Torrance. The
company’s American depositary receipts, each representing two
ordinary shares, rose 88 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $69.05
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  