-- 
Palestinians Say UN Statehood Campaign Won’t Undermine Israel

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-09-14T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/palestinians-say-un-statehood-campaign-a-bid-to-revive-talks.html
The Palestinian envoy to Washington
said  the campaign to seek statehood  at the  United Nations  next
week is an attempt to boost the Palestinian bargaining position
in stalled talks with Israel and resuscitate chances for a two-
state peace agreement.  Maen Rashid Areikat, chief representative in the U.S. for
the Palestinian Liberation Organization, told reporters the
group’s decision to seek greater recognition at the UN in  New
York  isn’t meant to corner Israel or alienate the U.S. Both have
vehemently opposed and lobbied against a UN vote for the
Palestinians.  “What we are trying to do is to change the political
dynamics” and create momentum for a return to talks in which
Palestinians would be in a stronger position to negotiate,
Areikat said. “This is not an equal fight.  Israel  has the upper
hand. Israel controls every aspect of our life.”  The unequal bargaining status between the two sides
eliminates any incentive for Israel “to move forward, because
they are in a very comfortable situation,” he said.  Israel and the U.S. have said pressing Palestinian
statehood through the UN undermines Mideast peace talks.  “It will create more distractions,” U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday. “We have to keep our eye
on what the objective truly is.”  Palestinian leaders said yesterday in Ramallah they will go
to the UN Security Council to seek full membership as an
independent state based on 1967 borders, before Israel captured
the West Bank,  Gaza Strip  and East  Jerusalem  in the Six-Day War.
Areikat said they plan to submit a resolution on Sept. 20 or 21.
The U.S. has said it will veto any such bid.  Israel was recognized as a state by the UN in 1948.  Aid At Risk  Republicans in Congress who oppose the Palestinian move
have threatened to cut off aid from the U.S., which was the
single largest donor last year to the cash-strapped  Palestinian
Authority .  Cutting off U.S. aid would hurt American and Israeli
interests by weakening the Palestinian Authority which, Areikat
said, enjoys strong security cooperation with Israel and is the
only counterweight to rival Palestinian group Hamas, designated
as a terrorist organization by the U.S. and Israel.  The Israeli ambassador to  Washington , Michael Oren, asked
yesterday about Areikat’s remarks, criticized the Palestinians
for seeking “a unilaterally declared state, in violation of
their agreements with Israel and the  United States , and with the
intention of delegitimizing Israel internationally.”  ‘Without Preconditions’  “Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has stated his
willingness to meet with Palestinian leaders in Jerusalem or in
Ramallah and to negotiate without preconditions,” Oren said.  Areikat insisted the goal is not to “delegitimize and
isolate Israel.” If the Palestinian Authority gains greater
recognition at the UN, “we don’t have any immediate plans” to
pursue cases against Israel at the  International Criminal Court 
or other international bodies, he said, responding to concern
that Palestinians might use their enhanced status to pursue
legal actions against Israel.  While U.S. President Barack Obama and Netanyahu have said
direct negotiations should be the route to a Palestinian state,
talks collapsed last September when Netanyahu refused to extend
a partial 10-month construction freeze on Jewish settlements in
the  West Bank . Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has
said he won’t resume talks while building continues and any deal
must be based on the 1967 borders with land swaps.  Contentious Issues  Netanyahu has agreed to a Palestinian state, subject to
security guarantees and Palestinian recognition that Israel is a
“Jewish state.” He has resisted Obama’s formula of a
Palestinian state within the 1967 lines, allowing for negotiated
land swaps. The future of east Jerusalem, annexed by Israel and
claimed by Palestinians as their capital, is one of the most
contentious issues.  Chief U.S. negotiators David Hale and Dennis Ross, who have
tried and failed to restart talks and persuade the Palestinians
to drop their bid, are returning to the region in another effort
to head off a UN vote.  Middle East envoy  Tony Blair , representing the
international quartet of the U.S., the European Union, the UN
and  Russia , is still working to restart peace talks with Israel
and derail a vote on statehood.  Arab Spring  Palestinian Authority leaders decided to take the statehood
effort to the UN following the rise of pro-democracy uprisings
that have swept away autocratic regimes in Tunisia, Egypt and
 Libya .  Areikat acknowledged that an elevation of the Palestinians’
status at the UN would not change the reality on the ground. The
move, he said, is aimed at keeping “hope alive” among
Palestinians who have lost faith in the  peace process .  A U.S. veto in the  Security Council  would not bar the
Palestinians from seeking a vote in the larger General Assembly
to upgrade the Palestinian Authority’s observer status from an
“entity” to “non-member state,” Areikat said. The
Palestinian leadership had not yet taken a decision to do so, he
said.  If the U.S. exercises its veto, the Palestinian Authority
“leadership will go back and contemplate” their next move,
their envoy to Washington said.  About 140 of the 193 member states are likely to support a
bid for greater recognition in the General Assembly, Palestinian
negotiator Nabil Shaath said Sept. 4.  Some Israeli politicians have suggested that, if
Palestinians declare an independent state, Israel may respond by
refusing to turn over  tax revenue  or formally annexing the West
Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  