-- 
Payroll-Tax Cut Is the Working Part of Jobs Plan: Edward Glaeser

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-09-13T00:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/payroll-tax-cut-is-working-part-of-jobs-plan-commentary-by-edward-glaeser.html
In response to our sputtering
economy, President  Barack Obama  presented a new stimulus package
last week, hopefully titled the American Jobs Act.  More than half of the  plan’s  $447 billion cost comes from
cuts to the payroll taxes, which fund Social Security and
Medicare. This could increase the incentives to hire and work,
and get money to poorer Americans. But to avoid making our
perilous fiscal situation worse, those cuts should be paid for
with future increases in the retirement age, and the plan’s
proposed spending on infrastructure and unemployment insurance
should be substantially reduced.  The U.S. has been battling this downturn since February
2008, when Congress passed its first tax-cutting stimulus bill.
When Obama replaced President  George W. Bush  in 2009, he pushed
through the far larger American Recovery and Reinvestment Act,
which has disbursed more than $700 billion and now has an
estimated  total cost of $840 billion . Tax cuts were the largest
single item in that package, too, but it also contained
substantial aid to states, distributed through Medicaid,
education support and extra spending on unemployment insurance.  The  Council of Economic Advisers   estimates  that the
Recovery Act “raised the level of GDP substantially relative to
what it otherwise would have been and has saved or created
between 2.4 and 3.6 million jobs as of the first quarter of
2011.” That assessment may be optimistic, but I still believe
significant tax-cutting stimulus made sense in 2009. Two and a
half years later, we need to be more cautious.  Ballooning Debt  The national debt has expanded, and the world wonders
whether the U.S. will be able to pay its bills. The European
banking crisis may put new pressures on our financial system and
our budget. The downturn has now revealed itself to be a long,
painful crisis that couldn’t be overcome even with more than
$700 billion of medicine.  In contemplating another stimulus package, we should
restrict ourselves to interventions that carry the biggest
benefit relative to cost. That’s why the president is right to
emphasize  payroll tax  cuts, which get money into the hands of
ordinary Americans, and have little potential for public waste.
They also create stronger incentives for people to work and for
companies to hire.  The downside is that lower payroll taxes hurt our long-term
fiscal situation, but there is an easy remedy for that. We can
create a quid pro quo in which lower payroll taxes are paid for
with an offsetting increase in the age at which people can start
drawing Social Security. If the age increase occurs many years
from now, the reduction in the payroll tax can be budget neutral
and wouldn’t hurt the current economy.  Offsetting Cuts  Raising the  retirement age  was always going to be part of
any sensible entitlement reform, and this is the right time to
start paying for current tax cuts with future benefit cuts.
Inserting an offsetting retirement-age increase into the
American Jobs Act would be a good way to show the world that the
U.S. is getting serious about its finances.  Yesterday, the president suggested that he was going to pay
for this plan with a potpourri of tax changes, including
eliminating  tax deductions  for corporations and the wealthy.
Some of these measures surely make sense, but paying for a tax
reduction with an increase on the wealthy feels more like
redistribution than real stimulus. It would be cleaner to pay
for the  tax cut  by raising the retirement age, and then turning
to ending some deductions in a larger overhaul of the system.  Transportation and Schools  Another good way to demonstrate seriousness about weighing
costs and benefits would be to strip from the plan the $80
billion allocated to surface transportation and modernizing
schools. The president seems convinced that the nation has a
huge infrastructure gap and that federal spending on surface
transportation is the right way to remedy for the shortfall.  Yet the best evidence the plan can muster for our
infrastructure shortage is that our system “now receives a
grade of ‘D’ from the American Society of Civil Engineers.” The
organization’s  report  is essentially a lobbying document that
calls for $2.2 trillion of spending without the slightest whiff
of cost-benefit analysis. Would the president similarly just
accept assurances from the  American Medical Association  that we
need to spend more on services doctors provide?  But my primary disagreement with the president isn’t over
the state of our infrastructure: Many roads, bridges and
airports do need repairs. I reject the idea that most
infrastructure and its maintenance should be paid for with
federal  tax revenue .  State Costs  In most cases, public-works improvements overwhelmingly
benefit the residents of individual states. When states have to
pay for spending out of their own budgets, we are far less
likely to see white-elephant projects such as bridges to nowhere
and monorails that glide above empty streets.  In almost all cases, infrastructure should be paid for by
its users, not with our tax dollars. Certainly,  John F. Kennedy
International Airport  in  New York  could use an upgrade. But its
many well-heeled travelers are perfectly capable of paying for
that themselves through airport fees. Likewise, motorists are
able to pay for bridge maintenance with tolls. If the president
is genuinely frightened about global warming, then his first
principle should be to do no harm; that means ending subsidies
for drivers through additional surface-transportation spending.  Infrastructure Bank  The proposal for an infrastructure bank is less
objectionable because it involves only $10 billion in spending.
It also holds more promise. If the bank helps move the U.S. to a
better public-works model, in which new highways are paid for
with private money and funded by tolls, then that $10 billion
would be money well spent.  The president also wants to spend $30 billion modernizing
schools. The case for this proposal is supported by evidence
suggesting that  California  home prices increase with school
facility spending. A  very fine paper  by Stephanie Cellini,
Fernando Ferreira and Jesse Rothstein, compares “school
districts where referenda on bond issues targeted to fund
 capital expenditures  passed and failed by narrow margins.”  They argue, quite plausibly, that whether a school bond
issue received 51 percent of the votes or 49 percent of the vote
is essentially random, and as a result, it is possible to
examine the long-run impact of an investment in school
facilities by comparing the near winners with the near losers.
They find that property values increase in the winning districts
by about 7 percent after five years.  California Exception  Yet there are many reasons not to see this study as
justification for $30 billion in federal spending. First, the
authors’ estimates can barely rule out the possibility that the
spending had no effect on property values. Second, they found no
impact of this spending on academic outcomes. Instead, more
construction usually means spending on the consumption side of
schooling, items like snazzier stadiums, not the far more
important investment side. Third, their results are from
California, where school spending has often been severely
restricted by Proposition 13 and the Serrano v. Priest ruling.
Additional spending on school facilities may yield far less
benefit in other states.  And most importantly, there is a big difference in projects
selected and paid for by local residents and those bankrolled by
the federal government. I believe that most school districts
will pick good projects when they are paying for them. Once the
federal government is involved, there is every reason to expect
the high-school equivalent of bridges to nowhere.  Unemployment Insurance   We should also be careful about increasing unemployment
insurance. Common decency argues in favor of helping jobless
Americans. Unfortunately, such benefits also create incentives
not to work. Bruce Meyer wrote a  classic paper  showing that
unemployed workers are substantially more likely to get a job
just when their benefits run out.  The president has put his jobs plan on the table, and now
it is up to the Republicans to respond. They should prune the
spending on public works and limit increases in unemployment
insurance, but they should support the payroll tax cuts at the
center of the proposal. Those reductions should be made budget
neutral, by offsetting them with future increases in the
retirement age.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 