-- 
Pentagon Buying Boeing F-18s as Hedge Against F-35 Delays

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-13T22:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/pentagon-buying-boeing-f-18s-as-hedge-against-f-35-delays.html
The U.S. Defense Department will
continue to buy  Boeing Co. (BA)  F-18 fighters as a hedge against
delays in producing the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 jet, the
Pentagon’s top weapons buyer wrote a lawmaker this month.  “The department’s commitment to the F-35 is solid and we
are committed to production rates that minimize cost,” the
Defense Department’s undersecretary for acquisition,  Ashton Carter , wrote  Texas  Republican Senator John Cornyn on Sept. 1.  The Pentagon last year requested $1.9 billion for 22
additional non-stealthy F-18E/Fs and $2.6 billion more for 28 in
fiscal 2012 from Chicago-based Boeing. Some of this money came
from a pool of $12 billion in F-35 funds that the Pentagon last
year cut or transferred, citing the need for additional testing
of its top weapons program.  Buying additional F-18E/Fs “was an acknowledgment” that a
delay in buying the Navy F-35 version “would slow down the rate
at which” it would reach the fleet, Carter said.  The Navy estimates it will start in 2015 seeing a shortfall
in the required number of fighters for its 11 aircraft carriers,
Carter wrote.  Still, “the F-35 is a very high priority and the
production rate will not be reduced solely to pay other bills in
the budget,” Carter wrote.  Panetta View  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  wrote Republican Senator
Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia  today that buying more F-18E/Fs “was
an acknowledgment of the need to maintain capacity and
capability.”  Buying additional “highly capable F/A-18E/F aircraft will
help mitigate that shortfall while we continue to ramp up F-35
procurement,” Panetta wrote. “The F-35 is intended to
complement the F/A-18E/F, not replace it. The Navy needs the
capabilities that both aircraft provide.”  Panetta said the Pentagon’s “support for the F-35 is
strong” but the military overall tactical aircraft portfolio
“is not exempt” from the department’s ongoing overall
“exhaustive review” of roles and missions.  “We are committed to making responsible” F-35 investment
decisions that reflect program status, force structure
requirements and Department priorities,’’ he wrote.  Questions from Cornyn  Cornyn sits on the Senate Armed Services Committee that
today reviewed the nomination of Carter to be the next deputy
Defense secretary, to replace  William Lynn .  Carter’s Sept. 1 letter to Cornyn and another, on Sept. 6,
were sent to answer the senator’s concerns that the Pentagon
wasn’t sufficiently committed to the $382 billion F-35 program,
which Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin builds in Texas.  Carter in the Sept. 6 letter sought to clarify the
Pentagon’s position on its preliminary estimate that the F-35 is
projected to cost $1 trillion in operations and support cost
through 2065, based on purchase of 2,443 jets.  “This estimate represents a projection based on an
extensive set of assumptions and historical data drawn from
previous programs adjusted to reflect the F-35’s configuration”
-- not actual performance data for the joint strike fighter,
Carter said. The program office is now conducting a “business
case analysis” to sharpen the estimate, which won’t be
completed until after the fiscal 2013 budget is submitted in
February, Carter said.  Senate Panel Action  The Senate defense appropriations subcommittee in its
version of the fiscal 2012 defense bill recommended today
cutting $695 million from a $9.7 billion F-35 request and
keeping production levels to 35 aircraft approved for this year,
instead of increasing to more than 40 in fiscal 2013.  “We continue to strongly support this program and believe
the F-35 is showing progress since it was restructured last
year,” the panel chairman, Hawaii Democratic Senator Daniel Inouye said in a  statement .  Still, there remains “excessive” overlap, or
“concurrency” between development and early aircraft and only
10 percent of the testing program is complete.  The full Senate Appropriations Committee is scheduled to
take up the $513 billion defense spending bill on Thursday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  