-- 
Pentagon Must Improve ‘Not Acceptable’ Procurement, Carter Says

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-13T14:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/pentagon-must-end-habit-of-mind-weapons-spending-carter-says.html
The U.S. Defense Department’s
weapons buying system is “not acceptable” and steps will be
taken to rein in costs, said President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to
become deputy secretary of defense.  Although improved under a 2009 reform law, Pentagon
procurement “is still not acceptable and I believe there are
some additional actions we are going to need to take to get
better value,”  Ashton Carter  said at his confirmation hearing.  This year’s deficit reduction law that seeks to cut $1.5
trillion in federal spending over 10 years is forcing the
Pentagon to rein in weapons spending that grew by “habit of
mind” when budgets were flush, according to Carter.  The Budget Control Act, signed Aug. 2 by President Barack Obama, calls for trimming $330 billion over 10 years from
Pentagon spending plans. That means the department must
“redouble its efforts” to control costs in weapons and
research and reexamine all areas for affordability, Carter said
in written answers to questions from the Senate Armed Services
Committee before today’s hearing.  The Pentagon was operating under a “habit of mind born
from an unrealistic belief that the  defense budget  would keep
growing” as it did for most of the past decade, he said. There
has been “unacceptable growth in far too many individual
programs,” he said.  F-35 ‘Mainstay’  The Pentagon’s biggest program,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, is needed to fend off surface-to-air
missiles and advanced fighter aircraft worldwide, Carter said in
response to another question. He promised at the hearing further
efforts to contain F-35 costs.  The $382 billion F-35 over the next decade will make up
one-third of the Defense Department’s tactical air assets and
will become the “mainstay of the force” by 2031, said Carter,
who now serves as the Pentagon’s acquisition chief.  A preliminary Pentagon estimate says it may cost as much as
$1 trillion to operate the fleet of F-35s for several decades.
Lockheed Martin is developing different versions of the F-35 for
the Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps.  “The department is taking a very detailed look at all
aspects of JSF operations, support and sustainment to identify
best value solutions to control the lifetime operating and
support costs for the JSF fleet,” Carter said.  More Cuts Ahead  The Pentagon may face more cuts than in the deficit control
law. A House-Senate supercommittee’s failure to come up with
further savings would trigger an automatic cut of an additional
$500 billion in defense spending over a decade, not including
interest.  Earlier this year, Obama called for $400 billion in
reductions to national security spending over a 10-year period
starting in 2013. Carter told the Senate panel that a review to
identify savings is still under way and will be completed as
part of the Defense Department’s fiscal years 2013 to 2017
budget request.  As part of his answers to the Senate panel, Carter said
that the Defense Department has a “special responsibility to
monitor  China ’s military and to deter conflict.”  “The  United States  has been and should remain the pivotal
military power in the Asia-Pacific region,” Carter said.  China is strengthening its nuclear deterrent and enhancing
its strategic strike capabilities by modernizing its nuclear
forces, and improving space and counter-space operations and
computer network operations, according to Carter.  In response to China’s modernization, the U.S. should
maintain its “global presence” and modernize anti-access and
area denial technologies, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  