-- 
Permira Tries to Woo Early LBO Fund Backers by Offering Them Fee Discount

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-09-13T14:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/permira-advisers-tries-to-woo-lbo-fund-backers-by-offering-fee-discounts.html
Permira Advisers LLP, the private
equity firm that owns  Hugo Boss , is seeking to lure investors to
its latest 6.5 billion-euro ($9 billion) buyout fund by cutting
fees for those who sign up early and big.  Investors who pledge money before the fund’s first close,
when the firm decides it has enough money to start investing the
fund, will be given a 5 percent discount on Permira’s annual
management fee, according to a prospectus obtained by Bloomberg
News today. Those who commit more than 200 million euros at any
time will be offered a 5 percent reduction in fees on any
investment exceeding that amount, Permira said in the document.  The firm follows competitors including BC Partners Ltd. and
Cinven Ltd. in sweetening terms to secure money from investors,
known as limited partners, as they reduce commitments and invest
in fewer funds. Buyout firms are seeking more than $170 billion
globally this year, more than what they sought in 2006 at the
height of the private-equity boom, according to London-based
research firm Preqin Ltd. In  Europe , five of the largest buyout
firms are seeking to raise a total of 31 billion euros, with
Apax Partners LLP setting the biggest target at 9 billion euros.  “Those early-bird incentives show that limited partners
have a much stronger bargaining power and that the fundraising
environment is tougher, even for the large well-regarded firms
like Permira,” said Oliver Gottschalg, associate professor of
strategy and business policy at the Paris-based HEC School of
Management. “Those discounts help make fundraising a little
less painful and a little less time consuming for the firms.”  Valentino, New Look  A spokeswoman for Permira in London declined to comment.
The firm, which owns stakes in companies including Valentino
Fashion Group SA, retailer New Look Group and Macau-based casino
operator Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd., raised its first pan-
European fund in 1997. Previously known as Schroder Ventures
Europe, the firm took the Permira name in 2001.  BC Partners , which is trying to raise 6 billion euros,
offered a 5 percent discount on fees for investors who committed
money before the first close. While London-based Cinven and
Stockholm-based EQT followed with similar discounts, Apax hasn’t
offered any similar discount, according to the fund’s
prospectus. An Apax spokesman declined to comment.  Buyout firms such as Permira typically use loans secured on
the targets they acquire to finance more than half of the
purchase price and cash from their own funds for the rest. The
firms seek to improve performance at the companies they acquire
or expand them before selling them within about five years.  Management Fee  The firms get money from investors including pension plans
and endowments with a mandate to invest it within five to six
years and return it with a profit after about 10 years. Permira
will charge an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent of the
fund, and keeps 20 percent of profit from investments, according
to the prospectus.  Permira was forced to return money investors pledged to its
most recent fund during the credit crisis in December 2008. That
reduced the pool to 9.6 billion euros from 11.1 billion euros.  The fund, Permira IV, had an annual return of 3 percent net
of fees as of June 30, according to the document. That places it
in the second quartile basket of funds raised the same year in
terms of relative performance, according to the document, which
cites data compiled by Thomson One.  “The recent financial crisis and its impact of public
markets let to volatility in the Permira funds’ valuations,”
Permira said in the document. “Permira IV is now held above
cost and Permira believes there will be significant continuing
value creation in this fund’s investment portfolio over the
coming years.”  Since June, Permira sold part of its stake in Galaxy
Entertainment for about twice what it paid for the shares. In
August, the firm agreed to sell animal-feed additives company
Provimi to Cargill Inc., the largest closely held company in the
U.S. Permira expects to reap about 2.3 times its original
investment from the sale, according to the prospectus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  