-- 
Perry’s Merck Donations Greater Than Acknowledged During Debate

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-09-13T21:41:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/perry-s-merck-donations-greater-than-said.html
Texas  Governor Rick Perry received
at least $23,500 in campaign contributions from drug-maker Merck
& Co., including $5,000 in 2006, the year before he ordered
girls throughout the state to take a new Merck vaccine.  The total is greater than the $5,000 that Perry, seeking
the Republican presidential nomination, acknowledged receiving
from the company during a debate last night in  Florida .  The drug-maker also has donated about $500,000 to the
 Republican Governors Association , a group which Perry chaired
twice and has been among his most generous campaign donors.  In addition, Perry’s ties to the company have come under
scrutiny because he issued the vaccination mandate at a time
when his former chief of staff was working for the Texas Lobby
Group, which was retained by Merck.  One of Perry’s rivals for the presidential nomination,
Representative  Michele Bachmann , a Minnesota Republican, accused
the governor during a debate yesterday of issuing the executive
order to help a political donor that also employed a former
senior aide as a lobbyist.  “The question is, is it about life or was it about
millions of dollars, and potentially billions, for a  drug
company ?” Bachmann asked during the debate in Tampa sponsored
by  CNN  and Tea Party activists.  “If you’re saying that I can be bought for $5,000, I’m
offended,” Perry responded.  The Vaccine  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approved the vaccine
Gardasil in June 2006. The following year, Perry issued an
executive order that Texas girls be vaccinated against human
papillomavirus (HPV) by age 12, and that Gardasil was the only
such drug on the market. Perry said his goal was saving lives by
reducing cases of cervical cancer and other diseases.  The Texas governor has been one of the most successful
fund-raisers, bringing in more than $100 million during his
decade in Austin and boosting the influence of the governors’
association while in the leadership of that group.  Perry’s spokesman Mark Miner did not respond to an e-mail
seeking comment about the Merck contributions today.  Pam Eisele, a Merck spokeswoman, said the firm “is
strongly committed to decreasing the number of males and females
impacted by HPV related diseases.”  In 2007, Eisele said, the Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-
based company’s lobbying became a distraction in several
states, including Texas. “So, in an effort to get the focus
back to this important issue, Merck suspended its lobbying
efforts on state school requirements,” she said.  Merck Donations  Perry’s own Merck donations date back to 2004, according to
campaign finance disclosures compiled by the Helena, Montana-
based  National Institute on Money in State Politics .  The company donated about $500,000 to the  RGA  since 2003,
according to the Washington-based Center for Responsive
Politics, including annual checks for $50,000 from 2005 through
this year. Perry served as RGA vice chairman in 2007 and
chairman in 2008 and for several months of this year.  In addition, Mike Toomey, a former Texas state House member
who served as Perry’s chief of staff, became a lobbyist for the
firm after leaving the governor’s office.  Toomey also is a founder of the pro-Perry Super PAC, Make
Us Great Again, which is raising money to help get the Texas
governor elected to the White House. Toomey did not respond to a
telephone message today seeking comment.  “This is a shameful example of  Rick Perry  putting the
profits of his special interest friends over the health of young
women,” said Ty Matsdorf, a spokesman for American Bridge 21st
Century, a pro-Democrat opposition research group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  