-- 
Perry Forced to Fend Off Attacks by Rivals at Republican Debate

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-13T19:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/perry-fends-off-romney-s-attacks-on-social-security-in-republican-debate.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  faced a
pincer-like attack on his credentials as a fiscal and social
conservative, forcing him to defend his positions on Social
Security, job-creation, immigration and vaccinations in a
Republican presidential debate last night.  His rivals alternated in targeting Perry, the leader in
national polling of the party’s presidential contenders, as they
sought to improve their standing in the race. Led by former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , Perry’s rivals accused him
on the one hand of advocating an end to Social Security and on
the other of supporting “big government” by allowing himself
to be influenced by a campaign donor to mandate that young girls
in Texas be vaccinated against a sexually transmitted disease.  Perry ceded little ground as he defended his record and
views. More than any previous debates in the Republican race,
including one held six days ago, the spirited exchanges
highlighted the campaign’s increasingly combative tone.  Romney kicked off the debate by taking aim at Perry’s
characterization of Social Security as a “Ponzi Scheme” and
pressing him to say whether he stood by the suggestion he made
in a book published in November 2010 that the program was
unconstitutional.  Scaring Seniors  Perry said he wouldn’t change the program for current
retirees or those soon to become eligible. He also accused
Romney of “trying to scare seniors” with his criticism, rather
than having “a legitimate conversation with Americans about how
to fix that program.”  Romney fired back, “The term Ponzi scheme is what scared
seniors.”  In surging to the top in national polls of Republican-
leaning voters since entering the race a month ago, Perry
displaced Romney as the contest’s frontrunner. He also halted
momentum for Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota that
had culminated in her winning the  Iowa  Republican straw poll on
Aug. 13.  Fighting to stop her slide in the polls since then,
Bachmann stuck an aggressive stance in last night’s debate,
sometimes speaking out of turn to get a chance to go on the
attack, usually against Perry.  Executive Order  She zeroed in on a 2007 executive order he issued in Texas
requiring that pre-teen girls get vaccinations against the
sexually transmitted human papillomavirus -- commonly known as
HPV -- that causes cervical cancer.  Bachmann suggested that Perry signed the order to reward
Merck & Co., the company that makes the vaccine known as
Gardasil, which had contributed to his campaign and employed a
former top aide of Perry’s as its chief lobbyist.  “The question is, is it about life or was it about
millions of dollars, and potentially billions, for a  drug
company ?” Bachmann asked.  Perry responded by saying that Merck had donated $5,000 to
his gubernatorial campaign -- an amount dwarfed by the millions
of dollars he has raised. “If you’re saying that I can be
bought for $5,000, I’m offended,” Perry said.  Merck contributed $16,000 to Perry between 2004 and 2007,
according to campaign finance disclosures.  Former Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania called Perry’s
vaccine decision “big government run amok. It is bad policy,
and it should not have been done,” he said.  Bachmann continued her attack after the debate, saying on
NBC’s “Today” program this morning “it’s very clear that crony
capitalism could have” prompted Perry to push for the
vaccination program.  Two-Person Race  Polling indicates the race is becoming a two-way contest
between Romney and Perry. In a CNN/ORC International  poll 
released yesterday, Perry led in the Republican field with
support from 30 percent of Americans surveyed, followed by
Romney with 18 percent. Bachmann received 4 percent, placing
seventh.  Romney sought during the debate to undercut Perry’s
campaign emphasis on his job-creation record in Texas by
refusing to give him credit for the state’s economic record
during his almost 12 years as governor. Romney attributed
Texas’s job growth to low taxes and regulation, a favorable
labor climate and its abundance of oil.  Poker Analogy  “If you’re dealt four aces, that doesn’t make you
necessarily a great poker player,” Romney said, to jeers from
some in the debate audience. “If you think that the country is
like Texas -- going swimmingly well -- then somebody who’s done
that is just terrific. If you think the country needs a
turnaround, that’s what I do.”  Texas Representative  Ron Paul  said taxes, spending and
borrowing had all risen on Perry’s watch. He quipped, “I don’t
want to offend the governor because he might raise my taxes or
something.”  Perry contrasted his record with Obama’s, saying, “While
the current resident of the White House is overseeing the loss
of 2.5 million jobs, Texas during my period of governor has
created over a million jobs.  And we did that during some pretty
tough economic period.”  On immigration policy, Perry was called upon to defend a
state law he signed that allows illegal immigrants who graduate
from a Texas high school to get in-state tuition rates at state
universities. Santorum said the measure may have been Perry’s
“attempt to attract Latino voters.”  Perry said the law represents the country’s core
principles. “The bottom line is, it doesn’t make any difference
what the sound of your last name is -- that is the American
way,” he said.  ‘American Way’  Bachmann responded, “The American way is not to give
taxpayer-subsidized benefits to people who have broken our laws
and are here in the  United States  illegally.”  Former Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. of Utah said Perry’s
assertion that building a fence along the entire U.S.-Mexico
border would be impractical struck him as “pretty much a
treasonous comment,” an apparent reference to Perry’s much-
maligned remark last month about  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s monetary policy.  Perry last night stood by his criticism of Bernanke, saying
it bordered on treason for a Federal Reserve chairman to allow
politics to drive his actions.  “I am not a fan of the current chairman allowing that
Federal Reserve to be used to cover up bad fiscal policy by this
administration,” Perry said. “And that, I will suggest to you,
is what we have seen.”  Before the debate, Romney and Perry released a series of
endorsements aimed at highlighting their backing within the
party.  Pawlenty Support  Former  Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty , who dropped out of
the race after losing the straw poll in Iowa, endorsed Romney
and accepted a position as the campaign’s national co-chairman.  “Alone among the contenders, he possesses the unique
qualifications to confront and master our severe economic
predicament,” Pawlenty said of Romney in a news release.  Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  announced his support for
Perry, giving the Texas governor his first major endorsement.  Also participating in the debate, the second of three
scheduled for this month, were former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  and businessman  Herman Cain .  The candidates heaped criticism on Obama, attacking the
$447 billion job-creation plan his administration sent to
Congress yesterday.  Democrats worry that Obama, 50, is politically vulnerable
in next year’s election with the  unemployment rate  at 9.1
percent last month and approval ratings near lows of his
presidency.  Obama’s $830 billion stimulus measure “created zero
jobs,” Perry said, adding of the $447 billion job-growth plan
the president sent Congress yesterday: “I can do the math on
that one. Half of zero jobs is going to be zero jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer in Tampa,
 Florida , at   llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington , at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  