-- 
Peugeot to Cut Jobs, Increase Savings as European Slump Threatens Profits

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-09-13T09:40:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/peugeot-to-cut-jobs-as-eu-slump-threatens-plan.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen,  Europe ’s
second-biggest carmaker, will eliminate jobs and intensify a
three-year savings drive to defend profitability in the face of
a possible European recession, Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said today.  The carmaker, based in Paris, may also close its Aulnay
plant north of the French capital unless the competitiveness of
its domestic operations improves, Varin said in a briefing at
the International Motor Show in Frankfurt.  “There are no cost reductions without job cuts,” the CEO
said, declining to give precise details. “Europe is facing a
period of weak growth or even recession.”  Peugeot is struggling to deliver on a pledge to narrow the
profitability gap with  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  by generating 3.7 billion
euros ($5 billion) in additional earnings in 2010 to 2012, with
the gain split between cost savings and improved sales. Cuts
will now have to be increased to cover most of the target as
auto demand and prices fall, Varin said today. He reiterated the
2011 goal of an improvement on last year’s 1.8 billion-euro
operating profit.  “I still don’t see how they’re going to get to the 3.7
billion euros or where the savings are going to come from,”
said Erich Hauser, a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse. “We
had a rough idea in 2009 but if anything since then it’s become
fuzzier.”  Peugeot fell as much as 56 cents, or 3.4 percent, to 15.97
euros in Paris trading and was down 0.6 percent as of 11:37 a.m.
The stock has fallen 42 percent this year, valuing the company
at 3.9 billion euros.  Leaked Document  Presenting first-half results on July 27, Varin had said
there were no plans to increase the company’s savings target.
“For the moment we’ve got our work cut out to meet that,” he
said at the time.  In June, Peugeot confirmed the authenticity of a leaked
internal plan to scrap its Aulnay plant in 2014 and cut 3,600
workers, while maintaining that no decision had been made. The
factory assembles the C3, the Citroen subcompact scheduled to be
replaced in 2014. Executives concluded early in 2010 that no
closure announcement was possible until after  France ’s 2012
presidential election, according to the leaked document.  “The future of Aulnay is guaranteed until 2014, but what
happens after that is something we still have to work on,”
Varin said today. “We have a problem with competitiveness in
France, particularly in this vehicle category, and that problem
has yet to be resolved.”  Electric Cars  Moderate sales of Peugeot’s two electric models have
reinforced its conviction that battery cars will trail hybrids,
Varin said today. The company has predicted a 5 percent global
market share for electric cars in 2020, compared with as much as
15 percent for hybrids, which combine electric motors with
combustion engines.  The carmaker, which is unveiling the world’s first mass-
market diesel-electric car at the  Frankfurt  show, has recorded
3,000 deliveries of its Peugeot iOn and Citroen C-Zero battery
cars since Jan 1, toward a 7,000 full-year target, the CEO said.
Peugeot is also going ahead with development of gasoline-
electric powertrains for the Chinese market, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  