-- 
Pfizer Said to Delay Formula Unit Sale as It Weighs Spinoff

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-09-14T20:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/pfizer-said-to-delay-formula-unit-sale-as-it-explores-spinoff.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  is delaying a sale of
its infant-nutrition business to give it more time to explore
whether a tax-free spinoff will get more value for investors,
said people with direct knowledge of the plans.  Pfizer may send sales documents to suitors in November at
the earliest, two months later than potential buyers had
anticipated, said the people, who declined to be identified as
they aren’t authorized to speak on the matter. A sale may fetch
as much as $10.5 billion and attract interest from companies
including  Danone (BN) ,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  Nestle SA (NESN) , people with
knowledge of the process said in July.  The drugmaker, the world’s biggest, is concerned a sale may
lead to an increased tax burden because it acquired the infant-
nutrition unit less than three years ago, the people said.
Pfizer may still opt to sell, they said. The company’s advisers
are also still gathering information on the unit’s revenue and
brands in  Asia  and other emerging markets, further slowing the
process, said one of the people.  By starting an auction later, Pfizer may succeed in waiting
out the turmoil now gripping equity and debt markets. Last
month, companies raised the least amount of leveraged loans
since 2008 amid the worsening European sovereign debt crisis and
the first credit downgrade for the U.S.  “We continue to evaluate all structures, obviously with
the goal of choosing the structures that will deliver the
greatest after-tax value,” said Frank D’Amelio, Pfizer’s chief
financial officer, at the Morgan Stanley Global Healthcare
Conference in  New York  today. “From my perspective, we’re still
doing the things we said we were going to do.”  Two-year Timeline  D’Amelio was responding to a question from Morgan Stanley
analyst David Risinger about today’s Bloomberg News article on
the delay. D’Amelio said any transaction would be completed
between July 2012 and July 2013, consistent with the timeline
previously disclosed by the company.  Pfizer shares increased 8 cents to $18.41 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed
7.8 percent in the past 12 months.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , a competitor of Pfizer’s in
baby formula, was spun off by former parent Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. in 2009. The stock has almost tripled since its trading
debut, giving the Glenview, Illinois-based company a market
value of about $14.8 billion.  Largest Deal  The Pfizer sale could be the largest of a vitamin or
nutrition company in more than a decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest deal in that sector was
 Carlyle Group ’s $3.8 billion acquisition of vitamin maker NBTY
Inc. last year, the data show.  Pfizer disclosed plans to shed the business, as well as its
animal-health division, more than two months ago. The New York-
based drugmaker is receiving advice from Morgan Stanley and
 Centerview Partners  on the infant-nutrition unit.  Pfizer gained the formula division through its $68 billion
purchase of Wyeth in 2009. The unit, which reported $1.9 billion
in sales last year, makes the SMA Gold line of products for
infants and children and Enercal supplements for adults.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 