-- 
Philippine Exports Fall a Third Month

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 
2011-09-13T01:21:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/philippine-exports-fall-a-third-month.html
Philippine exports fell for a third
straight month in July as demand for electronics products
weakened, adding to signs of a faltering global recovery that’s
hurting Asian economic expansion.  Shipments abroad dropped 1.7 percent from a year earlier to
$4.43 billion after falling a revised 9.4 percent in June, the
 National Statistics Office  said in  Manila  today. The median of
five estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 6.8 percent
decline.  “Waning demand from Western markets and peso gains as an
added burden” are damping exports, Radhika Rao, an economist at
Forecast Pte in  Singapore , said before the report. Philippine
shipments overseas may “remain weak” for the remainder of the
year and will be the “main drag” to economic growth, Rao said.  A weakening U.S. recovery and the debt crisis in  Europe 
have trimmed demand for Asian goods and diverted the region’s
attention from containing inflation to protecting economic
growth. The  Philippines ’ $200 billion economy grew 3.4 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier, the weakest expansion
since the end of 2009.  The Philippine peso fell a fourth day today to 42.85 a
dollar, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It is  Southeast Asia ’s
best-performing currency this quarter after the  Thai baht .  Overseas sales account for about 30 percent of the
Southeast Asian nation’s economy.  Electronics exports, which account for about half of
Philippine products sold overseas, fell 21 percent in July from
a year earlier, the statistics agency said. Rao said the
nation’s main export item is dependent on “discretionary
spending” and is usually the first to experience lower demand
in an economic slowdown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  