-- 
Philips Deepens Savings Program to Meet Target

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-09-13T09:17:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/philips-rises-after-deepening-savings-program-to-meet-targets.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV will
deepen cost cuts as Chief Executive Officer Frans  van Houten 
seeks to streamline the portfolio of the world’s biggest maker
of  light bulbs  and make the organization more responsive.  The Dutch company is targeting savings of 800 million euros
($1.09 billion), up from an earlier target of 500 million euros,
van Houten told analysts in  London  today. Philips reiterated
sales growth and profitability goals for 2013.  Turning around Philips won’t be a “quick fix,” and the
company needs to become faster at bringing ideas to the market,
van Houten said. The CEO, who has pulled Philips out of
television production, is reviewing management layers and
staffing as he tackles the company’s complexity and seeks to
restore investor confidence after a 44 percent share slide this
year.  “This is good news,” Martin Prozesky, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd., said in an e-mailed statement. “It
seems like they are getting more in control of the situation.”  Philips, a competitor of  Siemens AG (SIE)  in health-care
equipment and light bulbs, rose as much as 98 cents, or 8
percent, to 13.2 euros, and were little changed at 12.26 euros
as of 11:05 a.m. in Amsterdam. Siemens, based in Munich, fell 17
cents, or 0.3 percent, to 64.28 euros in Frankfurt trading.  Van Houten, who became CEO in April, set a target to lift
earnings before interest, taxes and amortization as percentage
of sales to 10 percent to 12 percent by 2013, on sales growth of
4 percent to 6 percent.  “This is not a short or quick fix,” van Houten said at
the analyst meeting, which was  broadcast on the Internet . “The
transformation is a systematic approach to bring Philips on the
path of value creation.”  Philips is aiming for an earnings before interest, taxes
and amortization margin of 15 percent to 17 percent for health
care. For lighting and consumer lifestyle divisions, the goal is
set at 8 percent to 10 percent. Sales at the lighting unit now
exceed pre-crisis levels, and the health-care division is set to
continue its performance of the second quarter, Philips said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  