-- 
Pimco Said to Fold Fund Unit Promoting Endowment-Style Investing Strategy

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-09-13T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/pimco-said-to-pull-plug-on-fund-unit-promoting-endowment-style-investments.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
has abandoned an effort to oversee money for endowments and
foundations that would have used some outside managers,
according to four people familiar with the decision.  Pimco’s fund-of-funds group targeted institutions seeking
to mimic the long-term investment strategies of wealthy
universities such as Harvard and Yale while maintaining the
flexibility to quickly raise cash. The unit, established in 2010
under Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian after his stint
as Harvard’s endowment chief, struggled to win investors, said
the people, who asked not to be named because they didn’t want
to jeopardize their relationships with the firm.  The group, headed by former Harvard fund manager Mark Taborsky, sought to take on investment-outsourcing firms such as
Makena Capital Management LLC, run by a former Stanford
University endowment chief, and Investure LLC, whose founder
previously oversaw the University of Virginia’s fund. BlackRock
Inc., the world’s biggest asset manager, said last week that it
hired Taborsky to lead a unit similar to the one at  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco.  “It’s an amazingly competitive landscape,” said Kevin Quirk, a founding partner at Casey Quirk & Associates LLC, a
management-consulting firm in Darien,  Connecticut . “I wouldn’t
be surprised to see the market consolidate a little bit more and
see certain players decide not to be in the business
strategically.”  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Pimco, didn’t return
phone calls or e-mails seeking comment on the fund-of-funds
group. Taborsky, 45, didn’t respond to phone calls seeking
comment on his departure.  Few Missteps  The disbanding of the fund-of-funds group is a rare setback
for Pimco, home to  Bill Gross ’s $245 billion Total Return Fund,
the world’s largest mutual fund. The firm’s assets under
management expanded more than sixfold in the past decade to $1.3
trillion. Its mutual funds gathered $43.3 billion in net
deposits in the year ended July 31, more than any competitor,
according to data from research firm Morningstar Inc. of
 Chicago .  In March 2010, the company hired Gregory Hazlett as head of
equity strategies and Andrew Hoffmann to oversee real-asset
investments at the fund-of-funds group. The unit planned to use
some outside funds as well as those run by Pimco. Hazlett has an
agreement to leave the company, while Hoffmann is employed
through next March, one of the people said. Hazlett didn’t
respond to e-mails seeking comment on his status, while Hoffmann
declined to comment.  El-Erian has led a push to diversify into equities,
exchange-traded funds and absolute-return funds that seek to
preserve capital in rising and falling markets. Pimco’s equity
strategies have gathered about $4 billion in assets. The firm is
owned by Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE .  Lesson From 2008  Investment-outsourcing firms manage money on behalf of
endowments and foundations, picking investments and overseeing
risk based on guidelines set by the client. The business gained
momentum as the richest colleges beat market indexes in the
decade ended June 2008 by loading up on hard-to-sell assets such
as private equity and real estate, while cutting stocks and
bonds, a style pioneered by Yale University endowment chief
 David Swensen .  Pimco sought to refine the model to provide more liquidity
after the collapse of credit and equity markets in 2008 left
universities short of cash and unable to sell assets, Taborsky
said in a 2009 interview.  “Liquidity is a premium and sometimes it’s worth investing
in that and sometimes it’s not,” he said. “One of the lessons
from 2008 that is part of asset allocation is being able to stay
in the game and take advantage of the opportunities.”  Harvard Ties  Top endowments used outsourcing firms in the 1960s and
1970s, and the results were “generally disasters,” according
to Josh Lerner, a professor at  Harvard Business School  in  Boston 
who wrote a case study on Yale’s endowment. The  New Haven ,
Connecticut, school, which helped to found Endowment Management
and Research Corp. in Boston, fired the manager in 1979 after
the institution’s fund had dropped 46 percent since 1969 on an
inflation-adjusted basis, according to Lerner’s research.  Prior to Pimco, Taborsky was hired by El-Erian when he ran
Harvard’s endowment from February 2006 to December 2007. As
investment chief at the Cambridge, Massachusetts, university,
El-Erian returned 23 percent in the fiscal year ended June 30,
2007, beating the 18 percent increase of market benchmarks. The
fund shrank a record 30 percent to $26 billion in the year ended
June 30, 2009, after investments plunged 27 percent.  El-Erian returned to lead Pimco, where he had spent seven
years as an emerging-markets fund manager, in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  