-- 
Brad Pitt Hunts for Baseball Bargains in ‘Moneyball’ at Toronto

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-13T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/pitt-hunts-for-baseball-bargains-in-moneyball-at-toronto-film-festival.html
Brad Pitt  smiled when asked if
baseball executive Billy Beane’s strategy of signing
undervalued talent to cheap contracts could work in
Hollywood.  “Not if they hired me,” the highly paid star told
reporters at the Toronto International Film Festival.  Pitt was in town to promote “ Moneyball ,” based on
 Michael Lewis ’s best-seller about the tradition-shattering
system Beane pioneered with the  Oakland Athletics .  Pitt stars as Beane, a highly touted prospect who had
a short, disappointing major-league career. He became a
much more successful general manager, assembling
competitive teams with one of baseball’s smallest payrolls.  “This is a guy whose life didn’t turn out the way it
was supposed to,” director Bennett Miller (“Capote”)
said at the press conference, where he shared a table with
Pitt and cast members Philip Seymour Hoffman, Jonah Hill
and Chris Pratt.  “He was supposed to be a superstar ... but it took
him more than a decade toiling in failure before he
accepted that it wasn’t going to happen. So it ends up
being much more than a sports story.”  Winning Streak  Beane and his assistant, an Ivy League numbers whiz
played by Hill, analyzed players using offbeat statistics
instead of the judgments of baseball scouts.  The approach gained a lot of attention in 2002, when
the Athletics won an American League-record 20 straight
games and the AL West title, one of four they captured
during a seven-year period under Beane.  Even though Oakland has never reached the  World Series 
during Beane’s tenure as GM, other teams have copied his
methods.  “It’s about questioning things we accept every day,”
said Pitt, sporting a salt-and-pepper beard and long hair
parted in the middle.  “Just because we’ve been doing something the same way
for so long doesn’t mean that it’s right for today. If we
were inventing the automobile now, do you think it would
run on a finite resource that we have to go to war for?”  “Moneyball,” which comes out Sept. 23 in the U.S.,
is as much about Beane’s quest for redemption as it is
about baseball. It’s a hard film to categorize, which might
make it a tough sell at the box office. While it’s
thoughtful and well-acted, the deliberate baseball-like
pace leads to some dull spots.  Journeyman Player  The film almost didn’t get made. Several directors,
including Steven Soderbergh, left the project before Miller
came aboard and the script went through many revisions.  “It’s complicated material,” Pitt said. “It’s not
your conventional story with a conventional character arc,
so it took a lot of shots at it and a lot of people getting
their fingertips on it.”  Hoffman plays Athletics manager Art Howe, an old-
school baseball man who resisted Beane’s newfangled
theories. Pratt portrays Scott Hatteberg, a journeyman
player who became a key contributor on the 2002 team.  “He was a working-class baseball player, and that’s
who I am as an actor,” said Pratt, who has appeared in
TV’s “Everwood,” “The O.C.” and “Parks and
Recreation.” “Most people don’t know who I am and I don’t
get paid a load of money.”  Realistic Action  Some baseball movies, including “Pride of the
Yankees” and “Fear Strikes Out,” have been marred by
awkward, unrealistic action on the field. “Moneyball”
hits a home run with authentic baseball scenes, mixing real
footage and re-enactments by former players.  “Every baseball player in the movie, apart from
myself, played in the pros on the minor or major-league
level,” Pratt said. I would take this baseball team
against any other baseball team from any other baseball
movie.”  Asked to name some of his favorite sports movies, Pitt
mentioned “The Bad News Bears” and “North Dallas
Forty.”  “I think ‘North Dallas Forty’ was the first R-rated
movie I snuck into,” Pitt said. “It has a special place
in my heart.”  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in Toronto at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 