-- 
Poland’s Tusk Holds Election Edge as Purses Swell in EU Recession Dodger

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-09-14T10:39:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/poland-s-tusk-holds-election-edge-as-purses-swell-in-eu-recession-dodger.html
Poland ’s ruling Civic Platform is
favored to win a second term as voters choose rising prosperity
over policies and reward the only European Union government to
dodge a recession amid the 2009 global financial collapse.  Civic Platform, led by Prime Minister Donald Tusk, has
remained the most popular party since it won elections in 2007,
with polls suggesting a win over its nearest rival. Victory at
the Oct. 9 vote would make it the first party since communism
fell to gain a second stint in office.  “If you look at the moving sands of the Polish political
scene since 1989, a victory for the current governing party
would show a continuity that hasn’t been seen since the
beginning of the transformation,” said Andrew Michta, head of
the German Marshall Fund’s Warsaw office. A Tusk win “would
mean people were responding to how full their purses are rather
than reacting to ideological issues.”  Civic Platform  may have done enough to win the vote after
 living standards  improved during its first term. While the
party’s lead has narrowed and analysts such as Krzysztof Bobinski, president of the Unia & Polska research foundation,
say Tusk’s policies lack substance and ambition, growth remains
more than twice that of the euro area as the region battles a
sovereign-debt crisis.  ‘Pretty Good Shape’  The EU’s seventh-biggest economy grew 4.4 percent a year in
2007 to 2010, compared with 0.1 percent in the EU. Average wages
have increased about 18 percent since Tusk took power four years
ago, with companies such as Credit Suisse Group AG and Dell Inc.
opening offices. Ferrari opened its first showroom in Warsaw
last year.  “The Polish economy really is in pretty good shape --
that’s not just some kind of government propaganda,” said
Maciej Krzak, head of macroeconomics at the Warsaw-based Center
for Social and  Economic Research . “Poland can aspire, with
time, to become one of the EU’s largest economies.”  Warsaw’s benchmark WIG20 stock index rose 14 percent last
year, outperforming the Stoxx Europe 600, which advanced 8.6
percent. The extra yield investors request to hold Polish rather
than German five-year bonds was 376 basis points yesterday,
compared with 558 basis points for Hungarian bonds, according to
Bloomberg data.  The zloty fell to 4.3457 against the euro at 11:37 a.m. in
Warsaw from 4.3295 at yesterday’s close. The yield on the five-
year bond maturing in April 2016 rose to 5.095 from 5.018
yesterday.  Civic Platform Leads  Civic Platform, which controls 208 of the 460 seats in the
 lower chamber of parliament , had 35 percent backing in a Sept.
11 poll by Millward Brown SMG/KRC for private broadcaster TVN24,
down from 39 percent Aug. 3. That compares with an unchanged 29
percent for the biggest opposition party, Law & Justice.  Tusk’s junior coalition partner, the Peasants’ Party, has 7
percent, according to the same poll, after backing hovered
around the 5 percent threshold for representation for much of
the year.  Civic Platform’s support may dwindle before the vote,
according to Andrzej Rychard, sociology professor at the Polish
Academy of Sciences in Warsaw.  “The competition is going to be tough for Tusk, whatever
the polls say,” Rychard said.  The party has been criticized for lacking ambition in its
policies, preferring to present itself as a safe pair of hands
to guide Poland through  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Civic Platform has become increasingly content-free,”
said Bobinski, from Warsaw-based Unia & Polska. “Its leaders
have realized that if they put forward ideas they might make
enemies, so they mumble and promise to work hard and get less
and less specific.”  Kaczynski Challenges  The main challenge to Tusk, 54, will come from ex-Prime
Minister  Jaroslaw Kaczynski , whose policies as leader of Law &
Justice include delaying a plan to sell government assets.
Kaczynski holds Turk partly culpable for the death of his twin
brother, former president  Lech Kaczynski , who died in a plane
crash in  Russia  last year along with his wife and 94 others.  Voter turnout may help decide to the election, according to
Michta from the  German Marshall Fund . Almost 54 percent of
eligible Poles voted in 2007’s parliamentary elections, while
less than half participated in the three preceding elections.  Voting Behavior  “The voting behavior of Poles in their twenties is the big
unknown,” Michta said. “Since most of them are probably Civic
Platform voters, the final result could be a close call if they
stay at home.”  Whatever its composition, the new government will be faced
with a  budget deficit  that has quadrupled since 2007, surpassing
the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP for a third year in 2010 to
reach 7.9 percent as  tax revenue  fell and companies laid off
staff and delayed or canceled investment.  Poland is unlikely to repeat its “stellar outperformance”
from 2009 as it no longer has the leeway to loosen fiscal
policy, a report by Citigroup Inc. published today said. The
general government deficit may be as high as 4.5 percent of GDP
next year, wider than the 3 percent forecast by the  Finance
Ministry , Citigroup said.  ‘How Serious?’  “The election is important to us because we’ll see
afterwards if and how serious the new government is about
implementing public finance consolidation,” Piotr Kowalski,
head of Fitch Ratings’s Polish unit, said in a Sept. 7
interview.  While challenges remain -- GDP per capita was 62 percent of
the EU average in 2010, below other former Soviet satellites
such as Slovakia and  Hungary , according to Eurostat -- the
achievements of the current administration’s initial four-year
term may allow it to stay in power.  “It does look as though Tusk is going to win,” Pawel Swieboda, director of the Center for European Strategy, said by
phone from Warsaw. The prime minister had “a big portion of
luck in governing through a period viewed by the public as a
prosperous one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  