-- 
Polish Inflation Quickened in August, Damping Speculation for Lower Rates

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-09-13T12:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/polish-inflation-quickened-in-august-first-month-since-may-1-.html
Poland’s inflation rate rose in
August for the first time in three months, damping speculation
the central bank may begin cutting  interest rates  as the
European Union’s debt crisis hurts economic growth.  Consumer prices rose 4.3 percent from a year ago compared
with 4.1 percent in July, the Warsaw-based  Central Statistical
Office  reported today. Price growth exceeded the median forecast
of 4.2 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 28 economists. Prices
were unchanged on the month.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski , which raised the benchmark seven-
day rate by a total 1 percentage point to 4.5 percent between
January and June from a record low, left borrowing costs
unchanged for a second meeting this month.  “This is going to limit the chances of any rate cuts,”
Piotr Lysienia, an economist at Bank BPH in Warsaw, said in an
e-mail response to questions from Bloomberg. “It had looked as
though inflation would slow until the end of 2011 and that
policy makers would be free to focus more on economic growth.”  The zloty was unchanged after the data were released,
trading at 4.3360 per euro at 2:13 p.m. in Warsaw, less than 0.1
percent stronger on the day.  Poland ’s two-year interest rate
swaps, which investors use to fix borrowing costs in the future,
rose 1 basis point to 4.6 percent.  ‘Too Early’  “Interest rates should remain unchanged at least through
the end of this year,” said Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, a member of
the central bank’s Monetary Policy Council, in a Sept. 9
interview. The bank’s current price growth expectations mean
“we shouldn’t ease monetary policy too early as inflation may
accelerate again as of June 2012.”  Investors began betting in August the central bank is more
likely to cut than raise interest rates in the coming months.
Six-month forward rate agreements are trading 20 basis points
below the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, a drop from
84 basis points above that rate on April 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  