-- 
JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley Warn Investors of Tough Quarter for Trading Units

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-09-13T19:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/porat-says-3q-fixed-income-trading-market-was-worse-than-4q-2010.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  warned investors that their stock- and bond-trading
businesses are facing a difficult third quarter as the  U.S.
economy  weakens and  Europe ’s debt crisis intensifies.  JPMorgan’s trading revenue will drop about 30 percent this
quarter from the prior three months, James E. Staley, chief
executive officer of the firm’s investment bank, said today at a
Barclays Capital conference in New York. Morgan Stanley Chief
Financial Officer Ruth Porat said at the same event that the
fixed-income trading environment has been worse than in 2010’s
fourth quarter, when the five biggest U.S. investment banks
posted their lowest trading revenue since the financial crisis.  Corporations pulled back from the market, particularly in
August, when the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  posted 400-point
moves on four consecutive days for the first time ever, Staley
said. Investors have been grappling with fallout from  Standard &
Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and the risk that a
default by Greece could hurt European banks.  “This quarter, the market environment clearly remains
difficult with challenging credit markets in particular due to
wider spreads and illiquidity,” Porat, 53, said. “Macro
products have been relatively better than credit, but the
volatility has prevented clients from taking much risk given
difficulty in trading.”  Morgan Stanley, based in New York, posted negative fixed-
income trading revenue of $29 million in the fourth quarter of
2010, or positive $813 million excluding the impact of its own
credit spreads, the lowest figure since 2008. The firm reported
$2.09 billion of fixed-income trading revenue last quarter.  Value-at-Risk  Morgan Stanley continued to reduce its value-at-risk during
the third quarter after cutting back in mid-June, Porat said.
While equity volume has increased this quarter, much of the
business has been in lower-margin electronic trading, she said.  JPMorgan, also based in  New York , earned $5.5 billion in
equity and fixed-income trading during the second quarter.
Third-quarter fees from  investment banking  will fall by about
half, Staley said, projecting about $1 billion in total fees
compared with $1.92 billion in the second quarter.  JPMorgan will report a “modest loss” in its private-
equity unit of about $100 million and asset-management revenue
will likely be hurt by the equity-market declines, Staley, 54,
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  