-- 
BOE May Need to Expand Bond-Purchases

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-13T11:16:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/posen-100-billion-pounds-in-more-qe-needed.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Adam Posen  said the central bank may need to expand its bond-purchase
program by as much as 100 billion pounds ($158 billion) to
support the recovery.  “We should start with a minimum of 50 billion pounds in
gilt purchases in secondary markets, titled toward the longer-
end of the maturity spectrum, over the next three months,”
Posen said in a speech today in Wotton-under-Edge, England.
“Given that the forecast appears likely to turn worse due to
external developments than the largely domestic U.K. one I have
based my call for more quantitative easing upon up until now,
that number should be 75 or 100 billion pounds.”  Bank of  England  officials resisted pressure to extend
economic stimulus at their policy meeting last week as they
attempted to navigate a path between accelerating inflation and
a faltering recovery. Posen, who has voted for more stimulus
since October 2010, also today proposed the creation of a new
public institution that would lend to businesses. He said there
is “financial stress” and an “overly concentrated” retail
banking industry in the U.K.  “Recent increases in British and other banks’ credit
default swap spreads will make credit conditions significantly
tighter going forward, if sustained,” he said.  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the
comments, and traded at $1.5810 as of 12:09 p.m. in London. It
earlier fell to the lowest in eight months.  Lending Proposal  “I would suggest that the government set up two new public
institutions to address the investment gap by increasing the
availability of credit” to small- and medium-sized companies,
Posen said. “One would be a public bank or authority for
lending to small business,” while the other “would be an
entity to bundle and securitize loans made to SMEs. Essentially,
we need a good version of  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  to create a
more liquid and deep market for illiquid securities which can
then be sold off of bank balance sheets.”  The central bank could encourage the creation of these two
enterprises by committing to discounting the securities from the
new agency and loans from the bank, Posen said.  The policy maker said that inflation is “likely” to drop
below the central bank’s 2 percent target “by a year from now
and beyond” due to weak consumer-spending growth and wages and
the government’s fiscal squeeze.  Potential Damage  “If we do not undertake the stimulative policy that the
outlook calls for, then our economies and our people will suffer
avoidable and potentially lasting damage,” he said. He also
said the bank’s 200 billion-pounds of asset purchases so far are
likely to have boosted economic growth by 1.5 percent and
inflation by 0.5 percent.  “There is no reason to think that there will be sustained
higher inflation in the U.K.,” he said. “There is still room
for monetary ease to stimulate demand further. A failure to
adequately close the output gap and reduce unemployment through
demand management could permanently erode the productive
capacity of the U.K. and some of its workers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  