-- 
Pound Falls as Europe Debt Woes Hurt U.K. Economic Prospects; Gilts Drop

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-13T15:55:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/pound-weakens-as-europe-debt-woes-hurt-u-k-economic-prospects-gilts-drop.html
The pound weakened against most of
its major counterparts as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
derail the recovery in the U.K.’s largest trading partner hurt
prospects for Britain’s currency.  Sterling declined to a seven-month low versus the dollar
after an industry report showed a gauge of U.K. house-price
expectations dropped in August, adding to signs the nation’s
economy is losing momentum. The pound also depreciated as  Bank
of England  policy maker  Adam Posen  said the central bank may
need to expand its bond-purchase program, known as quantitative
easing. Ten-year gilts fell as a government report showed
inflation accelerated in August.  “The pound tends to move in sympathy with developments in
the euro-zone because it’s such an important trading partner for
the U.K.,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales
at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “If euro-land looks
like it’s going to get hit then so does the pound. The weak
domestic picture also means there’s likely to be further QE in
the U.K.”  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.5798 at 4:47 p.m. in
London, after sliding to $1.5762, the weakest level since Jan.
25. The currency dropped 0.8 percent to 121.54 yen, and lost 0.4
percent to 86.59 pence per euro.  Speculation Greece is nearing default pushed the euro
toward a 10-year low against the yen as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  warned about the risk of contagion for other euro-area
nations. Italian borrowing costs surged as the government sold
3.9 billion euros ($5.3 billion) of five-year notes at an
auction today.  House Prices  The pound dropped for a third day versus the yen as the
 Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said its index of real-
estate price expectations fell to minus 23 last month from minus
13 in July. The number of real-estate agents and surveyors
saying prices declined last month exceeded those seeing gains by
23 percentage points, the report showed.  The Bank of  England  may need to expand its bond-buying
program by as much as 100 billion pounds to support the
recovery, Posen said in a speech in Wotton-under-Edge, England.  Gilts reversed earlier gains after a government report
showed consumer prices increased 4.5 percent in August from a
year earlier, compared with 4.4 percent in July, the Office for
National Statistics said in London. Inflation erodes the appeal
of securities that pay a fixed return.  Ten-year yields rose three basis points to 2.41 percent,
after dropping to 2.18 percent yesterday, the lowest level since
at least January 1989 when Bloomberg started collecting data on
the securities.  Gilts have returned 3.6 percent this month, compared with
2.9 percent for German  government bonds  and 1.2 percent for U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  