-- 
U.S. Income Drop Raises Stakes in Presidential Race

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-09-14T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/poverty-in-u-s-climbed-to-17-year-high-in-2010-as-household-income-fell.html
U.S.  household income  fell to its
lowest level in more than a decade in 2010 and poverty rose to a
17-year high, setting the stage for the debate over jobs and the
economy that will dominate the 2012 presidential race.  Median household income declined 2.3 percent, and the
proportion of people living in poverty last year climbed to 15.1
percent, or almost one in six Americans, from 14.3 percent in
2009, a U.S. Census Bureau report yesterday showed.  Income and poverty issues are at the heart of the political
discussion in Washington, with President  Barack Obama  pushing a
$447 billion jobs proposal and a special congressional committee
deliberating over $1.5 trillion in deficit cuts. Policy makers
are wrestling with the question of whether to extend initiatives
designed to address hardship stemming from the recession, the
nation’s worst economic slump in seven decades.  “All of that raises the stakes for the decisions that
President Obama and Congress will make in coming months,”
Robert Greenstein, president of the  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities  in Washington, said in a statement.  The census report underscored that middle-class Americans
continued to struggle during the recovery. Those trends may
worsen this year as the economy weakened.  “I can’t think of ways the picture could be much worse,”
said Ron Haskins, a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington. “We have had more than a decade of difficult
numbers. It’s not about to end.”  Lowest Since 1996  Yearly median household income reached its lowest level
since 1996, slipping to $49,445 from $50,599 the year before.
The 46.2 million Americans living in poverty was the highest in
the 52 years since the Census Bureau began gathering that
statistic and was up from 43.6 million in 2009.  “The distress the consumers are feeling now is historic in
its scope,” said Mark Cole, chief operating officer at
CredAbility, a provider of non-profit credit counseling.  An index that tracks the financial condition of the average
household published by Atlanta-based CredAbility hit a low in
the fourth quarter of 2009. Out of the 31 years CredAbility has
measured consumer distress, the worst rankings have occurred in
the last 13 quarters.  The number of Americans who didn’t work at least one week
out of the year increased to 86 million from 83 million in 2009,
said Trudi Renwick, chief of the Census Bureau’s poverty
statistics branch. If unemployment insurance benefits were
excluded from income, 3.2 million more Americans would have been
in poverty, the Census Bureau said.  Obama’s ‘Broken Promise’  The  Republican National Committee  issued a statement
highlighting the report as evidence of Obama’s “broken promise
on poverty” and the failure of his economic policies.  The home state of Texas Governor  Rick Perry , the
frontrunner in the contest for the Republican presidential
nomination, saw its poverty rate climb to 18.4 percent from 17.3
percent and had the sixth-highest rate among the 50 states.  Americans’ financial difficulties add urgency to the
arguments in Washington and statehouses across the U.S. over
budget cuts to programs designed to protect families from
falling into poverty. The census figures showed the third
consecutive annual increase in the U.S. poverty rate.  That trend won’t reverse itself without “concerted
action” on the part of policy makers, said Melissa Boteach, who
leads a campaign to reduce poverty at the Center for American
Progress, a Washington-based research group with ties to the
Obama administration.  Falling Income  Since 2007, the year before the recession, median household
income has fallen 6.4 percent, the Census Bureau said. The
number continued to decline even as the  U.S. economy  expanded 3
percent in 2010. Growth has slowed this year to an annual rate
of less than 1 percent, sparking concern that the financial
plight of families will intensify and hamper the recovery.  The data show that in 2010, a year when corporate profits
were soaring and the economy was pulling out of recession,
Americans saw their fortunes decline. The earnings of women who
worked full time were about 77 percent of those of men, about
the same gap as in 2009.  “Even in good economic times, the number of Americans who
were struggling to make ends meet and had declining income was
going in the wrong direction,” said Boteach. “People are right
to have some frustration that the economic gains of the last
decade, when they were happening, weren’t shared.”  U.S. households have little to cheer about as  job creation 
stagnated last month and hourly wages retreated. The
 unemployment rate  has hovered at or above 9 percent for more
than two years.  Consumer confidence  fell to the second-lowest
level this year for the week that ended Sept. 4.  Recouping Losses  Since the low point in the labor market downturn in
February 2010, nonfarm payrolls have increased by 1.9 million,
showing that without stronger growth, it will take years to
recoup about 8.7 million jobs lost as a result of the recession
that began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009.  The 2010 figures “tell us how the changing economic
conditions have really impacted the American family.” said
 Robert Groves , director of the Census Bureau, on a conference
call with reporters.  The numbers are part of an annual report on income, poverty
and health insurance released by the Census Bureau. The data are
based on a survey of about 100,000 addresses that’s used as the
primary source of figures about the nation’s labor force.  As defined by the Office of Management and Budget and
updated for inflation using the  Consumer Price Index , the
weighted average poverty threshold for a family of four in 2010
was $22,314.  Declines in Midwest  Among ethnic groups, median income declined for white and
black households, and changes in Hispanic and Asian households
weren’t statistically significant. Incomes declined in the
Midwest, South and West and were little changed in the
Northeast.  Adding to the woes is the number of Americans without
health insurance. It increased to 49.9 million from 49 million,
or about 16.3 percent of the population, though the bureau said
the change wasn’t statistically significant. The overall
percentage of people with insurance didn’t change.  The number of Americans with private insurance was 195.9
million, unchanged from 2009, the bureau said. The number
enrolled in public programs including Medicaid and Medicare grew
to 31 percent, or 95 million, from 93.2 million in 2009.  Medicaid enrolled about 48.6 million people last year, the
bureau said, or 15.9 percent of the population. The figures were
little changed from 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in  Washington  at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  