-- 
Qantas CEO Joyce Will Target Chinese Travelers With Five Separate Airlines

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-09-14T10:49:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/qantas-ceo-joyce-will-target-chinese-travelers-with-five-separate-airlines.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , seeking to
revive unprofitable international operations, is counting on
five different airline units to win travelers in  China , a
country 60 times bigger than its home market of  Australia .  The company is forming a premium carrier in Southeast Asia
and a budget venture in  Japan  that will give it bases closer to
China, Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce, 45, said in an
interview in Sydney yesterday. The two new airlines, which begin
flights next year, will add to Qantas’s existing operations in
Vietnam, Singapore and Australia.  “There is a huge opportunity for Qantas within the Asian
markets,” Joyce said. Having premium and low-cost units serving
China and the rest of the region is “critical,” he said.  Winning sales in the world’s most populous country is
central to Joyce’s plans to turn around overseas operations now
losing about A$200 million ($207 million) a year because of
competition from Middle East carriers on European routes. Delta
Air Lines Inc. and  American Airlines  also added flights to China,
where international  air travel  may grow 11 percent a year
through 2014, according to the  International Air Transport
Association .  “I really think it is hard to overestimate China’s
potential,” said  Peter Harbison , chairman of the Sydney-based
CAPA Centre for Aviation, an industry adviser. The country’s
size and rising intra-Asia trade provide “unbelievable upside
internationally,” he said.  Plane Orders  Sydney-based Qantas, Australia’s largest airline, will
order as many as 110 Airbus SAS A320s, including 78 of the
revamped neo version, to support the new Southeast Asia premium
carrier and the Japan budget venture. It announced the new
international airlines last month alongside plans to pare
flights to  Europe  and shed 1,000 jobs in Australia.  The workforce cuts have bolstered calls by unions for job-
security agreements. The company was today told by the Transport
Workers Union that up to 3,800 workers, including catering staff
and baggage handlers, will go on strike for four hours from 5
a.m. on Sept. 20. Qantas is assessing the impact the stoppage
will have on operations, it said in an e-mailed statement.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, has
also had periodic strikes in Queensland state since June amid
disagreements with coking coal workers. Australia’s Labor
government changed employment laws after coming to power in 2007,
enabling more group-based agreements and implementing measures
meant to stop any erosion of working conditions.  ‘Emboldened’ Unions  “A lot of businesses in Australia are very worried about
the industrial-relations challenge,” Joyce said. “The union
movement is emboldened and is very aggressive at the moment.”  Still, the carrier may reach agreements with labor leaders
by year’s end, Joyce said. The engineers union said today it was
unlikely that target would be met.  “Our problem is we need them to come to the table and talk
to us about  job security  and what we can do,” Peter Somerville,
general manager of the Australian Licenced Aircraft Engineers
Association, said by phone today. “Any agreement on these
matters in the time frame Alan Joyce gave is unlikely.”  An accord with pilots will only be possible if Qantas
guarantees that flights won’t be outsourced to other companies,
said Richard Woodward, vice president of the Australian &
International Pilots Association.  Qantas fell 0.3 percent to A$1.49 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
Sydney trading. It has declined 41 percent this year, compared
with a 28 percent drop for the Bloomberg World Airlines Index,
which tracks 30 stocks.  Jetstar China  Qantas’s low-cost budget arm  Jetstar  has led the company’s
growth in China by offering flights to eight cities from its hub
in  Singapore . The budget carrier’s Vietnam unit also plans to
add China flights, Joyce said. The main Qantas airline flies to
 Shanghai  and  Hong Kong  from Australia.  Chinese services now represent more than 10 percent of
Qantas’s international revenue, compared with “low single
digits” five years ago, Joyce said. The Dublin-born CEO founded
Jetstar in 2004, four years after joining Qantas. He previously
had stints at Aer Lingus Group Plc and Ansett, which was
Australia’s No. 2 carrier before collapsing 10 years ago.  Qantas plans to make a decision on whether to base its new
premium airline in Singapore or  Kuala Lumpur  within two months,
Joyce said. Singapore has the advantage of a bigger business
travel base, while Kuala Lumpur may offer less competition and
the chance to work with  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  and
AirAsia Bhd., he said.  Like all of the company’s overseas operations, Qantas will
work with a local partner on the new premium unit to comply with
international rules governing airline ownership. The Jetstar
Japan venture will be part-owned by Japan Airlines Co. and
Mitsubishi Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Sydney at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  