-- 
Qatar National Bank’s Bond Offering Seeks Longer-Term Money: Arab Credit

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-14T08:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/qatar-national-bank-s-bond-seeks-longer-term-money-arab-credit.html
Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the Gulf
country’s biggest bank by assets, may raise about a $1 billion
from a bond sale as it seeks longer-term money to fund growth.  The state-controlled lender said Aug. 29 it set up a $7.5
billion euro medium-term note program and hired  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and QNB Capital to manage the sale. The money
raised would be used for “normal operations,” it said.  The maturity of Qatar National’s loans is much longer than
the duration of its customer deposits and it’s likely to try and
close that gap,  Raj Madha , a Dubai-based analyst at Rasmala
Investment Bank Ltd., said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“They’re well supported by the government, their business is
pretty secure, they have a lot of capital and I would expect
them to issue debt at a pretty good rate.”  Qatar’s banks need to raise funds for growth as the economy
of the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas is
forecast to expand 15.7 percent this year. The country plans to
invest about $88 billion in infrastructure for the 2022 soccer
 World Cup , Enrico Grino, Qatar National’s assistant general
manager and head of project finance, said in May.  Doha-based Qatar National sold $1.5 billion in five-year
bonds in November at a coupon of 3.125 percent, or 1.8
percentage points over the benchmark mid-swap rate. That issue
received $6 billion in bids, it said at the time. Yields on the
bond quoted at 2.88 percent at 11 a.m. in Doha, declining 73
basis points, or 0.73 of a percentage point, this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Jump  Madha estimates Qatar National may raise as much as $1
billion from a five-year or seven-year note sale by the end of
the year.  Qatar National said July 6 second-quarter earnings jumped a
better-than-expected 26 percent to 1.81 billion riyals ($497
million) helped by higher interest income. The bank’s loan book
expanded 28 percent from a year ago to 150.5 billion riyals.  Qatar’s sovereign bonds were the best performers in the
 Middle East  in August as investors sought refuge from a slowing
U.S. economy and a worsening debt crisis in  Europe . Four of the
five best-performing securities among the 32 that make up the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle East Conventional Sovereign Bond Index
were from Qatar. The fifth was from  Abu Dhabi .  Qatar, the  United Arab Emirates  and  Saudi Arabia  are a part
of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, which holds about a
fifth of the world’s proven oil reserves. Crude prices jumped
about 40 percent in the past five years even after tumbling 6.6
percent this quarter to $89.17 a barrel.  Growth Target  Qatar National also raised 12.7 billion riyals ($3.5
billion) from a one-share-for-four rights offer in May which was
fully subscribed. The issue was aimed at boosting core capital
and help Qatar National become the biggest Gulf Arab lender over
the next three to five years, it said then.  Qatar National may raise $1 billion to $2 billion from a
bond sale,  Jaap Meijer , head of the bank team at AlembicHC
Securities said in an interview from Dubai yesterday.  “They have the strongest liquidity of all the Qatar banks
so they will do this off a position of strength rather than
weakness,” Meijer said by telephone. Qatar National “will use
the money for their strong future growth,” he said.  Qatar National’s shares have risen 6.9 percent this year
that compares with a 1.2 percent increase in the Qatar Exchange
Banking Sector Index.  Underleveraged Bank  Qatar National is underleveraged with a debt to equity
ratio of 54.4 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It had a return on equity of 22 percent last year, compared with
the banking industry’s average of 13.5 percent in Qatar.  The default risk of Qatar, rated AA by S&P, was at 106
yesterday, the second-lowest in the GCC. Default risk for Abu
Dhabi, holder of about 7 percent of the world’s oil reserves,
quoted at 105 and for Saudi Arabia at 114, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Still, “the global macro-economic environment is not
particularly conducive to an international bond sale,” Nick
Stadtmiller, a fixed-income analyst at  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the
U.A.E.’s biggest bank, said in an interview yesterday. “Any
local issuer that were able to sell dollar bonds in this
environment would likely have to pay a premium to place the
bonds internationally.”  Greek Troubles  Greece ’s perceived chance of default in the next five years
has soared to 98 percent, based on a standard pricing model of
credit-default swaps, as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  fails
to reassure international investors. German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  said in an interview with Berlin-based broadcaster
Inforadio she won’t let Greece fall into “uncontrolled
insolvency” because the risk of contagion for the other euro-
zone countries “is very big.”  “Several companies from the region had to postpone plans
to issue bonds in the summer, and the global situation has not
improved since then,” Stadtmiller at Emirates NBD said.  No issuer from Qatar has sold bonds this year. Governments
and companies from the GCC have raised $11.8 billion from 26
securities so far this year.  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) , the U.A.E.
lender controlled by Abu Dhabi’s ruling family, raised $650
million in July from the sale of Islamic bonds or sukuk at a
coupon of 3.797 percent, Bloomberg data shows.  “New issues are likely to be pushed to the backburner,
although Qatar may be an exception because Qatar’s bonds are
highly rated,” Madha at Rasmala said. “The sovereign bonds and
quasi-sovereign bonds may escape global concerns and may still
benefit from the flight to quality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  