-- 
Edano as Japanese Trade Minister May Take Tougher Stance on Tepco, Banks

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-09-14T04:26:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/trade-minister-edano-may-be-tougher-on-tepco.html
Yukio Edano,  Japan ’s new trade
minister, may take a tougher stance than his predecessors toward
power monopolies including Tokyo Electric Power Co., as the
government deals with the Fukushima crisis, analysts said.  Edano set the tone for the ministry that oversees Japan’s
atomic power industry by repeating remarks he made earlier this
year that Tokyo Electric creditors and shareholders should help
pay for the costs associated with the Fukushima nuclear
disaster, such as compensation claims.  “He may take a harder line with the utilities, banks and
shareholders than his predecessors,” said Hirofumi Kawachi, an
energy analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Japanese bank shares tumbled in May when Edano was
government chief of staff and said that creditors may have to
write off some loans made before the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami damaged the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The government
later set up an organization to support Tepco with 2 trillion
yen ($25 billion) of funding.  “The purpose of using tax money to aid  Tokyo Electric 
doesn’t include the protection of creditors and shareholders,”
Edano told reporters in Tokyo yesterday. “They should bear
costs they would have been liable for if there wasn’t support
from the government.”  Edano, 47, was speaking a day after he was appointed to
head the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in the new
government of Yoshihiko Noda, 54. He replaced Yoshio Hachiro,
63, who resigned just over a week into the job after making
inappropriate comments about the Fukushima crisis.  New Government  Noda took over from  Naoto Kan , 64, two weeks ago to become
the country’s third prime minister since the  Democratic Party  of
Japan gained power in 2009. Banri Kaieda, 62, was METI minister
between January and August this year.  As chief cabinet secretary in the last government Edano led
daily briefings on the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis,
the world’s worst since Chernobyl 25 years ago.  The earthquake and tsunami caused the meltdown of three
reactors at the Fukushima plant, leading to radiation leakage
and the evacuation of almost 160,000 people. Almost 20,000
people are dead or missing after the tsunami.  Edano yesterday apologized to Fukushima prefecture’s
governor, Yuhei Sato, for comments made by Hachiro about “towns
of death” around the shattered nuclear plant, the Asahi
newspaper reported today.  Conflicting Role  As well as being a key figure in the government’s response
to the crisis, Edano will oversee reforms at METI after Kaieda
sacked the ministry’s top three energy officials.  The ministry has been criticized for being too close to the
nuclear operators in its conflicting role as promoter and
regulator of atomic power.  The regulator, the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency,
will be separated from METI and placed under the Ministry of the
Environment, the government said earlier.  The government will also aim to reduce dependence on
nuclear power “as much as possible,” Noda said yesterday in
his first policy speech since taking office. He reiterated his
predecessor’s plan to “revise from scratch” Japan’s Basic
Energy Policy and said the government will present a new plan by
the middle of next year.  At the briefing yesterday, Edano took aim at cost cutting
at  Tokyo  Electric, also known as Tepco, and other utilities.  “Tepco’s efforts to cut costs probably haven’t been
sufficient,” Edano said, adding the same holds for other power
companies. They may be asked to reduce costs by the ministry,
which has final say over electricity tariffs, Edano said.  Overestimating Costs  Tepco overestimated costs used to calculate electricity
prices for its customers for as many as 10 years, Kazuhiko
Shimokobe, the chairman of a government committee investigating
the utility’s finances, said last week. Shimokobe declined to
comment on whether the finding by the committee meant Tepco was
overcharging its customers.  Japan’s lower house in July passed a bill allowing for
state support to help Tepco compensate those affected by the
nuclear disaster. The government named Takehiko Sugiyama, the
former president of Hitotsubashi University, to head the body.  “It’s natural for the government to ask banks and
shareholders to share the burden,” said Tatsuo Hatta, a
professor emeritus of economics at Osaka University. “If they
can evade their responsibilities, it raises the risk of moral
hazard, which may have a wider impact on the financial
industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  