-- 
Trade Deals Wed Obama to Republicans as Democrats Vow to Oppose

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/trade-deals-wed-obama-to-republicans.html
President  Barack Obama  won a
standing ovation when he called in his speech to Congress last
week for lawmakers to approve stalled free-trade agreements with
South Korea, Colombia and Panama. The cheers came from the
Republican side of the chamber.  “He got virtually the entire Republican party to stand up
on that,” Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican
who has challenged the administration’s policies, said in an
interview after the Sept. 8 speech on jobs. “On their side,
only a dozen or so stood up. That’s where the president’s
problem is.”  Victory for Obama on the trade accords may require the
votes of most Republicans, who have opposed him on issues from
health care to increasing the federal debt ceiling. That’s
because some of the president’s fellow Democrats won’t support
deals they say would cost jobs and fail to protect workers in
other countries, Bloomberg Government reported.  “That’s something he really hasn’t faced before,” Doug Irwin, an economics professor at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover,
 New Hampshire , who served as an economist in the Reagan
administration, said in an interview. “He’s relying on support
from Republicans, who have vociferously opposed him on most of
his other initiatives, and his Democratic allies in Congress are
recalcitrant and don’t want to do this.”  Representative Mike Michaud, a Maine Democrat, “will work
to build the broadest coalition possible” to oppose all three
agreements, spokesman Ed Gilman said in an e-mail. Michaud heads
the House Trade Working Group, a coalition made up mostly of
Democrats who question the value of free-trade accords.  Clinton Accord  There is a precedent for Obama’s predicament. Democratic
President Bill Clinton, who succeeded in passing the  North
American Free Trade Agreement (MXTBBAL)  in 1993, needed support from a
majority of Republicans in the House and Senate because most
Democrats wouldn’t back the pact. More than three quarters of
Republicans in each chamber voted for the accord with Mexico and
 Canada (TBBLCNDA) .  In the House, 102 Democrats voted for the deal, compared
with 156 who voted against it. In the Senate, 27 Democrats
supported the accord, while 28 opposed it and one didn’t vote.  Obama has urged Congress to act on the  South Korea (KOTRBAL) ,
 Colombia  and Panama agreements negotiated during President
 George W. Bush ’s administration, saying they will spawn export-
related jobs as his administration works to reduce the 9.1
percent  U.S. unemployment rate .  The South Korea deal, the biggest for the U.S. since Nafta,
would boost U.S. exports by as much as $10.9 billion in the
first year in which it’s in full effect, according to the U.S.
International Trade Commission. The accord with  Colombia (TBBLCLMB)  would
increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion a year.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce says the trade agreements will
prevent the loss of 380,000 jobs. The AFL-CIO, the nation’s
largest labor federation, says they will lead to a decline in
U.S. manufacturing as jobs go abroad.  Changes Negotiated  During Obama’s first two years in his office, his
administration refashioned the accords in an effort to broaden
support among Democrats and soften opposition from unions.  He negotiated new terms for auto tariffs in the  South Korea 
deal that won over the United Auto Workers union, an agreement
on exchanging tax information with Panama and labor-rights
assurances from Colombia.  Obama also refused to submit the trade agreements to
Congress unless he got a commitment for approval of extending a
program, known as Trade Adjustment Assistance, that augments
health and unemployment benefits for workers who lose their jobs
to overseas competition. The worker aid is popular with
Democrats.  Obama and Republicans deadlocked over the aid issue in June
and July. Republicans led by Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah  said
the assistance, which was expanded in the 2009 stimulus measure,
was unaffordable and inefficient.  Procedural Differences  “It’s a testament to today’s partisanship that procedural
differences have held up the free-trade agreements this long,”
John Murphy, vice president of international affairs at the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce in Washington, said in an interview.  Senate leaders from both parties ended the impasse on Aug.
3, agreeing to vote on the aid and then take up the trade deals
after their one-month recess.  “It’s time to clear the way for a series of trade
agreements that would make it easier for American companies to
sell their products in  Panama , Colombia and South Korea -- while
also helping the workers whose jobs have been affected by global
competition,” Obama said in his Sept. 8 speech.  In a first step, the House voted on Sept. 7 to renew trade
preferences on goods from developing nations, which expired last
year. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters he would use the preferences bill as a vehicle to
renew the Trade Adjustment Assistance.  McConnell, Boehner  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said in
August that he supported the “job-creating trade bills.”  Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky , who
said in November his top political priority is to deny Obama a
second term, called Obama’s request for Congress to pass the
trade deals “an encouraging sign for economic opportunity” on
Aug. 16 in Louisville, Kentucky.  “Obama hasn’t found common ground very frequently with
Republicans,”  Michael Moore , a professor at George  Washington 
University in Washington and an economist in the  Bush
administration , said in an interview. “I’m sure the president’s
economic advisers are saying, ‘We can get cooperation from
Republicans, look bipartisan and we can get something that looks
good for the election, which is export jobs.’”  The Colombia free-trade agreement faces the strongest
Democratic opposition because the labor-rights plan the
administration negotiated wasn’t included in drafts of the bill.  Intimidation, Violence  Representative  Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said he
won’t support the Colombia deal because its government fails to
protect workers from intimidation and violence.  “Colombia continues to have its problems and will be more
controversial,” Levin said in an interview. He said he will
vote for the South Korea and Panama accords.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee, supports all three deals. Senate
Democrats from other states with substantial farm employment are
also likely to support the trade agreements because they would
open markets for agricultural exports, said Moore, the George
Washington University professor.  Republicans in the House aligned with the Tea Party will
probably support the trade accords while opposing the worker
aid, Moore said. Sixty-seven of the 87 freshmen  House
Republicans , led by Representatives Rick Berg of  North Dakota 
and Tom Reed of  New York , sent Obama a letter in March urging
him to submit the pacts for approval.  “The administration seems to have figured out that in
order to win, they’re going to have to rely on Republican
votes,”  William Reinsch , president of the  National Foreign
Trade Council  and a Commerce Department official in the Clinton
administration, said in an interview. “You take your friends
where you find them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in New York at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  