-- 
Treasuries Decline as $21 Billion 10-Year Auction Draws Record Low Yield

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-14T00:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/treasuries-decline-as-21-billion-10-year-auction-draws-record-low-yield.html
(Corrects length of decline in first sentence in an
article that originally ran on Sept. 13.)  Treasuries fell as the government
sold $21 billion in 10-year notes at a record low yield and
concern eased that  Europe ’s debt crisis may cripple the region’s
financial institutions.  Bonds fell as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told the
Berlin broadcaster Inforadio that she won’t allow Greece to go
into “uncontrolled insolvency.” Even with today’s drop in
prices, demand at the U.S. auction from a group of investors
including foreign central banks was the highest since June.  “It’s not a bad level for the Treasury, that’s for sure,”
said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.7 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New
York. “Greece and the  euro zone  in its entirety will remain a
focus of the market, but today we seem to have gotten a reprieve
in  risk aversion .”  Yields on current 10-year notes advanced four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.99 percent at 5:11 p.m. in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125
percent securities due in August 2021 dropped 3/8, or $3.75 per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 6/32. The yield slid to a record low
1.877 percent yesterday.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.9 percent.
Crude oil for October delivery gained 1.8 percent to $89.81 a
barrel. The euro rose from the lowest level against the dollar
since February.  U.S. Auction  At today’s U.S. auction of 10-year notes, the securities
produced a yield of 2 percent, below the previous record of
2.140 percent at last month’s offering. The average forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of 10 of the  Federal Reserve ’s 20
primary dealers was 1.998 percent.  Indirect bidders, including foreign central banks, bought
48.5 percent of the notes, the highest share since the June 8
auction. They bought 35.4 percent in August.  “The auction was good,” said  Michael Franzese , managing
director and head of Treasury trading at Wunderlich Securities
Inc. in New York. “Demand was there.”  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 11.1 percent of
the notes after a record high 31.7 percent in August.  The U.S. sold $32 billion of three-year debt yesterday at a
record low yield of 0.334 percent. It will sell $13 billion in
30-year securities tomorrow in the last of this week’s $66
billion in note and bond offerings.  The entire amount raised this week is new cash, with none
of the proceeds dedicated to redeeming maturing securities,
according to the Treasury Department.  Budget Deficit  The U.S. government’s budget deficit widened in August,
primarily reflecting a calendar-related jump in spending
compared with the same month last year.  The gap climbed to $134.2 billion, exceeding the August
2010 shortfall of $90.5 billion, according to the Treasury
Department’s monthly budget statement issued in  Washington . For
the fiscal year to date, the deficit rose to $1.23 trillion,
less than at the same point in 2010.  Other U.S. government reports this week are forecast to
show little or no inflation in August.  Producer prices were unchanged after a 0.2 percent increase
in July, according to the median forecast of 76 economists
before tomorrow’s Labor Department figures. Consumer prices
gained 0.2 percent last month following a 0.5 percent advance in
July, a Sept. 15 report is forecast to show.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the break-
even rate, was 1.95 percentage points, almost the lowest since
October 2010. The 10-year average is 2.12 percentage points.  Fed Asset Purchases  The Fed said today it will buy about $16 billion over the
next month as part of its program of reinvesting the proceeds
from maturing assets on its balance sheet. At its next policy
meeting Sept. 20-21, the central bank may decide to swap its
holdings of short-term Treasuries with long-term securities in a
bid to cut borrowing costs.  Treasuries fell today as Merkel said in a radio interview
with Inforadio that  Greece  is taking the right steps to get its
next bailout payment, warning against allowing a Greek default
because of the risk of contagion for other euro-area countries.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  planned to hold a
conference call with Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
tomorrow on developments in Greece and the euro area.  Schaeuble’s View  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he doesn’t
foresee a euro-area “economic government” in the immediate
future and rejected a “European superstate,” Rheinische
Zeitung reported citing an interview.  Italy sold 3.9 billion euros ($5.3 billion) of notes due in
September 2016 at an average yield of 5.60 percent, up from 4.93
percent at the previous auction in July.  Treasury note investors were less optimistic this week,
according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. weekly poll of clients. The
net percentage of investors holding U.S. notes decreased to
minus 6 percent this week from minus 4 percent the previous
week. The net figure is the difference between the percentage of
investors long on Treasury notes, expecting prices to increase,
and the percentage of those short.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  