-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yield Near Record Low on Greek, Italian Concern

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-09-13T11:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/treasuries-snap-decline-on-speculation-data-will-show-inflation-is-cooling.html
Treasury 10-year yields were eight
basis points from a record low set yesterday amid speculation
 Greece  is nearing default and as economists said reports this
week will show U.S. inflation is slowing.  Investors seeking the safety of  U.S. debt  pushed down the
difference between two- and 10-year yields to 1.72 percentage
points, approaching the 1.7 percentage points set yesterday, the
least since March 2009. The perceived chance of a Greek default
in the next five years has soared to 98 percent, credit-default
swaps show. Italian borrowing costs surged at a bond sale today.
The U.S. is scheduled to sell $21 billion of 10-year notes.  “Greece is definitely a problem that is very present in
the minds of investors at the moment, but fears of a global
slowdown are also looming,” said Viola Stork, a fixed-income
analyst at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt .
“Whenever you have this kind of uncertainty in the market,  risk
aversion  goes up and that drives Treasury yields lower.
Investors are willing to accept lower and lower yields for the
security of Treasuries.”  Ten-year yields rose one basis point to 1.96 percent as of
7:37 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices, after dropping to a record 1.877 percent yesterday. The
2.125 percent note due August 2021 fell 4/32, or $1.25 per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 14/32.  Two-year note rates were little changed at 0.20 percent.  Greek ‘Insolvency’  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she won’t allow Greece
to go into “uncontrolled insolvency” as members of her ruling
coalition call on her to allow the nation to declare itself
bankrupt and exit the euro-region. The currency bloc has no
system for “orderly” insolvency until the permanent rescue
fund is established in 2013, she said in a German radio
interview.  Investors have to pay a record $5.8 million upfront and
$100,000 annually to insure $10 million of Greek debt for five
years using credit-default swaps, up from $5.5 million in
advance on Sept. 9, according to CMA.  Italy sold 3.9 billion euros ($5.3 billion) of notes due in
September 2016 at an average yield of 5.60 percent, up from 4.93
percent at the previous auction in July.  “I see a further decline in Treasury yields,” said Shinji Kunibe, chief portfolio manager in  Tokyo  at Nissay Asset
Management Corp., which oversees the equivalent of $45 billion.
“With  Europe  being the world’s second-biggest economic zone,
rattling confidence in its system will inevitably have a
negative impact over the  U.S. economy .”  Ten-year Treasury yields will decline to 1.75 percent as
soon as October as investors increase purchases of safer assets,
Kunibe predicted.  Annual Return  Treasuries have returned 8.4 percent in 2011, their best
year since 2008, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks handed investors an
11 percent loss in the period, including reinvested dividends.  U.S. reports today and tomorrow will show the cost of
imported goods fell in August and producer prices were
unchanged, according to Bloomberg News surveys. Consumer prices
gained 0.2 percent last month, following a 0.5 percent advance
in July, economists said before the Labor Department data on
Sept. 15.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 1.96 percentage
points. The 10-year average is 2.12 percentage points.  ‘Less Value’  The decline in Treasury yields has made them unattractive
to some investors.  “There’s less and less value in Treasuries,” said Kei Katayama, the leader of the foreign fixed-income group at Daiwa
SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo, which oversees the equivalent of
$64.4 billion.  Katayama, who trimmed his holdings in May, said he doubts
the  Federal Reserve  will be able to push borrowing costs any
lower as it tries to support the economy.  At its next meeting on Sept. 20-21, the central bank may
decide to swap its holdings of short-term Treasuries with long-
term securities in a bid to cut borrowing costs.  Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said yesterday
he probably won’t support further monetary easing, arguing that
steps that would boost the recovery are the responsibility of
fiscal authorities.  James Bullard , president of the St. Louis
Fed, said yesterday U.S. monetary policy is appropriate for the
current state of the economy and the risk of a recession is low.  10-Year Auction  The 10-year U.S. securities being sold today yielded 1.94
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with a record low 2.14
percent the last time the notes were sold on Aug. 10.  Investors bid for 3.22 times the amount of debt offered
last month, versus the 10-auction average of 3.13. Indirect
bidders, the group including foreign central banks, bought 35.4
percent, the least at the monthly sales since March 2010. Direct
bidders, non-primary dealers buying for their own accounts,
purchased 31.7 percent, three times the 10-sale average.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., increased his holdings of
Treasuries last month to the highest level since December 2010.  The $245 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  raised government
and Treasury debt to 16 percent of assets in August from 10
percent in July, according to data on  Newport Beach , California-
based company’s  website . The fund has returned 3.6 percent this
year, lagging behind 68 percent of its competitors, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  