-- 
REC Sees Rival Solar Producers Liquidated in Market ‘Shake Up’

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-09-13T11:59:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/rec-sees-rival-solar-producers-liquidated-in-market-shake-up-.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA, a maker
of solar-power components from  Norway , expects to benefit from a
market “shake-up” that will liquidate less-profitable rivals.  “There are many players in this market today that don’t
make any money at all with the prices we see,” Bjoern Brenna,
chief financial officer, told a conference in Oslo today.
“There will be a shake-up and many will disappear.”  Three U.S. solar-component producers, Evergreen Solar Inc.,
Spectrawatt Inc. and Solyndra LLC, filed for bankruptcy in the
past month, while Commerzbank AG said last week it expects 20 to 
40 percent of Chinese solar companies to disappear as lending 
tightens. Prices for so-called multicrystalline silicon wafers 
used in panels have fallen 47 percent this year, according to 
data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Even the best Chinese are not making much money on these
prices,” Brenna said in a separate interview. “That is good
for us because I think we made quite a lot of money in the
second quarter compared to many of our peers.”  REC posted a second-quarter net loss of 6.7 billion kroner
($1.2 billion), after a 757 million-krone profit a year before.
It trailed the 185 million-krone average profit estimate of 13 
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortization slid to 871 million kroner from 
1.5 billion kroner the prior quarter.  Extended Closing  The company on Aug. 25 extended a temporary shutdown of
about 45 percent of its wafer capacity in Norway to the end of 
the year after market prices failed to recover. U.S. and
 Singapore  operations were operating at full capacity, it said.  While REC is considering expanding polysilicon output in
the U.S., the condition of the market means it needs to secure
contracts from buyers first to absorb the extra capacity, Brenna
said. REC will seek “smaller projects with short payback time”
to increase the efficiency of its operations in Singapore, he 
said. The company doesn’t plan to invest further in Norway.  REC has slumped 58 percent in Oslo trading this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  