-- 
REITs Attract Most Cash Since 2006

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/reits-lure-most-cash-since-2006-as-investors-seek-yield-inflation-hedge.html
For the last decade, through two
recessions, Michael Agran has dedicated 20 percent of his
investment portfolio to real estate investment trusts.  The Los Angeles tax lawyer said he has no plans to diminish
his stake in the real estate equities, figuring he can achieve a
return of at least 7 percent, through common and preferred
shares, even as the prospect of an economic slowdown looms.  “If there’s a recession, where am I going to put my
money?”  Agran said. “Am I going to put it in the bank and
earn a quarter of a percent a year? Not going to do that. Am I
going to put it in Treasuries?”  Mutual funds that invest in U.S. real estate investment
trusts have attracted the most new money since 2006 as buyers
seek yield. Investors have added $3.7 billion to REIT funds this
year, according to a Sept. 8 report by Citigroup Global Markets,
a unit of New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Assets in the funds,
including exchange-traded funds, are at a record $96 billion,
surpassing the prior peak of $87 billion in February 2007, the
analysis said.  “REITs are attracting attention because of their income,
the dividend yield, and the fact that REITs do own hard assets,
which offer inflation protection,” said Philip Martin, REIT
strategist at Chicago-based research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   ‘Starved For Income’  Most REITs are publicly traded companies that own and
operate property including apartments, offices, retail, self-
storage facilities and hotels. They must distribute at least 90
percent of their taxable income to shareholders annually in the
form of dividends. Investors generally pay ordinary income tax
on these distributions.  Investors are “so starved for income” that they’re lured
by REIT yields, said Larry Glazer, a managing partner at
Mayflower Advisors in  Boston , which has almost $800 million in
assets. The securities had an average dividend yield of 3.7
percent as of Sept. 12, according to the Bloomberg REIT Index of
129 publicly traded property owners. That compares with yields
on 10-year Treasury notes of about 1.95 percent as of Sept. 12,
and  0.02 percent  for the seven-day compound yield of the average
taxable money-market fund as of Sept. 6, according to research
firm iMoneyNet.  “REITs could continue to attract modest amounts of capital
given low  interest rates ,” Michael Bilerman, head of the real
estate and lodging team at Citi Investment Research & Analysis
and author of the firm’s Sept. 8 report, said in an e-mail.  Dividend Growth  Equity REITs give investors dividend yield and the
potential for price appreciation, said Mark Biffert, senior REIT
and commercial real estate analyst at Bloomberg Industries. The
Bloomberg REIT index hit a 52-week high on July 22, before
falling 23 percent by Aug. 8, Bloomberg data show.  Dividend growth and payouts from REITs are heavily
dependent on the underlying portfolio’s ability to generate  cash
flow , primarily through rents and rental growth from tenants,
said Martin of Morningstar.  Equity REITs have had an average annualized dividend growth
rate of 5.75 percent the last two decades as of August, or more
than double the average rate of inflation, according to
Morningstar. Annual dividend growth is projected to be from 4
percent to 6 percent for the next several years, likely
exceeding inflation, Martin said.  Recession Worries  Those convinced that the U.S. is “at the beginning of a
horrible recession” should be wary of investing in REITs
because an economic decline would weaken demand for commercial
space, increase vacancies and limit cash flow at income-
producing properties, said Ralph Block, the  Westlake Village ,
California-based author of the Essential REIT newsletter and the
upcoming fourth edition of “Investing in REITs” guidebook.  “For anybody to make an investment it requires some kind
of faith in the future,” Block said. “It requires faith that
businesses are going to be profitable, they’re going to want to
grow, they’re going to want to take more space.  If you don’t
think any of that’s going to happen, you shouldn’t be investing
in REITs.”  Agran, the Los Angeles investor, said he’s relying on
higher dividends from preferred shares to get him past any
market downturn. He said he plans to rebalance his REIT
allocation, so that 50 percent of his investments are in REIT
preferred stock and 50 percent in common shares to put his
portfolio in a “safer position.”  Cash Flow  Bloomberg’s Biffert said he looks at rent growth and the
ability to drive cash flow over the long term when evaluating
REITs. “You’d want to increase your exposure to sectors where
cash-flow growth is outpacing inflation,” he said. The average
inflation rate through July was 2.9 percent, Bloomberg data
show.  Apartment REITs are projecting net operating income growth
from 4 percent to 6 percent this year, Biffert said. Retail
shopping center rents are projected to grow from 1 percent to 2
percent in established markets, offices in core central business
districts such as  New York  and  San Francisco  may rise as high as
2 percent, and suburban office rents may decline 2 percent to 3
percent. Industrial properties may be flat to down 1 percent, he
said.  “The growth outlook for commercial real estate will be
highly dependent on asset type, quality and market,” Biffert
said.  REITs and Inflation  Since 1974, REITs generally have outperformed other assets,
including gold, during periods of high inflation, data from the
National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts in
 Washington  show. That’s because commercial REITs generally
structure leases that let them adjust rents periodically to
respond more quickly to inflation, said Michael Grupe, executive
vice president of research and investor outreach at NAREIT.  REITs don’t protect a portfolio in all types of
inflationary environments, said Robert Greer, product manager of
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s “Real Return” business, a
series of funds and strategies designed to protect against
inflation. “REITs may not protect you from inflation caused by
a rise in food and energy prices, especially if caused by a
constraint in supply,” he said.  Another consideration is whether the flows into REITs have
bid up prices ahead of the potential for appreciation, said Sam
Katzman, chief investment officer at Constellation Wealth
Advisors, a New York-based firm managing about $5 billion in
assets.  Apartment REITs  While the industry is currently trading at a “slight
discount” to fair value, according to Morningstar analysis,
apartments are among the more “overvalued” types of REITs,
said Martin. “We’d be very, very company, stock and geographic
specific there.”  Demand for apartments has soared in the U.S. as home
foreclosures forced people out of their residences and
prospective buyers have found it harder to get mortgages.  Equity
Residential (EQR) , the largest publicly traded apartment REIT in the
U.S., has gained about 16 percent year-to-date as of Sept. 12.
 AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB) , the second-biggest multifamily
housing owner, has gained about 19 percent this year.  “Property types including office, industrial, retail and
lodging may experience more operating performance volatility if
the economy stalls, which may negatively impact dividend growth,
cash flow and share prices,” Morningstar’s Martin said. The
research firm is focused on REITs that can weather a slower
economic environment including those with lower debt levels and
dividend payout ratios, and ones that invest in more need-driven
properties such as health-care facilities and grocery-anchored
shopping centers, he said.  Longer Leases  Even in a slow-growth economy, commercial properties with
longer leases will do well because they have a set amount of
cash coming in and there isn’t a lot of competition since
there’s little construction right now, said Jon Cheigh, senior
vice president at Cohen & Steers, a New York-based firm with
about $44.3 billion in assets, the majority of which is in real
estate.  Agran, the Los Angeles investor, said he generally sees
publicly traded real estate as a good investment no matter what
the economy does or where inflation goes. In flush times, the
firms can raise rents, while in recessionary periods, they have
access to investor capital to buy properties that others are
disposing of “at bargain-basement prices,” he said.  “With real estate it’s kind of like being in the business
of making waxed fruit,” he said. “It’s there, it’s going to be
there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 