-- 
Releasing 70,000 Psychiatric Patients Shows Japan Debt Task

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-09-14T07:14:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/releasing-70-000-japanese-psychiatric-patients-shows-noda-s-debt-challenge.html
In the hallway of  St. Pierre
Psychiatric Hospital  north of  Tokyo , an elderly woman sits on
the floor next to a bulging brown duffle bag, her arms wrapped
around her knees, mumbling about being taken home.  She has packed her things many times since she was admitted
for schizophrenia more than 20 years ago, in the belief someone
is coming to fetch her, said psychiatrist Manabu Yamazaki, the
hospital’s owner.  Her hope mirrors that of the government, which wants to
empty 70,000 beds to reduce the highest rate of psychiatric
hospitalization among developed nations, lowering its 1.8
trillion yen ($23.5 billion) annual mental-health payments.
Facing the world’s largest public debt and the fastest aging
society, Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is trying to curtail
growth in the country’s 34.8 trillion yen-a-year health bill.  “The only thing the government has in mind is cutting
medical costs,” said Yugo Miyata, who runs Yokohama Camellia
Hospital on the outskirts of Tokyo. “If hospitals force out
70,000 patients immediately, we must be ready for several
thousand of them to be homeless on the street.”  The effort to reverse a five-decade policy of isolating
psychiatric cases is unrealistic because most patients have no
living relatives or have been hospitalized too long to cope
outside, and because of the stigma in  Japan  of having a mentally
ill relative, according to doctors including Yamazaki and Yuji
Okazaki at  Tokyo Metropolitan Matsuzawa Hospital .  Little Headway  Between 2004, when the health ministry set a 10-year
timescale for the reduction, and September 2009, when the latest
survey was carried out, the number of beds fell by only 6,806,
to 348,121. In an effort to speed up the cuts, the government
this year is selecting 25 psychiatric hospitals for a trial
program that would require them to remove at least 10 percent of
their beds within three to five years and set up teams to help
care for patients released into the community.  The failure to empty wards shows the difficulty Noda faces
in reducing subsidies in a nation where the burden of caring for
a growing number of elderly patients is falling on a shrinking
group of working-age citizens. Meeting the government’s target
would save about 100 billion yen a year, according to Ludwig Kanzler, a partner at McKinsey & Co. in Tokyo.  About one in three Japanese will be over 65 by 2025,
compared with 12 percent in 1990, the Paris-based  Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development  estimates. Seniors
occupy almost two-thirds of hospital beds in Japan, the OECD
said in a  December 2009 report . Care of the mentally ill
accounts for 5.2 percent of the nation’s 34.8 trillion yen
medical bill.  U.S. Asylums  While the U.S. and western  Europe  began closing asylums and
integrating patients into the community in the 1960s, in Japan
the stigma of mental illness has ensured that the nation’s  1,076
psychiatric hospitals  maintain a 90 percent  occupancy rate .
Japan has 13.5 times more psychiatric beds per 100,000 people
than the U.S. and 4.5 times more than the U.K., according to
OECD data.  “There’s no question that the stigma against mental
illnesses is greater in Japan,” said  Nancy Andreasen , the
Andrew H. Woods chair of psychiatry at the University of Iowa
Carver College of Medicine, who received the  President’s
National Medal of Science  in 2000. “There is a tendency to take
an ill family member and get them out of sight and essentially
out of mind.”  Ambassador Attack  The mentally ill have been largely separated from society
in Japan since the 1950s, when the government prohibited people
from locking up sick relatives at home. To increase the
availability of hospital beds, it introduced subsidies and
relaxed minimum staffing requirements.  Public pressure to institutionalize the mentally ill grew
after former U.S. ambassador Edwin Reischauer was attacked by a
patient suffering from schizophrenia at the Tokyo embassy in
1964, causing international embarrassment.  “Many patients don’t need medical care,” said Okazaki at
Tokyo Metropolitan Matsuzawa Hospital. “But they have no home
to return to as their parents have died and their siblings don’t
feel they have a duty to support them.”  Treating Japan’s more than 300,000 psychiatric in-patients
costs about 400,000 yen per patient per month on average,
according to a 2009 health ministry  survey . Between 70 percent
and 100 percent of that cost is covered by the government,
depending on the patient’s age and relatives’ ability to pay.
For seniors, the state pays as much as 90 percent of the bill.  Increasing Dementia  “Few psychiatric beds have been cut at this point,” said
Ken Hongo, deputy director for the health ministry’s mental
welfare division said in a telephone interview. The government
is still planning how to support patients in communities and
deal with an increasing number of dementia patients, he said.  With the population aging, the proportion of dementia
patients at mental hospitals rose to 17 percent in 2008, from 11
percent almost a decade earlier, the ministry’s survey shows.  “Other hospitals don’t take dementia patients with
psychosis so they end up at mental hospitals,” said Okazaki at
Tokyo Metropolitan Matsuzawa Hospital.  At Yamazaki’s St. Pierre Hospital, half the patients are
elderly and many have  dementia , the 70-year-old psychiatrist
said as he unlocked a steel-reinforced sliding door intended to
prevent patients from entering the elevator lobby. The two- to
 four-bed rooms , partitioned by pink curtains and wooden cabinets,
are painted tan and brightly lit through hardened-glass windows
that open little more than a hand’s width.  Roof Garden  For fresh air, patients can step outside onto a rooftop
herb-and-flower garden surrounded by a 3-meter-high mesh fence.  With large subsidies, psychiatric hospitals, 90 percent of
which are owned by doctors, have little incentive to release
patients, according to the OECD report. Government payouts for
seniors had “the unintended effect of turning hospitals into de
facto nursing homes,” the report said. “Keeping patients in
beds is an easy way to gain revenue.”  Psychiatric patients in Japan are hospitalized for 307 days
on average, compared with just over a  week  in the U.S. and about
 11 weeks  in the U.K., according to government figures.  “It should be possible to organize psychiatric treatment
in Japan in similar ways as elsewhere,” said McKinsey’s Kanzler.
“Whether the government succeeds will be a matter of coming up
with a plan that gives the hospitals little choice.”  Japan’s mental hospital association, which represents the
88 percent of psychiatric hospitals that are privately owned,
will suggest instead converting some beds by March 2012 into
less medically intensive residential care in return for
government compensation, said Yamazaki, who chairs the group.  “The government encouraged isolating mental patients from
society for the last 50 years,” said Yamazaki, in his office in
the six-story, 522-bed hospital he rebuilt five years ago for
3.5 billion yen. “It should be responsible if it wants to
change that. If we let patients go, they will have nowhere to go
and nothing to do.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 