-- 
Republicans Secure Upset Victory for Weiner’s New York Seat in U.S. House

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-09-14T17:22:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/republicans-eye-upset-in-new-york-election-for-weiner-s-u-s-house-seat.html
 Voters dealt a rebuke to President
 Barack Obama  in a typically Democratic district, electing
Republican Bob Turner to the New York City House seat that
scandal forced Anthony Weiner to give up.  With 89 percent of the vote counted in yesterday’s special
election, Turner had 54 percent and Democrat David Weprin had 46
percent, the  Associated Press  reported.  In another special election for a vacant House seat in
Nevada, Republican Mark Amodei defeated Democrat Kate Marshall.
Amodei had been favored to hold the seat that fellow Republican
Dean Heller vacated this year when he was appointed to the
Senate to replace  John Ensign , who resigned in the midst of an
ethics inquiry into an extramarital affair.  “I think it’s a big red flag,” Stu Rothenberg, editor of
the Washington-based Rothenberg Political Report, said of the
 New York  election results. He called Turner’s victory “a
warning sign that voters who are dissatisfied with the direction
of the country may well be more likely to take it out on the
president and his party than on congressional Republicans.”  Weiner, a Democrat, vacated the New York seat in June
following revelations that the married congressman had sent lewd
photos of himself and messages to women over the Internet.  The House now has 242 Republicans and 192 Democrats with
one vacancy.  ‘Frustrated and Afraid’  “Families are frustrated and afraid, and it’s time that
Washington stops spending money that it doesn’t have and starts
getting people back to work,” House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, said in a statement today. “Bob
Turner will be a partner in our efforts to do that.”  Democrats played down the election results.  The vote was “not reflective of what will happen in
November 2012 when Democratic challengers run against Republican
incumbents who voted to end Medicare and cut Social Security
while protecting tax loopholes for big corporations and the
ultra-wealthy,” U.S. Representative Steve Israel of New York,
chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee,
said in a statement today.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters traveling
with Obama that “special elections are often unique and their
outcomes do not tell you about the future of regularly scheduled
elections.” The president Obama spoke in  North Carolina  today
to promote his jobs plan.  ‘Not a Bellwether’  New York Senator  Charles Schumer  said the district, which
includes parts of Queens and  Brooklyn , is more conservative than
others in the city. “It’s not a bellwether,” Democrat Schumer
said on a conference call today with reporters.  Turner, 70, capitalized on dissatisfaction over Obama’s
handling of the economy and the administration’s perceived
unfriendliness toward  Israel . He was endorsed by former New York
City Mayor Edward Koch and state Assemblyman Dov Hikind, both
Democrats, over Weprin, an Orthodox Jew.  Weprin, 55, had counted on the Queens Democratic
organization to pull out a win. The party put 1,000 volunteers
on the ground in order to get people to the polls for Weprin, a
state assemblyman. Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and former President
 Bill Clinton  recorded phone messages on his behalf.  “There’s a lot of frustration in this district,” said New
York City Public Advocate Bill de Blasio, who campaigned with
Weprin. “That said, it’s a special election and by definition a
very small slice of the electorate comes out to vote. Whoever
turns out their base wins.”  Israel Issue  Representative Eliot Engel, a New York Democrat, said
before the votes were counted that Obama’s Middle East policies
“shouldn’t even be an issue” because Weprin “is a very solid
vote for Israel.” Still, Engel said, the campaign may be “a
wake-up call” for Obama that Jewish voters are unhappy with
some of his policies, including his public suggestion that
Israeli borders prior to the 1967 Six-Day War should be the
basis of a Middle East peace agreement.  The DCCC spent $514,247 on ads to try to hold the seat,
 Federal Election Commission  reports show. The House Majority
PAC, set up to raise and spend unlimited amounts of money in
support of Democratic congressional candidates, reported
spending $162,656 on ads and direct mail on behalf of Weprin.  Corporate Tax Breaks  An ad financed by the DCCC depicted Turner, a retired
television industry executive, as favoring corporate tax breaks
over the needs of Social Security and Medicare beneficiaries.  Democrats accounted for 57 percent of the district’s
registered voters as of April, according to the New York State
Board of Elections, and Weiner won his seventh term in November
with about 59 percent of the vote. Obama carried the district
with 55 percent in 2008.  The Republican victory may be short-lived. The district,
previously represented by Schumer and Geraldine Ferraro, the
1984 Democratic vice presidential nominee, may be one of New
York’s two House seats redistricted out of existence because of
the 2010 census. New York’s House delegation is shrinking in
next year’s election to 27 seats from 29.  For now, Turner’s victory gives Republicans bragging rights
after the party suffered an upset in a western New York House
race in May. In that special election, Democrat Kathy Hochul won
in the typically Republican district with a campaign focused on
protecting the existing Medicare program.  That seat opened up after Republican Christopher Lee
resigned following  reports  that the married lawmaker had sent a
bare-chested photo of himself to a woman he met online.  Nevada  Vote  In the Nevada race, Amodei was buoyed by spending from the
 National Republican Congressional Committee , which pumped
$597,818 into the race, and the American Crossroads group that
Republican strategist  Karl Rove  helped set up, which spent
$261,885.  With 100 percent of the vote counted, Amodei had 58 percent
to 36 percent for Marshall, according to the AP. Amodei is a
former state  Republican Party  chairman; Marshall serves as the
state treasurer. The district covers almost the entire state
outside the Las Vegas area.  “Nevadans voted to send a strong Republican to Congress
who will fight for more jobs and less government,” said
Representative Pete Sessions of  Texas , chairman of the National
Republican Congressional Committee. “Mark ran a hard-fought
campaign based on his commitment to cut deficit spending, taxes
and regulations to free Nevada small businesses to grow and hire
more workers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 