-- 
Resource Companies Ads Pushing Stocks Violate Law, Canadian Regulators Say

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-09-13T21:43:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/resource-companies-tv-ads-violate-law-canadian-regulators-say.html
Some Canadian natural-resource
companies’ advertisements may be illegal because they promote
their stocks rather than products or services, six of Canada’s
provincial and territorial securities administrators  said today .  Regulators “will take appropriate regulatory action” if
companies continue to air such television commercials, according
to a joint notice from agencies from  Alberta , Ontario,  Quebec ,
Nova Scotia,  New Brunswick  and the  Northwest Territories .  “To give an appropriate picture of the investment, we
don’t think it’s done justice by these 15- or 30-second clips,
which have a few pieces of positive information and then often
go right to the company’s stock ticker,” Tom Graham, director
of corporate finance at the Alberta Securities Commission, said
in a telephone interview. “There’s not much you can take out of
that other than the purpose of promotion.”  Exploration businesses regularly advertise on Canadian
television, often on  BCE Inc. (BCE) ’s Business News Network or CBC
News Network, part of publicly subsidized CBC/Radio-Canada. The
ads often promote the companies’ businesses or prospects. Energy
and materials companies make up 49 percent of Canadian stocks by
market value, according to Bloomberg data.  Some of the commercials may not comply with laws
restricting advertising during prospectus distributions or
requiring that mining disclosures be approved by an engineer,
the notice says.  Incomplete Picture  When issuers promote their shares to investors, they are
supposed to give a complete picture of the company, including
its risks, Graham said from Calgary. That can’t be done in a
television ad, he said.  “Sending a balanced message in that time, I’m a bit
skeptical,” he said.  Largo Resources Ltd. (LGO) , a metals explorer that advertises on
BNN, has seen the notice and is confident its commercials are
legal, Darcie Ladd, its director of business development, said
in a telephone interview from  Vancouver .  “Our compliance department is aware, and they always
review all of our materials prior to us submitting them, so
we’re not really concerned,” she said.  The notice also applies to other forms of advertising and
to companies in other industries.  Regulators could order companies to stop advertisements
that violate  securities laws , Graham said. He declined to say
whether issuers could face fines as well.  The Alberta Securities Commission has already convinced
some issuers to withdraw their advertising in the last couple of
months through informal communication, Graham said. He said he
did not know how many companies the commission contacted.  CBC is still evaluating the notice, Jeff Keay, a spokesman
for the organization, said by e-mail. Jacqueline Michelis, a
spokeswoman at BCE, said by e-mail that the company will respond
later. Greg McDonald, a spokesman for the Prospectors &
Developers Association of  Canada , said his organization declined
to comment on the notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  