-- 
Richard Hamilton, Father of British Pop Art, Dies at Age 89

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-09-13T16:41:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/richard-hamilton-father-of-british-pop-art-beatles-designer-dies-at-89.html
Richard Hamilton, an artist known
as the father of British  Pop Art , died early this morning at age
89. The cause of death was not given.  Hamilton had worked until a few days before his death on a
retrospective of his work scheduled to travel to  Los Angeles ,
Philadelphia, London and  Madrid  in 2013-14, the Gagosian Gallery
said in a statement e-mailed by publicists Bolton & Quinn.  A painter and printmaker born in London in 1922, Hamilton
made waves with a prescient 1956 collage (“Just What Is It That
Makes Today’s Homes So Different, So Appealing?”) that pictured
a couple posing in an interior stuffed with products, logos, and
slogans. The male figure, who looked like a body builder,
carried a large lollipop labeled ‘POP.’  While his work until the 1980s was media-focused and in a
Pop Art vein -- he famously portrayed Bing Crosby using a film
still in “I’m dreaming of a white Christmas” (1967) -- he
became much more politically engaged after that, taking up the
Northern Irish cause.  Like Pop Artists who came after him, Hamilton worked with
found images that often captured key moments in history. A key
example was the drug-related arrest in 1967 of the Rolling
Stones singer  Mick Jagger  and of Hamilton’s then  art dealer ,
Robert Fraser. Hamilton produced many takes on the press snap of
the handcuffed men (“Swingeing London,” 1967-1973).  Several of those Jagger views filled a room of his 2010
exhibition at London’s  Serpentine Gallery . The exhibition was
otherwise a denunciation of the two Iraq wars (1991 and 2003)
and of the conflict in  Northern Ireland .  Cowboy Blair  The highlight was “Shock and Awe,” a large photomontage
of former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair  standing in the desert
with a gun on each hip, wearing a cowboy shirt and a look of
mild menace.  “I was really disgusted with his performance after
starting the Iraq war, and being involved in starting it, and
his hypocrisy,” the artist said in a March 2010 interview,
looking frail and unassuming as he sat before the larger-than-
life Blair.  Still seething, seven years on, at Blair’s alliance with
then U.S. President  George W. Bush , Hamilton remembered the two
men’s visits.  “When he went to America and was staying with Bush, he
stayed at the ranch, and they came out for a walk for the
cameras with their thumbs in their pockets,” remembered
Hamilton. Blair “was so pleased with himself.”  “Thinking of his role in relation to the Iraq war, I began
to see this gunslinger as something like a cowboy,” he says.  Arizona Guns  The image was made using a photograph of Blair’s head. The
rest of the figure was Hamilton’s assistant, who was “about
half the size of Tony Blair, but with a computer you can stretch
things.” The assistant wore a cowboy shirt someone had given
Hamilton, as well as guns and holsters bought from an Arizona
mail-order company.  Hamilton was just as exercised about Iraq back in 1991,
when the U.S. led a military campaign to chase it out of  Kuwait .
Hamilton’s “War Games” (1991-2010) showed a TV screen with
tanks and flags all over it, blood dripping from underneath.  Equally hard-hitting in the Serpentine show were Hamilton’s
Northern Ireland pictures -- many depicting the prison near
 Belfast  where, in the 1980s, republican inmates soiled their
cells and staged hunger strikes.  The gallery entrance was taken up by an Ulster hunger
striker’s hospital chamber (“Treatment Room,” 1983-4). It
contained a corner sink, a bed with a rumpled blanket, and a TV
set overhead that beamed muted footage of then U.K. Prime
Minister  Margaret Thatcher .  White Album  During the interview, Hamilton recalled the invitation he
received from  Paul McCartney  to design the Beatles’ 1968 double
album. He gave it a simple white cover -- hence its common title
of The White Album -- and slipped a print inside: a folded
collage of Beatles pictures.  McCartney “came to my studio every afternoon from about
2,” Hamilton said. “We had tea, and then he would go off to
Abbey Road to do the mixing, and he worked through the night.”  The pair began an odd correspondence. Each would send the
other a postcard with the correct name, but an unlikely address.
“It was a test to see whether it would find its way!” said
Hamilton with a hearty laugh. “I don’t know if any didn’t.”  “I suppose that collection of postcards is now quite
unique,” he said. “One day it’ll be in the Tate Gallery, no
doubt!”  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 