-- 
RIM, CAIR, Greenpeace, Discovery: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-13T21:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/rim-cair-haig-greenpeace-discovery-intellectual-property.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone and Playbook tablet computer, agreed
to pay patent royalties to  Dolby Laboratories Inc. (DLB)  to end a
legal battle over technology to improve audio quality.  RIM will pay “standard terms,” San Francisco-based Dolby
said in a statement yesterday, settling patent-infringement
lawsuits filed in June in the U.S. and  Germany . While financial
terms weren’t disclosed, Dolby told analysts on a conference
call last month it was counting on $15 million in back royalties
from RIM in the fiscal fourth quarter, as well as interest
income.  Dolby, inventor of surround sound, said the patents cover
ways to compress digital audio files using less storage while
maintaining quality. The technology has been incorporated into
an industry standard for audio coding, and Dolby said it sued
when Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM refused to sign a licensing
agreement even though it used the standard in the BlackBerry
Storm, Tour, Pearl, Curve and Torch models, and the Playbook.  “We are pleased to welcome RIM into Dolby’s family of
mobile-technology licensees,” Dolby General Counsel Andy Sherman said in the statement. “We believe in and will continue
to protect the value of our intellectual property.”  Dolby and RIM filed to dismiss the case in federal court in
San Francisco yesterday.  Dolby reported $228 million in revenue in its fourth
quarter ended in September 2010, with about 78 percent of the
total coming from licensing revenue.  RIM signed a license agreement with Via Licensing Corp., a
company designated to handle Dolby patents, shortly after the
lawsuits were filed, Dolby said. The agreement covers the
implementation of the industry standard, the company said.  According to the lawsuit filed in federal court in San
Francisco, Dolby invented technology known as “spectral band
replication” and “parametric stereo” that “represented a
quantum leap forward in compression efficiency, and which were
perfected only after years of research and development.”  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  HTC Corp. (2498) ,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and
Samsung Electronics Co. are among smartphone makers that license
the Dolby technology.  Via and RIM had been in talks since 2007, according to
court filings by Dolby and RIM. Dolby had argued that by
complying with the industry standard known as High-Efficiency
Advanced Audio Coding, RIM was using the patented inventions and
should compensate Dolby.  The case is Dolby International AB v.  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIM) , 11cv2931, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Virginia  Tech, Brokerage Settle ‘Hokie’ Trademark Case  Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University , the
scene of a shooting massacre in 2007, settled a trademark
dispute with a Blacksburg, Virginia-based real estate broker,
according to court documents.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in filings in
federal court in Roanoke, Virginia. Each side must pay its own
litigation costs, according to the settlement document.  The Roanoke Times  reported  that  Hokie Real Estate Inc.  can
keep its name, and its owner gets free tickets to Hokies
football games, a free parking slot for the games, four free
half-page ads in the Virginia Tech magazine and platinum-level
membership in the Hokie Club.  The university’s legal fees in the case topped $125,000,
the newspaper reported.  The school sued the real-estate brokerage for using the
word “hokie” in its name. According to the complaint filed in
October, “hokie” is “a made-up word, a coined term with no
meaning.”  The school said the term arose from a campus contest for a
new spirit yell in the 1890s. The winning entry contained the
word “hoki” -- which later had an “e” added to the end --and
is today defined as a supporter of Virginia Tech.  After the 2007 shooting, in which 31 students and faculty
members died, the phrase “we are all hokies” was used  to show
solidarity with the university .  The school uses the term in a variety of ways and says it
is “very careful and interested to monitor the use of the
nickname to maintain its reputation and the goodwill of the
university as a whole.” It has registered the term as a
trademark.  Hokie Real Estate’s use of the name got in the way of the
school’s plan to develop a program with an architect to develop
house plans that are “specially drawn up for and targeted to
Virginia Tech alumni, fans and friends,” the school said.  The real-estate company responded to the suit by claiming
the school obtained the disputed mark fraudulently. It asked the
court to order the patent office to cancel the school’s
“Hokie” registration, and the destruction of all items marked
with the term.  The real-estate company’s website bears a disclaimer that
it isn’t affiliated with Virginia Tech.  The case is Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University v. Hokie Real Estate Inc., 7:10-cv-00466-GEC, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Virginia (Roanoke).  CAIR Critic Answers Complaint, Says Marks Were Abandoned  Deborah K. Schlussel, who acknowledged in court papers that
she registered an acronym associated with the Council on
American-Islamic Relations “to drive the Muslims crazy,” filed
a response to the organization’s trademark-infringement lawsuit.  The council filed the infringement suit against Southfield,
Michigan-based Schlussel in federal court in Detroit in January.
The group objected to her use of its trademarks, and said her
actions “are calculated to harass and impede” the work the
council does on behalf of Muslims.  CAIR claimed in its pleadings that Schlussel began
operating a website containing its marks and sent letters to
government agencies claiming to be the real “CAIR- Michigan ”
and proclaiming the council as “imposters.” The council said
Schlussel’s alleged infringement “is no close call.”  In her Aug. 23 response, Schlussel argued that CAIR had
abandoned its marks by “nakedly licensing” them to independent
third parties. As a result, the use of the CAIR trademarks
“goes unpoliced,” she said.  She also claimed that by failing to pay annual filing fees
to Michigan, CAIR’s trademarks are “abandoned, lapsed or
void.”  Schlussel said in her court filing that the Southfield-
based group is “an unindicted co-conspirator to a terrorist
organization, and has a mission to promote a radical agenda
through litigation like this designed to force critics to cease
writing about it.”  The council characterized itself in court filings as a
nonprofit organization with a mission “to enhance the
understanding of Islam, encourage dialogue, protect civil
liberties, empower American Muslims” and “promote justice and
mutual understanding through education, mediation, media and the
law.”  A status conference in the case is set for Sept. 27.  The case is Council on American-Islamic Relations Action
Network Inc., v. Deborah K. Schlussel, 2:11-cv-10061-AC-MKM,
U.s. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan.  Lacoste Seeks Dissociation From Anders Breivik,  BBC  Reports  Maus Freres Holding AG’s Lacoste unit wrote to Norwegian
police to ask that Anders Behring Breivik stop wearing its
clothing in his court appearances, the BBC  reported .  Breivik has acknowledged killing 77 Norwegians in July
through shooting and a bomb attack, according to the BBC.  Norwegian police acknowledged being contacted by  Lacoste 
and declined to disclose what was discussed, the BBC said.  The move by Lacoste follows an earlier request by
 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  that a contestant on the “Jersey
Shore” reality show quit wearing its apparel, the BBC reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Haig Productions Lawyer Sanctioned in Downloading Case  A lawyer representing Mick Haig Productions E.K., a German
maker of adult films, was hit with $10,000 in sanctions for his
actions in a copyright-infringement case.  The film company sued 670 unidentified defendants in
federal court in Dallas Sept. 21, accusing them of infringing
the copyrights of “Der Gute Onkel” through unauthorized file
sharing. Counsel for Haig asked the court for permission to
issue subpoenas to various Internet service providers so he
could learn the alleged infringers’ identities.  The court declined to rule on his request and instead
directed the ISPs to preserve existing activity records for each
IP address. It appointed three attorneys to represent the
unidentified defendants in response to the Haig request for
subpoenas.  The three appointed attorneys, from  San Francisco ’s
 Electronic Frontier Foundation  advocacy group and from
Washington-based  Public Citizen Litigation Group , filed a
response calling into question the court’s jurisdiction over
many of the defendants and the propriety of combining hundreds
of defendants into one suit.  According to court papers, before the court could make a
ruling, Haig dismissed the case, saying it had little chance of
winning because of the opposition by the three lawyers. The film
company said the lawyers were “renowned for defending Internet
piracy.”  Counsel for Haig issued subpoenas to the ISPs without
permission, a gross abuse of subpoena power, the court said in
its Sept. 9 ruling. Because the lawyer obtained information that
he had no right to receive, he turned a “bona fide state-
sanctioned inspection into private snooping,” according to the
court.  Accusing the lawyer of “staggering chutzpah,” the court
said it “rarely has encountered a more textbook example of
conduct deserving of sanctions.”  In addition to the $10,000 sanction, counsel for the film
company was ordered to pay attorney fees and expenses for the
three appointed lawyers, and must disclose to the court whether
he received any funds, personally or on behalf of the filmmaker,
from anyone connected to the case. He also is required to file a
copy of the court order “in every currently-ongoing proceeding
in which he represents a party, pending in any court in the
 United States .”  Evan F. Stone  of Dallas, who represents Haig, said in an e-
mail he “absolutely” would appeal the sanction order. “The
copyright holder’s right to conduct discovery to identify
wrongdoers should not be in question,” he said.  The case is Mick Haig Products e.K. v. Does 1-670, 3:10-cv-
01900-N, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  For more copyright news, click here  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Greenpeace’s Trade Secrets Case Against Dow, Sasol Dismissed  Greenpeace , the international environmental group, failed
in its attempt to sue  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and  Sasol Ltd. (SSL)  for trade
secret theft.  The suit was dismissed Sept. 9 by U.S. District Judge
Rosemary M. Collyer.  The environmental group sued Dow and Sasol in federal court
in the District of Columbia in November, claiming the two
chemical companies hired people to infiltrate the group and get
into its files to better halt some of Greenpeace’s actions with
respect to the two companies.  Sasol had been targeted over its vinyl chloride production
in Lake Charles, Louisiana. Dow’s involvement with genetically
modified organisms and manufacturing processes that create the
chemical dioxin were also the subject of Greenpeace’s
environmental actions, according to court papers.  Greenpeace claimed its intellectual property was diminished
in value and the defendants interfered with its environmental
campaigns. In addition to the trade-secrets claims, the
environmental group also accused the chemical companies of
racketeering and wire fraud.  Collyer agreed with the defendants, who argued that
Greenpeace failed to state claims that could be pursued under
federal law. She said Greenpeace’s injuries were “at too remote
a distance” for the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act to be involved.  She also found that Greenpeace failed to argue that the
defendants engaged in the interstate transportation of stolen
goods worth at least $5,000.  Greenpeace had claimed that because the two chemical
companies paid more than $100,000 to a private security firm
that allegedly gathered the data, its stolen information had a
high enough value for the case to go ahead. Paying for those
services didn’t support any inference about the value of the
stolen information, the judge said.  The case is Greenpeace Inc., v. Down Chemical Co., 1:10-cv-
02037-RMC, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington
D.C.).  Discovery Must Reveal Reality-Show Contracts for Deputies  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  lost a bid to keep contracts
for participants in one of its reality-television programs a
confidential trade secret, the Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel
 reported .  A judge in  Florida ’s Broward County said defense attorneys
representing 10 people whose arrests were filmed for Discovery’s
“ Police Women of Broward County ” can see contracts for two of
the four Broward County Sheriff deputies who appear on the
program, according to the Sun-Sentinel.  Discovery, based in Silver Springs, Maryland, claims the
contracts are a trade secret and shouldn’t be seen. The company
has 30 days to appeal the judge’s decision, according to the
newspaper.  Defense lawyers are seeking the contracts in efforts to
determine if show business considerations are influencing the
deputies’ law-enforcement work, according to the Sun-Sentinel.  Italian Designer Says Industrial Espionage Behind Theft  Italian fashion designer  Rocco Barocco ’s collection was
stolen, Agenzia Giornalistica Italia  reported .  The designer claims the theft was the result of industrial
espionage, according to AGI.  Barocco said the theft was planned carefully and the
thieves knew exactly where to find what they were seeking, AGI
reported.  Milan’s Fashion Week , during which the collection was to
have been shown, opens Sept. 21, the news service reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 