-- 
Rinehart Family Dispute Remains Secret as Judge Seals Daughter’s Lawsuit

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-09-13T08:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/rinehart-family-dispute-remains-secret-as-australian-judge-seals-lawsuit.html
Gina Rinehart,  Australia ’s richest
person, is able to keep a family dispute private as a judge
barred the publication of the details of a lawsuit filed against
Rinehart by her daughter Hope Rinehart Welker.  “This is and always was a family dispute,” New South
Wales Supreme Court Judge Paul Brereton wrote, giving his
reasons for imposing a publication ban. “The outcome is of
practical interest only to the parties and their privies. No
questions of public significance or importance appear to
arise.”  The dispute involves an agreement the family reached in
2007 over the governance of a family trust, which has invested
in Rinehart’s companies, Brereton said in the written reasons,
which were released in Sydney today. Rinehart’s lawyer,  Alan
Sullivan , had earlier sought a ban on the publication of the
written reasons.  Rinehart became the first woman to top Forbes Asia’s list
of Australia’s richest people this year as surging  iron ore 
prices and exports more than quadrupled her fortune to $9
billion from a year earlier.  She inherited iron ore mining assets from her father Lang Hancock and is developing two coal projects worth an estimated
$15 billion to meet rising demand from China and  India ,
according to Forbes.  Not the First Time  “This is not the first occasion of discord in the family,
which has immense wealth, no small part of which resides in the
trust,” Brereton wrote.  John Hancock , Rinehart’s son, had changed his surname eight
years ago amid a family split over his late grandfather’s
empire, the Australian newspaper  reported.   Rinehart controls Hancock Prospecting Ltd. and last year
bought a 10 percent stake in  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN) ,
Australia’s third-biggest television broadcaster. She also
gained a seat on the board of Ten.  Under the 2007 agreement, all the family members conceded
that any future disputes would be resolved in private mediation
and private arbitration, if necessary, Brereton observed.  The purpose of the agreement was to avoid the undermining
of confidence of those dealing with the trust in sensitive
commercial arrangements, Brereton wrote.  The lawsuit may have been filed in error, because Rinehart
took a step “which accorded what the plaintiffs sought to
achieve,” the judge wrote.  Brereton barred the publication of what Rinehart Welker
seeks from her mother, arguments made in court over the
publication ban and any evidence or court documents relating to
the lawsuit.  The judge agreed to hear on Sept. 21, Rinehart’s request to
suspend the lawsuit and to transfer the proceedings from Sydney
to  Western Australia .  The case is Hope Rinehart Welker v Gina Rinehart.
2011/285907. New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Victoria Batchelor at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net . 