-- 
Rupiah Declines to Five-Month Low as Greek Default Swaps Surge

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-09-13T08:48:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/rupiah-declines-to-five-month-low-as-greek-default-swaps-surge.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah fell to the
lowest level in almost five months as concern Greece may default
on its sovereign debt reduced demand for emerging-market assets.
Benchmark government bonds were unchanged.  The currency added to this month’s decline as exchange data
showed overseas investors sold $31 million more Indonesian
shares than they bought yesterday, cutting total purchases this
year to $1.7 billion. The cost of insuring Greek bonds from
default rose to a record yesterday as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  failed to reassure international investors his
country can survive the euro-region crisis.  “The weakness in the rupiah is because of  risk aversion 
globally that is driven by the probability of a default by
 Greece ,” said Mika Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank
Commonwealth in Jakarta. “We have seen a sell-off in Indonesian
stocks and bonds. The currency’s declines are short term as
Indonesia’s economic fundamentals are still sound.”  The rupiah dropped 0.5 percent to 8,660 against the dollar
as of 3:15 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This was the weakest level since April 26.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Greece climbed 1,321
basis points, or 13.21 percentage points, to 4,821 yesterday in
 New York , according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. Yields on the government’s two-year debt rose above 60
percent for the first time, Bloomberg data show.  Indonesia sold 8 trillion rupiah ($923 million) of bonds
and bills in an auction today, which was more than the target of
7 trillion rupiah, the Ministry of Finance’s Debt Management
Office said in a statement. Total bids amounted to 19.15
trillion rupiah, it said.  The yield on Indonesia’s 8.25 percent bonds due July 2021
was unchanged at 6.69 percent today, according to midday prices
from the Inter-Dealer Market Association. It climbed 27 basis
points yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  