-- 
Rusal Says ‘Senseless’ to Invest in Guinea After Mining Law

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-09-13T13:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/rusal-says-senseless-to-invest-in-guinea-projects-current-accords-safe.html
United Co. Rusal, the largest maker
of aluminum, said changes to  Guinea ’s mining laws mean investors
will find it “senseless” to agree on new projects for the
country, the biggest exporter of the metal’s main ingredient.  Rusal’s current concession to develop the Dian Dian bauxite
deposit and Friguia complex, and its production at the Cie des
Bauxites de Kindia mine, are guaranteed under the conditions of
agreements the government signed, it said.  Rio Tinto Group and AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. are among mining
companies also working in Guinea. Lawmakers on Sept. 9 adopted a
mining code that will hand the West African nation 35 percent of
local commodity companies and raise  customs duties  to 8 percent
from 5.6 percent, Mines Minister Lamine Fofana said at the time.  The “mining code adopted in Guinea increases considerably
tax pressure on mining companies, making it senseless to invest
in development and new projects,” Moscow-based Rusal said by e-
mail. “Any investor of good sense will look for investment
opportunities somewhere outside Guinea.”  Rusal’s business in the country is operating normally, it
said. “All our concessions were concluded long time ago and
contain obligations of the Republic of Guinea,” it said.  Guinea expects a deal over disputes with Rusal by the end
of the year, Reuters said today. The country will review mining
companies’ contracts to remove “unconscionable provisions”
granted by prior administrations, it said, citing Fofana.  Government Claim  Guinea may file a claim over terms of the privatization of
units held by Rusal, the aluminum company said on Aug. 29 in its
 interim financial report . In July, a Rusal unit made a claim
against Guinea with the International Arbitration Court in Paris
to “preserve its right to arbitrate” outside of local courts.  Rio’s agreement with Guinea in April gives the nation the
right to as much as 35 percent of the Simandou iron-ore venture,
which the company has said will cost more than $10 billion. Tony Shaffer, a spokesman for Rio, declined to comment further.  AngloGold said last week it has a “stability agreement”
with the country, which holds 15 percent of Societe Aurifere de
Guinee, the company that owns the Siguiri mine. AngloGold owns
the balance. “We have not been approached by the government to
increase their stake,” the company said last week in an e-
mailed statement. It reaffirmed the comments yesterday.  “These developments do not come as a surprise,”  Bellzone
Mining Plc (BZM) , also with projects in the country, said by e-mail.
“Bellzone is committed and ready to work with Guinea.” Bobby Morse, a spokesman for  Avocet Mining Plc (AVM) , declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 