-- 
Russians More Positive to U.S. After Obama’s ‘Reset,’ Poll Shows

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-09-13T12:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/russians-more-positive-to-u-s-after-obama-s-reset-poll-shows.html
Russians are more positive toward
the U.S. almost three years after  Barack Obama  was elected
president, a poll published today shows.  Fifty-five percent of respondents said they feel positive
or very positive about the U.S., compared with 29 percent with
negative views of the country, according to a survey e-mailed
today by state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of Public
Opinion, or VTsIOM.  The share of Russians who favor the U.S. jumped by 33
percentage points since a September 2008 poll conducted a month
after  Russia  routed the U.S.-trained Georgian army in a five-day
war. The countries have been working to boost cooperation since
Obama’s administration pledged in 2009 to “reset” U.S.-Russian
relations, which sank to a post-Cold War low during the
presidency of  George W. Bush .  The two nations have since signed an accord to reduce their
nuclear-arms stockpiles, while Russia agreed to offer transit
for U.S. cargoes to Afghanistan and supported its drive for
sanctions against Iran. Trade between the U.S. and Russia surged
35 percent last year to $31.7 billion, according to the State
Department.  Even so, 24 percent of Russians describe relations between
the countries as lukewarm, from 17 percent last year. Ten
percent view them as tense, double the level last year.  Obama’s policies have been put to the test as Russia’s
leaders express growing frustration over delays to the country’s
accession to the World Trade Organization and U.S. plans to
deploy elements of its missile-defense shield in  Europe . Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  has warned that disregard for Russian
interests may lead to a new arms race.  The survey of 1,600 people was conducted Sept. 3-4 and has
a margin error of 3.4 percentage points.  A VTsIOM poll in 1991, the year the  Soviet Union  collapsed,
showed that 83 percent of respondents regarded the U.S.
favorably and four percent had negative views.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 