-- 
Hungary’s Foreign-Loan Plan May Damage Economic Growth, Budget, S&P Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-13T14:25:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/s-p-concerned-by-hungary-as-foreign-loan-plan-may-hurt-growth-finances.html
Hungary’s plan to allow borrowers
to repay foreign-currency mortgages below market rates may hurt
lending, growth and public finances, according to Standard and
Poor’s, which rates the country’s debt a step above junk.  “We have to take a view on the predictability of
government policies to support sustainable growth performance,
which is essential to anchor public finances,”  Frank Gill , a
London-based senior director at S&P, said in a telephone
interview today. “We remain concerned.”  Hungary plans to allow early repayment on mortgages
denominated in Swiss francs or euros at more than 20 percent
below market rates, forcing lenders to swallow the losses, Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  said yesterday. The European Union said
the proposal may violate the bloc’s rules.  Hungary, where two-thirds of  mortgage loans  are denominated
in Swiss francs, is struggling to reduce its exposure to
currency swings and help borrowers after the Alpine country’s
currency rose to a record, triggering defaults and pushing up
monthly payments. S&P rates Hungary ‘BBB-’, its lowest
investment grade, with a negative outlook, which means it’s more
likely to cut the rating than to raise it or keep it unchanged.  Stocks, Forint, CDS  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, dropped 1.5
percent to 3,685 forint at 3:10 p.m. in Budapest. It fell 12
percent since the plan was unveiled on Sept. 9.  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , which also has a unit in Hungary, rose 0.8
percent to 23.65 euros in Vienna after falling 15 percent in the
last two trading days.  The forint weakened for a second day against the euro and
for a fourth day against the Swiss franc, trading at 283.44
forint and 235.41 forint respectively. The cost of ensuring
against default on Hungarian  government bonds  for five years
using credit-default swaps was 459 basis points today, little
changed from yesterday, when it reached the highest in almost 2
1/2 years, according to data provider CMA.  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks,
including Raiffeisen,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
 Bayerische Landesbank ,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP) 
The government’s plan is “unacceptable” to lenders, the
Hungarian Banking Association said yesterday.  The government doesn’t expect “masses” to take advantage
of the Cabinet’s mortgage proposal as legislators won’t force
banks to issue forint loans, MTI state news service reported
today, citing Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy .  ‘Significant Threat’  The plan to fix exchange rates poses a “significant
threat” to the financial industry and the wider economy, the
Banking Association said. The lenders are “ready” to turn to
Hungary’s Constitutional Court and the EU to fight the plan, it
said.  “Any measures that would impose a  capital loss  on foreign
banks invested in Hungary could accelerate the shrinkage of
their local balance sheets, tightening credit conditions, and
weighing on domestic demand, overall investment activity and
growth,” S&P’s Gill said. “That will negatively impact public
finances.”  Hungary ’s economy may grow 1.4 percent in 2012, compared
with the government’s forecast of 2 percent, Gill said.  The EU will examine whether the plan violates rules on
cross-border capital movements and state subsidies, European
Commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters in Brussels
today.  ‘Serious Negative Impact’  “It would have a serious negative impact on the Hungarian
banking system,” Altafaj said. It may lead banks to tighten
credit and damage the investment climate, with “negative
repercussions for the Hungarian economy.”  The plan “is in contravention of all expectations an
investor may have in a functioning market economy and
democracy,” Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said in a
letter to Matolcsy yesterday.  Orban roiled markets last year by effectively nationalizing
private pension funds, levying extraordinary taxes on banks,
energy, retail and telecommunication companies to plug budget
holes, curbing the power of the Constitutional Court,
eliminating an independent Fiscal Council and creating a media
watchdog staffed by his allies.  Latest Attempt  The franc-fixing plan for mortgage repayments is the latest
attempt to help borrowers, many of whom took out loans at about
150 forint per franc and are struggling with their payments as
investors sought to place funds in Swiss francs to avoid riskier
euros and dollars.  The government agreed with lenders in May to offer
household borrowers who aren’t late with repayments the chance
to fix a franc exchange rate of 180 forint for their
installments until the end of 2014. The difference between the
fixed-rate payments and those that would have resulted under
actual exchange rates will be recorded in separate forint
accounts to be settled from 2015.  That proposal only offered a “temporary solution” and the
people’s demand for a “permanent solution beyond a temporary
one is justified,” Orban said Sept. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  