-- 
Sabre Wins Dismissal of Two Antitrust Claims in US Airways Lawsuit

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-13T19:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/sabre-wins-dismissal-of-two-antitrust-claims-in-us-airways-lawsuit.html
Sabre Holdings Corp., which was
sued by  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  over its system for distributing
data to travel agents, won dismissal of two of the antitrust
claims against it.  In a one-page, handwritten ruling filed yesterday, U.S.
District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum in  Manhattan  threw out
US Airways’ claims that Sabre conspired and monopolized what it
called the “Sabre travel agent market.”  Cedarbaum ordered US Airways to file an amended complaint
to provide the sources of information and bases for its
allegations in the two remaining counts.  US Airways’ antitrust suit against Sabre, the largest so-
called global distribution system based in the U.S., followed a
complaint filed by  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines in Texas state
court in January as the carriers seek more control over
dissemination and sale of their products.  In the remaining claims, US Airways said Sabre restrained
competition through a series of agreements with airlines and
travel agents and that it conspired with other operators of
global distribution systems, which provide travel agents with
fare and schedule information, to keep out competitors.  US Airways spokesman Todd Lehmacher declined to comment on
the ruling except to say the case is going forward. In papers it
filed in August seeking dismissal of the complaint, Sabre, based
in Southlake,  Texas , said the suit is “US Airways’ attempt to
renegotiate the three-year contract” with the airline.  The case is U.S. Airways Inc. v. Sabre Holdings Corp., 11-
cv-02725, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 