-- 
Sandvik Materials Technology Unit to Cut Costs, Reduce Staff

-- B y   T o b y   A l d e r
-- 
2011-09-13T07:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/sandvik-materials-technology-unit-to-cut-costs-reduce-staff.html
Sandvik AB (SAND) , the world’s biggest
maker of metal-cutting tools, said it will cut costs and reduce
staff at its Materials Technology unit in an effort to increase
productivity and improve efficiency.  Sandvik plans to slash expenses by 500 million kronor
($74.7 million) over a two-year period, the Sandviken, Sweden-
based company said in a statement today. The company sees one-
off costs of the program at as much as 900 million kronor, or
about 10 percent of full-year pretax profit.  Sandvik was trading 4.5 percent higher at 9:20 a.m. in
Stockholm trading, valuing the company at 97.3 billion kronor.  Today’s statement follows comments made earlier this month,
in which the company said it would reorganize into five business
areas from three, adding that both its construction and
materials divisions, whose products include furnace and heating
materials, will be sold unless their profitability improves
“significantly” over the next two to three years.  The materials-technology business “has become too
unfocused,” Chief Executive Officer Olof Faxander said at a
news conference on Sept. 2 in Sandviken. “We should focus more
on the core business” including selling steam tubes to the
nuclear industry, a profitable business that Sandvik has
expanded.  The materials unit had sales of 15.7 billion kronor last
year and an operating margin of 8 percent, the same level of
profitability as the construction subsidiary, which had 8
billion kronor in sales, according to figures provided by
Sandvik. Combined, the two units employ about 10,600 people.  Sandvik cut 9,000 jobs during the financial crisis that
started in 2008 and lost 2.65 billion kronor in 2009. It has
been profitable the last six quarters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toby Alder in Stockholm at 
 talder@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kim McLaughlin at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net  