-- 
Serena Williams Is Fined $2,000 After U.S. Open Outburst, Won’t Be Banned

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/serena-williams-is-fined-2-000-after-u-s-open-outburst-won-t-be-banned.html
Serena Williams  will have a chance
to make it four U.S. Open championships next year after her
verbal abuse of an umpire in a women’s final loss to Samantha Stosur was ruled a minor offense.  She will lose $2,000 in her latest fine for on-court
behavior.  Williams, who called chair umpire Eva Asderaki “a hater
and unattractive inside” after being penalized a point for
shouting during play two days ago, didn’t violate her probation
from a 2009 offense when she berated an umpire during her
semifinal loss to  Kim Clijsters , tournament referee Brian Earley
said in a statement yesterday. Any major offense at a Grand Slam
through this year’s U.S. Open would have led to a future ban
from the tournament in New York.  The fine was tied for the third-largest at this year’s  U.S.
Open . Doubles player  Mike Bryan  of the U.S. was given a $10,000
unsportsmanlike-conduct penalty for an undisclosed off-court
episode following a first-round defeat. Philip Petzschner of
 Germany  was fined $3,500 for unsportsmanlike conduct, while
Anastasija Sevastova, Anastasia Pavyluchenkova and Ernest Gulbis
each received $2,000 fines for improper coaching.  Williams’s fine “is consistent with similar offenses at
Grand Slam events,” the U.S. Tennis Association said in the
statement. “After independently reviewing the incident which
served as the basis for the code violation, and taking into
account the level of fine imposed by the U.S. Open referee, the
Grand Slam Committee director has determined that Ms. Williams’s
conduct, while verbally abusive, does not rise to the level of a
major offense under the Grand Slam Code of Conduct.”  Men’s Final  The announcement came two hours prior to the men’s final at
the National Tennis Center, where top seed Novak Djokovic of
 Serbia  won in four sets over defending champion  Rafael Nadal ,
the No. 2 seed from  Spain .  Down a set in the Sept. 11 match she eventually lost 6-2,
6-3 to Stosur of  Australia , Williams, a 29-year-old American,
angrily reacted to Asderaki when she was given a game-ending
one-point penalty upon shouting “Come on!” after hitting what
she thought was a clean winner.  Stosur, the No. 9 seed, managed to get her racket on the
ball, leading the umpire to issue a code violation. Williams
criticized the umpire and continued to berate her during a 90-
second changeover two games later.  Not Intentional  Williams, the U.S. Open champion in 1999, 2002 and 2008,
said she didn’t intentionally yell out during play to interfere
with Stosur and that she didn’t know the rule that cost her a
point. Marion Bartoli of  France  was similarly penalized against
American Christina McHale in the tournament, also after yelling
“Come on!” during play.  “I thought it was a clear winner,” Williams said at a
news conference. “I thought it was like the hat-drop rule,
where if you drop a hat you kind of replay the point.”  After being told of the one-point violation, Williams
scolded Asderaki immediately and throughout the side change two
games later. The comments were picked up by microphones for CBS
Corp., which televised the match, and replayed several times.  “Aren’t you the one who screwed me over last time here?”
Williams asked Asderaki. “I promise you, that’s not cool.
That’s totally not cool.”  Williams won the next two games and took a 2-1 advantage
into the side change, when she spent most of the time talking to
Asderaki, with comments such as, “Don’t even look at me.”  “If you ever see me walking down the hall, look the other
way, because you’re totally out of control,” Williams said as
she sat in her chair next to Asderaki’s. “You’re a hater and
unattractive inside.”  Don’t Remember  Williams said afterward at the news conference that she had
no recollection of the comments and no idea what she was
referring to in bringing up an earlier episode with Asderaki.
Asked again if she confused the umpire with the one who
penalized her against Clijsters, Williams said, “I don’t know.
Maybe. Probably for sure.”  Williams didn’t shake hands with the umpire or look at
Asderaki as she left the court after the 73-minute match, which
gave Stosur her first Grand Slam title.  Williams was one game from losing her 2009 match with
Clijsters when she received a foot-fault call on her second
serve at 15-30. She turned and verbally abused the lineswoman
who made the call and was given her second code violation of the
match, after smashing her racket at the end of the first set.
The second penalty cost Williams a point and the match.  Two days later, Williams apologized to the lineswoman,
Clijsters, the USTA and tennis fans for what she called “my
inappropriate outburst.”  Williams, who missed the 2010 tournament due to injury, was
fined $175,000 in November 2009 for verbal abuse of the
lineswoman. The fine, handed down by a committee comprised of
officials from all four Grand Slams, included a provision that
it would be reduced to $82,500 if Williams didn’t have any more
major offenses through 2011. If Williams had been found guilty
of a major offense in any Grand Slam, she would have been
suspended from the U.S. Open, held annually in  New York , the
committee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  