-- 
SG Biofuels to Plant Jatropha in Brazil to Compete With Kerosene

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-09-13T13:18:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/sg-biofuels-to-plant-jatropha-in-brazil-to-compete-with-kerosene.html
SG Biofuels , the San Diego-based
company backed by Airbus SAS, said it will plant 75,000 acres of
jatropha in  Brazil  to power aircraft for about $50 a barrel less
than traditional jet fuel.  Closely held SG Biofuels, also supported by the Inter-
American Development Bank, will produce unrefined jatropha oil
that will sell for $75 a barrel, President Kirk Haney said in an
interview yesterday. Refined jet fuel cost about $126 a barrel
in New York Harbor spot market on Sept. 12, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  High petroleum prices and government pressure to lower
greenhouse-gas emissions linked to climate change are prompting
airlines to experiment with plant-derived fuels. Grupo
Aeromexico SAB de CV flew the first commercial transcontinental
flight with a plant oil-kerosene blend on Aug. 2. Test flights
have shown that planes can fly on fuel made with weeds, wood
chips and algae.  Jatropha “is the most practical way of blending with  jet
fuel  today,” Haney said. The plant produces inedible oil and
grows well in low-quality soils.  The development of higher-yielding seeds is expected to
bring prices down to $38 a barrel in ten years, he said.
Manufacturing so-called bio-kerosene from jatropha oil is
already “cost-effective” with crude  oil prices  at $112 a
barrel, he said.  SG Biofuels will develop its plantations with Bioventures
Brasil in west-central Brazil, according to the statement. The
seeds will be crushed into 45 million liters (11.9 million
gallons) of oil once the plantations reach maturity in 2015 and
then processed into fuel in the state of  Sao Paulo , Haney said.  Other companies involved in SG Biofuels’ project include
Brazilian airline  Tam SA (TAMM4) , which will buy some of the fuel, and
U.K. oil company  BP Plc (BP/) , according to a company statement.  Similar-sized projects in different countries will be
announced in the coming months, Haney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  