-- 
Silvercorp Metals Falls as Block’s Muddy Waters Says It’s Shorting Stock

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-13T21:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/silvercorp-metals-falls-as-block-s-muddy-waters-says-it-s-shorting-stock.html
Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , the Chinese
silver miner accused of fraud in an anonymous letter last month,
plunged 20 percent, the most in seven years, after Carson Block’s  Muddy Waters  LLC said it’s shorting the stock.  Silvercorp shares fell C$1.58 to C$6.20 yesterday on the
Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest decline since Sept. 1, 2004.
The shares have dropped 26 percent since the  British Columbia
Securities Commission   announced  last week it’s investigating
allegations made against the company in the Aug. 29 letter as
well as the source of the accusations.  Muddy Waters in June alleged overstated holdings by Sino-
Forest Corp., another Chinese company traded in  Canada . The
research firm said in a  Twitter  posting yesterday that it’s
shorting Silvercorp, linking to a  report  by  Alfredlittle.com , a
website that posts research on companies doing business in  China .
Contributors to the Alfredlittle.com report are also shorting
the stock.  “We read the Alfred Little report upon its release, and it
supports some concerns we developed when researching
Silvercorp,” Block said in an e-mail yesterday. “I’m not able
to comment further on Silvercorp at this point.”  Lorne Waldman, a spokesman for Vancouver-based Silvercorp,
didn’t respond yesterday to e-mail and telephone requests for
comment. An e-mailed request for comment to Alfredlittle.com
brought no immediate response.  Sino-Forest Halt  Shorting a stock involves selling a borrowed security with
the expectation that it will decline in value.  Sino-Forest, a Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based
tree-farm operator in China, fell 67 percent after Muddy Waters
alleged it overstated its holdings. Trading in the company has
been suspended since Aug. 26 after the Ontario Securities
Commission said officers and directors may have engaged in acts
they “knew or should have known” perpetuated a fraud.  Deer Consumer Products Inc. (DEER) , a China-based maker of
household products that trades on the Nasdaq Stock Market, filed
suit against Alfredlittle.com in March, alleging “an
orchestrated scheme to manipulate and depress Deer’s stock.”
The company said “Alfred Little” is a fictitious figure.  Silvercorp says it’s the largest primary silver producer in
China. The anonymous Silvercorp letter alleges it reported a
2010 profit to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission while
posting a loss for regulators in China, the company said in a
Sept. 2 statement. It also said the company’s cash position was
overstated.  The investigation by the British Columbia market regulator
“is going to be a major undertaking for us,” Lang Evans, the
agency’s director of enforcement, said yesterday in a telephone
interview, saying he doesn’t expect a quick conclusion. “I’d
compare it to renovating your house -- it always takes longer
than you expect.”  Separate Probes  The provincial agency’s probe will be separate from an
investigation by the Integrated Market Enforcement Team, an arm
of the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police , to avoid tainting any
possible criminal charges, said Evans.  Silvercorp has been cooperating, he said.  The company has denied the allegations in the letter,
saying its four Chinese subsidiaries taken together had net
profit of $73 million. It provided tax and bank statements to
prove its profit and cash position.  Silvercorp Chief Executive Officer Rui Feng bought 100,000
shares of the company at an average price of $7.87 a share on
Sept. 6, according to Canadian regulatory filings.  “It’s important to fight back,” Feng said Sept. 12 in a
telephone interview from  New York . “This is a real company with
real  cash flow  and real metals production. The shorts are just
playing games.”  The percentage of Silvercorp outstanding shares held by
short sellers rose to 14 percent as of Sept. 12, up from 1.9
percent two months ago, according to  Data Explorers , a  New York- 
based research firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  