-- 
Oudea Says SocGen Can Resist U.S. Money-Market Freeze

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-14T22:41:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/socgen-s-oudea-says-bank-could-resist-dollar-money-market-freeze.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s
third-largest bank by assets, said it could resist a freeze in
dollar financing from U.S. money-market funds, which cut their
lending to European banks amid the euro debt crisis.  “Even if it were to go to zero, there would be no
problem,” Societe Generale Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said in Bloomberg Television interview today. The bank
could withstand a freezing of financing from U.S. money-market
funds “forever,” Oudea said.  Societe Generale has 105 billion euros ($143 billion) of
liquidity “buffers” and has reduced its funding needs in
dollars, Oudea said. The Paris-based bank said yesterday it
plans to free up 4 billion euros in capital through 2013 to
reassure investors about its financial strength.  “It’s a clear message on funding,” said  Pierre Flabbee , a
Paris-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. “Until this
morning the question was: The French banks have access to short-
term liquidity, yes or no? We’re starting to get the answers.”  Societe Generale rose 15 percent to 17.9 euros in Paris
trading, the biggest daily gain since May 2010, giving the bank
a market value of 13.9 billion euros. The stock has fallen 56
percent this year. BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest lender, rose
7.2 percent after plunging as much as 12 percent amid concern on
funding in U.S. dollars.  Rating Concerns  No counterparties have raised collateral demands with
Societe Generale, Oudea said today. “We have access to a wide
range of counterparties.”  Societe Generale and BNP Paribas dropped more than 10
percent yesterday on a possible ratings cut by Moody’s Investors
Service because of their holdings in  Greece . French lenders top
the list of Greek creditors with $56.7 billion in overall
exposure to private and public debt, according to a June report
by the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for International
Settlements.  U.S. money-market fund managers have cut their lending to
French banks at a pace that may force the banks to raise capital
by selling assets, according to a Sept. 9 report by William
Prophet, a desk analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  “French banks have been strongly hit by funding concerns,
sovereign exposure and nationalization fears,” said Herve
Samour-Cachian, senior equity fund manager at Natixis Asset
Management in Paris.  Dollar Borrowing  Nicolas Lecaussin, director of development at the Paris-
based Institute for Research in Economic and Fiscal Issues,
wrote in an opinion piece in The Wall Street Journal today that
an unidentified  BNP Paribas (BNP)  official told him the bank could no
longer borrow in dollars.  BNP Paribas denied the claim in an e-mailed statement,
saying it is able to finance its dollar needs at normal levels
“directly and through foreign-exchange swaps.” The lender has
135 billion euros of assets eligible to central banks, including
$30 billion eligible to the U.S. Federal Reserve, it said in an
e-mailed presentation today.  U.S. Money-market funds represent most of BNP Paribas’s 60
billion euros of short-term U.S. Dollar net funding resources,
it said. The firm gets 36 billion euros of its financing from
U.S. money-market funds, compared with 46 billion euros on July
29, bank data show.  ‘Shortening of Resources’  Prime money funds in the U.S. reduced their holdings in
certificates of deposits issued by French banks by about 40
percent in the three months through Aug. 11, Prophet wrote in
his report, based on a review of seven of the 10 largest funds
eligible to purchase corporate debt. The proportion of the
remaining holdings maturing in less than a month increased to 56
percent on Aug. 11 from 17 percent on June 11.  BNP Paribas used foreign-exchange swaps “to more than
offset recent reduction and shortening of resources” from U.S.
money-market funds, it said. The bank has “strong and solid
funding” as well as “flexibility” as it carries 65 billion
euros of short-term  U.S. dollar  assets, the company said today.  “Alternative U.S. dollar funding sources are of course
more expensive and we have to pass that additional cost on to
our U.S. dollar borrowing clients,” BNP Paribas said in the
Sept. 6 note to clients. “In practice, some of them may not
accept and U.S. dollar funding needs may come down.”  Sovereign Debt  Societe Generale reduced its short-term dollar funding to
60 billion euros by the end of August from 72 billion euros at
the end of June, the bank said yesterday.  “We have plenty of buffers of liquidity and we are
adjusting to the reduction in the money-market fund exposure,”
Oudea said today. “For our bank, the exposure to sovereign debt
is low, absolutely manageable.”  Societe Generale carries 4.3 billion euros of sovereign
debt related to  Italy ,  Spain , Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  in
its banking book, the company said yesterday. As of Sept. 9, the
market valuation of the exposure to these five countries was
about 400 million euros “below book value,” the lender said.  “It should be compared with 41 billion euros of capital,”
Oudea said today. “I think again that people need to look at
the figures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  