-- 
Solyndra Failure Shouldn’t Bar U.S. Aid, Group Says

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-14T18:05:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/solyndra-failure-shouldn-t-bar-u-s-energy-aid-gates-group-says.html
(Corrects description of funding proposal in second
paragraph of story published Sept. 13.)  Solyndra LLC’s failure in making
solar-power panels shouldn’t be used by lawmakers to back away
from U.S. investment in future sources of energy, according to
executives including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s  Bill Gates .  The seven-member American Energy Innovation Council said it
lobbied members of Congress today to invest in energy research
and loan guarantees for makers of new technologies. Ending
subsidies for oil, gas and ethanol would be among the ways to
pay for it, the group said in a report released in Washington.  “If you don’t take risk, you are not going to get
reward,” venture capitalist  John Doerr , a member of the
council, said at a press briefing in Washington, when asked
about Solyndra’s filing for  bankruptcy protection . “It’s an
absolutely essential part of the equation.”  The corporate leaders said Americans can’t rely solely on
companies to boost research for new energy sources, because
those investments are “lumpy, high-cost and high-risk,” and
don’t pay off for decades. The group urged an annual $10 billion
increase in funding for new energy.  “You can’t count on the private sector to come in and fill
that space,” Gates said at the briefing.  The group is seeking to convince lawmakers that such
investments are worthwhile after bankruptcy filings by solar-
panel makers including Solyndra, which got a $535 million
federal loan guarantee in 2009. A U.S. House committee is
holding a hearing tomorrow to investigate the Solyndra
investment, and Republicans say the company’s collapse on Aug.
31 shows such U.S. investments are a mistake.  Stearns Opposition  “President Obama and his administration highlighted
Solyndra as the flagship of his effort to create the jobs of the
future,” Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican,
said yesterday in a statement. “I do not see this loan
guarantee program as a success and I see no evidence to support
continuing it.”  Gates, chairman of Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, and
Doerr of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers in Menlo Park,
California, are joined in the group by  General Electric Co. (GE) 
Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt,  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  CEO Ursula Burns,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chairman Charles “Chad” Holliday,
 Cummins Inc. (CMI)  Chairman and CEO Tim Solso and former Lockheed
Martin Inc. Chairman Norman Augustine.  They said in the report that more loan guarantees, such as
that given to Solyndra, are necessary, not less.  ‘More Solar Failures’  “We’re going to see more solar failures,” said Doerr,
whose firm’s investments include companies such as Fisker
Automotive Inc., a maker of plug-in hybrid luxury sports cars
that won a $529 million U.S. loan, and Clean Power Finance,
which backs solar-power projects. Failures by companies such as
Solyndra don’t mean the idea of loan guarantees is wrong, he
said.  With Obama and Republican lawmakers warning that the
federal  budget deficit  is unsustainable, the executives
suggested a series of changes that could raise revenue needed
for increased investments.  They called for reducing fossil-fuel subsidies, creating an
oil import fee or increasing the gasoline tax. They also said
policymakers should consider a tax on  carbon emissions .  As part of a $447 billion jobs package sent to Congress
yesterday, Obama proposed raising taxes on the oil and gas
industry by $40 billion in the next decade in part by limiting
the industry’s ability to claim domestic manufacturing
deductions for drilling. Representatives for companies including
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  oppose the administration’s proposal.  “Subsidies to incumbent industries and mature technologies
should be reduced or reformed,” the council said in its report.
“The market provides ample incentives for these players to
deploy technology without public support.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 