-- 
Solyndra Bankruptcy May Blunt Obama’s Renewable Energy Drive

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-09-13T19:41:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/solyndra-failure-is-seen-blunting-obama-drive-to-aid-clean-energy-startups.html
Solyndra LLC’s bankruptcy threatens
to curb government incentives championed by the Obama
administration to build a renewable energy industry in the U.S.  Solyndra, a solar-panel manufacturer that received about
$527 million in federal loan guarantees, shut down on Aug. 31,
then filed for bankruptcy protection on Sept. 6. The House
Energy and Commerce Committee has scheduled a hearing tomorrow
on the award and the Federal Bureau of Investigation raided the
company’s Fremont,  California , offices two days after the
bankruptcy court filing.  The failure will probably diminish support in Washington
for the Energy Department’s loan guarantees and for a renewable-energy grant program run by the Treasury Department said Stephen
Munro, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in Washington.
The guarantee program will end this month and the Treasury
grants are to expire at yearend. There’s little interest now in
extending them, Munro said in an interview.  “Solyndra has become a bit of a poster child for what can
go wrong with government funding for renewable energy,” Munro
said in an interview. Its troubles could result in a “hiatus in
federal support for clean energy.”  Representative Cliff Stearns, a Florida Republican and
chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee panel
investigating the Solyndra award, said in an e-mailed statement
he hasn’t seen any “evidence to support continuing” the loan-guarantee program.  Stearns and House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman
Fred Upton, a Michigan Republican, said in a Sept. 8 statement
that Solyndra executives “misrepresented the company’s
financial situation” in meetings with lawmakers in July.  CEO Testimony Delayed  Republicans on the committee said today that Jeffrey Zients, deputy director for the White House Office of Management
and Budget, and Jonathan Silver, executive director of the
Energy Department Loan Programs Office, will appear at
tomorrow’s hearing in  Washington .  Solyndra Chief Executive Officer Brian Harrison and Chief
Financial Officer Bill Stover, who were invited to tomorrow’s
hearing, may testify next week, according to the committee.  Evergreen Solar Inc. of Marlboro,  Massachusetts , and
SpectraWatt Inc. of Hopewell Junction, New York, filed
separately for bankruptcy reorganization last month, blaming
price declines and competition from solar-panel makers in  China .
Neither company received a U.S. loan guarantee.  The Energy Department has  awarded  $8.36 billion in loan
guarantees to 17 developers and manufacturers, including  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR)  in California, and made conditional commitments to an
additional 15, such as LS Power Associates LP in  Nevada , worth
$10.4 billion.  Support Innovation  The program, funded by the 2009 economic stimulus, is
designed to support innovation and make the U.S. renewable-energy industry more competitive,  Damien LaVera , an agency
spokesman, said in an interview. Recipients must meet certain
targets to continue getting U.S. backing, he said.  Selecting the companies to receive backing are “merit-based decisions” and every project “goes through a rigorous
financial, legal and technical review process,”  Eric Schultz , a
White House spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement Sept. 1.  The department is working to close pending conditional
guarantees before this month’s deadline, LaVera said.  Salo Zelermyer, a former Energy Department counsel who
helped craft the loan-guarantee initiative under President
George W. Bush, said Solyndra’s collapse may “cast a pall”
over renewable-energy development.  “This is a program that has the capacity to support
significant upgrades in innovative technologies,” Zelermyer,
who is now an attorney at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP whose clients
have pursued guarantees, said in an interview. “It’s in our
interest to have this program succeed.”  Treasury Program  The Treasury Department has  provided  at least $8.47 billion
to renewable energy developers, according to data on its
website. The grants also were established by the economic
stimulus program.  The funds have fueled demand for solar projects in the
U.S., and are a “leading priority for the solar industry,” the
Solar Energy Industries Association, a Washington-based trade
group said on its website.  The grant program, which was set to expire last year,
received a one-year extension in December. A similar
continuation is unlikely, Bill Wicker, a spokesman for the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said in an e-mail. “Given the considerable fiscal challenges confronting
Congress, renewing this program seems to be a steep hill to
climb.”  Solar, Wind  Wind-energy developers are less concerned about the end of
the loan-guarantee program because few wind projects have been
funded, said Rob Gramlich, senior vice president of public
policy at Washington-based American Wind Energy Association.
About 74 percent of the loan guarantees awarded by the Energy
Department companies were for solar projects.  The trade group is pushing instead for renewal of a tax
credit for wind energy production that expires at the end of
next year.  Ethan Zindler, head of North American research at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance, said the loan-guarantee program has to deal
with the conflicting missions of funding innovative and
sometimes risky projects while protecting tax dollars.  “Having some of these not work out is inevitable,”
Zindler said in an interview. “The government is making
technology bets and when you make technology bets, sometimes you
win and sometimes you lose.”  Solyndra shut down a day after the Energy Department
refused to restructure its loan deal and investors decided not
to extend it an additional $75 million, according to a House
Energy Committee  memo  issued yesterday.  By then, the company had drawn $527 million from its $535
million in federal loan guarantees.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP warned Solyndra had financial
troubles deep enough to “raise substantial doubt about its
ability to continue as a going concern” in an audit released in
March 2010.  Two months later, President  Barack Obama  visited its
Fremont plant and told workers the factory shows “the promise
of clean energy isn’t just an article of faith.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  