-- 
Rand Gains First Day in Four as German Chancellor Calms Default Concerns

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-09-13T13:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/south-african-rand-snaps-three-day-drop-to-dollar-before-italy-bond-sale.html
The rand snapped three days of
declines, rebounding from the weakest level in more than a
month, after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she’s
confident Europe can solve  Greece ’s debt problems.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy advanced as much
as 1.8 percent to 7.3222 per dollar and traded 1.2 percent
stronger at 7.3651 at 3:26 p.m. in Johannesburg. Against the
euro, the rand climbed 0.8 percent to 10.0641 per euro.  Merkel said she won’t let Greece go into an “uncontrolled
insolvency” because of the risk of contagion for other
countries. Italian officials have held talks in the past few
weeks with Chinese counterparts about potential investments in
the country, an Italian government official said yesterday,
helping ease concern that the region’s debt crisis will worsen.
South Africa’s benchmark stock index rose for the first day in
three as commodity prices rallied.  Merkel’s statement “certainly helped” support the rand,
Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of  South Africa ’s
fourth-biggest bank, said by phone. “The market is hanging onto
any thread. There is some hope they’ll pull a rabbit out of the
hat.”  The rand will likely trade in a range between 7.30 and 7.50
per dollar in coming days, and may weaken to 7.90 per dollar by
the end of the year after breaching 7.30, a significant support
level where traders clustered orders to buy the currency
yesterday, Cruickshanks said.  Euro Rate  Rand purchases by South Africa exporters helped drive the
rand’s recovery today, Cruickshanks said. Exporters benefit from
a weaker rand when they convert their dollar earnings into local
currency.  “Exporters can’t stay permanently uncovered,” he said.
“They need rand to keep the wheels of their businesses turning,
and at these levels some of them were saying, ‘Let’s sell those
dollars’.”  The euro, the currency that pays for 45 percent of South
Africa’s exports, erased a decline versus the dollar, helping
support the rand. South Africa’s currency often trades in tandem
with the euro, with a statistical correlation of 0.69 over the
past month. A value of 1 would mean they moved in lock step.  The news out of  Europe  “has seen sentiment turn mildly
positive,” Tradition Analytics strategists led by Johannesburg-
based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a research note today.
“Whether such improvement in investment sentiment will be
sustained is up for debate, but for now, it has helped put the
brakes on further persistent dollar strength.”  The rand maintained its advance after the central bank
reported South Africa’s current-account deficit widened to 3.3
percent of gross domestic product in the second quarter, less
than the 3.4 percent median estimate of 13 economists polled by
Bloomberg. The shortfall was 3.1 percent in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  