-- 
Bonds in South Africa Plunge as Rand’s Decline Dims Rate-Reduction Hopes

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-13T13:03:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/south-african-government-bonds-plunge-as-rand-s-decline-dims-rate-cut-hope.html
South African bonds had their
biggest three-day decline in more than two years, driving yields
to the highest in a month, as the rand’s decline against the
dollar dimmed hopes of a central bank interest-rate cut.  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 dropped 84 cents to
91.392 rand, driving the yield up 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 8.059 percent, the highest on a closing
basis since Aug. 12. The notes’ 3.6 percent decline in the past
Sept. 9 is the most since the three days through Feb. 12, 2009.  South Africa ’s currency has declined 7.9 percent this
quarter, touching a one-month low versus the dollar yesterday,
as investors shunned riskier, emerging-market assets on concern
 Greece  will default on its debt. The weaker rand may fuel
inflation, limiting the  Reserve Bank ’s room to lower borrowing
costs in coming months, and erodes returns for foreign
investors, prompting some to sell the debt.  The retreat “is related to the fall in the value of the
rand,” Tertia Jacobs, an analyst at Investec Ltd. in
Johannesburg, wrote in e-mailed comments toady. “The concern is
that if the rand continues to depreciate, it could be
inflationary and then there won’t be a rate cut.”  Inflation accelerated to a 17-month high of 5.3 in July,
the statistics office said on Aug. 24. The central bank expects
the inflation rate to exceed the 3 percent to 6 percent target
range in the fourth quarter.  Rates Decision  The monetary policy committee, which will make its decision
on Sept. 22, has left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a
30-year low of 5.5 percent to help spur spending and support the
recovery. It would “act appropriately” in the event of a
global slowdown, Governor Gill Marcus said on Aug. 23.  Three-month forward-rate agreements starting in March,
which investors use to lock in borrowing costs, climbed 1.5
basis points to day to 5.33 percent. The rate has increased from
a low of 5.13 percent on Sept. 8 as traders reduced bets on a
central bank rate cut.  “A substantially weaker rand will put rate cut speculation
on ice,” Rand Merchant Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet said
in a research note.  Bonds extended their decline on foreign-investor sales of
the debt as  Europe ’s debt crisis sapped demand for high-yielding
assets. Foreign investors have bought a net 52.6 billion rand
($7.2 billion) of South African bonds this year, fueling a rally
that drove four-year yields to a record low on Sept. 8.  Debt Auction  “It seems like non-residents are liquidating positions to
some extent,” Jacobs said.  Demand for debt fell at an auction of 2.1 billion rand of
 government bonds  maturing in 2021 and 2031 today. Investors bid
for 2.5 times the amount of 10-year debt on offer, less than the
3.1 average bid-to-cover ratio of the previous 10 auctions,
according to Citigroup Inc.  “The results show there is still nervousness from locals
at these levels especially following the sharp sell-off in
recent days,”  Leon Myburgh  and Coura Fall, Johannesburg-based
analysts at Citigroup, wrote in e-mailed comments. “This almost
entirely stemmed from the sell-off in yields globally amid
increased nervousness about the euro area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  