-- 
South Africa’s Consumer Spending Weakens, Threatening Economy’s Recovery

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-09-13T08:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/south-african-consumer-spending-weakens-threatening-economy-s-recovery.html
South African  consumer spending ,
which accounts for two-thirds of demand in the country, slowed
in the second quarter, threatening the recovery in  Africa ’s
biggest economy.  Growth in gross domestic demand, which includes consumer,
government and investment spending, decelerated to an annualized
1.3 percent in the second quarter from 7.9 percent in the
previous three months, the Reserve Bank said in its Quarterly
Bulletin today. Household spending rose 3.8 percent, down from
5.2 percent.  The data confirms a slump in demand that slowed economic
growth to a two-year low of 1.3 percent in the second quarter.
The central bank, which will make its next  interest-rate 
decision on Sept. 22, has left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent to help spur spending
and support the recovery.  The slowdown in consumer spending “follows two years during
which growth in household-consumption expenditure has been the
mainstay of the revival in the overall domestic expenditure,”
the central bank’s chief economist, Monde Mnyande, said in a
speech in  Pretoria  today.  Inflation accelerated to a 17-month high of 5.3 in July,
the statistics office said on Aug. 24. The central bank expects
the inflation rate to exceed the 3 percent to 6 percent target
range in the fourth quarter.  Arms Purchases  Government spending  contracted an annualized 0.1 percent in
the second quarter, compared with an expansion of 9.5 percent in
the previous three months, when the state purchased arms as part
of its defense program, the report said.  Investment spending rose 4.1 percent from 3.1 percent in
the same period as state-owned companies Eskom SOC Holdings Ltd.
and Transnet SOC Ltd. increased expenditure on vehicles,
machinery and equipment for its capital projects, the bank said.  Growth in consumers’ disposable income weakened to 4.1
percent in the second quarter from 5.4 percent in the previous
three months, resulting in households’ debt levels rising to
75.9 percent of income from 76.8 percent, the central bank said.  The  Reserve Bank  added that government gross-loan debt
increased above 1 trillion rand ($135 billion) for the first
time, reaching 36.3 percent of gross domestic product in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 