-- 
U.S. ‘Not Encouraged’ by India, South Africa, Brazil at UN

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/south-africa-brazil-india-fail-to-impress-u-s-with-their-un-performance.html
The U.S. has not been encouraged by
the performance of  India , Brazil and  South Africa  during their
temporary tenure on the UN Security Council, Ambassador  Susan Rice  said yesterday.  Splits between the so-called IBSA group of countries and
the U.S. arose as protest movements swept the  Middle East . India
and Brazil, along with Russia, China and  Germany , abstained from
a UN resolution that formed the legal basis for military
intervention in Libya.  As Syria sent troops out to suppress protesters, Brazil,
India and South Africa blocked UN moves to pressure the Assad
regime and sent diplomats to Damascus last month to engage
leaders there. All three countries are serving two-year
temporary terms on the Security Council and aspire to permanent
seats, a goal the U.S. may block.  “It’s been a very interesting opportunity to see how they
respond to the issues of the day, how they relate to us and
others, how they do or don’t act consistent with their own
democratic institutions and stated values,” Rice said at a
briefing with reporters. “Let me just say, we’ve learned a lot
and, frankly, not all of it encouraging.”  Rice said that issues related to the protection of human
rights, democracy and the protection of civilians raised U.S.
concerns about the IBSA group.  “Whether in the context of  Libya , or Cote d’Ivoire or
 Sudan  even,” Rice said, the countries have taken positions
“that one might not have anticipated, given that each of them
come out of strong and proud democratic traditions.”  Post-Colonial Viewpoints  That criticism is simplistic, said Fabienne Hara, the vice
president of multilateral affairs at the  International Crisis
Group . Hara, who recently returned from meetings in Brazil and
consults widely with other diplomats, said the IBSA countries
approached the Libya situation with their own set of concerns.  “They were all quite surprised that this turned into a
NATO-led operation with a bombing campaign, with a variety of
targets including Tripoli,” Hara said.  For countries with colonial histories that now champion
non-interference, as India and  Brazil  do, the NATO action had
ugly historical echoes, said Mark Quarterman, director of the
program on Crisis, Conflict and Cooperation at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington .  “There’s almost a third-world sense, a post-colonial
sense, that they were meddled in, in ways that didn’t redound to
their benefit, and now the same countries are claiming
humanitarian reasons for meddling,” Quarterman said.  Embargoes  The IBSA countries have pointed out that while there was an
arms embargo and a call for a cease-fire, it applied to
Qaddafi’s forces, while  France  sent arms to the Libyan rebels.  An oil embargo was put in place against Qaddafi and his
officials, while Qatar helped the rebels sell oil with the NATO-
led coalition’s awareness.  All this led to concern about what the UN would do when
Syrians began taking to the streets. “The reason why there is
no resolution on  Syria  now is because of Libya,” Hara said,
“the aftermath of this very bitter debate that members of the
Security Council had after the Libya bombing.  ‘‘They were extremely reluctant to authorize any kind of
resolution that could be the first step to’’ another Western
intervention, Hara said.  Brett Schaefer, an analyst at the  Heritage Foundation , said
that political positions of South Africa, India and Brazil
should not come as any surprise.  ‘Not Democratic’ Alliances  ‘‘Most often, they’ve chosen to ally themselves with
countries that are not democratic, are not politically free and
are not economically free, and at times have shown themselves to
be hostile to promoting those very values in the  United
Nations ,’’ Schaefer said in a telephone interview.  Schaeffer said that the IBSA countries’ performance serves
as a counterargument for those who say the  Security Council  is
not representative of the world.  Expanding the Council ‘‘doesn’t mean it would be more
effective or responsive to the world’s problems, nor possess the
will or inclination to act than the current council as it
stands,” Schaeffer said. “There’s a great deal of evidence to
indicate the opposite: That a larger security council would be
more paralyzed, less likely to act to address political crises
around the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  