-- 
Spain Faces Rating Risks on ‘Downside’ as Regions Lag Targets, Fitch Says

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-14T14:10:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/spain-s-credit-rating-risks-on-downside-as-regions-lag-goals-fitch-says.html
Spain  faces risks “on the
downside” to its  credit rating  as growth slows and regional
governments fall behind schedule on deficit-reduction targets,
Fitch Ratings Director Douglas Renwick said.  “Risks for the credit rating are clearly on the
downside,” London-based Renwick said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The regional deficit performance adds to pressure
on the central government to make the needed cuts.”  Fitch rates Spain AA+ with a “negative” outlook, and
Renwick said weaker growth, failure to meet deficit targets, or
larger-than-forecast use of public funds to rescue banks could
be “clear triggers for the rating.” The company cut the
ratings of five Spanish regions today, including Catalonia and
Andalusia, citing a surge in debt and weak growth prospects.  Spain’s regional governments are behind schedule to meet
deficit targets, according to data released last week that
Moody’s said was “credit negative.” The regional governments
manage more than a third of public spending, including health
and education, and are suffering from a slump in revenues linked
to real-estate transactions.  The 17 semi-autonomous regions posted a budget deficit of
1.2 percent of gross domestic product in the first half, the
 Finance Ministry  said on Sept. 8, citing data that isn’t
directly comparable to the figures used in the final deficit
calculations. The regions have a deficit target of 1.3 percent
of GDP this year.  Deficit Goal  That targeted shortfall is part of the overall public-
deficit goal of 6 percent of GDP for this year, down from 9.2
percent in 2010.  Renwick said a slowdown in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest
economy, would make it more difficult for Spain to meet its 1.3
percent 2011 growth forecast. The government cut the prediction
last year to reflect the impact of austerity measures.  “For Spain, meeting the official GDP forecast is becoming
more and more challenging, especially because the German economy
is weakening,” Renwick said.  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said today the
growth forecast “may be affected” by market tension, even as
he expects quarterly growth rates in the third and fourth
quarter to be “similar” to the 0.2 percent growth rate seen in
the three months through June.  Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said in an interview on Aug.
19 that reaching the target is “a bit more difficult than it
was a quarter ago” and depends on foreign markets. The economic
growth rate slowed by half in the second quarter, while  France ,
which is Spain’s biggest trading partner, stagnated, and Germany
almost stalled.  Moody’s Investors Service has an Aa2 rating on Spain and
 Standard & Poor’s  rates it AA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
 Paul Armstrong  at   Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  