-- 
Stanford’s Hennessy Seeks Support for NYC Engineering Campus

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/stanford-s-hennessy-seeks-support-from-alumni-for-nyc-engineering-campus.html
Stanford University , which helped
spawn California’s Silicon Valley of computer and electronics
companies, is seeking alumni support to open an engineering
school in  New York  City.  John Hennessy, president of the Palo Alto-based school,
will visit New York this week to meet with board members such as
Ruth Porat, chief financial officer of Morgan Stanley, to gather
backing for Stanford’s proposal, said Lisa Lapin, a spokeswoman.  Stanford is among at least 27 schools that have expressed
interest in an offer from the city’s  Economic Development Corp. 
to provide land and contribute as much as $100 million to create
a “world class” engineering school. The project could generate
$6 billion in economic activity, create hundreds of companies
and spawn 22,000 jobs over the next 35 years, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has said.  “There is a need for another center that has the same
vibrancy the valley has,” said Hennessy, 58, a native New
Yorker who founded two technology companies and sits on the
boards of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  “Unless something
changes in the U.S., the place likely to make that happen is
China, and I think it’s much better that it happen in the U.S.”  Stanford, with an endowment of $13.9 billion as of Aug. 31,
2010, has declined many invitations to build campuses overseas,
Hennessy said in a telephone interview Sept. 9. It’s attracted
to New York in part because the city “is very different” from
 California , he said.  Areas to Explore  “There’s a much different focus on style, on arts and on
media,” Hennessy said. “It’s a very different environment than
we’re in, and it can lead to lots of different areas to
explore.”  Jobs in science and engineering make up 3.8 percent of New
York’s workforce compared with 6.9 percent in the San Francisco
Bay Area and 7.4 percent in  Boston , said Seth Pinsky, president
of the Economic Development Corp. The high-tech payroll of New
York is about half of that in those regions, he said.  After talking to “literally hundreds of people” about
what the city could do to diversify its economy beyond  Wall
Street , the agency concluded it needed to invest in the
technology and engineering industries, Pinsky said in a Sept. 9
interview.  The city has offered free sites for a campus at the
Brooklyn Navy Yard, Governors Island in New York Harbor, on
Staten Island and on Roosevelt Island in the East River,
according to its  request for proposals .  ‘Large-Scale’ Project  The mayor’s offer seeks a school “on a large scale” to
provide instruction and research in computer science,
nanotechnology and electrical engineering, David Skorton, 61,
president of Cornell University in Ithaca, New York, said in a
July interview.  Cornell, which will compete for the campus, already has its
 Weill Cornell Medical College  on  Manhattan ’s Upper East Side,
where it is expanding, Skorton, a cardiologist, said in an
interview yesterday. The university also built a medical college
in Doha, Qatar, he said.  “Not a lot of schools” have “experience with building
projects in Manhattan” and creating campuses elsewhere, Skorton
said.  Other U.S. universities expressing interest include
Carnegie Mellon in Pittsburgh and Cooper Union and  Columbia
University  in New York.  Those outside the U.S. that have submitted solo and
collaborative ideas include Abo Akademi University of Finland,
the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology and Amity University
in  India .  The city has set an Oct. 28 deadline for universities to
submit responses. After a possible round of questions and
interviews, a decision will likely come in 2012, said Andrew Brent, a mayoral spokesman.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York City  Hall at 
 Hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 