-- 
State Department Backs Off Tying Israeli Group to Iran Ship Sale

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-13T19:58:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/state-department-backs-off-tying-israeli-group-to-iran-ship-sale.html
The State Department backed off a
plan to impose sanctions on an Israeli company that the U.S. had
said was involved in a sale of an oil tanker to  Iran .  A “clarification” issued by the State Department today
removes an entity it had called the “Ofer Brothers Group” from
a list of companies that had been targeted for sanctions in May
for doing business with Iran’s energy industry.  “This action clears our name,” Ofer Holdings Group said
in a written statement. “Today’s formal clarification makes it
clear that none of Ofer Holdings Group Ltd., its subsidiaries or
any other Israeli entity is subject to sanctions under the Iran
Sanctions Act.”  The U.S. took action today to show that “we were not
seeking to sanction the entire conglomerate,” State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said at her daily briefing in
Washington. “We were seeking to sanction those entities which
were trading with Iran.”  In making its clarification, the State Department today
imposed sanctions instead on two companies it identified as
“owned by the late Sammy Ofer:” Monaco-based Societe Anonyme
Monegasque d’Administration Maritime et Aerienne, or SAMAMA, and
Allvale Maritime Inc., of Liberia.  The State Department in May had targeted what it called
Ofer Brothers Group and two other companies for their alleged
role in a September 2010 sale of a tanker valued at $8.65
million to the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines.  The May announcement “caused some confusion among banks
and others that were trying to comply with the new sanctions,”
a State Department spokeswoman, Julie Reside, said today.  Billionaire Brothers  The billionaire Ofer brothers, one of the richest families
in  Israel , had denied the charge and fought for months to clear
their name.  “We are relieved that the U.S. State Department has made
this important clarification,” the Ofer family said in a
written statement. “This is an important step forward.”  The sanctions imposed under the Iran Sanctions Act bar
companies from securing financing from the Export-Import Bank of
the  United States , from obtaining loans of more than $10 million
from U.S. financial institutions, and from receiving U.S. export
licenses, the State Department said.  SAMAMA was the lead ship manager for Allvale, the owner of
the tanker Raffles Park, SAMAMA said in a written statement. It
said the company was “committed to implementing effective
remedial action so that we meet our ongoing sanctions compliance
obligations and ensure that this type of incident will not
recur.”  Iranian Interests  SAMAMA had subcontracted management of the tanker to Tanker
Pacific Management Pte Ltd. of  Singapore , which was also
targeted for sanctions.  Tanker Pacific said it managed the sale of the Raffles Park
to Coral Light Asset Corp. of  Panama .  “Had we known that the buyers were acting on behalf of
Iranian interests, this sale would never have gone ahead,”
Tanker Pacific said in a written statement.  The State Department has sought to increase pressure on
Iran to curb its “illicit nuclear activities.” Iran has
maintained its nuclear program is designed for civilian energy
needs.  Brothers Sammy and Yuli Ofer didn’t live long enough to see
the U.S. “clarification.” Sammy Ofer died in June, while Yuli
Ofer died on Sept. 11, at the age of 87.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  