-- 
Swiss Stocks Rise After Two-Day Drop; Banks, Novartis Lead Gain

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-09-13T16:17:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-health-care-financial-companies-climb.html
Swiss stocks advanced, ending a
two-day decline, as financial shares reversed earlier losses and
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she wouldn’t allow an
uncontrolled insolvency in  Greece .  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank, advanced 5.9 percent and
Credit Suisse increased 2.7 percent. Novartis AG, Europe’s
second-biggest drugmaker by sales, gained 1.2 percent after
raising its cost-savings target from purchasing eye-care company
Alcon Inc.  The Swiss Market Index, a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, advanced 1.1 percent to 5,359.14 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich as 13 shares rose in the 20-member
gauge. The gauge had earlier retreated 0.4 percent. The broader
Swiss Performance Index increased 1 percent.  “The mood swing in the market today is a sign some
investors think so much bad news is already priced in that, no
matter what, they’ll get a great deal on equities,” said Henrik Drusebjerg, a senior strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen.
“Others can’t run away fast enough from this as they think it
can get much worse.”  The SMI has still tumbled 20 percent from this year’s high
on Feb. 18 amid concern that European leaders won’t contain the
region’s debt crisis and that the U.S. recovery will stall.  Banks Gain  Banks recouped their losses today as  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,
 France ’s biggest lender, reversed a drop of as much as 12
percent. The bank closed 7.2 percent higher after denying a
story in the Wall Street Journal that it was having problems
borrowing dollars from U.S. money market funds.  Nicolas Lecaussin, director of development at France’s
Institute for Economic and Fiscal Research, wrote in an opinion
piece in the Journal that an unidentified BNP official told him
the bank could no longer borrow in dollars.  UBS climbed 5.9 percent to 10.91 francs and Credit Suisse
AG, the second-biggest Swiss lender, rose 2.7 percent to 20.33
francs. A report showed the biggest fund investors including UBS
added $21 billion to hedge fund pools in the first half.  Swiss Re AG,  Europe ’s second-biggest reinsurer, climbed 1.2
percent to 37.94 francs while  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) 
gained 2.6 percent to 163.70 francs.  Merkel said in a German radio interview that her “top
priority is to avoid an uncontrolled insolvency, because that
wouldn’t just hit Greece, and the danger that it hits everyone,
or at least a number of other countries, is very big,”
according to a transcript provided by Berlin-based broadcaster
Inforadio.  Novartis Climbs  Novartis increased 1.2 percent to 48.35 francs as the
drugmaker increased forecasts for cost savings on its
acquisition of Alcon. The purchase will lead to savings of $350
million a year 2013, the Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker said
in a statement today.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the largest offshore oil driller, added
4.2 percent to 49.02 francs. Oil rose for a second day in  New
York  on speculation crude stockpiles shrank last week in the
U.S. as storms curtailed offshore production.  Adecco jumped 3.1 percent to 33.70 francs as hotel and
human-resources company Accor SA said it’s targeting 2011
earnings before interest and taxes of 510 million euros ($697
million) to 530 million euros after a promising summer season in
all regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  