-- 
Swiss 1970s Inflation Specter Seen in SNB’s Unlimited Sales

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-14T12:56:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/swiss-1970s-inflation-specter-seen-in-central-bank-s-unlimited-franc-sales.html
Swiss central bank President
Philipp Hildebrand’s pledge to protect the economy with
unlimited currency purchases may come at a higher cost than
billions of francs: faster inflation.  Hildebrand’s decision risks flooding the financial system
with cash and undermining the  Swiss National Bank ’s job of
delivering  price stability , said economists at Credit Suisse
Group AG and  Barclays Capital . While central banks around the
globe are seeking to ward off a recession through additional
stimulus or rate cuts, the franc’s ascent forced Swiss policy
makers into measures that sparked a decade of surging inflation
when last introduced in the 1970s.  “You can’t have your cake and eat it,” said  Claude Maurer , an economist at Credit Suisse in Zurich. “You can
either pursue a ceiling on the exchange rate or you can fight
price pressures. The SNB apparently sees medium-term inflation
threats as the lesser of two evils.”  The Zurich-based central bank said on Sept. 6 it would
purchase “unlimited quantities” of foreign currencies to
defend a franc ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro “with the utmost
determination.” The currency had previously appreciated 13
percent against the euro this year to a record 1.0075 on Aug. 9,
chocking exports such as of Swatch Group AG watches.  Alexandre Ziegler, an assistant professor of finance at the
University of Zurich, said inflation will breach the SNB’s 2
percent limit within the next three years even if the economy
fails to grow. Consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in August from a
year ago.  ‘Inflation Potential’  The Swiss currency had been pushed higher on investor
concern that European governments may be unable to contain the
region’s debt crisis and prevent  Greece  from defaulting. It has
remained above 1.20 versus the euro since the SNB imposed the
cap, trading at 1.2036 at 2:54 p.m. in Zurich today.  “The SNB is creating an extremely high inflation
potential,” said Thorsten Polleit, an economist at Barclays
Capital in  Frankfurt . “They create money and those obtaining
these newly created funds will spend at least part of it on real
estate, shares, bonds and  consumer goods .”  To defend their ceiling, the SNB is taking on the $4
trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market. Before imposing the cap,
the central bank’s foreign-currency holdings jumped to a record
253.4 billion francs ($305.1 billion) at the end of August,
partly on foreign-exchange swaps to weaken the franc. That’s
about half of Swiss gross domestic product.  Memories of 1978  The ceiling “is credible as long as the authorities are
prepared to accept the liquidity implications of this
potentially very large intervention,” said  Dirk Schumacher  and
 Adrian Paul , economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., in an e-
mailed note. The policy “can potentially be maintained until
inflationary pressures materialize.”  When used in 1978 to stem franc gains against the Deutsche
mark, Swiss inflation breached the central bank’s ceiling in 12
of the following 20 years. Annual price growth reached 7.5
percent by mid-1981 after averaging 1 percent in 1978.  Juerg Iseli, 62, who experienced that time as chief
executive officer of Swiss components maker Micronor AG, said it
was a “difficult” period with some companies having “big
problems” as a result of the SNB’s intervention policy.  “First the strong franc and then inflation,” Iseli said
in a telephone interview. “Companies lost competitiveness
because rising inflation forced them to increase prices.”  ‘Inflation Vulture’  The SNB also risks paving the way for a real-estate bubble
as seen in the 1980s, according to Ziegler. In the four years
after the central bank last introduced a currency cap, costs of
rental apartments jumped 52 percent, with prices of single-
family homes surging 37 percent, he said.  Swiss lawmakers, during a debate in Bern today, signaled
concern that the SNB’s currency policy may boost price threats.  “I don’t want the country to face inflation rates last
seen in the 1980s,” said Maximilian Reimann, a member of the
upper house of parliament. “I’m not pessimistic by nature but
the worst case can’t be totally excluded. The dangerous
inflation vulture is already circling.”  The SNB already started flooding money markets with
liquidity when cutting borrowing costs to zero last month. Swiss
banks’ so-called sight deposits, an indication of potential
future bank lending, ballooned to 187.7 billion francs on Sept.
9, up more than six times from Aug. 5.  Hildebrand has said that policy makers have started “a
challenging journey” with possible “very high” costs.  Franc Action  “The SNB has made a conscious decision,” said  David Kohl ,
deputy chief economist at Julius Baer Group in Frankfurt. “They
are putting more emphasis on the  exchange rate  than on
inflation.”  Hildebrand, 48, has been trying to get the franc under
control since taking the SNB’s helm last year, while seeking
ways to maintain price stability. A 15-month campaign to sell
the franc was abandoned in June 2010 after price threats mounted
along with accelerating economic growth.  Now, a cooling economy and inflation near zero are giving
policy makers room to boost liquidity.  “The SNB has launched the ultimate weapon,” said
 Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “The
subdued inflation outlook currently leaves the door wide open
for massive monetary expansion.”  SNB Toolbox  The franc’s ascent has hurt some of the country’s largest
companies. Holcim AG, the world’s second-biggest cement maker,
said on Aug. 18 that currency effects shaved 203 million francs
off operating profit in the second quarter. A slump in exports
was the main reason why Swiss economic growth slowed to 0.4
percent in the second quarter, the weakest since the economy
emerged from a recession in 2009.  The SNB will publish its latest economic projections
tomorrow, when policy makers meet for their quarterly rate
assessment. The central bank will probably keep borrowing costs
at zero, according to all 21 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. It will announce its decision at 9:30 a.m. in Zurich.  While the SNB’s toolbox contained measures such as a
temporary franc peg to the euro, Hildebrand opted for a policy
that allowed the SNB to maintain its rate-setting independence.
By imposing a ceiling against the euro, the central bank went a
step further than last year, when policy makers intervened over
15 months without setting a target.  Israel  to Hong Kong  Policy makers had been under increasing pressure to act
after lawmakers, facing October general elections, joined
executives in calling on the SNB to step up efforts to weaken
the currency. All five ruling-coalition parties at a Bern
meeting on Sept. 2 pledged their support to the central bank.  “Elections mean that preventing a recession and job cuts
in the short term have become more important than possible
inflation threats down the road,” said Daniel Kalt, an
economist at UBS AG in Zurich. “We’ll only see in two or three
years whether it was the right decision.”  Other central banks have already seen surging prices in the
wake of efforts to weaken their currencies. The Bank of Israel’s
currency purchases have helped keep inflation above the
government’s 1 percent to 3 percent range since January. In  Hong
Kong , the local dollar’s peg to the greenback has left the
economy exposed to surging consumer-price growth.  While SNB policy makers opted to maintain their
independence over tying the franc to the euro, Ulrich Kohli, the
bank’s former chief economist, said it will be “very
difficult” to withdraw liquidity.  “The SNB’s intervention policy has a range of consequences
that should be taken seriously,” he said in a telephone
interview. “The liquidity will remain in the system for a very
long period of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  