-- 
Syria to Maintain Oil Output in Face of EU Sanctions, IEA Says

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-09-13T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/syria-to-maintain-oil-output-in-face-of-eu-sanctions-iea-says.html
Syria  is likely to maintain oil
production and find alternative buyers after the European Union
banned its member states from purchasing the Middle Eastern
country’s crude, the  International Energy Agency  said.  “We do not believe that the sanctions currently in place
will affect crude oil production volumes from Syria, which the
IEA estimates at 332,000 barrels a day in August,” the group
said in its monthly report released today. The ban on dealing in
Syrian crude may “exacerbate already-declining mature
production in the country,” the IEA said.  The EU on Sept. 2 banned imports of crude from Syria,
expanding sanctions against President Bashar al-Assad’s regime
for its deadly crackdown on protesters. The embargo affects
Syrian exports valued at 3.16 billion euros ($4.3 billion) in
2010, according to the  European Commission .  The IEA estimates that Syria exported about 157,000 barrels
of oil last year and about 127,000 barrels a day in the first
quarter to European members of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. The IEA is a consultant to the
developed economy members of the OECD. About 26,000 barrels of
crude a day went to non-OECD countries in the first half of this
year, the IEA said, citing figures from Syria’s state oil
company.  Syria will seek buyers for its oil outside of  Europe ,
Finance Minister Mohammad Al-Jleilati said in an interview in
Abu Dhabi Sept. 7. Syria consumes about 70 percent of its crude
and sells the surplus on global markets, he said.  The country will sell to any buyer that makes the “best
offer” for its oil and will base its decision on cost
considerations like transport expenses, he said. Al-Jleilati
said Syria hasn’t decided yet where to sell its crude, adding
that countries including Russia, China and  Malaysia  were allies.  European refiners will lose about 25,000 barrels a day of
Syrian light crude once the embargo comes into effect Nov. 15,
the IEA said. That’s unlikely to affect operations as crude
processors buy oil from alternative suppliers, the IEA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in  Singapore  at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 