-- 
Tsang Says HSBC, U.K. Banks ‘Absolutely Welcome’ to Relocate to Hong Kong

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-09-14T03:25:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-k-banks-welcome-to-relocate-in-hong-kong-says-donald-tsang.html
Hong Kong would “absolutely”
welcome London-based banks  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  if they decided to move headquarters to the former
British territory, according to Chief Executive  Donald Tsang .  “If HSBC or  Standard Chartered  were to change headquarters
it would not undermine their business at all,” Tsang said in an
interview yesterday. Tsang added he didn’t “want to encourage a
move that would impair relations” with trading partners
including London and  New York .  The shift would mark a victory for Hong Kong, 14 years
after the city’s return to Chinese sovereignty stoked concerns
that its status as an international financial center would
decline. China last month unveiled a package of measures to
bolster Hong Kong’s role as a financial hub, while  Europe ’s debt
crisis and the prospect of tougher regulations have increased
pressure on banks from investors to weigh a move.  HSBC and its rivals “would seriously reconsider relocating
when their shareholder interest and profitability is at risk
because of new regulations,”  Dominic Chan , an analyst at BNP
Paribas SA in Hong Kong, said by telephone. Still, “unless
something major happens, London will remain a major financial
center for them to keep operating from,” he said.  Regulatory Cost  HSBC and Standard Chartered are among lenders required to
comply with new British rules including building a firewall
between their consumer and investment banking operations under
plans published on Sept. 12 by the Independent Commission on
Banking. The plans, which seek to shield customers and taxpayers
from another financial crisis, will cost the industry as much 7
billion pounds ($11 billion), the report said.  Tim Baxter, a spokesman for Standard Chartered in  London ,
said the bank would keep its domicile under review, though it
had “no immediate plans” to change. HSBC will review its
headquarters, as it does every three years, once the government
has responded to the  ICB’s proposals , a spokesman said.  Shares of HSBC climbed 0.7 percent to HK$61.80 in Hong Kong
trading today, stemming its decline this year to about 23
percent. Standard Chartered rose 1 percent to HK$163.60.  HSBC and Standard Chartered, the two U.K. lenders dependent
on  Asia  for a majority of their profit, faced calls from
investors to consider moving after the U.K. government imposed a
bank levy last year to raise 2.5 billion pounds from lenders.
Shifting to  Hong Kong  would also allow the banks to sidestep any
financial transaction tax imposed by the European Union.  U.K. Concessions ‘Key’  Concessions by the U.K. on the bank tax, such as applying
it only to assets in Britain, would reduce the financial costs
tied to being located in London, John Wadle, head of research on
banking at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd., said in an
interview.  “The key issue is the U.K. tax levy,” Wadle said. “If
the U.K. concedes on that, there’s less of incentive to
relocate.”  HSBC said in March that it prefers to keep its headquarters
in London amid speculation the lender is preparing to relocate
its headquarters to Asia. The 146-year-old bank, which traces
its roots to the Hongkong and  Shanghai  Banking Corp., was
required by British regulators to move to London from Hong Kong
in 1992 following its acquisition of Midland Bank Plc as part of
a push westward.  Pressure from Shareholders  HSBC is “being increasingly asked by shareholders and
investors about the likely additional cost of being
headquartered in the U.K.,” HSBC Chairman  Douglas Flint  and
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said in an e-mailed
statement in March. Still, talk of “imminent change” was
“entirely speculative and presumptuous,” they said.  Tsang, who was in London to  promote  Hong Kong as a
financial center to British business leaders, was scheduled to
meet Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  yesterday.  China 
last month said it would allow more two-way investment in shares
and relax restrictions on investment flows with Hong Kong to aid
an economy that shrank in the second quarter for the first time
since 2009.  Tsang said the ICB’s proposals in the U.K. were reminiscent
of the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which separated commercial
and investment banking.  ‘Very Keen’  “Whatever the measures, you have to look at the viability
and we are no longer in the 1930s,” he said. Banks’ decisions
about where to set-up their headquarters “can be influenced by
tax and regulation, but I do believe in the wisdom of the U.K.
government in this regard.”  HSBC has been told by Hong Kong regulators that it would be
welcome if it decided to leave Britain, City AM newspaper
reported on Sept. 7, without saying where it got the
information.  Britain’s proposals on insulating consumer banking units,
may do more harm than good, Lloyd’s of London Chairman  Peter Levene  said in an interview.  “There are other countries that are very keen on financial
services,” said Levene, who’s a founder of  NBNK Investments
Plc (NBNK) , which is trying to start a British consumer bank. Banks
could consider going to other centers including  Singapore ,
Shanghai, and Hong Kong, he said.  ‘Lack of Taxes’  With a top tax rate of 50 percent, London-based bankers
making more than 1 million pounds will pay about three times
more in tax and social security than colleagues in Hong Kong,
accounting firm  KPMG  estimated last year.  “If you ask businesses why they choose Hong Kong over
other places, our surveys show that almost all of them place
taxes at the top of the list - or perhaps I should say a lack of
taxes,” Tsang said in a speech at the Think Asia Think Hong
Kong conference in London.  Hong Kong has a separate government and economy, a legacy
of the Chinese region’s status as a British territory until
1997, though mainland authorities have since exercised powers to
reinterpret local statutes. At the handover of sovereignty,
China promised to preserve Hong Kong’s capitalist system and
free press for a further 50 years.  Both HSBC and Standard Chartered are linked to the British
colonial era. HSBC traces its roots to the Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Corp., founded in 1865 to finance trade in opium, silk
and tea. Standard Chartered’s history dates to 19th century
banks which helped finance British colonial trade in Africa and
 India .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  