-- 
U.K.’s Advanced Plasma Seeks Funding for Waste-to-Power Projects

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-13T12:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-k-s-advanced-plasma-seeks-funding-for-waste-to-power-projects.html
Advanced Plasma Power Ltd., a U.K.
developer of waste-to-energy technology, is looking for
“hundreds of millions of pounds” to fund projects after
raising money from a U.S. private equity firm.  Leveraged Green Energy LLC invested 7.6 million pounds ($12
million) in the private Swindon-based company and will make 7.5
million pounds more available if needed, Advanced Plasma Chief
Executive Officer Rolf Stein said. Advanced Plasma expects to
proceed with an initial share offering when the financial
markets pick up, Stein said by e-mail.  Advanced Plasma is establishing a separate project fund
targeting “hundreds of millions of pounds in good time,” Stein
said yesterday. Leveraged Green Energy, which invested $10
million in Advanced Plasma three years ago, pledged 20 million
pounds to the fund as well to “kick-start” the fundraising.  “General interest in participation in the fund has been
very encouraging and we will probably look to go forward with a
small number of core investors,” Stein said.  The shareholders and management of Advanced Plasma have an
“extensive array” of investment contacts ranging from family
offices to infrastructure and private equity funds, he said.  The U.K. is aiming for 15 percent of its electricity to
come from renewable sources by 2020. The  Department of Energy
and Climate Change  estimates at least 30 percent of this figure
could be met from bio-energy plants, including waste-to-power
facilities being developed by Advanced Plasma.  Advanced Plasma has eight projects in development in the
U.K. and  Europe , said Stein. The company in May joined with
Group Machiels to build a facility at a landfill site in  Belgium 
to dig up trash underground and turn it into power.  “A date has not yet been fixed but we do keep the option
of an initial public offering under review and will be taking
advice,” Stein said of possible IPO plans.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  