-- 
U.K. Investigation of HSBC Clients Is Said to Widen Over Swiss Tax Evasion

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-09-13T13:04:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-k-probe-of-hsbc-clients-said-to-widen-over-swiss-tax-dodge.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  clients with
accounts at its  Swiss private bank  in Geneva are the target of a
widening investigation by U.K. authorities into alleged tax
evasion, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Revenue and Customs, known as HMRC, will write to an
additional 4,500 clients of the London-based bank, giving them
the choice of making a full disclosure or face investigation,
said the people, who declined to be named because the matter is
confidential. About 800 customers have already been sent so-
called  Code of Practice 9  letters informing them that their tax
affairs over the past 20 years will be probed, they said.  The U.K. tax authority is allocating more staff to the
project as it widens the probe of Swiss bank account holders at
 Europe ’s biggest lender, the people said. HMRC received the data
from its French counterparts after Herve Falciani, a former
software technician at HSBC in Geneva, stole details on at least
24,000 accounts.  Patrick O’Brien, a spokesman for HMRC in  London , and a
spokesman for HSBC in Geneva declined to comment.  First-half outflows from European clients were
“considerable,” partly because of the  data theft , Alexandre Zeller, chief executive officer of HSBC’s Swiss unit, said last
month, without providing details.  The widening probe of HSBC customers comes after the U.K.
and  Switzerland  last month agreed to settle a dispute over tax
evasion by wealthy Britons holding offshore accounts with Swiss
private banks. Under the agreement, customers must either make a
declaration to HMRC or pay a withholding tax that also covers
their past failure to disclose undeclared assets.  Under Pressure  “The price of maintaining anonymity over Swiss bank
accounts for U.K. residents has been set very high,” said Mark
Summers, a lawyer with Speechly Birchem in Zurich.  Swiss private banks are under pressure following a
crackdown on  tax evasion  in the U.S. and Europe. New tax accords
with the U.K. and  Germany  that undermine the advantages of
offshore accounts may prompt clients to move money back to their
home countries.  HSBC suffered an outflow of money from its private bank in
2009 after becoming aware of the data theft in the middle of
2008. The French government has used the data to search for tax
dodgers and passed information on to Italian and Spanish
prosecutors.  Falciani told Bloomberg News last year that he’s
cooperating with French investigators and helped them pull
embedded data from his laptop. The technician says he didn’t
profit from the data and accepted police protection in  France 
out of fear that account holders might try to harm him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  