-- 
U.K. Inflation Accelerates to 4.5%, Meets Estimates as Clothes Prices Jump

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-13T09:03:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-k-inflation-accelerates-to-4-5-meets-estimates-as-clothes-prices-jump.html
U.K. inflation accelerated in
August as the end of seasonal discounts boosted prices for items
such as clothes and furniture.  Consumer prices rose 4.5 percent from a year earlier, the
fastest in three months, compared with 4.4 percent in July, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in London. That
matched the median estimate of 34 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. A separate report showed exports and imports rose to
record levels in July.  The  Bank of England  left its key  interest rate  at a record
low last week as policy makers attempted to steer a path between
a faltering recovery and inflation that’s more than double their
goal. While the central bank forecasts price growth may
accelerate to 5 percent in the coming months, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. have said the central bank may
resume emergency asset purchases by November to boost growth.  “Even though inflation is higher than the bank wants and
will go higher in the months ahead, their strategy has been
through most of this year is to focus more on growth,” said
 Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “The
outlook is pretty grim. Quantitative easing is increasingly
going to be an item on the agenda.”  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the data
were released. It was at $1.5777 as of 9:48 a.m. in London, down
0.5 percent from yesterday. It earlier dropped to $1.5762, the
lowest in eight months.  French Inflation  On the month, consumer prices climbed 0.6 percent in
August, the statistics office said. Clothes prices jumped 3.7
percent, a record for August, while household utility costs rose
0.5 percent.  The end of summer sales also boosted prices in  France ,
according to separate data published today. Its inflation rate
rose to 2.4 percent, the highest in almost three years, from 2.1
percent in July, national statistics office Insee said.  In the U.K., core inflation, which excludes costs of
energy, alcohol, food and tobacco, remained at 3.1 percent in
August from the previous month.  Food and drink prices rose 0.1 percent on the month and
were up 6.2 percent from a year earlier. Unilever, the world’s
second-biggest maker of  consumer goods , said on Aug. 4 that the
London- and Rotterdam-based company increased prices by the most
in more than two years in the second quarter as it passed on
surging costs for ingredients such as palm oil and sugar.  Retail price inflation, a measure of the cost of living
used in wage negotiations, accelerated to 5.2 percent from 5
percent. Economists forecast a reading of 5.1 percent. Excluding
mortgage costs, it was at 5.3 percent.  Spending Power  Britons are seeing their spending power erased at the
fastest pace since the 1970s as wage growth fails to keep up
with inflation and the government implements the biggest budget
cuts since World War II. Consumer price pressures are being
fuelled as British  utility companies  boost electricity and gas
prices because of rising commodity costs earlier in the year.  The U.K. economy grew just 0.2 percent in the second
quarter and gauges of manufacturing, services and construction
growth all declined in August.  In a separate report, the statistics office said the U.K.
goods trade deficit widened to 8.92 billion pounds ($14.1
billion) in July from 8.87 billion pounds in June. While exports
rose 2 percent on the month, that was outpaced by a 3.8 percent
jump in imports. Both rose to record levels.  The  trade gap  in goods and services was 4.45 billion
pounds, compared with 4.5 billion pounds in June, the statistics
office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  