-- 
U.K. Unions Threaten Winter of Strikes Over Cuts

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-13T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-k-unions-threaten-winter-of-strikes-over-cuts.html
U.K. unions are threatening a
winter of strikes as they step up their opposition to Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s spending cuts.  As many as 10 unions plan a one-day stoppage in November
and strikes may continue into 2012 with disruptions to schools,
fire-fighting services and courts unless the government waters
downs its plans to curb public-sector pensions, labor leaders
say. The  Trades Union Congress , the umbrella group representing
6.2 million workers, will debate joint action at its  annual
conference  in London today.  “I think a strike this autumn is inevitable,”  Len McCluskey , general secretary of Unite, the biggest U.K. union
with 1.5 million members, told reporters yesterday. “We’ve been
discussing with our colleagues in order that we can move
together in a coordinated fashion. It will go into 2012 without
a shadow of a doubt. We’re planning for it to be a long
dispute.”  Unions want to build a “coalition of resistance” against
the 80 billion-pound ($126 billion) program of spending cuts,
which Cameron’s coalition government says is necessary to narrow
the  budget deficit  and shield Britain from the debt crisis
engulfing the euro area. TUC General Secretary  Brendan Barber 
has proposed a levy on members to raise 2 million pounds over
the next two years to fund the campaign.  No Concessions  “If the coalition refuses to move, if it refuses to reach
a compromise on pensions, I believe a ballot will be
inevitable,”  Dave Prentis , general secretary of the 1.4
million-member Unison health and local-government union, told
reporters yesterday. “We’ve not got one concession from the
coalition. If Unison moves, the other public service unions will
move down the same road.”  Unions are fighting plans to make government employees
retire later and contribute more to their pensions while getting
less in return. Ministers say the overhaul is fair as the more
than 5 million workers who contribute to public-sector pensions
enjoy benefits that are no longer available to those in the
private sector.  Most government-pension plans operate on a pay-as-you-go
basis, meaning the contributions of workers and their employers
are used to pay retired members. The shortfall is made up from
the public purse, a cost the Treasury predicts will rise to
almost 10 billion pounds by 2016 from 7 billion pounds today.  ‘Mightily Upset’  “We don’t want strikes,” Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude told reporters at a lunch yesterday. “The public would be
very fed up if there were widespread strikes which closed
schools again and affected services. People who in many cases
are paying more towards public pensions than their own pensions
would be mightily upset if there’s industrial action.”  November’s strike may prove more disruptive than a stoppage
involving teachers and other government workers on June 30.
Then, only four unions took part and the government said turnout
fell far short of the “hundreds of thousands” predicted by
unions.  The call to action underlines the growing pressure on
Cameron to ease the pace of deficit reduction a month after
Britain experienced its worst riots since the 1980s as violence
erupted in  London  and spread to other English cities.  A two-year public-sector  pay freeze  began in April and the
government plans to ax more than 300,000 jobs by 2015 as part of
an effort to wipe out a deficit that ballooned to 11 percent of
economic output in the aftermath of the recession.  The opposition  Labour Party  and its union backers say the
cuts are hampering an economy that has barely grown since
September, threatening to push up the country’s 7.9 percent
jobless rate and make it harder to tackle the deficit.  Pessimism about the economy caused yields on 10-year
U.K. government bonds to fall to 2.24 percent in London on Aug.
18, the least since Bloomberg began collecting data on the
securities in 1989. They were at 2.41 percent yesterday,
compared with 1.79 percent on similar-maturity German bunds,
 Europe ’s benchmark.  “You can’t cut the deficit by depressing the economy,”
Barber told delegates on Sept. 12. “It’s only through jobs and
growth that we can heal the public finances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  