-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise, Erasing Earlier Loss, as European Banks Rally

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-13T20:36:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-s-stock-index-futures-slide-s-p-500-may-retreat-for-third-day-in-four.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher for a second day, as French
banks eased concerns over their access to funding and investors
watched for signs of progress in taming  Europe ’s debt crisis.  All 10 main industries in the S&P 500 advanced as gains
were led by industrial, raw material and technology companies.
The Dow Jones Transportation Average, a proxy for the  U.S.
economy , jumped 3.4 percent as airlines rose.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  added more than 1 percent, following a
rally in European lenders.  Aetna Inc. (AET)  jumped 5.4 percent as the
health insurer said profit will probably beat its forecast.  The S&P 500 increased 0.9 percent to 1,172.87 at 4 p.m. in
New York, after falling as much as 0.4 percent. The gauge has
risen 1.6 percent in two days. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
advanced 44.73 points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,105.85 today.  “Stocks are trading on the news of the day and the news
was moderately favorable,”  Michael Cuggino , who oversees $15
billion at Permanent Portfolio Funds in San Francisco, said in a
telephone interview. “While the issues of liquidity and health
of the European banking system and the long-term viability of
the euro are still out there, today is a day where people are
looking beyond that. We’ve had a big correction. Levels really
haven’t gotten back to where they were.”  The  S&P 500  fell as much as 18 percent from a three-year
high on April 29 through Aug. 8 on growing concern over Europe’s
debt crisis and an economic slowdown. Since then, the index has
risen 4.8 percent.  French Banks  Global stocks rose as BNP Paribas SA, France’s biggest
bank, and  Societe Generale  SA surged after easing concerns over
their access to funding. Societe Generale jumped after Chief
Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in New York that the bank’s potential
losses from European sovereign debt were “manageable” and that
it could do without access to U.S. money-market funds.  “For our bank, the exposure to sovereign debt is low,
absolutely manageable,” Oudea said. “We have plenty of buffers
of liquidity and we are adjusting to the reduction in the money-
market fund exposure.”  Stocks briefly trimmed gains after a report that German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Greece should not get
any additional aid beyond what has already been agreed upon.  Greece should default on its bonds to stop a deterioration
of the economy, said Mario Blejer, a former Bank of England
adviser who took the reins of Argentina’s central bank after its
2001 default on $95 billion.  ‘Default Big’  “Greece should default, and default big,” Blejer, who was
an adviser to Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  from 2003 to
2008, said in an interview in Buenos Aires. “You can’t jump
over a chasm in two steps.”  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  added 1.2 percent. Wells Fargo gained
1.1 percent to $24.36. Fifth Third Bancorp rallied 4.2 percent
to $10.35.  All 20 stocks in the Dow Jones Transportation Average rose.
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  climbed 8.3 percent to $7.99.  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  advanced 7.4 percent to $19.28.  Aetna rose 5.4 percent to $40.53. Earnings excluding some
items this year are now expected to be more than $4.60 to $4.70
a share, the Hartford, Connecticut-based insurer said in a
corporate filing today. Demand for medical care continues to be
lower than previous expectations, helping to contain costs,
Aetna said.  Best Buy Co. sank 6.5 percent to $23.35. The largest
consumer electronics retailer reported second-quarter profit
that trailed analysts’ estimates and cut its full-year earnings
forecast as sales of televisions and mobile phones declined.  Rapidly Enough  The S&P 500 may drop below a one-year low reached last
month because too few stocks have declined rapidly enough,
according to MF Global Inc.  Using an indicator known as the 10-day stochastic, only 3.2
percent of S&P 500 stocks were “oversold” as of Sept. 9, Craig Peskin and John Kolovos, co-heads of technical analysis research
at MF Global, wrote in a note yesterday. While the benchmark
gauge for U.S. equities slid 15 percent from a three-year high
on April 29 through last week, not enough individual stocks fell
quickly and far enough to signal the overall market reached a
low point.  “Indicators that measure the degree that equities are
oversold are not signaling such a condition has been met,” New
York-based Peskin and Kolovos wrote. “One aspect of this market
is clear: there is a lot of overhead resistance for equities to
get through. However, we do not see evidence that it can be
overcome in the near future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  