-- 
U.S. Daily Internet Deals to Reach $4.17 Billion by 2015, Researcher Says

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-s-daily-internet-deals-to-reach-4-17-billion-by-2015-researcher-says.html
Groupon Inc., LivingSocial and
other daily-deal websites will generate $4.17 billion in U.S.
sales in 2015, more than double the amount this year, research
firm BIA/Kelsey estimates.  The market will be worth $1.97 billion in 2011, according
to Chantilly, Virginia-based  BIA/Kelsey . The company has revised
its projections since March, when it predicted smaller sales
this year but a faster growth rate from 2011 to 2015.  Even as Groupon and LivingSocial increase sales, other
companies have lost interest in the daily-deal industry.
Facebook Inc. and Yelp Inc. have pulled back on deals, and some
consumers and merchants have begun to grow weary of getting
scads of offers from discount providers. That means a slower
annual growth rate in coming years than in 2011, said Peter Krasilovsky, vice president and program director of marketplaces
at BIA/Kelsey.  “The growth curve is leveling off at a certain point for
the pure daily-deals activity that we’ve been measuring,”
Krasilovsky said. “We will see more people signing up, but we
will not see an endless amount of increased activity.”  More than 600 daily-deal providers have crowded into the
market and they’re increasingly targeting users based on their
location and interests, BIA/Kelsey said. Still, the average
number of transactions and price per transaction on the sites is
growing, the research firm said.  In August, the North American daily-deal industry grew 9
percent over the preceding month, according to data released
yesterday by another researcher, Yipit.com. The increase
followed a 7 percent drop in July, Yipit said.  The websites of online coupon leaders Groupon and
LivingSocial had fewer weekly unique visitors in August than at
their peak in mid-June, with LivingSocial’s tally dropping at a
faster pace, according to ComScore Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  