-- 
Supercommittee to Get Push From Senators to Increase Savings

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-09-14T20:40:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-s-can-t-sustain-spending-and-tax-levels-cbo-director-says.html
Congress’s deficit-cutting
supercommittee may receive a push to increase its $1.5 trillion
savings target from a bipartisan group of about 25 senators.  The informal group, about evenly split between Democrats
and Republicans, met yesterday to discuss principles they might
propose, said Senator  Chris Coons , a Delaware Democrat, and two
other senators. Another meeting is planned tomorrow.  “I’m optimistic about our progress,” Coons said in an
interview. The senators aim to provide political support for
supercommittee members in both parties who face difficult
decisions on whether to support entitlement program cuts and tax
increases.  Separately, Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican
who sits on the supercommittee, said that panel will hold a
private executive session tomorrow night. Thus far, the
committee has held two meetings that were open to the public.  Congress created the 12-member bipartisan supercommittee
last month in legislation resolving a standoff over raising the
federal debt limit. The panel was instructed to create a 10-year
plan to cut at least $1.5 trillion by Nov. 23. The law requires
automatic, across-the-board spending cuts if Congress doesn’t
pass a plan.  CBO Director  During the supercommittee’s first hearing yesterday, the
director of the  Congressional Budget Office  said the U.S. can’t
stabilize its long-term debt without major cuts to entitlement
programs, revenue increases far higher than historical averages
or a much smaller federal government.  “Citizens will either have to pay more for their
government, accept less in government services and benefits or
both,” said Director  Douglas Elmendorf .  Elmendorf said Congress would have to more than double its
$1.5 trillion goal to diminish the risk of a fiscal crisis and
reduce the debt burden on the economy. A day earlier, about 60
business leaders and former government officials also urged the
supercommittee to raise its target.  Democratic members of the committee, including Senator  John Kerry  of  Massachusetts , support a larger savings target, while
Republicans, including panel co-chairman Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas , have said that a higher goal would make an
already difficult agreement nearly impossible.  President  Barack Obama  is asking Congress to approve his
$447 billion plan to create jobs through tax cuts and new
spending. The president proposed that it be paid for with tax
increases that could be folded into the supercommittee’s work.  Broader Tax Base  A member of the informal group of senators, Delaware
Democrat Tom Carper, said he hopes Republicans among them will
go along with higher revenue “in the context of entitlement
reform and  tax reform  where we end up with lower rates,
progressive but lower rates, and with a broader base and with
revenues.”  Another member, Maine Republican Susan Collins, said that,
while the informal group is still discussing what statement it
may make, she could go along with higher revenue as long as it
doesn’t include tax increases similar to what Obama is
proposing.  “I’m certainly open to new revenues, but it depends how
you do it,” she said. Collins said she supports lower corporate
rates rather than Obama’s proposal to set a 28 percent cap on
itemized deductions and some exclusions for individuals earning
more than $200,000 a year.  Jobs Plan  Democrats and Republicans on the supercommittee differed on
the role of  deficit reduction  in creating jobs. “A path to
credible deficit reduction is a jobs program,” Hensarling said.
The debt crisis is “spending-driven,” and “the deficit
reduction will be a jobs plan,” he said.  Kerry warned against focusing on “austerity measures
alone.” He said that the nation “needs growth” and that
“creating jobs today helps reduce the deficit tomorrow.”  Elmendorf said the U.S. would need to reduce deficits by
about $3.8 trillion, including interest savings, in the next
decade to lower the debt in 2021 to the mid-1990s level of about
50 percent of gross domestic product.  That number would go up to $6.2 trillion if Congress wants
to continue policies such as the tax cuts initially enacted
during President  George W. Bush ’s administration, the director
said.  While spelling out the risks of delaying a major debt-
reduction package, Elmendorf also warned that deep cuts in the
short term could put at risk a fragile economy that may be
headed into another recession.  Drag on Expansion  “Immediate spending cuts or tax increases would represent
an added drag on the weak economic expansion,” he said.  “There is no inherent contradiction between using fiscal
policy to support the economy today, while the  unemployment rate 
is high and many factories and offices are underused, and
imposing fiscal restraint several years from now, when output
and employment will probably be close to their potential,” he
said.  The major contributors to the debt are federal benefit
programs, Elmendorf said. The number of Medicare and Social
Security beneficiaries will increase by one-third in the next
decade, he said.  All spending apart from Social Security, the major health-
care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and interest
payments on the debt is projected to decline as a share of the
economy, falling to 7.7 percent of GDP in 2021, the lowest in
the past 40 years, he said.  “The fundamental question for you is not how we got here
but where you want the country to go,” he told Baucus. “What
role do you and your colleagues want the government to play in
society?” If members want to retain programs like Medicare in
their current form, “more  tax revenue  is needed,” he said.  Elmendorf said that if the committee wants to rewrite
entitlement laws, its real deadline is the beginning of November
because the CBO will need a few weeks to analyze the cost.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  