-- 
U.S. Lead Slipping in Global Race for Higher-Education Degrees

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-09-13T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-s-lead-slipping-in-global-race-for-higher-education-degrees.html
The U.S. is losing its
international edge in higher education as adults entering the
workforce are earning a smaller share of the world’s college
diplomas than those approaching retirement, a report found.  People aged 25 to 34 in the U.S. hold 20.5 percent of
college and graduate degrees around the globe in that age group,
according to a study of 42 countries released today by the
Paris-based  Organization for Economic Co-operation &
Development . The U.S. share of those degrees in people 55 to 64
years old is about 36 percent.  To improve U.S. international competitiveness, President
 Barack Obama  has pledged to improve college attainment among
those entering the workforce. Complicating the task, the U.S.
ranks 31st in math, 23rd in science and 17th in reading among
countries and regions tested in an international assessment the
organization released last year.  “The U.S. is fast losing its advantage,” the
international report said today, citing the “rapid expansion”
of college education in the industrialized world and emerging
economies.  The U.S. has about 26 percent of the 255 million
individuals with college and graduate degrees, a greater share
than any other country in the study. China came in second, with
12 percent; and  Japan , third, with 11.5 percent. At the same
time, among 34 countries belonging to OECD, the U.S. ranks only
15th in higher-education attainment for 25-34 year olds.  China ’s Youth  Contrasting with the U.S. generational decline, China’s
youth surpassed their elders. Among China’s 55- to 64-year-olds,
7 percent have college and graduate degrees, compared with 18
percent for its 25- to 34-year-olds.  The U.S. has long been “the benchmark for success” in
higher-education attainment and is now “quite alone” in
reporting lower levels for those entering the workforce than
those leaving it, Andreas Schleicher, who oversees OECD
education statistics, said in a phone briefing with reporters.  Among OECD countries, the U.S. has some of the biggest
economic payoffs for earning a college degree, including higher
salaries and lower unemployment, the study found. U.S. college
degrees are “by far” the most expensive for students, with
direct costs such as tuition totaling $70,000, compared with the
OECD average of $11,000, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  