-- 
U.S. Gasoline Demand Lowest Since February, MasterCard Says

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-09-13T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-s-gasoline-demand-lowest-since-february-mastercard-says.html
U.S. gasoline consumption slipped
2.4 percent last week to the lowest level since February as a
weak jobs market, a struggling economy and higher prices at the
pump crimp demand, according to  MasterCard Inc. (MA)   Motorists bought 8.53 million barrels a day in the week
ended Sept. 9, down from 8.74 million the prior week, the
second-biggest payments network company said in its
SpendingPulse report. Demand last week was 3.5 percent below a
year earlier.  The average pump price rose 3 cents to $3.66 a gallon, 37
percent higher than a year earlier.  The U.S. jobless rate was 9.1 percent in August, unchanged
from July, and has been 9 percent or higher in 10 of the past 12
months, according to Labor Department data.  “For gasoline consumption it boils down to price,” John Gamel, director of economic analysis for SpendingPulse, said in
an interview. “If you consider the economy, the labor market is
still weak. To have a real pickup in demand, the labor market
would have to be more robust than it is now.”  U.S. employers said they plan to slow the pace of hiring in
the fourth quarter as they stay guarded about the economic
outlook, a private survey by Manpower Inc., the world’s second-
largest provider of temporary workers, showed today.  Averaged over four weeks, gasoline use was 2.7 percent
below a year earlier. It was the 25th week in a row that demand
fell on that basis, Gamel said.  Fuel consumption peaked this year at 9.56 million barrels
in the week ended July 1 as motorists filled their tanks before
the July 4 holiday weekend.  “It has been a very weak summer, the weakest we’ve seen
since 2008,” Gamel said.  The report from Purchase, New York-based MasterCard is
assembled by MasterCard Advisors, the company’s consulting arm.
The information is based on credit-card swipes and cash and
check payments at about 140,000 U.S. gasoline stations.  Visa Inc. (V)  is the biggest payments network company by
transactions processed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  