-- 
U.S. Embassy Fired On in Taliban Attack as Bombs Explode in Central Kabul

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-09-13T17:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-s-embassy-fired-on-in-taliban-attack-as-bombs-explode-in-central-kabul.html
Taliban fighters detonated bombs
and battled Afghan police and troops for hours today in the
Afghan war’s most sustained combat near the  U.S. Embassy  in
Kabul.  The attack killed three Afghan civilians and one Afghan
police officer, while a dozen people were wounded,  Afghanistan ’s
interior ministry said in an e-mailed statement. While no U.S.
personnel were injured, four Afghans at the U.S. compound were
hurt, embassy spokeswoman Kerri Hannan said in a statement.  In  Washington , CIA Director David Petraeus, formerly the
top U.S. commander in Afghanistan, said the attack included
“five or so” people, perhaps wearing suicide vests, firing
with small arms and rocket-propelled grenades from a building
under construction.  “This was far from a so-called spectacular attack,”
Pentagon spokesman George Little told reporters. “It has not
resulted in the kind of destruction that the insurgents probably
expected.”  The attackers set off bombs early in the afternoon at a
main intersection in New Mikrorayon, a neighborhood of concrete-
walled apartment buildings, and rushed into an empty building
under renovation that overlooks the U.S. Embassy, about 800
meters to the west, and beyond it the headquarters compound of
the U.S.-led  International Security Assistance Force , Tolo TV
and the  Pajhwok news agency  reported.  “Terrorists have taken over a building under
construction,” Afghan Interior Ministry spokesman Sediq Seddiqi
said by phone. “Police have shot dead two of them, but three or
four are still fighting from the top of the building and our
operation is continuing,” he said.  Complex Attacks  The attack came three weeks after the Taliban killed eight
people in an assault on the British Council cultural center,
northwest of the city center.  Although rockets have been fired in the embassy’s direction
during the decade-old U.S. war against the Taliban, no previous
attack as complex as today’s fighting has targeted the heavily
defended facility. While Hannan referred to fire from rocket-
propelled grenades, there was no confirmation that the embassy
or the ISAF headquarters had been hit.  The rattle of gunfire continued into the evening, five
hours after the battle began.  The Taliban guerrilla movement launched the attack against
“local and foreign intelligence facilities,” Taliban spokesman
 Zabihullah Mujahed  said in a text message. The news agency
Pajhwok, based in Kabul, cited witnesses saying the gunmen were
firing at a nearby compound that belongs to the National
Security Directorate, the main government intelligence agency.  Insurgents’ Momentum  The attack came two days after the U.S. ambassador in
Kabul,  Ryan Crocker , presided over a Sept. 11  memorial ceremony 
in which the ISAF commander, Marine General John Allen, said,
“We have reversed the momentum of the insurgents. On this
sacred day of remembrance, I can say we are on the path of
success in Afghanistan.”  The Taliban have conducted a series of complex attacks,
combining bombings and commando-style assaults by suicide
squads, to deepen the sense of insecurity in the capital. The
deadliest such strike in recent months, a five-hour commando
raid on the  Hotel Intercontinental , killed 12 people on June 29.  President  Hamid Karzai  noted that Afghan forces, rather
than international troops, were responding to today’s attack, a
statement from his office said. Such assaults “cannot stop the
process” of shifting security responsibilities from
international to Afghan forces, Karzai said, “but rather
embolden our people’s determination in taking the responsibility
for their country’s own affairs.”  Embassy Protection  More than 1,600 personnel of the U.S. mission in the Afghan
capital are protected by a Kabul Embassy Security Force of
nearly 400 guards, according to a  September 2010 report  by the
State Department’s inspector general’s office. That staff is
spread across three locations in the city, including the main
embassy compound, the report said.  The U.S. closed its Kabul embassy for 12 years before and
during the rule of the Taliban regime. Since the State
Department reopened it in December 2001, following the Taliban’s
ouster, the embassy has been rebuilt and expanded.  Its sprawling complex of office buildings, a high-rise
apartment block and security bunkers has taken over what were
adjacent empty fields, and the road leading to it is closed by
roadblocks manned by soldiers and guards.  Despite the new construction, the embassy suffers
“overburdened life support systems,” including housing,
security and transport, for a burgeoning staff, according to a
separate declassified  State Department report  prepared last
year.  The embassy’s U.S. staff nearly tripled with what the
report called “a massive civilian plus up to support the large
increases in assistance programs” to Afghanistan under
President  Barack Obama , leaving many employees living in
prefabricated dormitories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  