-- 
U.S. Senate Panel Seeks to Halt Joint Light Tactical Vehicle

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-13T19:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-s-senate-panel-seeks-to-halt-joint-light-tactical-vehicle-1-.html
A U.S. Senate panel decided today
to end a potential $54 billion Joint Light Tactical Vehicles
program for the Army and Marine Corps, citing “excessive cost
growth.”  The defense subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations
Committee said the Pentagon should instead upgrade its fleet of
Humvee vehicles.  “The bill terminates the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle
program due to excessive cost growth and constantly changing
requirements,” Chairman Daniel Inouye, a Democrat from  Hawaii ,
said in a statement. “The committee believes that alternatives
exist today to meet the Army and Marine Corps’s requirements to
recapitalize and competitively upgrade the Humvee fleet, and
supports funding for those programs.”  The Government Accountability Office in March  estimated  the
cost of the JLTV program at $54 billion. The agency  last year 
put the minimum production cost at $306,000 per vehicle, with a
likely total procurement cost, including armor kits and mission
equipment, of more than $800,000. The Army and Marine Corps had
sought to buy 60,383 JLTVs to replace a portion of their Humvee
fleets.  Technology Development  Three companies in 2008 won technology development
contracts for the program: General Tactical Vehicles, a joint
venture of General Dynamics Land Systems, part of  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , and  South Bend , Indiana-
based AM General LLC; BAE Systems Land & Armaments, part of
London-based BAE Systems Plc; and Bethesda, Maryland-based
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   Under the contracts, General Tactical Vehicles has received
$74.6 million; BAE Systems $77.4 million; and Lockheed $65.4
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  President  Barack Obama  requested $244 million for the JLTV
program in his fiscal 2012 budget, all in research and
development funding, up from $84.7 million in fiscal 2011 and
$83.9 in fiscal 2010, according to Pentagon budget documents.  The defense subcommittee of the House Appropriations
Committee in June cut $50 million in JLTV funding and increased
by the same amount research and development funding for Humvee
“survivability enhancements.”  Shrinking Niche  “Any calculation regarding how many, when and at what
price the services would purchase JLTVs should consider the
worth of the battle-tested vehicles that have been bought and
paid for and on which the soldiers and Marines have trained and
fought,” the House committee wrote in its  report . “The
operational niche to be filled by the JLTV appears to be
shrinking.”  If the full Senate approves its panel’s position, the
program’s termination will have to be negotiated with the House.  The cochairmen of Obama’s bipartisan deficit-reduction
commission,  Alan Simpson  and  Erskine Bowles , last year
recommended killing the JLTV program, along with the Ground
Combat Vehicle and Joint Tactical Radio System, as part of an
effort to find $100 billion in defense savings.  “Wartime funding enabled the Army to upgrade its current
tactical vehicle fleet earlier than anticipated,” they wrote in
a  report  detailing the illustrative savings. “Battle losses,
maintenance washouts and vehicles left in theater were lower
than anticipated. In light of this situation, it is not clear
why the Army needs to buy the new Light Tactical Vehicles at
this time.”  ‘Vital Program’  General Raymond Odierno, the Army’s new chief of staff,
called the JLTV “a vital program to fill the force protection
and payload gaps not currently satisfied by” the Humvee in his
prepared responses for his July 21 Senate confirmation hearing.  The Senate defense appropriations panel also added $240
million to upgrade Abrams battle tanks made by General Dynamics.
The committee followed similar actions by House appropriators,
as well as the Senate and House armed services committees.  The additional funding backs the company’s effort to
override an Army plan to suspend the tank program. The Abrams
was designed in the 1970s.  The Army had requested $181 million for the enhanced Abrams
M1A2. The House’s version of the 2012 defense-spending bill
added $272 million to the Pentagon’s budget.  General Dynamics and at least 200 of its suppliers have
been lobbying Congress to add almost $1.4 billion over the next
four years.  The Army’s 2012 budget proposed suspending the ongoing
upgrade of older tanks to enhanced Abrams M1A2 models while the
Army assesses plans for next-generation armor. The service
proposes shutting down work at the Lima, Ohio-based tank plant
between 2013 and 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  