-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Gold Gains on European Debt Concerns

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-13T12:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-gold-gains-on-european-debt-concerns.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Gains in New York as European Debt Concerns Spur Demand  Gold gained in New York as concern that the European debt
crisis is escalating spurred demand for the metal as a
protection of wealth.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Goldwind May Build U.S. Turbine Plant as  China  Demand Slows (1)  Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co., China’s second
biggest wind-turbine maker, may build a factory in the U.S. as a
way of increasing sales to make up for slowing demand in its
domestic market.  Buses for Planes Would Save $89 Million in Subsidized Air Cities  Taxpayers would save up to $89 million a year if buses
rather than planes served 38 cities where the U.S. subsidizes
flights, the American Bus Association said in a study.  Ubbink Starts First East Africa Solar-Panel Factory; Will Expand  Ubbink Group, a Dutch maker of energy-saving products,
started East Africa’s first solar-panel factory in  Kenya , where
only a fifth of families are linked to the national  power grid ,
and will raise output fivefold by 2014.  Ethiopia Building 10 New Sugar Plants to Become Leading Exporter  Sugar Corp., Ethiopia’s state-owned producer, said it
started building 10 new factories and is inviting private
investment as part of a plan to become one of the world’s 10
biggest exporters of the crop.  Thailand  May Cede No. 1 Rice Ranking to Raise Rural Incomes (2)  Thailand is willing to relinquish its role as the world’s
biggest rice exporter as the government prepares to buy grain
directly from farmers to boost prices and rural incomes, Deputy
Prime Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said.  Record Ruble Bond Sale Curtailed as Yields Climb: Russia Credit  Russia curtailed its biggest ever auction of longer-dated
bonds as concern the debt crisis in  Europe  will cut demand for
oil pushes up the cost of borrowing for the world’s biggest
energy exporter.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Rise on Reduced Debt-Crisis Concern, Freeport Strike  Copper may rise for the first session in three in London on
reduced concern about Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis amid
reports that China may invest in Italy and on a mine strike in
 Peru .  Copper Stocks at China Bonded Warehouses to Advance, ANZ Says  Copper held at bonded warehouses in China, the biggest
user, will increase as tightened credit results in more metal
held locally by international traders, possibly boosting imports
and prices, according to  Australia  and New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd.  Glencore’s Kazakhstan Zinc Unit Starts 70,000 Ton Copper Smelter  Glencore International Plc-controlled AO Kazzinc,
Kazakhstan’s largest zinc producer, started operating a smelter
with annual capacity of 70,000 metric tons of copper cathodes.  MINING:  Aluminum, Zinc ETPs Are Unviable on Elevated Costs, Norilsk Says  Exchange-traded products backed by physical aluminum and
zinc are unviable because of relatively high storage and
management costs, according to OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the
biggest Russian mining company.  China August Copper Output Gains to Record; Aluminum Steady (2)  Copper production in China rose to a record in August as
ample raw-material supplies and expectation of a rise in demand
in fall prompted smelters to raise output. Aluminum output was
little changed.  BHP Coal Miners Plan More Strikes in Australia Before Vote (1)  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s coking coal miners in Australia will
hold more strikes before they vote on a new employment contract
by the end of the month, a union leader said today.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Reach $2,000-$2,500 in the Next Year, Citigroup Says  Gold may “briefly spike” into the $2,000-$2,500 an ounce
range in the next 12 months if sovereign debt concerns escalate,
Citigroup Inc. said today in an e-mailed report.  Morgan Stanley Positive on Gold as ‘Perfect Storm’ Continues (1)  Gold’s “perfect storm” is expected to continue on renewed
investor demand for haven assets, potentially driving the metal
to its 1980 inflation-adjusted record, according to Morgan
Stanley.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Falls as U.S. Cuts Demand Outlook, Crop Conditions Improve  Corn fell for the first day in three in  Chicago  after the
U.S. government cut its outlook for demand and said crop
conditions improved. Wheat dropped as Australia forecast record
exports.  Coffee Drops as Robusta Crop May Rise to Record; Sugar Declines  Coffee fell in  London  on speculation supply may be abundant
in the season starting next month. Sugar declined.  Coffee Stocks in Importers May Have Risen in 2011, ICO Says (1)  Coffee inventories in importing countries may have
increased in 2011 due to the fast pace of global exports, said
Jose Sette, executive director of the International Coffee
Organization.  Rubber Gains From One-Week Low as Oil Rises, Debt Concern Eases  Rubber increased from almost a one-week low as higher  oil
prices  boosted the appeal of the commodity and concerns about
Europe’s debt crisis eased after a report that China may invest
in Italy.  Palm Oil Falls Most in Two Weeks After Higher Soybean Forecast  Palm oil dropped the most in more than two weeks after
soybeans fell yesterday on a government report that showed world
stockpiles and U.S. production will be higher than previous
estimates.  Japan  Seeks to Buy Most Milling Wheat in 5 Weeks in Tender (1)  Japan is seeking to buy 109,356 metric tons of milling
wheat from the U.S.,  Canada  and Australia in a regular tender on
Sept. 15, the biggest volume in five weeks, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said.  Australia Seen Shipping Record Wheat Cargoes on Bumper Harvest  Australia may ship a record amount of wheat in the coming
year, displacing the European Union as the world’s second-
biggest supplier, and helping cap gains in global prices.  SHIPPING:  IEA Cuts Oil Demand Forecast, Sees ‘Difficult’ Libya Restart (1)  The  International Energy Agency  cut global oil demand
forecasts for this year and next as the economic recovery
falters.  ECONOMIES:  Italy  Seeks to Sell China ‘Significant’ Amount of Bonds, FT Says  The Italian government is making approaches to China with
the aim of selling the cash-rich Asian country “significant”
quantities of Italian bonds and investments in strategic
companies, the Financial Times reported.  Inflation Fight May Double Sinopec Financing Costs: China Credit  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the non-financial Chinese
company with the most bonds maturing next year, may have to pay
twice as much to refinance debt because of Premier Wen Jiabao’s
fight against inflation.  Italy Seeks $10 Billion as Contagion Slams Demand: Euro Credit  Italy is auctioning as much as 7 billion euros ($10
billion) of bonds one day after borrowing costs surged at a bill
auction, as  Greece ’s slide toward default roils global markets.  ‘Market Gods’ Awaiting Obama Temper Refi Losses: Credit Markets  Mortgage bond investors, who suffered the biggest relative
losses in almost three years last month on concern that the U.S.
government would accelerate refinancing, are finding relief on
speculation that any plan will be limited.  U.K. Inflation Accelerates to 4.5% as Clothes Prices Jump (2)  U.K. inflation accelerated in August as the end of seasonal
discounts boosted prices for items such as clothes and
furniture.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Euro Fall as Sale Hurts Italian Bonds; U.S. Futures Drop  European stocks fell for a third day and the euro weakened,
while Italian bonds dropped as the government sold debt. U.S.
index futures declined and German bund yields slid to a record
low.  European Stocks Fluctuate, U.S. Futures Drop; BNP Paribas Falls  European stocks swung between gains and losses, with the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index traded near a two-year low, as bank
shares reversed their earlier losses. U.S. futures dropped,
while Asian shares were little changed.  Euro Falls Toward Lowest in Decade Versus Yen on Italy Debt Woes  The euro fell toward its weakest in a decade versus the yen
on speculation Greece is nearing default and as Italy sold 3.9
billion euros ($5.3 billion) of bonds amid signs the region’s
debt crisis is worsening.  British Pound Falls as More Surveyors See House-Price Declines  The pound dropped against the dollar for a fourth day as a
report showed house-price declines accelerated last month,
adding to evidence that the economic recovery is faltering.  Most Asia Stocks Rise, Rebounding From Year-Low, as Oil Advances  Most Asian stocks rose, with the benchmark regional index
trading near a one-year low, as raw material and energy
producers advanced on increased oil and copper prices.  Oil Rises a Second Day in  New York  on Forecast of Supply Drop  Oil rose for a second day in New York before data forecast
to show that crude supplies declined a second week in the U.S.,
the largest consumer of the commodity.  Merkel Says ‘Uncontrolled Greek Insolvency’ Must Be Avoided (1)  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she won’t let Greece
go into “uncontrolled insolvency” because of the risk of
contagion for other euro-area countries.  Greece Has 98% Chance of Default on Euro-Region Sovereign Woes  Greece has a 98 percent chance of defaulting on its debt in
the next five years as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  fails to
reassure investors his country can survive the euro-region
crisis.  Israeli Inflation-Linked Bonds Drop on Bets Prices to Decline  Israeli inflation-linked bonds dropped, pushing yields to
the highest level in a month, on speculation a report this week
will show consumer prices fell.  Palestinians to Go to UN Security Council, Shtayyeh Says  Palestinians will seek full membership at the  United
Nations  and will request approval from the UN Security Council,
risking a U.S. veto, negotiator Mohammad Shtayyeh said at a
press conference in Ramallah today. Palestinians will also ask
the General Assembly to back their membership, Shtayyeh said.  SPORTS:  Meireles Joins Chelsea After Broken Pledges, Mail Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  England’s Lawes Gets 2-Game Ban at Rugby  World Cup  for Striking  England forward Courtney Lawes was banned for two games at
the 2011 Rugby World Cup after being found guilty of recklessly
striking Argentina’s Mario Ledesma with his knee, tournament
organizers said.  U.K. Soccer Clubs Rein in Wages, Freeze Squads, Survey Finds  Most U.K. soccer clubs are freezing player wages as a
sluggish economy hurts ticket and jersey sales, accountancy firm
PKF (U.K.) LLP said, citing a survey of the financial directors
of 41 teams.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  