-- 
Fewer U.S.Homeowners ‘Underwater’ as Foreclosures Mount

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-09-13T13:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/u-s-homeowners-underwater-on-mortgages-drop-as-foreclosures-increase.html
The number of U.S. homeowners who
owe more than their property is worth slipped in the second
quarter as more residences were lost to foreclosure, according
to a report today from  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)   About 10.88 million homes, or 22.5 percent of those with a
mortgage, were “underwater” as of June 30, the Santa Ana,
California-based company said. That’s down from 10.91 million,
or 22.7 percent, in the prior three months. Another 2.42 million
borrowers had less than 5 percent equity at the end of the
second quarter, bringing the total properties with negative or
near-negative equity to 27.5 percent of mortgaged homes.  “The hardest-hit markets have improved over the last year,
primarily as a result of foreclosures,” Mark Fleming, chief
economist of CoreLogic, said in a statement. “Nationally, the
level of mortgage debt remains high relative to  home prices .”  Negative equity is holding back refinancing and home sales,
impeding a recovery in the housing market, Fleming said.
President  Barack Obama , in a Sept. 8 address to Congress,
proposed giving more homeowners access to low-rate loans as a
way of reducing defaults and boosting  consumer spending .  Almost three-fourths of underwater homeowners are paying
above-market interest on their mortgages, defined as more than
than 5.1 percent, CoreLogic said. The average rate for a 30-year
fixed loan was 4.12 percent last week, the lowest in records
dating back four decades, according to Freddie Mac.  More than 40 percent of borrowers with a loan-to-value
ratio of 125 percent or more are paying mortgages with interest
rates of at least 6 percent, compared with 17 percent of
borrowers with positive equity, CoreLogic said.  Nevada Decline  In Nevada, the state with the highest number of foreclosure
filings, 60.4 percent of homeowners with a mortgage were
underwater. That’s down from about 68 percent a year earlier.  Arizona had the next-highest share of underwater homeowners
in the second quarter, at 49 percent, followed by  Florida  at 45
percent,  Michigan  at 36 percent, and California at 30 percent,
CoreLogic said.  An Obama administration program that allows  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , the government-controlled mortgage companies, to
refinance loans worth as much as 125 percent of a property’s
value helped fewer than 840,000 borrowers as of June 30. The
government originally predicted that the Home Affordable
Refinance Program, announced in March 2009, would help as many
as 5 million homeowners refinance at lower rates.  About one-third of the country’s 76 million owner-occupied
homes had no mortgage in 2009, the most recent figures
available, because they were purchased with cash or the loan was
paid off, according to the Census Bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  