-- 
Muni-Bond Advisers, Vickers ICB Report, Lloyds: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-13T12:23:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/muni-bond-advisor-rules-vickers-icb-report-lloyds-compliance.html
The agency that oversees the U.S.
municipal-bond market delayed proposed rules for financial
advisers until the Securities and Exchange Commission defines
who will be subject to the regulation.  Municipal advisers would face new limits under the Dodd-
Frank Act, which Congress passed more than a year ago. The
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board said it is putting its
proposed rules on hold until the SEC issues a legal definition
of municipal adviser.  The rulemaking board’s proposals must be approved by the
SEC. Before that happens, those with a stake in the outcome are
allowed to suggest changes to the SEC.  The delay affects proposed rules prescribing financial
advisers’ duty to their customers and a ban on political giving
to win business, the MSRB said. The hundreds of businesses that
provide advice to local public officials who raise money in the
$2.9 trillion municipal-bond market were largely unregulated
until the passage of Dodd-Frank, which closes loopholes
illuminated by the financial crisis.  The MSRB said it will resubmit the rules once the SEC
completes its work. The decision may delay the regulations only
for months because the SEC is aiming to complete its work by
year-end, according to an  agency timeline .  Under Dodd-Frank, municipal advisers must register with the
SEC and are subject to rules created by the MSRB. The SEC in
December issued proposed regulations regarding registrations,
though it has yet to complete them.  The SEC’s definition of who is a municipal adviser  drew
criticism  from local bankers who said it was too broad and would
subject them to added regulations for providing services such as
bank accounts.  Special Section: ICB Report  Britain to Implement Vickers’s Bank Protection Plan by 2019  Britain’s government will force lenders to insulate their
consumer banking units by 2019 as Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne seeks to shield customers and taxpayers from
another financial crisis.  The Independent Commission on Banking, chaired by former
Bank of England Chief Economist John Vickers, recommended in a
360-page report published yesterday that banks build fire breaks
between their consumer and investment banks. The plans will cost
the industry as much 7 billion pounds ($11 billion), the report
said. Osborne, 40, pledged the government will legislate by the
end of the current parliamentary session in 2015. British bank
shares fell.  Osborne told reporters yesterday he plans to “stick to”
Vickers’ timetable.  The government last year asked Vickers, 53, to chair a
commission considering ways to enhance competition and reduce
the risks posed by the financial industry. U.K. banks including
Lloyds Banking Group Plc,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
Barclays Plc lobbied the commission and the government to delay
implementation if it went ahead with the fire break plan,
arguing it could harm the U.K.’s faltering economic recovery.  Once the recommendations are implemented, the so-called
ring-fenced units will include all checking accounts, mortgages,
credit cards and lending to small- and medium-sized companies,
the report said. As much as a third of U.K. bank assets, or
about 2.3 trillion pounds, will be included, the document said.
Trading and investment banking activities will be excluded from
the ring-fence.  For more of this story, click here.  Separately, Britain’s banks should become more transparent
in their dealings on products for consumers and small businesses
and make it easier for them to switch checking accounts, a
government-appointed commission said in the ICB report.  The  Financial Conduct Authority , once it has been set up,
should work with banks to provide information in relation to the
cost of their services, the ICB said yesterday.  A current account redirection switching service should also
be created by Sept. 2013 to smooth the process of switching
accounts for consumers and small businesses, the ICB said.  Separately, the panel’s proposals don’t clash with European
Union proposals, the  European Commission  said yesterday.  “At first glance,” implementation of the Vickers report
can be done in a way that complies with current and pending EU
legislation, said  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for the
commission. This includes EU proposals to implement Basel III
capital rules in similar ways across the 27-nation region.  The Vickers report recommended that the U.K.’s biggest
banks hold more capital than required by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision.  Osborne Says Bank Report Is ‘Impressive Piece of Work’  U.K.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne spoke in
the House of Commons about the Independent Commission on Banking
 report  published yesterday.  Britain’s government will force lenders to insulate their
consumer banking units by 2019 to shield customers and taxpayers
from another financial crisis.  For the video, click here.  Compliance Policy  Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Deal Is Good for  Europe , Report Concludes  Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s planned merger will
improve financial market stability and competition in Europe and
boost consolidation, according to a report commissioned by the
Frankfurt exchange operator and published today.  The study by Hendrik Enderlein, a former European Central
Bank economist who is now a professor of political economy at
the Hertie School of Governance, concluded that the merger will
help Europe regain ground lost to other financial centers though
jobs will likely be eliminated in the process.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext forecast cost savings of
400 million euros ($545 million) when they announced the plan to
create the world’s biggest owner of equities and derivative
markets in February. The Enderlein report follows the
publication last week of a study alleging that the merger plan
flouts German exchange rules, concluding that authorities should
block it as a result.  Deutsche Boerse said yesterday in an e-mailed statement
that  Germany ’s BaFin financial-services regulator approved  the
merger.  Regulatory approval remains a hurdle for Deutsche Boerse
and NYSE after both sets of shareholders approved the
combination. The plan is the focus of an extended antitrust
probe by the  European Commission , which has set a Dec. 13
deadline to give its opinion on the deal. The all-stock
transaction would give Deutsche Boerse 60 percent of the
combined entity.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  First National Bank of Florida Closed, FDIC Says  First National Bank of Florida in Milton, Florida, has been
closed, according to a statement by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  CharterBank of West Point,  Georgia , will assume all of its
deposits, the FDIC said. First National Bank had $296.8 million
in total assets, including $280.1 million in deposits, according
to the FDIC.  The cost to the Deposit Insurance Fund is $216.3 million,
the FDIC said in the statement.  For a table listing banks that have failed since 1934 and
their cost since 1986 in millions of dollars to the Deposit
Insurance Fund, click here. Data for the table was provided by
the FDIC.  Government Must Decide on Further Lloyds Sales, Panel Says  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  should sell substantially more
assets and the British government should seek agreement with the
lender on how to do this, the  Independent Commission on Banking 
said.  The panel didn’t specify what assets the London-based
lender should sell beyond the divestiture of 632 branches
already planned. Lloyds, the U.K.’s second-biggest taxpayer-
assisted bank, has lobbied the commission and the government to
spare it further asset sales beyond those agreed with the
European Union in 2009.  Lloyds’s share price has fallen 50 percent since the ICB’s
April interim report said it should sell more assets than the
branch sales agreed following the lender’s receipt of more than
20 billion pounds ($31.7 billion) in state aid. Lloyds became
the U.K.’s biggest provider of current accounts and the biggest
mortgage provider with its takeover of HBOS Plc following the
2008 financial crisis.  The lender opposed an increase in branches sales, with
Chairman Win Bischoff saying in May that the lender won’t sell
“even one branch more” than what was agreed with the E.U. and
the previous Labour administration.  Canada Watchdog to Hold Hearing on Sino-Forest Put Options  The Ontario Securities Commission will hold a hearing this
week to consider modifying a temporary cease-trade order on the
Canadian shares of  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  to allow the trading of
some outstanding put options.  The  Canadian Derivatives Clearing Corp.  will petition the
agency today to allow the trading of put contracts linked to
Sino-Forest shares, Canada’s main securities watchdog said
yesterday in a  notice  on its website.  In an order last week, the Toronto-based commission
extended a trading ban on Sino-Forest shares to Jan. 25 as it
investigates allegations of fraud at the Chinese tree-plantation
operator.  Sino-Forest’s stock has plunged 74 percent in Toronto since
June 1, the day before short seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters
LLC published a report alleging that the company overstated its
timber holdings. Sino-Forest has denied Muddy Waters’
allegations and has assigned an independent committee to
investigate the claims, hiring PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to
assist.  For more, click here.  Australian Regulator Investigates Hanlong Mining Executives  Australia ’s securities regulator froze the assets and
placed travel bans on executives of  China ’s Hanlong Mining
Investment Pty as part of an investigation into suspected
insider trading involving two takeover targets.  Steven Hui Xiao, managing director of Hanlong, a unit of
China’s Sichuan Hanlong Group, had his assets frozen and was
banned from leaving Australia until Sept. 22, the  Australian
Securities and Investments Commission  said today in a statement.
Three employees are helping the inquiry and will stand down from
their positions pending its outcome, Hanlong said in a
statement.  Sundance Resources Ltd. and  Bannerman Resources Ltd. (BMN) ,
targets of takeover proposals from Hanlong, plunged in Sydney
trading after the  Supreme Court  of New South Wales made the
orders against Xiao and two other Hanlong employees. The Chinese
company in July made a A$1.2 billion ($1.24 billion) bid for the
rest of Sundance, a week after making a proposal to Bannerman.  “The court found that ASIC had shown a solid basis for
investigating whether Mr. Xiao may have contravened the
Corporations Act insider trading provisions,” the regulator
said in the statement.  John Mitchell, a lawyer at Arnold Bloch Leibler in Sydney
who represents Xiao, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  “It is important to note Hanlong Mining is not under
investigation and is conducting business as usual,” the company
said. Chengdu-based Sichuan Hanlong vice-president Kang Huan is
traveling to Sydney to oversee management of Hanlong’s interests
in Australia, it said.  “Sundance has no comments, and proposes not to comment, in
relation to the ASIC investigation,” the Perth-based company
said in a statement. “Sundance notes that the investigation
does not relate to the conduct of Sundance or its personnel.”  Peter Kerr, Bannerman’s chief financial officer, said it’s
“business as usual” at the company and declined to comment
further.  U.K.’s FSA Concerned by High-Volume Trade Discounts, FT Says  The U.K. Financial Services Authority has contacted trading
platforms, including the  London  Stock Exchange, over concerns
that volume discounts used to attract high-frequency traders are
encouraging larger trades than might otherwise have been made,
the Financial Times reported, citing people familiar with the
FSA.  The exchange said it sought “to innovate” in pricing to
meet “customers’ needs,” the newspaper reported. The London
Exchange said it maintains “an active dialogue” with
regulators who approve all pricing structures in advance.  Courts  Lloyd’s Underwriters Sue Saudi Bank Over Sept. 11 Claims  Members of Lloyd’s of London’s Syndicate 3500 sued Saudi
Arabia’s National Commercial Bank and other defendants seeking
the recovery of $215 million in claims paid to victims of the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  National Commercial, Saudi Arabia’s largest lender, and
other Islamic banks and charities helped fund or channel funds
to Osama bin Laden’s al-Qaeda network, which was responsible for
the attacks in  New York  and  Washington , lawyers for the
syndicate said in a complaint filed last week in federal court
in Pittsburgh.  The suit seeks recovery of amounts paid in settlement of
Sept. 11 aviation cases. The families of about 600 people killed
in the attacks sued National Commercial in 2002 seeking to
freeze the assets of the bank.  The case is Underwriting Members of Lloyd’s Syndicate 3500
v. Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 11-00202, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  Interviews/Speeches  EU Says It Has No Doubt U.S. Will Meet Basel Commitments  The European Union said it has “no doubt” that the U.S.
will stick to its commitments to apply the Basel III capital and
liquidity rules to its banks.  “It is essential,” that the members of the Group of 20
nations, including the U.S., implement the measures, Chantal
Hughes, a spokeswoman for the  European Commission  said in
Brussels yesterday. “We have no doubt that” the U.S.
authorities “will hold to their commitments.”  She was responding to comments attributed to  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon in the Financial
Times. The U.S. should consider withdrawing from the Basel group
of global regulators, he said, according to the FT.  “It’s not surprising that certain banks don’t want to
implement those requirements,” said Hughes. “We shouldn’t have
a short memory.”  Coffey Says Barclays, RBS Worst Hit by Banking Reforms  Jane Coffey, head of equities at Royal London Asset
Management Ltd., and Matthew Fell, director of competitive
markets at the  Confederation of British Industry , discussed the
 Independent Commission on Banking  report and its impact on U.K.
banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc.  Coffey and Fell spoke with  Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Last Word.”  For the video, click here.  Malmgren Says Europe on Brink of Bank Failures, Defaults  Pippa Malmgren, president and founder of  Principalis Asset
Management , talked about the risk of bank failures and sovereign
default in Europe.  She spoke with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Doug Dachille Says Basel Rules Put Banking in ‘Time Out’  Doug Dachille, chief executive officer of First Principles
Capital Management LLC, Irene Finel-Honigman, a professor of
international and public affairs at Columbia University, and
 Carl Weinberg , founder of High Frequency Economics, talked about
global financial markets and banking regulations.  They spoke with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television’s “Taking
Stock.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 