-- 
Turkish Yields Climb Most in 7 Weeks on Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-09-13T16:20:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/turkish-yields-climb-most-in-7-weeks-on-europe-debt-concern.html
Turkish bond yields rose for a
third day, the biggest increase in seven weeks, on concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  Yields on benchmark two-year debt gained 19 basis points,
or 0.19 percentage point, to 8.12 percent, the largest gain
since July 25, as of 7 p.m. in Istanbul. The lira strengthened
0.8 percent to 1.7727 per dollar, the most this month on a
closing basis. The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  of equities added 1.9
percent.  Italian borrowing costs jumped at a 6.5 billion-euro ($8.8
billion) bond auction as contagion from Europe’s debt crisis
left investors shunning the region’s most-indebted nations. A
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other in Europe
held within two basis points of the highest level in 2 1/2
years.  “It’s sort of a strange price action with yields going up
20 basis points while the currency has been trading benign,”
Selim Gulkan, a fixed-income trader at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS,
the BNP Paribas SA unit in  Turkey , said in an e-mail. “I think
there were foreign sellers who bought the benchmark and the 20-
year bonds from the auction last week and panicked because of
the European turmoil.”  Stocks rose for the first time in three days.  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the nation’s biggest bank by market
capitalization, gaining 1.2 percent, and  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , the lender
part-owned by Citigroup Inc., gained 1.5 percent.  “Third-quarter bank earnings expectations are starting to
be bought” in Turkey, said Isik Okte, a trader at Finans Invest
in Istanbul. “The central bank is cutting rates, it’s
indicating no further reserve-rate increases and moving to
reduce the cost of  reserve requirements ; all of these things are
seen as positive.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  