-- 
Turquoise Targets Energy-Efficient Companies on Iran Subsidy Cut

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-09-13T07:03:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/turquoise-targets-energy-efficient-companies-on-iran-subsidy-cut.html
Turquoise Partners , a Tehran-based
investment firm that manages $180 million in assets, is looking
to buy shares in power-saving companies after Iran cut energy
subsidies.  Iran began phasing out the three-decade-old subsidies last
year to curb unnecessary energy use and boost profitability in
the Persian nation that the  International Monetary Fund  said
 last year  was “one of the most wasteful.”  Turquoise, which invests for foreign and domestic clients
on the  Tehran Stock Exchange , looks for companies using energy
efficiently, Managing Director Ramin Rabii said. Turquoise
overhauled its portfolio to correspond with the subsidy cuts, he
said by phone from the Iranian capital.  When selecting a stock now, “it’s very important for us to
take into account the energy-efficiency of the company,” Rabii,
who helped found Turquoise in 2005, said yesterday.  “We have a portfolio of different companies and it’s very
important for us to make sure our investments are safe from the
subsidy removal plan,” he said. The winners will be those that
become more energy-efficient, he said, without naming companies.
Turquoise has generated an average annual return of about 20
percent the past five years, Rabii said.  “A lot of the older factories that are very inefficient in
terms of energy consumption might actually go bust during this
period,” he said.  Iran , with about 74 million residents, gets
almost all of its power from natural gas and oil, according to
Rabii.  The cuts have driven up productivity in energy-intensive
industries such as cement that have higher power costs, he said.  Cash Supplements  Energy efficiency may become a “significant” investor
opportunity in Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi
Arabia , and as the nation’s young population reaches working age
and boosts consumption, Rabii said.  “Energy is a significant portion of the monthly cost so
efficiency has suddenly become extremely important both for
households and companies,” he said. Each Iranian now receives
about $44 a month in cash to offset the higher costs, he said.  Turquoise to date has $100 million invested in stocks on
the Tehran exchange and $80 million in private equity
transactions, Rabii said.  “Iran is one of the countries with the biggest energy
potential in the world for investors,” he said. The nation is
also undergoing a privatization plan that affects all industries
including energy and power plants, he said.  “Definitely the trend going forward is going to be
liberalization and privatization of the energy sector as a whole
except for upstream oil and gas,” he said. Iran, which has been
punished by international sanctions over its nuclear program,
inaugurated its first atomic power plant this week, officially
linking it to the country’s electricity grid.  “We do comply fully with the  United Nations  and European
Union sanctions policies when investing in Iran,” Rabii said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  