-- 
Usiminas Said to Seek Brazil Government Support to Fight Possible CSN Bid

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-09-13T23:04:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/usiminas-said-to-seek-brazil-government-support-to-fight-possible-csn-bid.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA (USIM5) , Brazil’s second-biggest steelmaker, is seeking government
support to fight a potential takeover or stake increase by Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA, saying such a move would hurt
competition, said a government official familiar with the issue.  Representatives from Usiminas, as the  Belo Horizonte ,
Brazil-based steelmaker is known, met with antitrust officials
at the finance and justice ministries last week after CSN raised
its stake in the company, according to the person, who asked not
to be named because the meetings weren’t public. Usiminas
confirmed in an e-mailed statement it met with officials to
“seek clarification from a competitive standpoint.”  Sao Paulo-based CSN, Brazil’s third-largest steelmaker by
output, has been buying shares since at least January, when the
company said it may boost investments in Usiminas to a level
that could alter management or the control structure. Nippon
Steel Corp., Votorantim Participacoes SA and Camargo Correa SA
together hold 53.8 percent of Usiminas’s voting stock.  “Steel prices are already set internationally, so I don’t
think we’ll have a problem of there being a monopoly within
 Brazil ,” said Leonardo Brito, an equity analyst at Rio de
Janeiro-based hedge fund Teorica Investimentos. “Perhaps some
types of specialty steel that we only have in Brazil may cause a
problem, but I think they would end up resolving that.”  Antitrust Concerns  Usiminas is seeking to fight off a potential bid on
antitrust grounds, said the person, adding that CSN may be fined
for not notifying antitrust regulators of the stake acquisition.
The Justice Ministry has asked CSN and Usiminas to provide more
information on the share purchase and may investigate effects of
a possible combination on the domestic market, said a ministry
press official, who can’t be named, citing internal policy.  CSN said Aug. 19 it raised its stake to 15.15 percent of
Usiminas’s preferred shares and 11.29 percent of common stock.  CSN’s press office declined to comment and said it hadn’t
yet been notified about the ministry request for information.
The Justice Ministry press official also confirmed the meeting
between Usiminas and the head of the ministry’s antitrust arm,
without providing details on the topic of discussions.  Usiminas’s common shares rose 4.6 percent to close at 24.40
reais, the second-biggest gainer on the Bovespa index today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto  in  London  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  