-- 
Vickers Plan May Drive British Banks From London, Levene Says

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-09-13T12:15:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/vickers-plan-may-drive-british-banks-from-london-levene-says.html
John Vickers’s proposals to force
U.K. lenders to insulate their consumer units from their
investment banking operations may do more harm than good,
according to Lloyd’s of  London  chairman  Peter Levene .  “You could have an absolutely spectacularly ring-fenced,
clean, nothing-could-ever-go-wrong banking system,” Levene, a
former Lord Mayor of London, said in an interview in Monte Carlo
today. “But it wouldn’t have much business left,” he said.
“As the banking system makes up around 10 percent or 12 percent
of the economy, it is rather important.”  Lenders will have until 2019 to implement the proposals
Vickers, a former  Bank of England  chief economist, published in
his report yesterday. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne, seeking to shield customers and taxpayers from another
financial crisis, has pledged to implement the proposals, which
the report said could the industry as much as 7 billion pounds
($11 billion).  “There are other countries that are very keen on financial
services,” said Levene, who is stepping down as chairman of
Lloyd’s of London insurance market next month. Banks could
consider going to other centers including Singapore, Shanghai,
and  Hong Kong , he said.  Levene is the founder of  NBNK Investments Plc (NBNK) , which is
trying to start a British consumer bank. The company is bidding
for branches  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  is being forced by
European regulators to sell following its taxpayer bailout.  “Our prime target has been all along, and still is, the
627 branches of Lloyd’s Bank that they have been forced to put
up for sale by the EU,” Levene said. NBNK has entered a second
round of bidding for the Lloyds branches. “At the end of this
month we are supposed to know the result,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 