-- 
VIX at Biggest Discount to Europe Since ’08 as Default Risk Rises: Options

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-13T20:17:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/vix-at-biggest-discount-to-europe-since-08-as-default-risk-rises-options.html
Implied volatility for European
equities has climbed to the highest level since 2008 compared
with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as traders hedge against a
potential default by  Greece .  The VStoxx Index, which measures the cost of options
protecting against Euro Stoxx 50 Index losses, surged 7.5
percent to a 32-month high of 53.55 yesterday. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index closed 14.96 points below the
gauge, the widest gap since October 2008, when Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse drove both to record highs.  Concern Greece will default on its loans and spur a banking
crisis is driving up the price of options relative to contracts
in the U.S., where equities are beating their euro-zone
counterparts by the widest year-to-date margin since 1987,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Euro Stoxx 50 Index
plunged 29 percent in 2011 through yesterday, compared with a
7.6 percent decline for the  S&P 500 .  “Volatility markets are definitely implying that the U.S.
is a safe haven relative to Europe,” Nelson Saiers, chief
investment officer of Alphabet Management LLC, said in a phone
interview yesterday. The New York-based volatility hedge fund
manages about $635 million. “People are much more focused on
Greece and the potential impact on European banks rather than
the U.S., particularly the effects on the French banks.”  The VIX, as the CBOE gauge is known, lost 4.4 percent to
36.91 at 4:15 p.m. New York time. The VStoxx declined 8.6
percent to 49.12, narrowing the difference between the measures
to 12.21 points.  Final Hour Surge  U.S. stocks surged in the final hour of trading yesterday,
avoiding losses posted earlier in Europe and  Asia . The S&P 500
ended with a 0.7 percent gain, while the Euro Stoxx 50 Index
completed a two-day drop of 7.8 percent.  The European measure, which tracks 50 of the biggest
companies in the 17 nations using the shared currency, has
trimmed its gain since the  bull market  began in March 2009 to 10
percent from 70 percent in February. The S&P 500’s advance has
shrunk to 72 percent from 102 percent.  The VIX, a gauge of S&P 500 options, rose 0.2 percent to
38.59 yesterday, pulling back after reaching 43.18 about two
hours before trading ended for the day. Markets changed course
after the Financial Times reported that  Italy  is trying to
convince  China  to purchase bonds, citing Italian officials the
newspaper didn’t identify.  Lower U.S. options prices are no guarantee American stocks
will avoid losses should investors turn more pessimistic about
the economy, said  Stephen Wood , who helps oversee about $163
billion as the New York-based chief market strategist for
Russell Investments.  ‘Cleanest Dirty Shirt’  “When markets get nervous you see investors jettison risk
of all stripes, and stocks are a flagship risk asset,” Wood
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Stocks are going to
be affected by a risk-off environment. U.S. equities are the
cleanest dirty shirt right now. Nothing looks great, so they’re
the least bad.”  American lenders faced almost $700 billion in exposure to
Greece, Italy, Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain  at the end of the
first quarter, according to data published in July by the Basel,
Switzerland-based  Bank for International Settlements .  European volatility is increasing as officials in German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government debate how to protect the
nation’s banks if Greece defaults, three coalition officials
said Sept. 9. Juergen Stark’s Sept. 9 resignation from the
 European Central Bank ’s executive board spurred concern that the
region’s leaders disagree on how to contain the crisis.  ‘Blowing Out’  Europe ’s benchmark volatility gauge may keep increasing,
said Barclays Plc’s Maneesh Deshpande, who leads the top-ranked
equity-linked strategies team in Institutional Investor
magazine’s 2010 survey.  “The spread should be blowing out,” the New York-based
strategist said yesterday in a telephone interview. “If you
look at the spread between S&P and Euro Stoxx volatility, it’s a
lot higher, but that doesn’t mean it’s at an extreme. If
anything it should be higher than that because all of the
catalysts are in Europe, and European equities are near the
March 2009 lows.”  The last time the difference between the VIX and the VStoxx
was this wide was Oct. 16, 2008, when European equities plunged
and U.S. stocks posted an advance after the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  swung more than 700 points for the sixth straight day.  Lowest Since 2009  A gauge of European banks fell to its lowest level since
March 2009 yesterday, led by a 12 percent drop in Paris-based
BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s biggest bank. The company fell to 26.12
euros, a 30-month low. Societe Generale SA of Paris sank 11
percent to 15.57 euros, the lowest level since 1992, while
Montrouge, France-based  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  tumbled 11 percent to
a record low of 4.83 euros.  Credit-default swaps on the three lenders surged to all-
time highs after two people with knowledge of the matter said
the companies may have their credit ratings cut as early as this
week. France’s lenders top the list of Greek creditors with
$56.7 billion in overall exposure to private and public debt,
according to a June report by the Bank for International
Settlements.  “There’s a lot more uncertainty with the situation in
Europe, and in some way people seem more comfortable about the
outlook for the U.S. market,” said Daniel Hawkins, director and
founder of Mariana Capital Markets Ltd., a London-based
brokerage firm specializing in equity derivatives. He spoke in a
telephone interview yesterday. “People are indirectly viewing
the outlook for the U.S. market as being more stable.”  Relative Value  Price-earnings ratios show investors have more confidence
in the outlook for U.S. corporations. The S&P 500 trades for
12.7 times reported income, up from the 2 1/2-year low of 12.2
reached on Aug. 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For
the Euro Stoxx 50, the multiple sank to 8.4 yesterday, the
lowest level since December 2008.  Investors are more concerned about a Greek default than
they are about the U.S. entering a recession, said Larry Hatheway, UBS AG’s chief strategist and economist. He
recommended buying VIX futures to hedge stocks in a report on
July 22, when the S&P 500 began a 17 percent drop as global
stocks lost $8.1 trillion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “People are starting to look for pockets of value and
there’s an argument that it’s to be found in the U.S.,” the
London-based strategist said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“The U.S. is seen as relatively safer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  