-- 
VW Chairman Signals End to Spending Spree After Porsche, Suzuki Setbacks

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-09-13T08:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/vw-chairman-piech-signals-end-to-carmaker-s-buying-spree.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  Chairman  Ferdinand Piech  signaled the carmaker’s ambitions to make further
acquisitions may have come to an end following setbacks to a
planned merger with Porsche SE and a partnership with  Suzuki
Motor Corp. (7269)  in the past week.  “We’re big enough,” Piech said at a VW event in Frankfurt
on the eve of the International Motor Show when asked if the
carmaker was looking at buying other brands.  Piech’s cautious answer stands in contrast to statements he
made at car shows in recent years, when he said he’d like to buy
 Fiat SpA (F) ’s Alfa Romeo unit and would be interested in expanding
the group to 12 brands from the current 10.  Suzuki said yesterday it wants to dissolve a 20-month-old
alliance with VW after the German carmaker’s 222.5 billion-yen
($2.9 billion) investment failed to yield a single project and
the two fought over control. A merger with Porsche won’t be
completed in 2011 as planned, VW said Sept. 8. The Wolfsburg,
Germany-based company says it’s committed to both projects.  “At the moment, if they consolidate what they have, they
have more than enough to do,” said Jose Asumendi, a London-
based analyst with Royal Bank of  Scotland . “Once they clear
both issues, they’ll actively start looking at other things.”  Shares Gain  Volkswagen preferred shares fell as much as 2.10 euros, or
2.1 percent, to 100.10 euros and were down 1 percent as of 10:54
a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has dropped 16 percent this
year, valuing the carmaker at 44.9 billion euros.  Suzuki will seek to end the pact with Volkswagen, even if
the German automaker wants to maintain it, Chairman  Osamu Suzuki 
said yesterday in  Tokyo . VW has talks planned with Suzuki to try
and find a resolution for their strained partnership, VW Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said.  “We’re keeping to our holding,” Winterkorn told reporters
today. “At the same time, we recognize Suzuki’s desire to
change things. Volkswagen is the biggest shareholder at Suzuki,
why would we want to change that?”  The Japanese automaker, which owns 1.49 percent of
Volkswagen, plans to sell its holdings if Volkswagen agrees to
end the tie-up, the company said in a statement. The Wolfsburg,
Germany-based carmaker owns 19.9 percent of Suzuki, according to
Bloomberg data.  Volkswagen Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch told
journalists last night that the partnership has not worked for
some time.  Porsche Merger  Poetsch said VW’s intentions of merging with Porsche remain
unchanged and that the carmaker didn’t plan to “wait too long”
to move forward with the combination.  The two companies put the merger on hold last week due to
ongoing lawsuits and investigations against Porsche over
accusations the carmaker misled investors during a failed
attempt to buy VW. Porsche has repeatedly denied all of the
allegations. The two agreed to combine in 2009 after Porsche
racked up more than 10 billion euros of debt in the attempt to
take over Volkswagen.  VW is currently investigating the tax implications of
exercising an option to buy the 50.1 percent stake in Porsche’s
automotive unit that it doesn’t already own, Poetsch said,
adding that the process will take a few weeks.  “I now expect VW to make use of the put/call options,”
Porsche CEO Matthias Mueller told reporters in  Frankfurt  today.
“This cannot be done until 2012 though.”  Volkswagen also has a number of projects planned with
industry partners, production chief Michael Macht said.  “We have a whole series of cooperation projects planned,”
Macht said without giving details. “These are development
projects, cooperation deals from the production side that are
planned and are being planned.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  