-- 
VW ‘Plan B’ for Porsche May Prompt Asset Freeze, Lawyer Says

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-09-13T15:42:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/vw-plan-b-for-porsche-could-trigger-asset-freeze-plaintiff-lawyer-says.html
A lawyer with a 1.1 billion-euro
($1.5 billion) suit pending against  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Porsche SE
said he may try to stall the companies using an alternative plan
to join their businesses.  If VW decides to pursue plans to buy Porsche’s operating
units, instead of pursuing the merger of the companies that was
put on hold last week, Franz Braun of Munich based  law firm  CLLB
said he will review whether to ask the court hearing his case
freeze Porsche assets.  VW and Porsche have the option to forego the full merger
and instead fold Porsche’s auto-making business into VW while
leaving the holding company to manage the VW shares. VW is
currently evaluating such a plan, Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch told journalists last night, and the carmaker
doesn’t plan to “wait too long” to complete the combination.  “They make it sound as if such a Plan B would be an easy
thing to do,” Braun said. “Well, we certainly wouldn’t make it
that easy for them.”  Because under the alternative scenario Porsche would become
a mere holding company, the court could grant an order to put
the deal on hold while the suit is pending. That would allow
plaintiffs to collect if they won, said Braun.  “We won’t comment on any speculations,” VW spokesman
Marco Dalan and Porsche spokesman  Albrecht Bamler  said in a
joint statement on Braun’s comment. Porsche hasn’t yet received
the suit, Bamler added.  Banks, Insurers  Braun represents a company bundling claims from 41 banks,
insurance companies and investment funds that filed the suit
against both companies on Sept. 7 in Braunschweig. The investors
claim they were harmed by market manipulation in the trading of
VW shares and disclosure rule violations.  The two companies put their original merger on hold last
week due to ongoing lawsuits in  Germany  and the U.S. and
investigations over accusations Porsche misled investors during
a failed attempt to buy Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW. Porsche has
repeatedly denied all of the allegations. The two agreed to
combine in 2009 after Porsche racked up more than 10 billion
euros of debt in the attempt to take over Volkswagen.  VW is currently reviewing the tax implications of
exercising its option to buy the 50.1 percent stake in Porsche’s
automotive unit that it doesn’t already own, Poetsch said,
adding the process will take a few weeks.  Cash Payment  As part of the original deal struck in August 2009, VW can
pay cash for the remaining stake in Porsche’s automobile
operations through a put/call structure that allows the
Stuttgart, Germany-based sports-car maker to sell the rest of
its core business to VW. Those options can be exercised between
November 2012 and January 2015.  “I now expect VW to make use of the put/call options,”
Porsche CEO Matthias Mueller told reporters in  Frankfurt  today.
“This cannot be done until 2012 though.”  While this option would allow VW to fully fold Porsche’s
automotive business into the VW group, it would leave Porsche’s
holding company to manage the VW shares and take legal and
financial responsibility for the outcome of the lawsuits. The
price to follow this route would be linked to the valuation of
the auto-making business at the time of the purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 