-- 
WaMu Reorganization Rejected as Bankruptcy Judge Sides With Shareholders

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-14T17:32:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/wamu-reorganization-rejected-as-bankruptcy-judge-sides-with-shareholders.html
Washington Mutual Inc. failed for
the second time to win approval for its plan to pay creditors
more than $7 billion as a bankruptcy judge sided with opponents.  The company’s 5.375 percent preferred securities,
convertible into common stock until 2041, plunged more than 70
percent today because they may suffer most from the ruling, said
Kevin Starke, a senior analyst with CRT Capital Group in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
said in a decision yesterday that she was “concerned that the
case will devolve into a litigation morass” and ordered the two
sides into mediation.  WaMu, based in  Seattle , was allied with hedge funds,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The
reorganization plan they support was built on an agreement to
split $4 billion in cash, and billions of dollars more in tax
refunds. The settlement would also have resolved lawsuits over
who is to blame for 2008 collapse of Washington Mutual Bank, the
biggest bank failure in U.S. history.  Common shareholders opposed that plan because it paid them
nothing. They claim billions of dollars more could be raised by
suing JPMorgan and the FDIC over the demise of Washington Mutual
Bank, WaMu’s main operating unit.  WaMu said in a statement distributed by PRNewswire that it
believes the expeditious distribution of funds to claim holders
is “of paramount importance.”  The company will proceed in a manner consistent with the
judge’s opinion in a bid to win approval for a modified plan as
soon as practicable, WaMu said.  Non-Public Information  Walrath said the  hedge funds  that helped negotiate the
proposed plan may have used non-public information they gained
in settlement talks to buy and sell WaMu securities. While the
evidence is not definitive, it is strong enough to justify more
investigation, Walrath found.  In January, Walrath rejected an earlier version of the
plan, saying it guaranteed protection from lawsuits for too many
parties.  The four hedge funds accused of receiving inside
information are Aurelius Capital Management LP, Centerbridge
Partners LP, Appaloosa Management LP and Owl Creek Asset
Management LP. All four have denied using any material, non-
public information to buy or sell WaMu securities.  Aurelius’s spokesman,  Stephen Sigmund  with Global Strategy
Group, declined to comment. Michael de Leeuw, an attorney for
Appaloosa, Centerbridge and Owl Creek, did not immediately
return a call for comment.  Mediation  Walrath granted the committee’s request to sue the hedge
funds for their conduct during the bankruptcy. She said that
potential lawsuit can’t immediately go forward, ordering
shareholders and supporters of the rejected plan to mediation.  She rejected allegations that the hedge funds, known as the
settlement noteholders, controlled WaMu and that the entire plan
was proposed in bad faith. She also upheld the settlement among
JPMorgan, WaMu and the hedge funds that the reorganization plan
is built on.  “Rather, the actions of the settlement noteholders appear
to have helped increase the debtors’ estates,” Walrath wrote.  Creditors who are being paid in full lost a bid to also
receive a higher rate of interest based on their original
contracts. Instead, they will get a potentially lower rate known
as the federal judgment rate given out by courts when awarding
interest.  Sold to JPMorgan  WaMu filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26, 2008, the day after
its banking unit was taken over by regulators and sold to
JPMorgan for $1.9 billion. Washington Mutual Bank had more than
2,200 branches and $188 billion in deposits.  The hedge funds that hold different sets of WaMu bonds and
convertible securities, shareholders and other creditors fought
throughout the case over how to divide the cash, tax refunds and
new stock to be issued in the only part of WaMu that will
survive bankruptcy, a small reinsurance company.  WaMu has $4 billion in cash and more than $3 billion in tax
refunds and other assets to distribute to creditors once the
company negotiates a payment plan Walrath will approve.  The longer it takes the company, JPMorgan and the hedge
funds to settle their differences with shareholders, the more
money will be lost by holders of the so-called Piers class of
preferred securities, which WaMu issued in 2001, said Starke.  That’s because they are at the bottom of WaMu’s payment
ladder, just above common shareholders. The hedge funds hold
billions of dollars worth of WaMu’s senior notes, subordinated
notes and Piers, according to court records.  Piers Recoveries  Any compromise that would give money to shareholders or
other creditors to persuade them to drop their opposition would
probably be paid out of the Piers recoveries, Starke said. The
longer the case drags on, the more money Piers holders,
including the four hedge funds, will lose as WaMu pays for
lawyers, financial advisers and other expenses using the cash it
is holding for creditors.  The case costs about $30 million a month in expenses,
according to court documents.  The Piers, which have a face value of $50 per share and are
convertible to common shares until 2041, fell more than 70
percent today to $4.48, Bloomberg data show.  “That’s the question on everybody’s mind,” Starke said.
“What are the four funds going to do?”  The case is In re  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  