-- 
Elizabeth Warren to Enter Massachusetts Senate Race for Seat Brown Holds

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-09-14T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/warren-to-announce-bid-for-ma-senate-seat.html
Consumer advocate and Harvard Law
School professor  Elizabeth Warren  will announce today her
candidacy for the Democratic nomination to challenge Senator
Scott Brown, a  Massachusetts  Republican rated as one of his
party’s more vulnerable incumbents in 2012.  Warren will be one of several Democrats running for the
seat. Her planned announcement was confirmed yesterday in an e-
mail from a campaign aide, Kyle Sullivan.  “The pressures on middle-class families are worse than
ever, but it is the big corporations that get their way in
Washington,” Warren said in a statement released by her
campaign. “I want to change that. I will work my heart out to
earn the trust of the people of Massachusetts.”  Warren, 62, served as an adviser to President  Barack Obama ,
overseeing the establishment of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, which officially began its operation in July.
Republicans in Congress had signaled they would block her
nomination to head the bureau, and Obama instead chose  Richard Cordray , the former Ohio attorney general.  Kennedy’s Seat  Brown, 52, won a special election in traditionally
Democratic-leaning Massachusetts in January 2010 and is serving
the remainder of the late Senator Edward M. Kennedy’s term.
Kennedy, a Democrat, died in August 2009. Brown is now seeking a
full six-year term.  “Democrats got the candidate they wanted in
Massachusetts,”  Nathan Gonzales , political editor of the non-
partisan  Rothenberg Political Report , said of Warren’s decision.
“They believe she’ll be able to raise a lot of money to compete
against  Scott Brown .”  Other Democratic candidates in the contest include Setti
Warren, the mayor of Newton; Bob Massie, the party’s 1994
nominee for lieutenant governor; and Alan Khazei, the founder of
the nonprofit group City Year.  Warren’s visibility as a champion of consumers gives her
potential appeal, but she could face a struggle as a political
newcomer in her bid to take on Brown, said  Peter Brown ,
assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute in Hamden,  Connecticut .  “Campaigning is an art,” said Brown, who tracks Senate
races but whose institute doesn’t survey in Massachusetts.
“Some people are good at it and some aren’t. We don’t know what
kind of candidate she’ll be.”  Democrats, who control 53 seats in the 100-member Senate,
are at risk of losing their majority to Republicans in the 2012
elections as the economy has slowed and President Barack Obama’s
approval ratings have sagged in national polls.  A total of 33 Senate seats are on the ballot next year,
with 23 held by Democratic caucus members and 10 by Republicans.
While analysts rate several of the Democratic-controlled seats
as competitive, Brown is one of just two Senate Republicans
viewed as at risk of losing next year. The other is Dean Heller,
appointed to his post earlier this year.  All 10 of Massachusetts’s House members are Democrats. And
Obama won 62 percent of the state’s vote in 2008.  Brown has proven a skilled fundraiser. He has raised $10.9
million for his campaign warchest, according to filings with the
 Federal Election Commission.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  