-- 
Wheat Extends Longest Slump Since October as Rain May Revive Dry U.S. Crop

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-09-13T19:56:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/wheat-extends-longest-slump-since-october-as-rain-may-revive-dry-u-s-crop.html
Wheat fell, capping the longest
slump in 11 months, on signs that rain this week will improve
conditions of dry fields in the U.S. Great Plains just as
farmers begin planting winter crops.  Storms may bring a half inch (1.3 centimeters) to an inch
of rain to parts of  Kansas ,  Oklahoma ,  Colorado  and  Texas  by
Sept. 16, said Mike Tannura, the president of forecaster T-Storm
Weather LLC in Chicago. After months of below-normal rainfall,
conditions in the region range from “abnormally dry” to
“exceptional” drought, the most severe ranking on the
University of Nebraska at Lincoln’s U.S. Drought Monitor.  The rain “will be welcomed,”  Larry Glenn , an analyst at
Frontier Ag in Quinter, Kansas, said in a telephone interview.
“It’ll allow us to get some seeds in the ground and maybe get
them up. But for a lot of areas, it’ll have to be followed up by
a lot more moisture, especially in southern Kansas.”  Wheat futures for December delivery fell 25.25 cents, or
3.5 percent, to settle at $7.02 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest drop since Sept. 1. Prices
declined for a sixth straight session, down 9.5 percent since
Sept. 2, capping the longest slump since early October.  About 6 percent of the U.S. winter-wheat crop had been
 planted  as of Sept. 11, behind the previous five-year average
pace of 10 percent, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
yesterday. Winter wheat, used to make bread, goes dormant until
March and is harvested starting in May. The U.S. is the world’s
largest exporter of the grain.  This week may bring “the biggest rain event in months for
the driest areas of Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma and northwest
Texas,” T-Storm’s Tannura said in a telephone interview. “Even
though this is clearly a major rain event and helpful to
improving topsoil moisture, several more events of this caliber
will be needed to break the drought.”  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $13
billion in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  