-- 
Yuan Only BRIC Winner on Resilience to Debt Crisis: China Credit

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-14T08:36:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/yuan-only-bric-winner-on-resilience-to-debt-crisis-china-credit.html
China , with its centrally
controlled economy, managed currency and restrictions on capital
inflows, has become a haven for investors fleeing widening
global debt turmoil.  The yuan is the only currency among the biggest emerging
nations to strengthen against the dollar this quarter, and yuan-
denominated notes in Hong Kong are the only domestic bonds among
the so-called BRICs to provide a positive return. Sales of dim
sum debt have tripled in 2011 and new loans in China rallied in
August, after sliding in July.  Chinese markets have shown resilience as global equities
tumbled 13 percent since Aug. 1 on concern the declining U.S.
economy and European debt crisis will stoke the worldwide
slowdown. Exports from China grew a more-than-forecast 24.5
percent in August from a year earlier, government data released
on Sept. 10 showed. Italy, saddled with more debt than  Spain ,
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  combined, has sought support from
the world’s fastest growing major economy for its  bond market .  “The renminbi remained stable versus the dollar during the
global crisis in 2008 and early 2009 while most of the rest of
the Asian currencies fell sharply,” said Chia Tse Chern, co-
head for Asia fixed income at UOB Asset Management in Singapore,
which manages the equivalent of $14 billion, including dim sum
bonds. “High-grade renminbi bonds or those quasi-government
renminbi bonds will remain resilient.”  Dim sum bonds, yuan debt issued in Hong Kong and accessible
to foreign investors, returned 0.8 percent for dollar-funded
investors this quarter, compared with losses of 7.4 percent for
local-currency bonds in Brazil, 7.1 percent for  Russia  and 4.8
percent for  India , according to indexes compiled HSBC Holdings
Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  BRIC Beater  The yuan, known as the renminbi in Chinese, has climbed 1
percent versus the dollar since June 30, while India’s rupee
dropped 6.6 percent, Russia’s ruble slid 8.2 percent and the
Brazilian real slumped 8.3 percent. China limits yuan
conversions for investment purposes and buys dollars to slow the
currency’s advance and preserve the competitiveness of the
nation’s exports.  The yuan fell less than 0.1 percent in 2009 and gained 7
percent in 2008, while the rupee plunged 19 percent against the
dollar in 2008, and Malaysia’s ringgit slipped 4.2 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chia, who also manages the United Renminbi Bond Fund, says
the yuan is one of the most undervalued currencies in  Asia  and
policy makers will allow gains to curb inflation. Consumer
prices rose 6.2 percent in August from a year earlier, near the
6.5 percent level in July that was the fastest since June 2008.  No ‘Hard Landing’  China is the world’s second-largest economy and has $3.2
trillion of foreign-exchange reserves, compared with a combined
$1.1 trillion for Brazil, India and Russia. Italy’s Finance
Minister Giulio Tremonti met with Chinese officials in  Rome  this
month, seeking investment as the nation’s debt slumped, his
spokesman Filippo Pepe said by phone yesterday.  The People’s Bank of China allowed the yuan to advance 0.9
percent last month, the most this year, as the U.S. lost its top
AAA credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s  and the  Federal Reserve 
pledged to maintain near-zero  interest rates  for at least two
years. Gross domestic product expanded 9.5 percent in the second
quarter, the fastest of the BRICs.  “Data is showing that the economy is not heading toward a
hard landing,” said Nathan Chow, an economist in  Hong Kong  at
DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Southeast Asia’s biggest lender. “That
gives a signal to markets that the PBOC will allow faster
appreciation of the renminbi again to curb inflation.”  Greek Concerns  The yield on China’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 4.04 percent this quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 210 basis points
more than the rate for similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Speculation that Greece may be nearing a default may prompt
policy makers to slow the yuan’s appreciation, said Leong Sook Mei, the regional head of global currency research at Bank of
Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in Singapore.  The yuan rose 0.05 percent to 6.3964 per dollar in  Shanghai 
today as most Asian currencies slumped. Twelve-month non-
deliverable renminbi forwards slid 0.17 percent to 6.3415.  Five-year credit-default swaps on China’s debt rose 46
basis points this quarter to 130 basis points, while swaps for
 Italy  jumped 331 to 503, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. Moody’s Investors Service rates
China one level lower than Italy at Aa3. The derivatives
contracts are used to insure debt against default and traders
use them to speculate on credit quality.  Bank Profits  Dim sum bond sales doubled to 19.5 billion yuan ($3
billion) last month, from July’s 9.5 billion yuan, as regulators
said they will ease transfers of funds into China. Sales have
totaled 117 billion yuan this year from 35.7 billion yuan in
2010. Air Liquide SA, the world’s biggest producer of industrial
gases, issued 2018 yuan debt at 3.95 percent on Sept. 9, while
Hainan Airlines Co. sold 2014 notes at 6 percent on Sept. 8.  New loans in China rose 11 percent in August to 548.5
billion yuan ($86 billion), after dropping 22 percent in July.  China’s five biggest banks posted first-half profits that
surpassed the total of their 14 largest U.S. and European
rivals. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. said on Aug.
25 that net income rose 29 percent to a record $17 billion,
pushing the combined profits of the nation’s biggest banks to
$57 billion. Industrial earnings gained 28 percent in July from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics reported on
Aug. 27.  More Investment  Foreign direct investment in China added $8.3 billion in
July, boosting the total amount to $69.2 billion in 2011.
Exports grew 24.5 percent in August from a year-earlier,
exceeding the 21.9 percent median in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  pledged on Aug. 17 that regulators
will encourage foreign direct investment in yuan and draft rules
were published four days later explaining the approval process
for bringing funds across the border into the mainland.  “There’s a lot of confidence in yuan appreciation,” said
Andy Ji, a currency strategist at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia 
in  Singapore . “New measures are relaxing a lot of capital
controls between onshore and offshore.”  The yuan will probably appreciate 1.6 percent to 6.30 per
dollar by the end of 2011, according to the median estimate of
23 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Strong Currency’  Ji, whose Sydney-based bank had the most-accurate forecast
for the yuan in the six quarters through June, predicts a 1.9
percent jump to 6.28 per dollar by Dec. 31. The yuan’s
“fundamental value” is 5.5, a level it should reach within
five years, he said. DBS is predicting the currency to end 2011
at 6.30.  “I expect the yuan will be a strong currency as  China’s
economy  continues to grow and inflation is under control,” Yim Fung, chief executive officer of Guotai Junan International
Holdings Ltd., a unit of China’s second-largest brokerage, said
in an interview on Sept. 7. “The yuan will also strengthen on a
relative basis given  Europe ’s debt crisis and the slowdown of
the U.S. recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  