-- 
Yuan Forwards Decline Most in a Month on Greece Debt Concern

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-13T09:02:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-13/yuan-forwards-decline-most-in-a-month-on-greece-debt-concern.html
China ’s yuan forwards dropped the
most in a month amid speculation Greece is nearing default,
which may prompt policy makers to slow the currency’s
appreciation.  The People’s Bank of China set the daily reference rate
0.09 percent lower today, the most in almost four weeks, as
Asian currencies weakened. The chance of a default by Greece in
the next five years has soared to 98 percent as Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  fails to reassure investors that his country
can survive the euro-region crisis, credit-default swaps showed.  “What you may see actually is a weaker pace of
appreciation,” said Leong Sook Mei, regional head of global
currency research at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
 Singapore . “There was lots of risk aversion with regards to the
Greece issue. The overall trend of appreciation won’t stop as
yet until we see decisive signs of Chinese growth coming off and
inflation easing.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards slid 0.33 percent to
6.3305 per dollar as of 4:58 p.m. in  Hong Kong , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The premium to the onshore spot rate
was 1.1 percent, compared with 1.2 percent yesterday.  The yuan dropped 0.17 percent to 6.3991 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan declined 0.02 percent
to 6.3855.  A central bank statement yesterday that inflation is still
too high is “hawkish,”  Tim Condon , head of Asia research at
ING Groep NV, said in an e-mailed note today.  Policy makers will want to see a second consecutive month
of lower headline inflation before declaring “victory,” Condon
wrote. He reiterated the bank’s call for one more 25-basis point
increase in benchmark  interest rates  by the end of the year.  China’s inflation eased in August, rising 6.2 percent from
a year earlier, compared with 6.5 percent in July, which was the
fastest since June 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  