-- 
Admiral Tells Congressman NATO Is Trying to Kill Qaddafi, Magazine Reports

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-25T17:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/admiral-tells-congressman-nato-is-trying-to-kill-qaddafi-magazine-reports.html
U.S. Navy Admiral  Samuel Locklear
III  told House Armed Services Committee member  Mike Turner  last
month that NATO forces are trying to kill Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , Foreign Policy magazine  reported , citing Turner.  Locklear heads the  Allied Joint Force Command  in Naples,
 Italy . Turner, an Ohio Republican who voted yesterday against
authorizing the Libyan operation, said the admiral also told him
that ground troops may be needed in  Libya  after Qaddafi is
ousted, the magazine reported.  The Foreign Policy “story does not accurately reflect
Admiral Locklear’s views on either ground troops or the
targeting of any individual, including Colonel Qaddafi,”
Captain Ike Skelton, public affairs officer for Locklear’s
command in Naples, said in an e-mail. “The admiral clearly
understands and has repeatedly emphasized the stated objectives
for the military mission.”  The House rejected a resolution yesterday on a 295-123  vote 
that would have authorized U.S. support for allied bombardment
of Qaddafi’s forces. Then, on a 238-180 vote, it  defeated 
legislation to bar U.S. forces from engaging in hostilities.  “Without wishing to engage on the specifics” of the
Foreign Policy article, “NATO’s position has been clear since
the beginning of the Libyan operation: We do not target
individuals and we do not have troops on the ground,” a NATO
official said today in an e-mail. “NATO’s mission is to use all
necessary means to prevent attacks and the threat of attack
against civilians and civilian-populated centers, as the UN
mandated.”  Bryan Whitman, a Pentagon spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  