-- 
Magyar Telekom Sets Aside $62.4 Million Provision on U.S. Probe

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-06-25T10:30:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/magyar-telekom-sets-aside-62-4-million-provision-on-u-s-probe.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s
former phone monopoly controlled by Deutsche Telekom AG, said it
set aside 11.7 billion forint ($62.4 million) as it negotiates a
settlement with U.S. authorities following a probe into alleged
misappropriation of funds at two of its units.  Magyar Telekom’s board approved “an agreement in
principle” with the Securities and Exchange Commission to
resolve the U.S. investigation into contracts worth 31 million
euros signed at the company’s units in Macedonia and Montenegro,
the Hungarian company said in a filing on the Budapest bourse’s
 website  late yesterday.  “The company -- without admitting or denying the
allegations against it -- would consent to a U.S. court order
permanently enjoining it from any future Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act violations and to the payment by the company of
disgorgement and a conditional civil penalty,” the  statement 
said.  The company also said it’s is negotiating a separate
settlement with the  U.S. Department of Justice . The amount of
any payment obligation upon final settlement or other resolution
of these investigations may differ from the amount of the
provision, according to the statement.  The SEC and the justice department opened probes into the
activities of Magyar Telekom’s two units alongside an internal
investigation started by the company itself in 2006.  Authorities in Hungary, Montenegro and Macedonia have also
conducted their own inquiries. Hungary’s National Bureau of
Investigation terminated its probe earlier this year without
establishing that criminal acts had been committed, Magyar
Telekom said on March 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  