-- 
Fernandez Taps Amado Boudou as Argentina Running Mate

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-27T22:28:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/argentina-s-fernandez-picks-amado-boudou-as-her-running-mate-2-.html
(Corrects story published June 26 to indicate Boudou’s
graduate degrees in sixth paragraph.)  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  chose Economy Minister Amado Boudou as her
running mate in October elections she is favored to win.  Boudou, 48, was in charge of last year’s restructuring of
about $12.9 billion in debt that remained from a 2001 default on
$95 billion of bonds, the biggest sovereign default ever. As
head of the nation’s social security agency in 2008, Boudou led
the government’s seizure of about $24 billion in private pension
funds, Fernandez said yesterday.  “The most important measure we took was to recover the
administration of the workers’ funds that allowed us to sustain
everything” during the global financial crisis, said Fernandez
in Buenos Aires. “The person who came to bring me the idea when
the world was falling apart was our current Economy Minister
 Amado Boudou .”  Fernandez, who succeeded her husband  Nestor Kirchner  in
2007, turned to Boudou after cutting ties with current Vice
President Julio Cobos in 2008 when he voted against her measure
to raise taxes on agricultural exports. In legislative elections
the following year Fernandez lost majority control in both house
of congress.  “Because of the things that have happened to us, one of
the attributes that a vice president must have is loyalty,”
Fernandez said.  Investor Concerns  An avowed rock-and-roll fan who has a masters in economics
from CEMA University in Buenos Aires, Boudou has a mixed record
helping lead  South America ’s second-biggest economy that may
make investors uncomfortable, said Federico Thomsen, a Buenos
Aires-based economic and political analyst with research firm
E.F. Thomsen.  “He is quite imaginative when it comes to finding
resources to finance the government’s growing spending,”
Thomsen said. “This isn’t a plus. Having been trained as an
‘orthodox’ economist, he has not found it difficult to support
any policy that would put him in a favorable light for the
Kirchners.”  Boudou’s debt restructuring last year,  Argentina ’s second
since the 2001 default, helped the country’s dollar bonds soar
35.8 percent last year, the best performance among major
emerging markets in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.
administration’s greatest accomplishment.  Poll Results  Fernandez, 58, used the pension funds to help fuel
 government spending , including giving loans to companies such as
the local unit of General Motors Co. to avoid layoffs. The
economy grew 0.9 percent in 2009 during the worst of the global
crisis, the government said. Under Fernandez, gross domestic
product expanded an average 5.6 percent per year from 2008-2010.
Unemployment fell from a peak of 9.1 percent in the third
quarter of 2009 to 7.4 percent in the first quarter of this
year.  A survey earlier this month showed Fernandez had the
support of 48 percent of those polled, compared with 13 percent
for opposition lawmaker Ricardo Alfonsin, according to Buenos
Aires-based pollster CEOP Opinion Publica. About 8.4 percent of
the 1,500 people surveyed said they haven’t decided whom they
will vote for or refused to answer, according to the poll, which
had a 2.6 percentage point margin of error.  Under Argentine law, a candidate can win the election and
avoid a runoff by receiving more than 45 percent of the vote, or
40 percent and a 10 percentage point lead over the nearest
competitor. A second-round runoff, if needed, will take place
Nov. 20.  Paris Club  In addition to advising on the pension takeover and the
bond swap, Boudou has led a failed effort to restructure about
$8 billion in defaulted debt with the Paris Club group of
creditor nations. Under his tenure, the government has watched
as inflation accelerated to about 25 percent this year,
according to private economists including Roberto Lavagna,
Kirchner’s former Economy Minister. The government says prices
are rising at an annual rate of 9.7 percent and has fined
researchers who say otherwise as much as 500,000 pesos
($120,000).  In an April 14, 2010, interview in his office, seated below
portraits of former President Juan Domingo Peron and his wife
Eva, Boudou blamed the inflation dispute on holders of
inflation-linked debt who wanted better returns and said prices
increases were low for the poorest sector of the population.  “It’s understandable that other sectors of the population,
especially the middle and upper class, have a perception that
prices” are high, Boudou said. In a June 16 interview on
Channel 26 television, he said a Paris Club accord can be
reached by December.  Mayoral Bid  Boudou failed in a bid earlier this year to run as the
Peronist party candidate for mayor of  Buenos Aires  when
Fernandez named Senator Daniel Filmus her candidate for the
race.  If elected, Boudou will formally be charged with overseeing
the senate, the post which Cobos used to defeat the tax bill,
and will likely continue to provide economic advice to
Fernandez, Thomsen said.  “He will continue to have the ear of the president, much
as he does now,” said Thomsen. “He isn’t a proponent of
‘populism.’ I see his appointment as rewarding crude pragmatism
over ideology and this should be somewhat reassuring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  