-- 
Banks Face Up to 2.5 Percentage Point Buffer in Basel Accord

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-06-26T11:41:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/basel-committee-reaches-deal-on-capital-levels-for-too-big-to-fail-banks.html
Global regulators said banks deemed
too big to fail must hold as much as 2.5 percentage points in
additional capital as part of efforts to prevent another
financial crisis. As many as 30 banks may face some level of
surcharges, according to a person familiar with the discussions.  The additional capital buffers will range from 1 percentage
point to 2.5 percentage points, the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  said in a statement yesterday. From 28 to 30 banks,
including as many as eight in the U.S., may face surcharges,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private.  Regulators are at loggerheads with some banks over the
additional capital rules, with lenders arguing the requirements
may harm the global economic recovery. Many banks are
“vigorously lobbying” against being branded as systemically
important,  Sheila Bair , chairman of the U.S. Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. told U.S. lawmakers on June 22.  “It’s the best possible outcome for U.S. banks given the
way the regulators were pushing for high capital levels,”
Charles Peabody, an analyst with New York-based Portales
Partners LLC, said in a phone interview. The 2.5 percent maximum
surcharge is the most that European banks can withstand as
they’re “less well-capitalized” than U.S. banks and more
exposed to risky sovereign debt, Peabody said.  The  Basel  committee has said internationally active banks
should hold core Tier 1 Capital of 7 percent of their risk-
weighted assets, and the additional requirements are for banks
it considers systemically important financial institutions, or
those whose collapse would harm the global economy.  ‘Moral Hazard’  The agreements “will help address the negative
externalities and moral hazard posed by global systemically
important banks,”  Jean-Claude Trichet , president of the
European Central Bank and the group that oversees the Basel
Committee, said in the statement following a meeting in Basel,
 Switzerland .  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  will succeed
Trichet, who is retiring as ECB president, as head of the Basel
supervisory group later this year, the committee said yesterday
in a separate statement.  The surcharge plans will be reviewed by the Financial
Stability Board and then be issued for public comment, the Basel
group said. The FSB, which brings together finance ministry
officials, central bank governors and regulators from the Group
of 20 countries, is leading international efforts to rein in
systemically important banks.  Bank of America, Citigroup  At least eight banks may face the 2.5 percent levy
including the three largest U.S. banks,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Peabody said.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are also among lenders facing
the highest levy,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts said in a June 19
note.  Citigroup, the third-largest  U.S. bank , could drop to a
lower surcharge if Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  is
successful in selling off more than $300 billion of troubled
assets in the Citi Holdings division and spinning off the Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney joint venture, Peabody said. Jon Diat, a
Citigroup spokesman, declined to comment yesterday.  The Basel committee will release more details on the
capital buffers “around the end of July,” the group said in
its statement. That document won’t identify banks that could
face a surcharge, said a person familiar with the discussions.  Systemic Importance  The data available to regulators to measure a bank’s
systemic importance are based on older figures and the final
list of lenders facing surcharges may change, said two people
familiar with the discussions. The list may also change as banks
shrink or adapt their businesses, said one of the people.  The extra fee must be met by banks building up their core
reserves, and not by issuing so-called contingent capital
instruments such as CoCo bonds, the committee said.  The Basel group said banks should meet the extra
requirement using common equity, a measure of their core
reserves which is made up mainly of ordinary shares and retained
earnings. So-called contingent convertible bonds that convert
into ordinary shares when a bank’s reserves fall below a certain
level, won’t be eligible, the committee said, adding that
national regulators are free to include them in any separate
requirements they impose.  ‘Strong Reliable Banks’  “It is still too early to tell” whether CoCos will be
accepted by the markets,   Ewald Nowotny ,  Austria ’s central bank
governor who isn’t a member of the Basel committee, said in a
telephone interview. It is something which might be an
interesting instrument for “strong reliable banks,” he said.  Global regulators will “continue to review” contingent
capital, the committee said, and supports its use to meet
“higher national loss absorbency requirements.”  Central bankers ultimately rejected including contingent
capital in the surcharge because there wasn’t enough experience
with the securities to see how they would serve as a buffer in a
time of crisis, said one person involved in the talks. The group
agreed to a request by several nations to keep the securities
under study, and endorsed plans by Swiss regulators to allow
banks to use CoCos to satisfy national rules that are stricter
than the Basel recommendations, the person said.  ‘Mixed Feelings’  “There are mixed feelings” about CoCos with the  European
Central Bank , said Austria’s Nowotny. It is for local regulators
to decide to what extent they want to rely on this instrument,
he said.  U.S. banks should be able to achieve the required ratios
without selling stock to raise new capital and diluting current
shareholders’ stakes, Peabody said.  Brian T. Moynihan , CEO of Bank of America, the largest U.S.
bank, may sell part of the firm’s $21 billion stake in China
Construction Bank Corp. to bolster capital before the Basel
standards take effect, three people familiar with the matter
said earlier this month. Jerome Dubrowski, a spokesman for the
lender, had no immediate comment.  While the largest surcharge that banks will initially face
will be 2.5 percentage points, this number would rise to 3.5
percentage points if lenders facing the highest buffers increase
in size, the Basel committee said. The 3.5 percentage point fee
would act as a “disincentive for banks facing the highest
charge to increase materially their global systemic
importance,” it said. The new requirements will be introduced
with other measures from Jan. 1, 2016, through Jan. 1, 2019.  Banks’ systemic importance will be assessed by measuring
their size, interconnectedness with other financial
institutions, the difficulty for another institution to take
over the role they play in the market, complexity and global
activity, the Basel group said.  The extra  capital requirements  are “probably not that big
of a burden considering the funding advantage that banks have
when the markets consider them too big to fail,” said Jesper Berg, senior vice president at  Denmark ’s biggest mortgage bank,
Nykredit A/S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net . 