-- 
Bloomberg Joins Council in Budget Deal Saving 4,100 Teacher Jobs

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-06-25T04:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/bloomberg-joins-council-in-budget-deal-saving-4-100-teacher-jobs.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and
City Council leaders agreed to a $66 billion budget that avoids
firing 4,100 teachers and the closing of 20 fire companies.  The accord benefited from a higher-than-anticipated rate of
retirements and an agreement from the  United Federation of
Teachers  to a one-year suspension of sabbaticals and eased rules
on how unassigned teachers can be used as substitutes. To take
effect, the deal requires council passage. A vote is scheduled
for June 28.  “We have agreed upon a fiscally responsible budget that
does not raise taxes and does preserve our core services,” said
Bloomberg, 69, last night, moments before sealing the agreement
with City Council Speaker  Christine Quinn  with a handshake and a
kiss inside the rotunda of the historic Tweed Courthouse, now
the Education Department headquarters.  In his May 6 budget proposal, Bloomberg planned to slash
8 percent, or 6,100, of the city’s 70,000 teaching positions,
the biggest cut since the city faced a financial crisis in 1975.
That would have included firing more than 4,000, with the rest
eliminated through attrition. Quinn and several of her council
colleagues had called the cuts “unacceptable.”  The budget agreement also retains fire companies the mayor
had sought to close and shifts money from contractors and
consultants to libraries and child-care programs. Some 1,000
nonuniformed workers, other than teachers, may lose their jobs
unless their unions offer the city cost-savings, Bloomberg said.  ‘Rest Easy’  “New Yorkers can rest easy tonight knowing that our
children will still have great teachers, our seniors will still
have great centers to visit and our neighborhoods will still
have great firehouses to keep them safe,” said Quinn, 44, a
Manhattan Democrat who has expressed interest in running for
mayor in 2013.  The city’s workforce, already down 5 percent since 2002 to
296,000 positions, would have fallen to 289,000 under
Bloomberg’s May proposal. U.S. municipalities cut 28,000 jobs in
May, the most since November, the U.S. Labor Department  said 
June 3, as shrinking revenue forced service reductions. State
governments now employ the fewest workers since January 2007.  The mayor has made education his signature issue, starting
in 2002 when he won approval from the state to take control over
the largest U.S. school system, with 1.1 million students, and
abolishing the  Board of Education . Since then, test scores have
improved as the city increased funding about 70 percent to about
$19 billion and graduation rates have climbed to an all-time
high of 65 percent from 47 percent in 2005.  Rising Attrition  An analysis by the teachers union showed that 2,600
educators would leave this year, some 30 percent more than the
administration had forecast, said union President Michael Mulgrew. The moratorium on sabbaticals and the shift in
assigning substitutes would save the city $60 million, according
to a statement from the mayor’s office.  Mulgrew praised Quinn, the mayor and schools Chancellor
Dennis Walcott, whom he said worked “to find ways to prevent
what could have been a disaster for our schools.”  Bloomberg had said thousands of teacher dismissals would be
unavoidable after state and federal aid fell about $5.6 billion
while pensions and debt-service costs climbed, raising the
prospect for fiscal 2013 and 2014 deficits of about $5 billion.  The mayor failed to persuade the state Legislature to
repeal “last-in-first-out,” a law protecting teachers with the
most seniority from being among the first to be fired, saying it
would force him to let go talented young educators in favor of
higher-paid, less-qualified older ones.  The mayor used a $3.6 billion surplus from the current
fiscal year and he borrowed $700 million from a retiree health
fund trust account created in 2006 to close a $4 billion deficit
he faced for the year that starts July 1.  Mayor Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  