-- 
Bristol-Myers, AstraZeneca Diabetes Drug Shows Bladder, Breast Cancer Risk

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-06-25T22:11:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/bristol-myers-astrazeneca-diabetes-drug-shows-bladder-breast-cancer-risk.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and
 AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)  said patients taking their experimental
diabetes pill, shown effective in a two-year study, had more
breast and bladder cancers than those on a standard drug.  In all the clinical programs, nine breast cancers and nine
bladder cancers were seen among 5,478 patients taking the drug,
dapagliflozin, compared with one breast and one bladder cancer
among the 3,156 in control groups, Bristol-Myers and AstraZeneca
said in a statement today. There was no imbalance in overall
cancer risk, the companies said.  The dapagliflozin cancer findings will be a topic at a U.S.
Food and Drug Administration advisory panel on July 19, said
 Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst for ISI Group. The treatment is
facing increased scrutiny from regulators and doctors after two
rivals were tied to malignancy and heart risks. Data presented
today at the  American Diabetes Association meeting  in  San Diego 
has been shared with the FDA, the companies said.  “No doubt they’ll bring this up at the advisory
committee,” Schoenebaum said in an interview today. “But I’d
be very surprised if this blocked approval.”  Patients probably already had the cancer when they
enrolled in the trial, Schoenebaum said. The timing of the cases
made it seem unlikely that dapagliflozin caused the cancers,
although it may have accelerated them, he said.  What is likelier is that the agency will require a  post-
marketing  study on cancer risks, he said. At the very worst,
there may be a black box warning on the drug, Schoenebaum said.  ‘Numerical Imbalance’  “We look at this very seriously,” said Elisabeth
Svanberg, the vice president of development for New York-based
Bristol-Myers, in an interview today. In preclinical studies in
rats and mice, where the animals were given up to 100 times the
human dose, dapagliflozin didn’t increase cancer risks, Svanberg
said.  “It’s probably a numerical imbalance,” she said. “Those
occur in clinical trials.”  Results from a two-year study released yesterday reported
that dapagliflozin in combination with metformin, a standard
treatment, was safe and effective. The study, funded by Bristol-
Myers and London-based AstraZeneca, showed that patients getting
dapagliflozin lowered their blood sugar more than patients on
metformin and another generic diabetes drug, glipizide.  An estimated 25.8 million Americans have diabetes, most of
the Type 2 variety linked to weight gain and a lack of exercise,
according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  Avandia, Actos Risks  In May, U.S. regulators restricted use of London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Avandia, ordering the drug to be pulled
from pharmacy shelves and made available only through a special
program. Sales of Avandia fell to $680 million last year from
$1.8 billion in 2007 after a study that year showed a 43 percent
increased risk of heart attacks among patients taking the
medicine.  On June 15, a five-year analysis from a decade-long
company-sponsored study of Osaka-based Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co.’s Actos showed an increased risk of bladder cancer. Actos is
the world’s biggest-selling diabetes drug. The FDA had required
the study under new guidelines for diabetes drug approvals.  Dapagliflozin works differently than Actos and Avandia.
While those drugs adjust the hormone that regulates blood sugar,
the new pill helps patients excrete sugar through their urine.  The new mechanism would make dapagliflozin the first entry
in a class called SGLT-2 inhibitors that work by allowing
patients to excrete their excess blood sugar in their urine.
Johnson & Johnson, Eli Lilly & Co., Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,
and Astellas Pharma Inc. are among the companies pursuing
similar drugs.  The breast and bladder don’t express SGLT-2, Bristol-Myers
and AstraZeneca said in the statement.  Patients on dapagliflozin were more likely to have urinary
tract and genital infections than those taking metformin alone,
according to the two-year results released yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 