-- 
China Tells Domestic Companies to Favor Chinese Auditors

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-25T09:57:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/china-tells-domestic-companies-to-favor-chinese-auditors.html
China  has told domestic companies
that they should give priority to using Chinese accounting firms
to safeguard the country’s “economic information.”  Companies listed overseas, those involved in finance,
energy, communications and military industries as well as large
state-owned companies involved in “people’s livelihood” should
choose large domestic auditors, the Ministry of Finance said in
a notice posted on its website yesterday and dated June 16.  The U.S. has increased its scrutiny over Chinese companies
listed in the country after short sellers said companies
including  Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd. (LFT)  and  Sino-Forest
Corp. (TRE)  were exaggerating operations. The  Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board  in Washington rejected Hong Kong-
based Zhonglei CPA Co.’s application to become a U.S. auditor on
June 10, citing an inability to inspect its work for companies
based in China. It was the first time the PCAOB blocked an
auditor since toughening rules in October.  Longtop Financial, a maker of banking and insurance
software said on May 23 that Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd.
resigned as its auditor after finding falsehoods in the
company’s financial records.  PetroChina Co., the world’s third-biggest company by market
value, and  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the
world’s biggest lender, are listed in Hong Kong and are among
companies controlled by the central government. PetroChina’s
auditor is PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and ICBC’s auditor is
Ernst & Young LLP, according to the companies’ 2010 annual
reports.  Strengthen Protection  Other state-owned companies listed overseas include China
Mobile Ltd., Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. and Air China Ltd.  Last year, China’s State-Owned Assets Supervision and
Administration, which oversees more than 100 companies
controlled by the central government, told state-owned
enterprises to strengthen protection of their commercial secrets,
which include information about strategic planning, management,
public listings, business models, property transactions,
financial information and manufacturing processes.  --Henry Sanderson. Editor: Nerys Avery  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  