-- 
Wen Says China Will Continue to Buy European Government Debt, Support Euro

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-06-26T10:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/china-to-buy-hungarian-debt-as-wen-extends-support-to-european-finances.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged
support for  Europe  as the region copes with a sovereign debt
crisis, saying  China  will remain an investor in European
markets.  “China is a long term investor in Europe’s sovereign debt
market,” Wen said in translated comments at a press conference
with Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  in Budapest
yesterday. “In recent years, we have increased by quite a big
margin our holdings of government bonds. We will consistently
continue to support Europe and the euro.”  China will buy a “certain amount” of Hungarian
government bonds, Wen said. The premier later travelled to the
U.K. and will also visit  Germany  on a three-nation European
tour.  European Union leaders vowed on June 24 to stave off a
Greek default as long as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  pushes
through a package of budget cuts by the end of the month,
pledging to do whatever it takes to stabilize the euro economy.  European stocks fell for an eighth week, the longest
stretch of losses since 1998, and German government bonds rose
for a third week as concern grew that Greece will default and
the  Federal Reserve  cut its growth forecast for the U.S.  “China is ready to work with Europe to share
opportunities, cope with challenges and achieve common
development, and to make unremitting efforts for stable
development of the world economy and an in-depth development of
China-Europe ties,” China’s state-run Xinhua news agency cited
Wen as saying yesterday.  ‘Huge Security’  China’s pledge to buy government bonds from  Hungary , which
needed an International Monetary Fund-led bailout in 2008, lends
“huge security” for the government’s financing needs in the
medium term, Orban said.  Orban, who was elected last year, funneled private pension
funds to the budget and used special taxes on the banking,
energy, retail and telecommunications industries to raise cash
after the government broke off negotiations with the IMF last
year. Hungary has already completed its 4 billion-euro ($5.7
billion) foreign currency denominated financing plan for this
year after making sales of debt in euros and dollars earlier in
the year.  “Hungary can finance itself today from the market but it
gives us huge security if China buys Hungarian  government
bonds ,” Orban said. “I think uncertainty about the country’s
medium-term financing will now disappear.”  Orban is cutting welfare spending to prevent the budget
from unraveling after the impact fades from one-time taxes on
industry and measures boosting payments from pension funds. The
Cabinet aims to save 550 billion forint ($2.9 billion) next year
and 900 billion forint annually by 2013.  Logistics Base  China, which aims to boost trade with Hungary to $20
billion by 2015 from $8.7 billion last year, is also extending a
1 billion-euro loan via its state development bank to finance
projects in Hungary, Wen said.  China plans to set up a European transportation logistics
base as part of 12 agreements the two sides signed yesterday,
the Budapest-based Development Ministry said in a statement
posted on its website yesterday.  The  Bank of China  signed a 1.1 billion-euro cooperation
agreement with Hungarian chemicals producer BorsodChem Zrt.,
controlled by China’s Wanhua Industrial Group Co.  The two sides reached a strategic accord on setting up a
European logistics hub for Huawei Technologies Co. in Hungary
and for Shenzen Canyi Technology Co. to bring manufacturing
capacities to the central European country.  China will also build a citric acid factory with an annual
capacity of 60,000 metric tons, the ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  