-- 
Endemol, Producer of ‘Big Brother,’ Says CEO Kreiz Stepped Down

-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 
2011-06-25T13:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/endemol-producer-of-big-brother-says-ceo-kreiz-stepped-down.html
Endemol NV, the Dutch producer of
the “Big Brother” television show, said Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Ynon Kreiz resigned because of a difference of
opinion about the company’s future direction.  “The board has appointed President Marco Bassetti and
Chief Financial Officer Just Spee to manage the business on an
interim basis,” Amsterdam-based Endemol said in a statement
late yesterday. Non-Executive Director Charles Allen was
appointed to coordinate key actions and decisions with the
board, it said.  Endemol confirmed last month it’s exploring options to
restructure its debt because widening losses will cause it to
breach covenants on its loans.  Mediaset Espana Comunicacion SA, Cyrte Fund II BV,  Mediaset
SpA (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  bought Endemol in 2007 using
2.8 billion euros ($4 billion) of leveraged loans, including 325
million euros of mezzanine debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Kreiz has stepped down principally because there was a
difference of opinion regarding the future direction of the
company,” Charlie Armitstead, an outside spokesman for Endemol,
wrote in an e-mail today. The rift, he said, concerned “how
best to implement the agreed company strategy and where to focus
efforts and resources.”  Endemol’s shareholders and Kreiz have agreed that a new CEO
should be found to implement the strategy, Armitstead said in
the e-mail. “The decision is mutual and amicable.”  Kreiz, who became CEO in June 2008, said in the statement
he very much enjoyed his time at Endemol and he thanked the
shareholders for their trust in him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  