-- 
Ford, GM, Chrysler Asked to Study Fuel Economy Rules of 56.2 MPG

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-06-26T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/ford-gm-chrysler-may-have-to-boost-fuel-economy-to-56-2-mpg.html
Automakers including  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  that sell vehicles in the U.S. may have
to boost car and light truck fuel economy to an average 56.2
miles per gallon by 2025 under a White House proposal presented
last week.  In separate meetings with Ford,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC on June 22, the Obama administration asked
the three largest U.S. automakers to analyze the effects of a
56.2 mpg fuel-economy target, two people familiar with the talks
said.  That represents an improvement of about a 5 percent per
year in each company’s fleetwide average fuel economy from 2016
when they are required to have a 35.5 mpg average for vehicles
sold in the U.S. The  Detroit News  reported the administration’s
plan yesterday.  Republicans including Environmental Protection Agency
administrators for every Republican president since  Richard
Nixon  joined other Republicans this week in requesting Obama to
write “aggressive” fuel economy standards for 2017 to 2025,
the years covered by the rule now being drafted.  Increasing fuel economy by the amount proposed could cost
at least $2,100 per vehicle, according to a  document  prepared
last year by the EPA and  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration , who have said they will publish a proposed rule
by Sept. 30. California’s Air Resources Board is also helping
write the rule and was represented at this week’s meetings,
according to the people familiar with the talks.  Rigidity of Jello  “We continue to work closely with a broad range of
stakeholders to develop an important standard that will save
families money and keep the jobs of the future here,” Clark
Stevens, a White House spokesman, said in an e-mail. “A final
decision has not been made, and as we have made clear we plan to
propose that standard in September.”  Any number being floated now is early in the process,  Greg Martin , a spokesman for Detroit-based GM, said in an interview.  “There’s a way to go in this process,” said Martin, who
said he doesn’t know what the White House said in the meeting.
“Any number out there right now has the rigidity of Jello.”  Christin Baker, a spokeswoman for Ford, based in Dearborn,
 Michigan , also declined to comment on this week’s talks.  “Our discussions with the administration are ongoing and
productive,” she said in an e-mail.  Spokeswomen for Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills , Michigan,
and the  Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers , which represents
automakers from around the world, didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment placed outside of regular business hours.  Environmental groups including the  Natural Resources
Defense Council  are pushing for a 62 mpg standard by 2025,
saying increasing the fuel economy average will help U.S.
automakers regain market share they lost to foreign competitors
who sold more smaller cars in the U.S.  “We’re cautiously optimistic,” NRDC Transportation
Program Director Roland Hwang said about the 56.2 mpg proposal
in an interview. “That’s a good number as long as there aren’t
any loopholes by the automakers” such as making most of the
improvements in the later years of the rule, Hwang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  