-- 
Indiana Abortion Law Defunding Planned Parenthood is Blocked by U.S. Judge

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-06-25T01:33:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/indiana-abortion-law-defunding-planned-parenthood-is-blocked-by-u-s-judge.html
An Indiana law defunding Planned
Parenthood was blocked by a federal judge who said opponents of
the statute showed a likelihood of success in the lawsuit.  U.S. District Judge Tanya Walton Pratt in Indianapolis
today granted Planned Parenthood’s request for a preliminary
injunction in a lawsuit filed after Republican Governor  Mitch Daniels  signed the law in May.  “While it remains to be seen who will ultimately prevail
on the merits, the court is persuaded” that Planned Parenthood
demonstrated a “reasonable likelihood of success” in
challenging the law, Pratt wrote in today’s decision.  The Indiana law would prohibit state agencies from entering
into contracts with or making grants to any entity that performs
abortions or maintains a facility where they’re performed.  “The public interest also tilts in favor of granting an
injunction,” Pratt said, because the federal government has
threatened partial or total withholding from the state as much
as $5 billion dollars a year in Medicaid funds, affecting almost
1 million residents.  “Denying the injunction could pit the federal government
against the state of  Indiana  in a high-stakes political
impasse,” Pratt said. “If dogma trumps pragmatism and neither
side budges, Indiana’s most vulnerable citizens could end up
paying the price as the collateral damage of a partisan
battle.”  Informed Consent  Pratt also barred an informed-consent provision of the law
requiring that women seeking an abortion be told that, according
to “objective scientific information,” fetuses can feel pain
at or before 20 weeks after fertilization. She rejected Planned
Parenthood’s request to block a portion of the law requiring
that women be told that “human physical life begins when a
human ovum is fertilized by a human sperm.”  Bryan Crobin, a spokesman for Indiana Attorney General Greg Zoeller, said in a statement that the office will thoroughly
review the ruling and will likely appeal it.  The case is Planned Parenthood of Indiana Inc. v.
Commissioner of the Indiana State Department of Health,
1:11-cv-630, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  