-- 
Nationals Defeat White Sox 9-5 in 14 Innings One Day After Manager Quits

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-06-25T06:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/nationals-defeat-white-sox-9-5-in-14-innings-one-day-after-manager-quits.html
The  Washington Nationals  defeated
the Chicago White Sox 9-5 in 14 innings under interim manager
John McLaren, the replacement for Jim Riggleman who quit two
days ago in a contract dispute.  Davey Johnson, 68, a special assistant with the Nationals,
was expected to be named the next manager, ESPN reported, citing
people familiar with the discussions. Johnson, who won the 1986
 World Series  as manager of the  New York Mets , last managed a
Major League Baseball team in 2000 for the Los Angeles Dodgers.  The Nationals, who have never finished a season above .500,
got four runs in the 14th inning to win the 12th of their last
13 games. At 39-37,  Washington  is in third place in the five-
team National League East, 8 ½ games behind the division-leading
 Philadelphia Phillies .  “That was a very interesting game to say the least,” said
Ryan Zimmerman, who hit a two-run double in the ninth for the
Nationals. “That was a great baseball game.”  The teams were scoreless through seven innings last night
until Michael Morse hit a two-run homer in the eighth. McLaren
was ejected during the inning by home plate umpire Jeff Nelson
for arguing a reversed call at first base at U.S. Cellular Field
in Chicago.  The Nationals were up 3-0 in the ninth on Ian Desmond’s
one-run single. Mark Teahen tied the score in the ninth with a
three-run homer.  Laynce Nix homered in the 10th for a 4-3 Nationals lead
until Omar Vizquel scored on a wild pitch to tie the game at 4-4
in the bottom of the inning.  Nix scored on Brian Bixler’s double and A.J. Pierzynski hit
a homer for  Chicago  (37-40) as the teams stayed tied at 5-5 at
the end of the 12th inning.  A throwing error in the 14th allowed Bixler to score; Roger Bernadina’s single sent Desmond home and Zimmerman ended the
inning with his two-run double.  Collin Balester (1-0) pitched the final two innings, giving
up two hits and striking out one for the Nationals, who needed
eight pitchers to win.  Matt Thornton  (0-4) gave up four hits and four runs in two
innings for the loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  