-- 
Obama Says Manufacturing Jobs Will Aid U.S. Economic Growth

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-06-25T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/obama-says-manufacturing-jobs-will-aid-u-s-economic-growth.html
President  Barack Obama  said a
government program to encourage the creation of advanced
manufacturing jobs will help spur U.S. economic growth.  In his weekly address on the radio and internet, Obama
touted a $500 million program that helps companies and
universities develop new manufacturing technologies.  “Their mission is to come up with a way to get ideas from
the drawing board to the manufacturing floor to the marketplace
as swiftly as possible, which will help create quality jobs, and
make our businesses more competitive,” Obama said in the
address taped yesterday at  Carnegie Mellon University , one of
the schools benefiting from the program.  Seventeen months before the presidential election, Obama is
seeking to convince voters that his economic policies will help
lead to long-term growth even as recent data shows the economy
is slowing.  The Federal Reserve Board said June 22 that it lowered its
forecast for economic expansion to 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent
this year. That’s down from forecasts ranging from 3.1 percent
to 3.3 percent in April. It’s the second time this year that Fed
officials have lowered their forecasts for growth.  In the Republican address, Representative Renee Ellmers of
 North Carolina  said a better way to encourage  job creation  would
be to “get government out of the way.”  Ellmers said Republicans want to reduce the regulatory
burden on businesses, expand domestic energy production and
approve pending free-trade agreements.  “Unfortunately, the Democrats who run Washington say we
should stay the course, keep spending money we don’t have and
raise your taxes,” she said. “These Washington-knows-best
policies haven’t worked. They have only made matters worse.”  While Obama acknowledged the need to reduce the federal
 budget deficit , he said he wouldn’t do so at the expense of
needed programs that can help the economy, such as education,
research and infrastructure.  “We can’t simply cut our way to prosperity,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  