-- 
Lopez Upsets Roddick at Wimbledon; Sharapova and Murray Advance

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-25T02:33:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/lopez-upsets-roddick-at-wimbledon-sharapova-and-murray-advance.html
Andy Roddick , a three-time runner-
up, was upset in the third round of Wimbledon by Feliciano Lopez.  Five-time champion Venus Williams, former title holder
 Maria Sharapova , top-seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  and Britain’s No.
4 seed  Andy Murray  all advanced yesterday on another rain-
stricken day in London.  Roddick, a losing finalist to six-time winner  Roger Federer 
of Switzerland in 2004, 2005 and 2009, lost to the 44th-ranked
Lopez 7-6 (7-2), 7-6 (7-2), 6-4.  It was the Spaniard’s first win against the former top-
ranked player in eight meetings. Roddick, the last American man
to win a major at the 2003 U.S. Open, lost in the fourth round
last year. Lopez, who was beaten by Roddick two weeks ago at a
grass-court warm-up at Queen’s, is a two-time quarterfinalist at
Wimbledon.  “It’s a great win,” Lopez said in a televised courtside
interview. “I’ve never beaten Andy, so it was important to me
to win today. He won there, but I’m happy to repay it here at
Wimbledon.”  Rain forced a stoppage in play at 5:39 p.m. local time
yesterday, and outside matches were rescheduled for today
shortly after 7 p.m. Centre Court play resumed with the roof
closed, with fourth-seeded Victoria Azarenka beating Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia in a third-round match.  In action today, defending champion Rafael Nadal resumes
his third-round match that was abandoned last night just as the
Spaniard had taken the first set against Gilles Muller of
Luxembourg on Court 1.  Serena Williams , a four-time champion,
faces Russia’s  Maria Kirilenko .  On Centre Court, Argentina’s David Nalbandian faces
Federer. Second-seeded Novak Djokovic of Serbia continues his
quest for a first Wimbledon title against  Marcos Baghdatis  of
Cyprus.  Sharapova Wins  Yesterday, Sharapova overcame a challenge by British 17-
year-old Laura Robson to join women’s top seed Wozniacki in the
third round. The Russian plays Czech Klara Zakopalova today.  Sharapova, the 2004 champion, beat Robson 7-6 (7-4), 6-3 on
Court No. 1 at the All England Club. Their match had originally
been scheduled for a day earlier, when rain frequently
interrupted play on all courts apart from Centre Court, which
has a retractable roof.  “I felt like I started off really slow and she started off
really well,” Sharapova said in a news conference. “Quite the
opposite of me, I think she was much more aggressive than I was
in the beginning.”  Murray Last Standing  The 254th-ranked Robson, who took the junior title at
Wimbledon in 2008, had won her first Grand Slam match here
earlier in the week. Shortly before Robson’s defeat, British No.
1 Elena Baltacha was beaten on Court 18 by  China ’s Peng Shuai,
4-6, 6-2, 7-5. That means there are no more British women left
in the draw.  Murray, the only British man left in the singles draw, beat
former world No. 3 Ivan Ljubicic of Croatia, 6-4, 4-6, 6-1, 7-6
(7-4) in a third-round match played on Centre Court that ended
at 9:49 p.m. local time.  “It was a tough one, both of us were struggling a bit on
our second serves,” Murray said in a televised interview. “It
was heavy out there.”  The Scot, a two-time semifinalist, will play Richard Gasquet
next. The Frenchman defeated Simone Bolelli of Italy in straight
sets.  Wozniacki Defeats Razzano  Wozniacki beat Virginie Razzano of  France , 6-1, 6-3, to
move to the third round. The 20-year-old Dane, who is playing
her third Grand Slam event as the world’s best female tennis
player, has yet to win a major. Her best performance at
Wimbledon was reaching the fourth round in 2009 and 2010.  Just like four-time winner and defending champion Serena Williams earlier in the week, Wozniacki’s match was scheduled on
Court 2, a small show court a five-minute walk from the main
Wimbledon complex.  “I think I deserve to play on one of the bigger courts,”
Wozniacki said. “Obviously, everyone wants to play in there.
It’s up to the tournament to decide where we’re going to play. I
just go out there and I try to win.”  Women’s Results  Venus Williams  beat Spain’s Maria Jose Martinez Sanchez 6-
0, 6-2. The American’s next opponent,  Tsvetana Pironkova , scored
the biggest upset so far in the tournament when she defeated
second-seeded Vera Zvonareva of Russia 6-2, 6-3 in a third-round
match. Pironkova, from  Bulgaria , ousted Venus Williams last year
in the quarterfinals.  “I’m ready to bring my best game and my best
competition,” Williams said in a news conference. “Last year,
I just got unhappy with how I was playing and I let that affect
my game. This year, I won’t let that happen.”  Svetlana Kuznetsova, a former French Open and U.S. Open
champion, was beaten by Belgium’s Yanina Wickmayer, 4-6, 6-3, 6-
4.  Marion Bartoli , a runner-up in 2007, advanced to the third
round by defeating Spain’s Lourdes Dominguez Lino in three sets.  Andrea Petkovic , the No. 11 seed from  Germany , was upset by
Russia’s Ksenia Pervak, 6-4, 7-6 (7-2). American teenager Ryan
Harrison of the U.S. lost to the No. 7 seed from Spain, David Ferrer, 6-7 (6-8), 6-1, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the  London  sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  