-- 
Pimco’s El-Erian Says U.S. Debt Default Might Have ‘Catastrophic’ Effect

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-26T12:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/pimco-s-el-erian-says-u-s-debt-default-might-have-catastrophic-effect.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
LLC Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian said a short-term
default by the U.S. on its debt might have “catastrophic”
legal consequences.  “We would be in the land of the unpredictable” if
lawmakers fail to reach an agreement to raise the $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling and the U.S. misses a payment “simply because of
the technical linkages,” El-Erian said in an interview on CNN’s
“Fareed Zakaria GPS” program, scheduled to air today.  U.S. lawmakers are seeking a path to increasing the debt
limit and to cutting at least $1 trillion from the long-term
deficit before an Aug. 2 deadline. President Barack Obama plans
to hold separate meetings at the White House June 27 with Senate
leaders Nevada Democrat  Harry Reid  and Kentucky Republican Mitch McConnell in an effort to break an impasse that scuttled a
seven-week negotiating effort led by Vice President Joe Biden.  “My advice is please try and get together and solve this
issue in the context of a medium-term reform package,” El-Erian
said. “If you can’t do that and you’re going to kick the can
down the road, kick the can rather than face something that
could be catastrophic in terms of legal contracts being
triggered.”  Pimco, the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, sees more
value in non-U.S.  government bonds  than U.S. Treasuries as the
 Federal Reserve  prepares to end its $600 billion bond-repurchase
program this month, El-Erian said. Pimco, of  Newport Beach ,
 California , is a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   “A basic rule as an investor is don’t buy something unless
you know who else is going to be buying,” he said. “So when we
look at Treasuries, we see the big buyer stepping away from the
market, for certain. And we ask the question, who else is going
to be buying at these levels, and we can’t identify another
buyer of the size of the Fed.”  El-Erian said the U.S. fiscal problems are dwarfed by those
of  Greece , whose debt reached 143 percent of gross domestic
product last year.  “It is inevitable that Greece would have to restructure
its debt,” he said. “Greece has two problems: it has too much
debt and it cannot grow. And until these problems are solved,
more and more of  Europe  is going to become contaminated.”  Europe has been treating Greece “not as a solvency issue,
but as a liquidity problem,” El-Erian said. “We had a massive
bailout a year ago in Greece, massive. A year later, every
single indicator in Greece is worse off.”  -- With assistance from Heidi Przybyla, Julianna Goldman,
Cheyenne Hopkins and Ian Katz in  Washington . Editors: Ann Hughey, Christian Thompson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  