-- 
Pound Drops Versus Dollar on Bank of England’s Rate Outlook, Euro Crisis

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-06-25T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/pound-drops-versus-dollar-on-boe-s-rate-outlook-euro-crisis.html
The pound posted a fourth weekly
decline against the dollar amid speculation that the  Bank of
England  will keep  interest rates  at a record low to counter
faltering growth.  The British currency fell against the euro for the first
time in three weeks as European Union leaders pledged to
stabilize the euro-area economy and stave off a Greek debt
default as long as the country sticks to budget cuts. Minutes
from the U.K. central bank’s last meeting, released on June 22,
showed officials voted 7-2 to hold interest rates at 0.5
percent, while some members foresaw the need for more bond
purchases.  “The pound is likely to remain weak in the near term as
economic data disappoints and because of speculation about
another round of quantitative easing,” said Jane Foley, a
senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in  London .  The pound dropped 1.3 percent from last week to $1.5985 as
of 4:58 p.m. in London yesterday. Sterling weakened 0.4 percent
to 88.76 pence per euro and declined 0.9 percent to 128.41 yen.  The British currency fell 7.1 percent in the past 12
months, making it the third worst performer among 10 major-
economy currencies after the U.S. and Canadian dollars,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Gilts rose from last week, pushing 10-year yields down
seven basis points to 3.13 percent. Two-year note yields dropped
eight basis points in the week to 0.69 percent.  Debt Crisis  The pound declined after Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said yesterday the euro-area debt crisis poses the biggest
risk to the stability of the U.K. financial system.  The comments echo those of the European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who said on June 23 that the
“most serious threat” to financial stability in the European
Union stems from the mounting debt crisis.  Investors pushed back bets that the Bank of England will
increase interest rates to beyond May 2012, according to forward
contracts on the sterling overnight interbank average, Tullett
Prebon Plc data show. As recently as April, traders were betting
on an increase in May 2011.  A U.K. retail-sales index fell to its weakest level in a
year this month as Britons curtailed spending on groceries and
clothing, the  Confederation of British Industry  said on June 23.  The 10-year breakeven rate fell eight basis points from
last week to 3.04 percentage points. The rate, a market gauge of
inflation expectations, is derived from a yield gap between
regular and index-linked bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 