-- 
Roger Federer Joins Champions Williams, Nadal in Fourth Round of Wimbledon

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-25T19:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/rafael-nadal-wins-to-join-sharapova-wozniacki-in-second-week-of-wimbledon.html
Six-time winner  Roger Federer  joined
defending champions Serena Williams and  Rafael Nadal  in the
fourth round at the Wimbledon tennis championships.  Second-seed Novak Djokovic of Serbia overcame  Marcos Baghdatis  of Cyprus 6-4, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 to move to the second
week at the All England Club in south  London . Former champion
 Maria Sharapova  and women’s top seed  Caroline Wozniacki  also
won. Tomorrow is a traditional rest day.  Federer beat Argentina’s David Nalbandian 6-4, 6-2, 6-4
on Centre Court. The Swiss, seeded third, is trying to equal
William Renshaw and Pete Sampras’s record of seven Wimbledon
titles. He plays Mikhail Youzhny, the 19th seed from  Russia ,
next.  Federer earlier this month lost the French Open final to
Nadal. It was his first major final since he win a men’s record-
extending 16th Grand Slam singles title at the 2010 Australian
Open.  “I thought today was a particularly good performance by my
side, on my serve again,” Federer, who produced 14 aces to
Nalbandian’s five, said in a news conference.  Australian Open champion Djokovic was given a warning after
cracking his racquet on the grass after losing a point in the
second set against Baghdatis. The Serb, who has only lost once
this season, is seeking his first Wimbledon title.  “To pull a win out of this match is great, I have to be
happy with the way I fought through,” Djokovic said in a
televised interview after the 3 hour, 15 minute match. “He
plays really well on the grass.”  Winning Streak  Djokovic’s run of 41 consecutive wins to start the season
was ended by Federer in the French Open semifinals. The Serb,
who’ll take the No. 1 spot on the ATP World Tour from Nadal
should he reach his first Wimbledon final, plays No. 19 Michael Llodra of France in the next round.  Top-seeded Nadal of Spain beat Gilles Muller of Luxembourg
7-6 (8-6), 7-6 (7-5), 6-0. He’ll next play former U.S. Open
champion Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina, who defeated
France’s No. 15 seed  Gilles Simon .  Serena Williams  won in straight sets for the first time
since returning from almost a year away with injury and illness,
beating Maria Kirilenko of Russia, 6-3, 6-2.  The 13-time Grand Slam singles champion from the U.S. made
her comeback at a tournament in Eastbourne last week, where she
lost to  Vera Zvonareva .  Blood Clots  Shortly after beating Zvonareva for her fourth Wimbledon
title last year, Williams injured her foot by walking on glass
and had treatment for blood clots in her lungs in February. She
told reporters today she had also injured her shoulder and face
after falling off her bicycle in Florida in October.  “Best I played since I came back,” Williams said. “I
wasn’t as tight and nervous. I was able to relax a bit more.”
She’ll play  France ’s  Marion Bartoli , who beat Italian Flavia Pennetta in three sets, in the fourth round.  Nadal won a match suspended from the night before by rain.
The Spaniard said he still felt the effects of slipping on the
grass before the stoppage.  “I felt the leg little bit more tired than usual,” he
said in a press conference. “Today I am still feeling it a
little bit. But this is not limiting my game. I can play without
problems.”  Sharapova, Wozniacki  The former top-ranked Sharapova defeated Klara Zakopalova
of the Czech Republic, 6-2, 6-3, while Denmark’s Wozniacki beat
Jarmila Gajdosova of Australia, 6-3, 6-2.  Wozniacki, who is playing her third Grand Slam event as the
world’s best female tennis player, has yet to win a major. Her
best performance at Wimbledon was the fourth round in 2009 and
2010.  Three-time major winner Sharapova, who took the Wimbledon
title aged 17 in 2004, will next play No. 20 Peng Shuai of  China ,
who beat Hungary’s Melina Czink in straight sets.  Austria’s Tamira Paszek beat No. 6 Francesca Schiavone of
Italy, the 2010 French Open winner, 6-3, 4-6, 11-9, while No. 5
Robin Soderling of Sweden became the highest-seeded man
eliminated by losing to Australian qualifier Bernard Tomic 6-1,
6-4, 7-5. Tomic, 18, next plays Xavier Malisse, who knocked out
No. 11 Jurgen Melzer of Austria.  Tomas Berdych, who ousted Federer in the quarterfinals last
year, beat Alex Bogomolov Jr. of the U.S., 6-2, 6-4, 6-3. He’ll
next play Mardy Fish, the only American man left in the singles
draw. Fish was leading 6-3, 6-7 (5-7), 6-2, 1-1 when Robin Haase
of the Netherlands quit with an injury.  Other men’s winners were No. 7 David Ferrer of Spain, No.
12 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France, and Polish qualifier Lukasz Kubot, who upset No. 9 Gael Monfils of France.  Julia Goerges , the No. 16 seed from  Germany , and former
world No. 1 Ana Ivanovic of  Serbia  both lost in straight sets.
Sabine Lisicki, who upset French Open champion Li Na in the
previous round, beat  Japan ’s Misaki Doi 6-4, 6-2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  