-- 
Treasury Two-Year Note Yields Approach Record Low on Greece, Fed Outlook

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-06-25T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/treasury-two-year-yields-approach-record-low-on-greece-fed-view.html
Treasuries rose, pushing two-year
note yields to within a basis point of the record low, on
concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is getting worse and as
the  Federal Reserve  cut its forecast for U.S. growth.  Two-year notes gained for an 11th straight week before next
week’s U.S. auctions in the longest rally since the 1980s as the
central bank said it would maintain record monetary stimulus
after its $600 billion of debt purchases ends June 30. Benchmark
10-year note yields fell to this year’s low on speculation
 Greece  will struggle to pass austerity measures.  “There’s absolutely no immediate relief that can occur
that can lift the accelerator off the floor in buying
Treasuries,” said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at
FTN Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “The minute you knock down
one piece of bad news, there’s no way to shrug your shoulders
and say thank God that’s over because there’s going to be
something else coming.”  Yields on two-year notes slid five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 0.33 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 0.5 percent security maturing in May 2013
increased 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100
10/32.  The two-year note yields fell yesterday to 0.32 percent,
the lowest level since touching a record low 0.3118 percent on
Nov. 4. The last time the yields fell for 11 straight weeks was
in September through November 1984, when the U.S. central bank
had switched to cutting from raising  interest rates .  Ten-Year Notes  Yields on 10-year notes fell for a sixth week, dropping
eight basis points. They slid yesterday to 2.85 percent, the
lowest level since Dec. 1.  The benchmark notes extended gains yesterday after yields
dropped below the 2.88 percent level where the securities had
found resistance three times since June 16, according to Suvrat Prakash, an interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas
Securities Corp., one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with
the central bank. Resistance is a level where sell orders may be
clustered.  “We’ve decisively rallied through that level,” Prakash
said. “That is a big deal. This rally can probably reach 2.75
percent.”  Italian 10-year bonds fell this week, increasing the
additional yield investors demand to hold the securities instead
of benchmark German bunds to the most since the euro was
introduced in 1999. Moody’s Investors Service said this week it
may cut the ratings of Italian banks.  The difference in yield widened to 2.14 percentage points
as  Italy ’s 10-year yield advanced to 4.98 percent. Greece’s 10-
year yield fell to 16.78 percent.  Greece Austerity  For Greece’s Prime Minister George Papandreou, the next
hurdle is to shepherd 78 billion euros ($111 billion) of
austerity measures through Parliament. The program was endorsed
this week by experts from the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund .  “All eyes are on Europe,” said Christopher Bury, co-head
of fixed-income rates in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., a
primary dealer. “We’ve seen a steady grind to lower yields
without a significant pullback for several weeks now. Investors
are just waiting for the storm to pass until there is some
clarity.”  The  U.S. economy  will expand by 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent
this year, down from April’s forecasts of 3.1 percent to 3.3
percent, the Fed said following its June 21-22 policy meeting.  Gross domestic product grew at a 1.9 percent annual rate
from January through March after expanding at a 3.1 percent pace
during the last three months of 2010, revised figures from the
Commerce Department showed yesterday. The government reported in
May a quarterly expansion of 1.8 percent.  Fisher’s View  Economic growth will pick up in the second half while
remaining slow, and the Fed will maintain its record asset
holdings for an “appropriate” period, according to Dallas Fed
President Richard Fisher.  “It’s going to take quite some time to achieve a glide
path that brings unemployment down significantly,” Fisher said
yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview from  Dallas .
“It’s a slow recovery, and it’s going to continue to be slow.”  President  Barack Obama  will meet with Senate Democratic
leader Harry Reid and Republican leader Mitch McConnell next
week in an effort to revive talks on the budget and deficit.  The parties are at an impasse on finding a way to cut at
least $1 trillion and raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling before an Aug. 2 deadline. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  and the second-ranking Senate Republican,  Jon Kyl , walked
away from a negotiating effort led by Vice President Joe Biden.  The government will sell $35 billion in two-year notes, the
same amount of five-year debt and $29 billion of seven-year
securities on three consecutive days beginning June 27, the
Treasury Department announced this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  