-- 
Russian Billionaire Nets Owner Prokhorov Voted Head of Political Party

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-06-25T12:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/russian-billionaire-nets-owner-prokhorov-voted-head-of-political-party.html
Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  was elected chairman of the Pravoye Delo political
party as the pro-democracy movement seeks to challenge Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin ’sUnited  Russia  in this year’s election.  “We have to become a normal, transparent and efficient
party of power,” Prokhorov, Russia’s third-richest man, told
reporters and party delegates in Moscow today. Prokhorov said he
expected Pravoye Delo, or Right Cause, to come second in
parliamentary elections scheduled for December, he said.  Prokhorov, the 46-year-old owner of the  New Jersey Nets 
basketball team, will lead Pravoye Delo, a party with 56,000
members, into December elections for the State Duma, the lower
chamber of the Russian parliament. His party will compete
against United Russia, which currently holds 315 of the 450
seats and has about 2 million members.  Prokhorov, with a fortune that Forbes estimates at about
$18 billion, said Pravoe Delo is not a “party of business, big
or small.” Pravoe Delo will target “heads of families, men and
women” who take everyday decisions and young people “who want
to choose for themselves how to live,”     he said.  The billionaire would be willing to become Russian prime
minister if such a proposition was made, Prokhorov told
reporters today. Pravoye Delo expects to receive as much as 15
percent of the vote in December’s election, he said.  Two pro-democracy parties, Yabloko and the now defunct
Union of Right Forces, or SPS, failed to win any seats in the
Duma in 2007 elections. SPS, which merged with other parties to
form Pravoye Delo in 2008, won 0.96 percent of the vote and
Yabloko got 1.59 percent, well below the 7 percent required to
gain representation in parliament.  United Russia ’s approval rating fell to 43 percent in
April, from 51 percent in December and 64 percent in the 2007
election, according to the Public Opinion Foundation in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  