-- 
Saudi Shares Rise on View Oil Prices to Rebound After Stockpiles Released

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-06-25T15:29:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/saudi-shares-rise-as-oil-price-outlook-outweighs-iea-s-decision.html
Saudi shares rose, led by banks and
cement companies, as the outlook for higher crude prices
outweighed the decision by the International Energy Agency to
release oil to the market.  Saudi Cement Co., the nation’s second-largest producer,
rose for a fourth day, while  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s
biggest lender by market value, and Banque Saudi France also
advanced. The 146-company  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  -- the No. 1
bourse by market value in the Middle East -- rose 0.1 percent to
6,456.88 by the close in Riyadh, after declining 2.5 percent
this year.  The IEA said June 23 that it will release 60 million
barrels of oil in the next month after Libya’s supply was
disrupted. The Paris-based agency’s decision also comes after
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries failed to
agree on production increases at a June 8 meeting in Vienna.  “What we are looking at now is likely only a relatively
short-term respite in the oil market,” said  Jarmo Kotilaine ,
chief economist at Jeddah-based National Commercial Bank. “Only
 Saudi Arabia  has any substantial spare capacity, but this is
being eroded now by its internal demand and their decision to
boost production.”  Crude oil for August delivery dropped 2 percent last week
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The contract rose 14 cents
yesterday to $91.16 a barrel.  Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in OPEC, was in favor of
raising output limits when the group met this month. Al-Hayat
newspaper reported June 10 that the Middle Eastern nation will
increase production to 10 million barrels a day next month, from
about 9 million.  Al Rajhi Bank gained 0.4 percent to 72 riyals and Banque
Saudi France rose 0.9 percent to 43.2 riyals, climbing for a
fourth day.  Saudi Cement (SACCO)  jumped 2.4 percent, the most since May
22, to 63.5 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  