-- 
Swiss Franc Climbs to Record High Versus Euro Amid Concern on Debt Crisis

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-06-25T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/swiss-franc-climbs-to-record-high-versus-euro-on-greece-crisis.html
The Swiss franc rose against all of
its 16 most-traded peers, reaching a record against the euro, as
investors sought safety on concern an austerity plan to
stabilize  Greece  won’t resolve  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The dollar gained for a third week against the euro, the
longest since February, on speculation Greece’s parliament may
reject Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s plan to cut the  budget
deficit , win more aid and avoid default. The pound slid for a
fourth week against the dollar after U.K. policy makers
discussed more monetary stimulus. Growth in U.S. manufacturing
cooled in June, a report next week may show.  “All these headlines continue to add to uncertainty and
nervousness amongst investors and continue to create the choppy
price action that we’ve been seeing,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya ,
head of Americas G-10 currency strategy at Bank of America Corp.
in  New York . “Just as you feel you’re on top of the Greek
situation, you get thrown a curve ball.”  The franc touched 1.1806 versus the euro yesterday, the
strongest level since the shared currency’s 1999 debut. It
gained 2.6 percent for the week to 1.1826 per euro, from 1.2142
on June 17. The franc gained 1.8 percent to 83.31 centimes per
dollar, from 84.82 centimes a week earlier.  The greenback appreciated 0.8 percent to $1.4188 against
the euro, from $1.4306. The U.S. currency rose 0.5 percent
against the yen to 80.43, from 80.05, gaining for the first time
in five weeks. The euro fell 0.3 percent to 114.13 yen in its
third week of losses, the longest losing streak since January.  No New Purchases  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six trading partners,
rose for a third week as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  dashed expectations policy makers would expand stimulus
measures. That eased concern Fed policies would further debase
the currency. The index rose 0.8 percent to 75.583.  The central bank said June 22 after a two-day meeting it
will maintain monetary stimulus to support a flagging economic
recovery while letting a $600 billion bond-purchase program end
on schedule this month. Bernanke told reporters policy makers
are in a “different position” now than last August, when
deflation posed a “nontrivial risk” and he first hinted the
Fed might undertake the debt buys.  Sterling fell for a fourth week against the greenback, the
longest since September, as minutes of the latest  Bank of
England  meeting showed some policy makers saw a risk that more
bond purchases may be required.  The pound weakened 1.5 percent to $1.5959, from $1.6194 on
June 17. It touched $1.5939 on June 23, a three-month low.  Austerity Vote  Greece’s Papandreou may struggle to pass austerity measures
even after winning a confidence vote by 155-143 on June 22,
which sent the euro to a one-week high against the dollar. The
prime minister will seek parliament’s approval next week for a
78 billion-euro ($111 billion) package of budget cuts and asset
sales, a condition for more aid the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund .  “Anything that starts with a “G” I’ll be paying
attention to,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate
currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in New York.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said he’ll speak to
dissenters from the ruling Pasok party in a bid to persuade them
to back the austerity measures in a vote that’s due by June 30.  Thomas Robopoulos, a lawmaker from the party, said he
hadn’t decided whether he’ll vote for the plan. He said
yesterday by telephone he was leaning toward voting against it.  “The majority that they had for the confidence on Tuesday
of 155 seems to be dwindling away,” said  Mark McCormick , a New
York-based currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  Italian Banks  The euro fell 1.5 percent over the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which track the currencies of 10 developed nations. The Swiss
franc was the best performer, gaining 8.4 percent.  The 17-nation currency fell against most major counterparts
yesterday as  Italy ’s two largest banks, UniCredit SpA and Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA, led a drop in bank stocks in Milan. Trading in
both firms’ shares was briefly suspended after breaching limits
on intraday swings.  Moody’s Investors Service said June 23 it may downgrade 13
Italian banks because they would be vulnerable to a cut in the
government’s credit rating. The firm said last week Italy’s
ratings may be cut because of slowing economic growth and the
potential for Europe’s debt crisis to drive up borrowing costs.  “Adding to unexpected risk to the euro, the market now has
to concentrate on risks to Spain and Italy, which were long
considered safe in this go-around,” said Bank of America’s
Upadhyaya.  Canadian Dollar  Canada ’s dollar dropped against the greenback as crude oil,
the nation’s biggest export, fell. The  International Energy
Agency  said its members will release 60 million barrels of oil
from emergency stockpiles to alleviate possible shortages
following the loss of Libyan crude.  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.9 percent to 98.86
cents per  U.S. dollar , from 97.94 cents a week earlier. It
touched 98.87, yesterday, within one cent of the weakest since
March 17. Crude fell 2.3 percent to $91.16 a barrel in New York,
dropping below $90 on June 23 for the first time since February.  The Institute of Supply Management’s manufacturing index
slipped to 51.8 in June from 53.5 in May, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the data is released
on July 1. Readings above 50 signal growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  