-- 
Syrian Forces Reported to Kill Five; Libyan Civilian Deaths Denied by NATO

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-06-25T21:35:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/syrian-forces-reported-to-kill-five-libyan-civilian-deaths-denied-by-nato.html
Syrian security forces killed five
people in the Homs province and the Damascus suburb of Kassweh,
Al Arabiya television reported yesterday.  Two of the dead, including a 13-year-old boy, were shot
while attending a funeral in Kassweh, Arabiya said, citing
activists. Three protesters were killed by security forces in
Homs, Arabiya reported, citing Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the
Syrian observatory for human rights.  More than 11,700 Syrians have fled across the border to
refugee camps in  Turkey , the Anatolia news agency said June 24,
citing a statement by the office of Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan . The influx came as Syrian army units arrived in the
border village of Khirbet al-Jouz. Syrian tanks also have
entered the Al-Najiyah border town, Al Jazeera television
reported yesterday, citing activists.  Syrian state-run television said yesterday that 730 people
who were refugees in Turkey have returned to the Syrian town of
Jisr al-Shughour.  Meanwhile Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s government,
fighting a rebellion backed by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, ordered food supplies worth 3.6 billion dinars ($3
billion) to cover the market’s needs for more than six months,
the JANA state-news agency reported yesterday.  Qaddafi Fighting Sanctions  Qaddafi has been fighting a pro-democracy insurgency
supported by NATO since February and his regime is also under
 United Nations , U.S. and European Union sanctions designed to
starve him of cash and fuel for his army.  A Libyan government official told  CNN  yesterday that NATO
airstrikes had killed 15 civilians in the Libyan city of Brega.
NATO denied the claim, saying it had struck military targets and
there was “no indication of civilian casualties,” CNN
reported.  Libyan rebels expect Qaddafi to make an offer “very soon”
that could end the war, Agence France Press reported yesterday,
citing Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, vice president of the rebel National
Transitional Council.  In Yemen, the government said it suspected the al-Qaeda
terrorist network was behind a car bomb that killed three Yemeni
security personnel in the southern city of Aden, the  Press Trust
of India  reported yesterday. The bombing in Aden’s free-trade
zone followed weekend rallies by anti-government protesters,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  