-- 
Mugabe Legitimizing Attacks on Tsvangirai, Zimbabwe’s Power-Share MDC Says

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-06-25T10:42:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/mugabe-legitimizing-attacks-on-tsvangirai-zimbabwe-s-power-share-mdc-says.html
Zimbabwe  President  Robert Mugabe ’s
Zanu-PF is using the state-controlled Herald newspaper to
“legitimize an attack on Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai ,”
according to the premier’s Movement for Democratic Change party.  Zanu-PF, whose full name is the Zimbabwe African National
Union-Patriotic Front, is attempting to “eliminate” Tsvangirai
or “remove him as a threat to their party,” MDC Organizing
Secretary Nelson Chamisa said in a phone interview from Harare.
The two parties are in government together under a power-sharing
agreement brokered in 2009.  Defense Minister Emmerson Mnangagwa was quoted in today’s
Herald as “warning” Tsvangirai to “leave Zimbabwe’s generals
alone.” His comments came after Tsvangirai said June 21 that
military and police leaders should quit their posts and enter
politics as civilians.  “What these statements from Zanu loyalists” show “is
that an element within Zanu-PF is trying to legitimize an attack
on the prime minister, whether to eliminate him or remove him as
a threat,” the MDC’s Chamisa said in the interview.  Calls to Zanu-PF’s headquarters and the defense ministry
went unanswered.  Chamisa made his remarks two days after Brigadier-General
Douglas Nyikayaramba said in the Herald that the army would do
all it could to keep Mugabe, 87, in power. The president will
only leave office if he “sees fit, or dies”, according to the
report, the military’s most direct signal yet that it would
refuse to accept any other leader.  ‘Internal Threats’  Today’s paper quotes the Zanu-PF defence minister as saying
the army has a constitutional mandate to protect Zimbabweans
from both external and “ internal threats .”  Mugabe’s party “is incorrect to refer to internal
threats,” Chamisa said today. “The MDC is not a threat, it is
the government and the biggest party in government,” he said.  The MDC has been criticizing Mugabe for using the military,
police and intelligence services to brutalize and intimidate its
supporters since 2000. Its claims have been backed by  Amnesty
International ,  Human Rights Watch  and civil-liberties groups in
Harare.  Mugabe is pushing for fresh elections this year in an
attempt to end the power-sharing accord, which was brokered by
the  Southern African Development Community  and left Zanu-PF in
control of the security services while giving most of the
economic ministries to the MDC.  The MDC has said that Zimbabwe shouldn’t hold elections
until the security services have been reformed and a new
constitution is in place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  