-- 
Winnipeg’s Relocated NHL Franchise Named Jets, Reviving a 24-Year History

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-06-25T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-25/winnipeg-s-relocated-nhl-franchise-named-jets-reviving-a-24-year-history.html
Winnipeg’s National Hockey League
franchise, which relocated from Atlanta, will be called the Jets
after the team that spent 24 years in the Manitoba capital.  The name was revealed last night during the first round of
the  NHL Draft  in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , right before the team
selected center Mark Scheifele with the No. 7 pick. The team
also announced Claude Noel as its first coach yesterday in a
news conference.  “We did think about it long and hard, it was not an easy
decision to make,” Mark Chipman, chairman of Winnipeg-based
True North Sports & Entertainment Ltd., which bought the team,
said in a television interview. “There is so much history and
heritage behind the name.”  Earlier this week, the league’s board of governors voted in
 New York  to approve the sale of the  Atlanta Thrashers  to True
North. The Jets will play in Winnipeg starting with the 2011-12
season.  An  online petition  calling for the team to regain the Jets
nickname gathered more than 13,600 signatures.  “Based on the reception that we’ve gotten, everybody is
extremely excited about the opportunities in Winnipeg,” league
Commissioner Gary Bettman said in a news conference following
the league’s approval of the sale.  The Jets played in the NHL from 1979-1996, recording 506
wins, 660 losses and 172 ties. In that span the team qualified
for the playoffs 11 times, never making it to the Stanley Cup
Final. The Jets qualified for seven straight playoffs from 1982-
88 with a nucleus of players including Hall of Fame center Dale Hawerchuk, and defensemen Dave Babych and Randy Carlyle, now the
coach of the Anaheim Ducks.  World Hockey Association  In seven  World Hockey Association  seasons before joining
the NHL, the Jets and Hall of Fame forward Bobby Hull, nicknamed
“the Golden Jet,” made six playoff appearances and won three
league titles. The city lost the first incarnation of the Jets
when the franchise moved to  Arizona  in 1996 and became the
 Phoenix Coyotes .  “We get to be back in a place we wish we hadn’t left in
1996,” Bettman said May 31 at a news conference in Winnipeg
following the announcement of the sale.  Season tickets for the Jets went on sale to the public on
June 4. The team’s 13,000 season tickets were sold to existing
minor-league patrons and new buyers within 72 hours, according
to the Winnipeg Free Press. The waiting list was capped at 8,000
soon after that.  Smallest NHL Arena  The 15,000-seat MTS Centre, the future home of the
franchise and smallest NHL arena by capacity, will retain its
name after MTS Allstream Inc., a local telecommunications
company, and True North announced an extension of their
sponsorship agreement. Financial details of the 10-year
extension, announced on the arena’s website, weren’t released.  True North is headed by David Thomson, chairman of
financial news and information provider  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) 
Thomson was ranked 24th on Forbes magazine’s 2009 list of the
world’s richest people, with an estimated net worth of $13
billion.  Bettman has declined to comment on the financial details of
the sale, which was announced last month. The Hockey News
reported on May 20 that the price would be $110 million, with
the NHL receiving at least another $60 million as part of a
relocation fee.  Other suggestions for the team’s name included the Manitoba
Falcons, in honor of the Winnipeg Falcons, who won Canada’s
first Olympic hockey gold medal in 1920. The Jets will be the
NHL’s seventh Canadian team, joining the  Vancouver Canucks ,
Calgary Flames,  Toronto Maple Leafs , Edmonton Oilers,  Montreal
Canadiens  and  Ottawa Senators .  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 Thomson Reuters  in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  -- Editor: Rob Gloster, Nancy Kercheval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  