-- Afghan Attackers Shoot to Death Two U.S. Soldiers in Kandahar
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-01T19:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/afghan-attackers-shoot-to-death-two-u-s-soldiers-in-kandahar.html
Two U.S. troops were shot to death
in southern Afghanistan in an assault by three Afghans,
continuing the attacks on coalition forces that have followed
the burning of Korans at an American military base.  “Two of the attackers were subsequently killed by our
forces,”  George Little , a spokesman for the Defense Department,
told reporters at the Pentagon today.  The attackers killed in Kandahar province were an Afghan
National Army soldier and a civilian literacy instructor,
according to U.S. Army Lieutenant Colonel Jimmie Cummings Jr., a
spokesman in Kabul for the 50-nation coalition led by the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization. The second Afghan soldier is in
custody, and investigators are trying to determine the
circumstances and whether the Koran burnings motivated the
shooting.  The deaths bring to six the number of Americans killed by
Afghan partners working alongside them since Korans were found
burning in a trash dump at a U.S. base almost two weeks ago.
Violent demonstrations in the aftermath and the American deaths
have raised new questions about the U.S. strategy of working
closely with Afghan forces toward a transfer of combat duties
before the planned withdrawal of NATO-led troops in 2014.  A lieutenant colonel and a major were shot in the back of
the head in the heavily guarded Interior Ministry in Kabul, and
two U.S. soldiers were shot by a man in an Afghan army uniform
in the eastern province of Nangarhar.  The discovery that Korans were being burned at the Bagram
air base, the largest U.S. installation in  Afghanistan , led to
an apology by President Barack Obama.  ‘Troubling Incidents’  Little, the Pentagon spokesman, said today the “troubling
incidents” won’t change the coalition’s strategy.  “We have confidence in our ability to work closely with”
Afghan forces,  Little said. “This is a war zone. There’s no
such thing as zero risk.”  Marine General John Allen, the top U.S. and NATO commander
in Afghanistan, has sent specific coalition advisers back to
Afghan government ministries. He had recalled all of them from
offices in and around Kabul after the Interior Ministry
shooting. The advisers are working under new security
procedures, according to Cummings, who wouldn’t give details of
the precautions taken.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  