-- Ahold Fourth-Quarter Profit Surges 75% on Grocery Revenue, Cost Reduction
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-03-01T09:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/ahold-reports-slower-sales-forecasts-another-challenging-year.html
Royal Ahold NV (AH) , the Dutch owner of
Stop & Shop grocery stores, said sales growth has eased in
recent weeks and warned of “another challenging year” as
consumers focus on value and competition remains intense.  “We clearly have seen that there is slower growth of the
first couple of weeks in the markets we are in,” Chief
Executive Officer Dick Boer said on a conference call with
journalists, citing economic conditions in Europe and the effect
of record-high fuel prices in the U.S.  Shoppers are holding back on spending, and the grocer is
responding with promotions, value-tiered lines like Euroshopper
in the Netherlands, and offering “market prices” for fruit and
vegetables to lure customers. The European Commission predicts
that the region’s economy will shrink this year.  “There are some clouds as Ahold has warned of a likely
difficult first quarter, and this may weigh on the sentiment of
otherwise solid results,” Matthew Truman, an analyst at
JPMorgan Cazenove with a “neutral” rating on the stock, said
in a report. “Whilst in a cleaner position than most, is
unlikely to be immune from the weakening macro conditions.”  Ahold fell 0.6 percent to 10.32 euros at 10:18 a.m. in
Amsterdam trading. The stock is down 0.9 percent this year.  ‘Another Challenging Year’  Net income advanced to 270 million euros ($360 million)
from 154 million euros a year earlier in the fourth quarter, the
Amsterdam-based company said in a statement. Analysts expected
net income of 253.5 million euros, according to the average of
six estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Sales rose 4.5 percent to
7.3 billion euros, Ahold said in January.  “We expect 2012 to be another challenging year for the
food retail industry,” Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer  said
in the statement. “The macro-economic environment means that
consumers still continue to look for value and competition will
remain intense.”  Chief Financial Officer Jeff Carr said he wouldn’t rule out
future share buybacks, though he will continue to invest in
reducing debt and improving returns to shareholders. He also
said the grocer may consider taking ownership of operating
leases and it commits to reducing net  cash  to 1 billion euros.  Acquisition Strategy  The grocer will mostly target acquisitions in adjacent
countries, and will also consider “more mature” emerging
markets with high population densities and growth, Boer said.
“In the markets we are present we still feel quite some
opportunities to grow our business” in the U.S., he added.  Pick-up points for online orders are planned for the second
half in  Europe  with some open in the U.S. already, the CEO said.  Boer, who took the helm in March 2011, is planning to boost
Ahold’s online business, expand in  Belgium  and add  convenience
stores  to reverse slowing sales growth. Ahold said Feb. 27 it
plans to acquire online retailer Bol.com for 350 million euros
to boost  Internet sales .  Ahold, which owns Albert Heijn stores in the Netherlands,
also plans to cut costs by an additional 350 million euros over
three years and increase the proportion of earnings paid as
dividends. For 2011, the company is planning a payout of 40
cents a share, a 38 percent increase.  The company’s Giant Food Stores agreed to buy 16 Genuardi’s
outlets from  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  for $106 million in January to expand
in the Philadelphia area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  