-- Thai Rice Stocks to Surge as Yingluck Extends Purchase Plan
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-03-01T06:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/thai-rice-stocks-to-surge-as-yingluck-extends-purchase-program.html
Thailand ’s government is expanding a
rice-buying program it says will bring in more cash for the
grain as exporters blame the policy for putting the country’s
30-year reign as the world’s top shipper at risk.  The program to purchase rice at above-market rates,
entering its second phase today after a government extension
last month, is expected to boost state stockpiles this year to
new highs, according to forecasts from the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . The value of rice shipments may grow 20 percent
this year to more than 200 billion baht ($6.6 billion), Yanyong Phuangrach, the top Commerce Ministry bureaucrat, said Feb. 24.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s attempts to boost
farmer incomes through government purchases since taking power
in August have had a minimal affect on global price movements as
 India  increased sales of cheaper rice. Hitting revenue targets
set by the government largely depends on whether India can
sustain its exports, according to Darren Cooper, a senior
economist at the International Grains Council in  London .  “As long as India remains in the market, I cannot see the
market moving much higher,” Cooper said by phone. “If it comes
to the point later this year where global supplies are tight,
Thailand has all those stocks on the balance sheet and Vietnam’s
crop is not due until March 2013, then certainly Thailand will
be well positioned to release the stocks.”  Prices Lag  Prices have come under pressure as the global harvest is
poised to reach a record, boosting stockpiles to the highest
level in almost a decade as imports decline for the first time
in three years, according to the USDA. Thailand’s  export price ,
an Asian benchmark, may tumble as much as 13 percent to $500 a
ton in 2012, the lowest since June last year, according to a
Bloomberg survey in February of 11 traders and exporters.  The government wants to boost export prices to $700 per
ton, Commerce Minister Boonsong Teriyapirom said on Feb. 23. The
price of 100-percent grade B rice climbed from an average of
$556 per ton in July to $650 in November, before falling to $565
last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The government wants to send a signal to international
traders that they shouldn’t expect to buy cheap rice from
Thailand,” Yanyong, the permanent secretary for commerce, said
today. “Thai rice is good quality and it has to be expensive.”  Yingluck’s announcement of the policy last July helped spur
average local prices of unmilled white rice by as much as 22
percent, to 11,700 baht per ton in November. Prices averaged
10,920 baht a ton in the first three months of the program that
started Oct. 7, compared with the 15,000 baht guaranteed by the
government.  Crop Damage  Some farmers didn’t take part in the program because they
received compensation from the government after floods damaged
crops in the fourth quarter of last year and they were forced to
sell supplies to millers at lower rates, said Chanchai
Rakthananon, president of the Thai Rice Mills Association.  Yingluck touted the rice-buying program in leading Pheu
Thai to a majority victory in July elections over a party led by
former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who implemented a
policy of direct cash payments to farmers to subsidize their
incomes while in power. About 35 percent of Thais made their
living growing crops in 2010, according to data from the Office
of Agricultural Economics.  “The extension of the program will benefit Pheu Thai’s
popularity,” Prasit Boonchuey, president of the Thai Farmers
Association, said by phone. “More rice may be sold in the
program in the second round because of attractive high prices.”  Thailand’s cabinet extended the program to buy rough rice
at guaranteed rates from today to Sept. 15. The government has
said it will buy an “unlimited” amount from the second
harvest, which it estimates will yield about 11.1 million tons.  Stockpiles Surging  The purchase will increase Thai stockpiles to a record of
almost 8 million tons this year, the USDA said in a Feb. 9
report. During the first phase, the government spent about 100
billion baht to buy about 6.7 million tons, short of the initial
target of 15 million tons because of flooding, the commerce
ministry’s Yanyong said. Abhisit’s income-guarantee program cost
60 billion baht without building stockpiles, he said.  “The program has made it very difficult to sell rice,”
said Sermsak Kuonsongtum, director of Chaiyaporn Group,
Thailand’s third-largest exporter. Shipments have fallen since
the start of the program and the country’s exports this year may
plunge by 40 percent, he said.  Shipments from Thailand may slide 38 percent to 6.5 million
tons this year, the same level as nearest rival  Vietnam , data on
the USDA’s website showed, while India’s exports may jump 43
percent to 6 million tons.  Exports Tumble  From Jan. 1 to Feb. 23, Thai exports tumbled 50 percent
from a year earlier to 852,629 tons, according to the Thai Rice
Exporters Association, which said in January shipments may total
6.5 million to 8 million tons for the year.  Vietnam shipped 473,802 metric tons from Jan. 1 to Feb. 23,
the Vietnam Food Association said yesterday. The country may
ship as much as 7.34 million tons in 2012, Vietnam’s agriculture
ministry said Feb. 3.  India’s exports of non-basmati rice may total 4 million
tons by the end of March, buoyed by the government’s decision to
lift an export ban in September, the All India Rice Exporters
Association’s Executive Director Rajendran Sundaresan said in
Bangkok on Feb. 9.  “Don’t worry that we won’t be able to sell rice,” Yanyong
said. “We are in talks with many buyers on a barter trade of a
large amount of rice. We can also sell under government-to-
government contracts, or sell to the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  