-- Thailand Should Store Crude for Producers Spooked by Iran Threat, PTT Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-03-01T03:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/thailand-should-store-crude-for-producers-spooked-by-iran-threat-ptt-says.html
Thailand should be used as a base to
store crude-oil supplies from Middle East producers spooked by
Iran’s threat to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , according to the
head of the country’s biggest energy company.  “Look at the vulnerability of the Hormuz Strait,” Pailin Chuchottaworn, chief executive officer of state-controlled  PTT
Pcl (PTT) , said in an interview in Bangkok yesterday. “All the oil 
exporters,  Kuwait ,  United Arab Emirates ,  Saudi Arabia ,  Iraq , they
all want to send out the oil and keep it outside of the Gulf.”  Pailin urged Thai policy makers to approve a 90-day oil
reserve using either state funds or foreign reserves, a move the
central bank has resisted. Storage facilities would be located
in southern Thailand along with an oil pipeline linking the
Indian Ocean with the  South China Sea  that would allow crude to
bypass  Singapore  and the Strait of Malacca, he said.  U.S., European Union and Israeli efforts to halt  Iran’s
nuclear program  threaten to disrupt supplies in a region that
holds 54 percent of global oil reserves, pushing crude prices
higher this year.  Iran  has threatened to close the Strait of
Hormuz, a transit route for a fifth of the world’s crude, in
response to an embargo.  Iran would view moves by Saudi Arabia or other Middle
Eastern exporters to establish permanent storage facilities in
 Asia  as provocative, according to Tony Regan, a consultant with
Singapore-based Tri-Zen International Ltd. Moreover, demand for
oil will decline relative to natural gas over the next decade,
reducing the need for overseas oil depots, he said.  Strategic Reserve ‘Justification’  “This is another way of bringing attention back to the
idea of a land bridge in Thailand, which I just don’t see as
having much traction,” said Regan, who was previously an
executive with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in the liquefied-natural-
gas business. “Perhaps he’s also using this as a justification
for Thailand having a strategic reserve, which would be great
for PTT because they can benefit from it.”  The decades-old land bridge proposal, which includes oil
pipelines, storage facilities and supporting industries, is
“viable,” Pailin said. He blamed opposition from countries
near the Malacca Strait and the central bank’s reluctance to
fund a strategic oil reserve for stalling its implementation.  Thailand should aim for a strategic reserve of between 60
million and 90 million barrels, Pailin said, adding that it
would cost as much as $10 billion and take as long as a decade
to build up.  Bank of  Thailand  Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul last year
said the central bank “needs cautious studies” before it uses
foreign reserves to establish an oil stockpile. Thailand’s
 reserves  amounted to $178 billion at the end of January, the
second-most in  Southeast Asia  after Singapore.  Shares Gain  PTT and its major affiliates account for more than a fifth
of the value of Thailand’s benchmark  SET index . Shares of the
company, 51-percent owned by the  finance ministry , have gained
14 percent this year, compared with an 11 percent increase in
the Bloomberg World Energy index.  PTT missed analyst estimates in reporting fourth-quarter
net income of 16.6 billion baht ($544 million), down 26 percent
from a year earlier, on a weakening global economy and flooding
in Thailand. Of  33 analysts tracked by Bloomberg , 29 have buy
ratings, with the rest recommending investors to hold the stock.  PTT is seeking to acquire new oil and gas reserves and
secure LNG imports as it aims to supply half of Thailand’s daily
energy demand by 2020, up from 15 percent now, Pailin said. PTT
Exploration & Production Pcl, which accounted for 31 percent of
PTT’s net income last year, offered 1.1 billion pounds ($1.75
billion) for Cove Energy Plc last week, trumping an earlier bid
for the African explorer by Shell.  Cambodia, Myanmar  “This is not our first attempt in  Africa , but it’s
definitely a good example that we reach as far as south and
middle Africa for energy,” Pailin said. “Oil is getting scarce
and we have to go further and deeper to get the energy.”  As executives scan the globe looking for reserves, some
areas for expansion sit close to home in neighbors Myanmar and
 Cambodia . PTT plans to invest 720 billion baht over the next
five years, with half reserved for PTT Exploration to develop
oil and gas fields at home and overseas, according to a Feb. 17
statement.  Thai government talks with Cambodia on jointly developing
an overlapping claims area have seen “lots of progress,”
Pailin said. Former Thai Energy Minister Pichai Naripthaphan
said Oct. 12 that gas reserves in the disputed zone may at least
be equal to the country’s current reserves, which BP Plc
estimates at 11 trillion cubic feet, equivalent to about a tenth
of China’s gas reserves.  Myanmar, which is undergoing political reforms after
decades of military rule, is an “ideal place” for Thai
companies to invest to supply goods for its 62 million people,
Pailin said. The country supplies Thailand with a quarter of its
total daily gas needs, a percentage that will probably stay the
same over the next decade, he said.  “From now on Myanmar wants to reserve new discoveries for
their own use,” Pailin said. “We are ready to support the
government in terms of their plans to develop the economy using
that oil and gas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  