-- Akzo Ousts Chemicals Head Frohn to Prepare for New Chief
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-03-01T11:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/akzo-ousts-chemicals-head-frohn-in-buechner-timed-reshuffle.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the world’s biggest
paintmaker, removed the head of its specialty-chemicals unit as
the company shifts managers a month before Ton Buechner takes
over as chief executive officer.  Rob Frohn, who ran the specialty-chemicals division
following a four-year stint as Akzo’s chief financial officer,
will leave May 1 following a 28-year tenure, the Amsterdam-based
company said in a statement today. Werner Fuhrmann, Akzo’s
supply-chain head, will oversee specialty chemicals on a
temporary basis until a successor is found.  Buechner joining Akzo from Swiss pumpmaker  Sulzer AG (SUN) , where
he was CEO. Akzo has earmarked the specialty-chemicals division,
last year’s top  profit contributor , as a growth pillar. Earlier
this year, it bought Boxing Oleochemicals to expand in amines
and is budgeting additional investments of at least 355 million
euros ($473 million) for plants in  Brazil ,  China  and  Germany .  “Buechner, the CEO designate, will be responsible for
choosing Rob’s successor, and we view this as part of a change
process, putting in place his own management team,” Martin Dunwoodie, a London-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a
note. “Operational management change is key to the medium-term
story at Akzo and we see this as a positive step beginning that
process.”  Akzo rose as much as 0.9 percent to 42.97 euros and was
trading up 0.8 percent at 42.90 euros at 12:12 p.m. in
Amsterdam. The stock has gained 15 percent this year.  Fuhrmann’s main job remains supply-chain and sourcing
management, Akzo said. The Dutch company also proposed Sari Baldauf, chairman of  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) , and  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  CEO Ben Verwaayen to join its supervisory board, as Virginia Bottomley,
of U.K. executive-search company Odgers Berndtson, leaves the
board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  