-- Man Group Assets Rise as Outflows Slow
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-03-01T16:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/man-group-assets-rise-in-first-two-months.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest
publicly traded hedge fund, said outflows slowed and assets
under management rose 1.9 percent in the first two months of
2012, stemming last year’s decline. The stock jumped the most in
15 months.  Funds increased to $59.5 billion at the end of February
from $58.4 billion at the end of December, London-based Man
Group said in a statement today. The increase was triggered by
investment gains and a slowdown in the rate at which clients
pulled money, Man Group said.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis triggered investment losses
last year and prompted client redemptions from Man Group’s funds
in a search for safer assets. Analysts cut their estimates for
Man Group’s 2012 earnings after concluding that the decline in
assets and the investment performance of the firm’s biggest
hedge fund, AHL Diversified, would threaten fees the company
charges. To revive earnings, Man Group said last month it would
reduce costs by 10 percent by cutting pay and jobs.  “Investor sentiment has improved compared to the last
quarter of 2011 and lower redemptions have driven a significant
reduction in the rate of net outflows,” Man Group Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  said in today’s statement.
“Sentiment remains fragile.”  The gap between new sales of investment products and client
redemptions was “small” in January and “almost completely
closed” in February, Clarke told reporters on a conference
call. Man Group doesn’t disclose monthly figures on redemptions
and outflows, he said.  Dividend Policy  The shares, which had slumped by 51 percent in the past 12
months, climbed 13 percent to 147.5 pence in London trading,
their biggest gain since November 2010. Man Group will change
its dividend policy to pay out all of its adjusted management
fee earnings as a dividend. The firm expects to pay investors a
dividend of 22 cents a share for 2012. The stock already offers
investors the biggest dividend yield in the FTSE 100 index.  Clients withdrew a net $2.5 billion from Man Group’s funds
in the fourth quarter. Since the end of March 2011, assets
managed by the firm have fallen 14 percent from $69.1 billion.  The increase in assets through February was driven by gains
at investment funds overseen by GLG Partners LP, the money-
management firm Man Group purchased in 2010 for $1.6 billion.
GLG’s European Equity Alternative fund gained 6 percent this
year through Feb. 24, the Global Convertibles fund rose 8.4
percent and the Emerging Markets fund increased 6.9 percent, the
company said in the statement.  AHL (MAHLDGB) , a $21 billion program that uses computer algorithms to
spot profitable trades in  futures markets , climbed 2.5 percent
this year through Feb. 27. Man Group bought GLG after investors
and analysts said the company was too dependent on AHL.  Adjusted pretax profit in the nine months through December
was $262 million compared with $599 million in the 12 months
through March 2011. Man Group has changed its year-end reporting
period to December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  