-- Andrew Breitbart, Internet Blogger for Conservative Causes, Is Dead at 43
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-03-01T17:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/andrew-breitbart-online-provocateur-for-the-political-right-dies-at-43.html
Andrew Breitbart, who became a hero
to some on the political right for Internet-based muckraking
that took on what he saw as too-big government and too-liberal
mainstream media, has died. He was 43.  His death was announced today on his website,
 BigJournalism.com , which said he died shortly after midnight in
Los Angeles of natural causes.  Breitbart’s father-in-law, actor Orson Bean, told the
 Associated Press  that Breitbart was walking near his house in
the Brentwood neighborhood around midnight when he collapsed,
and paramedics couldn’t revive him. Breitbart suffered heart
problems a year ago, Bean told AP. According to his Twitter
feed, Breitbart was jousting with critics as recently as the
hours before his death.  Breitbart was publisher of blogging websites including
 Breitbart.com , BigGovernment.com and BigJournalism.com. Targets
of his brand of investigative journalism included U.S.
Representative Anthony Weiner, a New York Democrat who resigned
in 2011 after acknowledging that, as Breitbart first alleged, he
had sent lewd pictures of himself to women.  Acorn Falls  Another target was the Association of Community
Organizations for Reform Now, better known as Acorn. After
activists in 2009 shot hidden-camera video appearing to show
some of its counselors try to help a prostitute get around the
law, Breitbart broke the story and hosted the recording on his
website. Acorn ultimately went out of business.  He also released edited video clips of a speech by a black
U.S. Agriculture Department employee,  Shirley Sherrod , that
seemed to show her admitting to not fully helping a white farmer
she met with in 1986. The video led Agriculture Secretary Thomas Vilsack to fire Sherrod in July 2010.  Vilsack and President Barack Obama both apologized for the
firing after learning that the full video showed that Sherrod
discussed overcoming her own biases to help the man save his
farm.  From his online base, Breitbart became a frequent guest on
the Fox News cable-television channel and a favorite of Tea
Party activists. When Sarah Palin spoke at the National Tea
Party Convention in Nashville in 2010, it was Breitbart who
introduced her.  “I am not as partisan as people think I am,” Breitbart
told the  New Yorker  magazine for a profile published in 2010.
“But when the entire media is structured to attack
conservatives and Republicans, there is a huge business model to
come in and counterbalance that.”  ‘Fearless Conservative’  Several Republicans seeking the presidential nomination
this year reacted to Breitbart’s death on Twitter. Former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney said that he is saddened by
the loss of a “brilliant entrepreneur, fearless conservative,
loving husband and father.’’  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  said, “Andrew Breitbart
was the most innovative pioneer in conservative activist social
media in America. He had great courage and creativity.”  Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  said, “Andrew’s
death is a shock and huge loss. His courage should be an example
to us all.”  Palin, the former Alaska governor and 2008 Republican vice
presidential candidate, said via Facebook: “Many of us will
have lifelong memories of our work or encounters with Andrew.
May we draw on those to help forward the cause of fighting for
what is right.’’  Los Angeles Roots  Born in  Los Angeles  in 1969, Breitbart was adopted. His
adoptive father was a lobbyist for the food-service industry,
his mother a bank executive, according to the New Yorker
profile.  He graduated from  Tulane University  in  New Orleans  and
returned to Los Angeles, where he discovered the Internet as a
cure for his intellectual aimlessness. In 1995 he began working
for the Drudge Report, the online aggregator of news that had
exploded onto the scene as an outlet for reports critical of
President  Bill Clinton .  He next worked with  Arianna Huffington  on the creation of
her online site, the  Huffington Post , though its political
outlook clashed with his own. “I knew that I wanted to get into
what I had helped create for Arianna,’’ he told the New Yorker,
“but I wanted to do it from a different perspective.’’
Breitbart.com came online in 2005, mostly as an aggregator of
news.  ‘The Institutional Left’  The connections between Hollywood and Democratic politics
-- pillars of what he called “the institutional left’’ -- was a
particular point of fascination and irritation for Breitbart.  “The right has focused its energy and money on the
political process, and it just kind of shrugged off culture,’’
he said in an interview with GQ magazine published in April.
“But culture is everything in this country. Once you get down
to the political level, you’ve already lost the battle. I sleep
so well at night taking on these people who I’ve isolated as the
problem. It’s not  Nancy Pelosi  and  Barack Obama . It’s  Katie Couric ,  Brian Williams . It’s Paramount and Sony and the people
in Hollywood who hide their message in art.’’  Breitbart had four children with his wife, Susannah Bean
Breitbart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  