-- Manroland to Return to Profit, Flying Industrialist Langley Says
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-03-01T15:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/manroland-to-return-to-profit-flying-industrialist-langley-says.html
Tony Langley, the self-described
industrialist whose Langley Holdings Plc. took over the sheet-
fed unit of  Germany ’s insolvent  Manroland AG (MRDCF) , plans to return
the printing-press maker to profit this year.  Langley doesn’t see the need for any more restructuring and
has no plans to fire any of the 1,000 workers remaining at the
factory in Offenbach near  Frankfurt , he said today at a press
conference.  Langley, who pilots his own plane to Germany and back home
to England every week, sees long-term “conservative” growth
for the printing-press industry, he said. His holding company,
which posted sales of 495 million euros ($659 million) last
year, sticks with its investments and there are no plans to sell
Manroland even in the long term, he said.  “We have a buy, improve, hold strategy,” Langley said.
“In my lifetime and my kids lifetime, there will still be print
media. The credit freeze will start to thaw as early as this
year. The green shoots are there.”  Langley, clad in a navy suit with broad pin-stripes
combined with a striped shirt and yellow tie, said he will look
for potential savings with his other holdings, for example,
through combined purchasing, Such savings weren’t the main
reason for buying Manroland, he said.  Langley Holdings, based in Retford,  England , also owns
Pillar Power Systems, a German producer of uninterruptible power
supplies, Claudius Peters, a materials handling business near
Hamburg, and Aro Welding Technologies based in  France , according
to its annual report.  Alfred Rothlaender and Rafael Penuela Torres are to manage
Offenbach, Germany-based Manroland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  