-- U.S. Manufacturing, Household Spending Probably Rose
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-03-01T11:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/manufacturing-household-spending-in-u-s-probably-increased.html
Manufacturing probably accelerated
for a fourth straight month in February after Americans picked
up the pace of spending a month earlier, economists said before
reports today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  rose to
an eight-month high of 54.5 from 54.1 in January, according to
the median estimate of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Readings above 50 signal growth. Consumer purchases in January
rose 0.4 percent, the biggest gain in four months, a Commerce
Department report may show.  Manufacturers remain at the forefront of the more than two-
year-old expansion, aided by corporate investment in equipment,
inventory rebuilding and a pickup in the  auto industry . Risks to
the industry that accounts for about 12 percent of the economy
include higher fuel costs and a slowdown in  Europe  linked to its
debt crisis.  “Manufacturing has been at the forefront of the recent
improvements we’ve seen in overall economic activity,” said
 Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc.
in  Detroit .  “Though gas prices could hurt in the short term,
there is still a lot of pent-up demand in the American economy
that could be released now that the job market seems to be
improving.”  Gasoline Prices  The price of a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline climbed
to $3.73 as of Feb. 28, the highest since June of last year,
after reaching a 10-month low of $3.21 on Dec. 20, according to
AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association.  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM is due to report its
manufacturing index at 10 a.m. Estimates ranged from 52 to 56.  Elsewhere, euro-area manufacturing shrank for a seventh
month and unemployment climbed to the highest level in more than
14 years. A factory gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation region increased to 49 in February
from 48.8 a month earlier, below the 50 line that divides
expansion from contraction, London-based Markit Economics said
today. Separate reports showed the jobless rate rose to 10.7
percent in January, the highest since October 1997.  The European factory survey contrasts with reports in  China 
and  India  showing continued expansion in manufacturing.  Data from China today showed that a purchasing managers’
index rose for a third month to 51 in February from 50.5 in
January. In India, a PMI released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit was close to an eight-month high.  Household Spending  Personal spending probably rose in January after little
change in December and 0.1 percent gains in each of the previous
two months, according to the survey median before the Commerce
Department report at 8:30 a.m. in Washington.  Incomes (PITLCHNG)  probably
climbed 0.4 percent after a 0.5 percent gain, the biggest back-
to-back gains since February-March 2011.  Initial jobless claims last week may have held close to a
four-year low, a sign the labor market is on the mend, another
report may show.  Initial claims  rose to 355,000 last week from
351,000 the prior period, economists forecast the Labor
Department will report at 8:30 a.m.  Less firing and faster job growth are boosting the outlook
for spending and production. Payrolls grew by 243,000 workers in
January, and the jobless rate fell to 8.3 percent, the lowest
since February 2009, the Labor Department said Feb. 3.  Factory Jobs  Underscoring the strength in manufacturing, factory
payrolls jumped 50,000 in January, the most in a year, while the
industry’s workers put in the longest workweek on average since
January 1998, the Labor Department monthly data showed.  Another survey, from the  Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago , showed that business activity in the U.S. accelerated
in February to the fastest pace in 10 months. The group’s
employment gauge climbed to the highest level since 1984.  Vehicle demand is driving production. Cars and light trucks
sold at a 14.1 million annual rate in January, according to
industry data. Excluding a surge in August 2009 tied to the
government’s “cash-for-clunkers” program, it was the strongest
month since May 2008.  Manufacturing, which sparked the early stages of the
recovery as growing overseas economies propelled exports, has
recovered after a lull tied to last year’s earthquake in  Japan .  Bernanke View  “The recovery of the  U.S. economy  continues, but the pace
of expansion has been uneven and modest by historical
standards,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the
House Financial Services Committee in  Washington  yesterday.
Manufacturing has “posted solid gains since the middle of last
year, supported by the recovery in motor vehicle supply chains
and ongoing increases in business investment, he said.  “For many products demand has been above our ability to
produce,”  Mike DeWalt , director of  investor relations  at
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , said on a Jan. 26 conference call with
analysts. “We have invested in Caterpillar factories in the
 United States  and around the world to increase production.”  Even with planned increases in  capital expenditures  this
year, “we’re still very tight on many products and are
currently quoting extended delivery times for them,” he said.  Machinery and equipment makers have outperformed the
broader stock market. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
 Machinery Index (S15MACH)  has gained 19 percent so far this year, compared
with an 8.6 percent increase for the  S&P 500 Index .  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  