-- Harrisburg Controller, Treasurer File Objections as Plan Hearing Begins
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-03-01T20:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/harrisburg-controller-treasurer-file-objections-as-plan-hearing-begins.html
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania ’s city
controller, treasurer and council president asked a judge to
reject a proposal to fix the city’s budget problems by selling
or leasing the capital city’s most valuable assets.  State court Judge Bonnie Leadbetter is hearing testimony
today about the plan proposed by receiver David Unkovic, chief
lawyer for the Pennsylvania economic development department. The
plan has split city officials, with Mayor  Linda Thompson  in
support and other officials opposed.  “Privatization is the oft-touted term, the results of
which time and again result in a windfall to  Wall Street  and
politically connected insiders; all to the detriment of states
and local government, which are stripped of their assets,”
Council President Wanda Williams, City Controller Dan Miller and
City Treasurer John R. Campbell said in court papers filed
yesterday.  Harrisburg, a city of 49,500, faces more debt than it can
afford to pay, mainly because of more than $300 million in bonds
tied to an incinerator that doesn’t generate enough revenue,
Unkovic said in court today.  To raise money, Unkovic has asked private businesses to
submit proposals for buying or leasing three types of city
assets: the power-generating incinerator, parking garages and
the city’s water and sewer system. Between five and 10 entities
have signed confidentiality agreements related to those so-
called requests for proposal, Unkovic said today in court.  Bankruptcy Ban  Unkovic is “not imposing his will on anyone,” Thompson
said in a telephone interview from Harrisburg on Bloomberg
Television.  “I’m calling on council to settle down and realize
bankruptcy is not a panacea here,” she said.  Unkovic was appointed under a process approved by the state
legislature that bans Harrisburg and other similar-sized cities
from filing bankruptcy until July.  A bid by the city council to put the city into bankruptcy
was dismissed on Nov. 23 by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary D.  France 
in Harrisburg, saying it wasn’t authorized by state law. The
city council has filed an appeal related to that dismissal.  Unkovic said he hasn’t started negotiating with the city’s
biggest creditor: bond-insurer Assured Guarantee Municipal
Corp., a unit of  Assured Guarantee Ltd. (AGO)  He won’t start talking
to Assured, or to Dauphin County, which is also obligated to
cover the bond payments, until he reviews the proposals to buy
or lease the city assets.  Stranded Debt  After he knows how much the assets are worth, Unkovic can
calculate how much of the more than $300 million in incinerator
debt will be left “stranded,” or unpayable, he said in court.  “At this point it is premature to negotiate over how to
deal with that debt,” he said.  Unkovic said he hasn’t determined whether he will sue
anyone involved in the issuance of the incinerator debt, which
was issued between 1998 and 2003.  State law gives the receiver the power to impose his plan
on city officials without their consent after winning approval
from a state judge. The law doesn’t let him break union or other
contracts.  The receiver case is Walker v. City of Harrisburg,
569MD2011, Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court (Harrisburg). The
bankruptcy case was In re City of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania,
1:11-bk-06938,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Middle District of
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  