-- Harrisburg Judge ‘Is Inclined’ to Approve Receiver’s Plan to Sell Assets
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-03-01T23:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/harrisburg-judge-is-inclined-to-approve-receiver-s-plan-to-sell-assets.html
The receiver for Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , should be allowed to try to sell or lease the
city’s most valuable assets in a bid to solve its financial
crisis, a judge said.  “I am inclined to let him try,” state court Judge Bonnie Leadbetter said at the end of hearing today. Leadbetter said she
won’t sign a final order approving the receiver’s plan until
after reading arguments filed by opponents.  Unless something from the papers changes her mind, she will
approve the plan proposed by receiver David Unkovic, chief
lawyer for the Pennsylvania economic development department. The
plan has split the insolvent city’s elected officials, with
Mayor  Linda Thompson  in support and the city controller,
treasurer and president of the council opposed.  Unkovic is “not imposing his will on anyone,” Thompson
said in a telephone interview from Harrisburg on Bloomberg
Television. “I’m calling on council to settle down and realize
bankruptcy is not a panacea here,” she said.  Leadbetter said she was inclined to approve the plan
because Unkovic promised he wouldn’t pursue a final transaction
without returning to court for further approval. Unkovic was
appointed under a process approved by the state legislature that
bans Harrisburg and other similar-sized cities from filing
bankruptcy until July.  Some opponents said the plan calls for selling the assets
without first trying to force creditors to accept less than the
face value of their debt. A citizen’s group filed court papers
claiming the plan is based on an unconstitutional state law that
gives too much power to Unkovic.  Wall Street ‘Windfall’  “Privatization is the oft-touted term, the results of
which time and again result in a windfall to  Wall Street  and
politically connected insiders; all to the detriment of states
and local government, which are stripped of their assets,”
Council President Wanda Williams, City Controller Dan Miller and
City Treasurer John R. Campbell said in court papers filed
yesterday.  Harrisburg, a city of 49,500, faces more debt than it can
afford to pay, mainly because of more than $300 million in bonds
tied to an incinerator that doesn’t generate enough revenue,
Unkovic said in court today.  To raise money, Unkovic has asked private businesses to
submit proposals for buying or leasing three types of city
assets: the power-generating incinerator, parking garages and
the city’s water and sewer system. Between five and 10 entities
have signed confidentiality agreements related to those so-
called requests for proposal, Unkovic said today in court.  Bankruptcy Ban  Unkovic was appointed under a process approved by the state
legislature that bans Harrisburg and other similar-sized cities
from filing bankruptcy until July.  A bid by the city council to put the city into bankruptcy
was dismissed on Nov. 23 by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary D.  France 
in Harrisburg, saying it wasn’t authorized by state law. The
city council has filed an appeal related to that dismissal.  Unkovic said he has not yet started negotiating with the
city’s biggest creditor: bond-insurer Assured Guarantee
Municipal Corp., a unit of  Assured Guarantee Ltd. (AGO)  He won’t start
talking to Assured, or the Dauphin County, which is also
obligated to cover the bond payments, until the he reviews the
proposals to buy or lease the city assets.  After he knows how much the assets are worth, Unkovic can
calculate how much of the more than $300 million in incinerator
debt will be left “stranded,” or unpayable, he said in court.  ‘Premature to Negotiate’  “At this point it is premature to negotiate over how to
deal with that debt,” he said.  Unkovic has also not determined whether he will sue anyone
involved in the issuance of the incinerator debt, which was
issued between 1998 and 2003.  State law gives the receiver the power to impose his plan
on city officials without their consent after winning approval
from a state judge. The law doesn’t let him break union or other
contracts.  The receiver case is C. Alan Walker V. City of Harrisburg,
569MD2011, Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court (Harrisburg) The
bankruptcy case was In re City of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania,
1:11-bk-06938,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Middle District of
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  