-- Martin Marietta CFO Estimates Vulcan Cost Savings of Up to $330 Million
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-01T20:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/martin-marietta-cfo-estimates-vulcan-cost-savings-of-up-to-330-million.html
Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM) ’s
chief financial officer said a proposed merger with  Vulcan
Materials Co. (VMC)  may yield cost savings of as much as $330 million
in three years, $80 million more than estimated in December.  Anne Lloyd, the CFO, testified in court today that she
didn’t use any confidential data from Vulcan in calculating the
potential savings, which may include 1,100 job cuts. Martin
Marietta, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , is pursuing a
hostile acquisition of Birmingham, Alabama-based Vulcan
originally valued at $4.7 billion. Vulcan has rejected the offer
as inadequate.  Martin Marietta “has remained profitable” by using a
technique called “Martinizing” to compare its cost structure
to those of dozens of companies it considered buying, Lloyd told
Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. today as a trial
over the Vulcan bid entered a third day in Wilmington.  Martin Marietta  sued on Dec. 12, the same day it made the
hostile bid, in a preemptive move to get the court to rule that
the offer wasn’t prohibited by a May 2010 confidentiality
agreement between the companies. Vulcan has countersued.  Strine must decide if the stock solicitation is
contractually valid. The combination would create the world’s
largest producer of sand, gravel and crushed stone.  Don James, chairman of Vulcan, told Strine in earlier
testimony that he proposed a friendly “merger of equals” in
2010 and that talks foundered before Martin Marietta Chief
Executive Officer Ward Nye disclosed the hostile bid.  Cost Savings  Vulcan contends the companies had an agreement not to
reveal the existence of merger talks or release confidential
information. Data used by Martin Marietta to evaluate Vulcan’s
operations, including costs of goods sold, executive salaries
and employee productivity, came from Martin Marietta or public
documents, Lloyd said.  Vulcan’s general counsel, Robert A. Wason IV, testified
that he helped draft a non-disclosure agreement for officials of
the companies, and there were no specific promises on either
side about not pursuing a hostile takeover.  Martin Marietta has offered to exchange half a share for
each share of Vulcan and pay a quarterly dividend equal to 20
cents a Vulcan share. Vulcan is forecast to lose $48 million
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Board Seats  Martin Marietta has proposed candidates for five Vulcan
board seats to be filled at the annual shareholders meeting in
May, not enough to control the 11-member board. Vulcan pledged
to sell assets for as much as $500 million to reduce debt and
cut costs by $155 million to rally shareholder support.  “We continue to recommend that shareholders not tender any
shares to Martin Marietta,” James said in a Feb. 23 letter to
employees.  Martin Marietta fell 17 cents to $85.70 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading at 3:17 p.m. Vulcan declined 1.3
percent to $44.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v. Vulcan Materials,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  