-- Maryland Governor Signs Law Legalizing Gay Marriage as Ballot Fight Looms
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-03-01T22:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/maryland-governor-signs-law-legalizing-gay-marriage-as-ballot-fight-looms.html
Maryland (STOMD1)  Governor  Martin O’Malley 
signed a law making the state the eighth in the U.S. to legalize
marriage for same-sex couples.  The measure sets the stage for an election fight as
 opponents  move to gather enough signatures to put the issue to
voters in November before it  takes effect in January . O’Malley
signed the law today in a ceremony in Annapolis streamed live on
the Internet.  “We are one Maryland, and all of us, at the end of the day,
want the same thing for our children: to live in a loving,
stable, committed home protected equally under the law,”
O’Malley said before sitting down to sign the bill.  The state Senate passed the law last week and sent it to
O’Malley, a 49-year-old Democrat. It puts  Maryland  on a path to
joining seven states and the District of Columbia in allowing
same-sex weddings. Washington Governor Christine Gregoire, a
Democrat, enacted a gay-marriage law last month, while  New
Jersey ’s  Chris Christie , a Republican, vetoed a similar measure.  States and localities have been marrying same-sex couples
since 2004 after a high court ruling in Massachusetts led to the
first such weddings. The unions aren’t recognized by the federal
government under a 1996 law signed by President Bill Clinton.
That’s left the issue to the states, where voters have rejected
the practice in all 31 referendums.  Same-sex marriage has been the focus of political and
courtroom clashes between advocates who say citizens are being
denied a civil right and those who see the practice as a threat
to traditional families and values.  Other states where same-sex marriage is legal are New York,
which approved gay nuptials last year, as well as  Connecticut ,
Iowa,  New Hampshire  and Vermont.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  