-- Asian Currencies Drop as Bernanke Comment Boosts Dollar, Stocks Retreat
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-03-01T09:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/asian-currencies-drop-as-bernanke-comment-boosts-dollar-stocks-retreat.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by
 Thailand ’s baht, after the  Federal Reserve  refrained from
signaling more monetary easing measures as the  U.S. economy 
improves, boosting demand for the dollar.  The baht was headed for the biggest drop in five months as
a technical gauge signaled the region’s top gainer in February
was poised to reverse. Malaysia’s ringgit and Indonesia’s rupiah
snapped two-day advances after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
affirmed U.S. interest rates are likely to stay low through late
2014, without offering any indication that further monetary
easing is under consideration.  “We have seen quite a fast appreciation recently and
investors probably wanted to take profits,” said Kozo Hasegawa,
a trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok.
“Bernanke’s comments encouraged some buy-back of the dollars.”  The baht slumped 0.9 percent to 30.52 per dollar as of 3:50
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
ringgit dropped 0.4 percent to 3.0025 and the rupiah fell 0.2
percent to 9,088. China’s yuan weakened 0.10 percent to 6.3002
and India’s rupee slid 0.4 percent to 49.1988.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific  Index (DXY)  of stocks declined 0.9 percent
while the Dollar Index that tracks the greenback against the
currencies of its six largest trading partners jumped yesterday
from a three-month low. The Fed said yesterday the U.S. economy
expanded at a “modest to moderate pace” in January and early
February as factories increased production.  Technicals, IMF  The dollar’s 14-day relative strength index against the
baht slid below the 30 threshold yesterday, suggesting its drop
in February was overdone. The baht rallied 2.2 percent last
month and touched 30.21 yesterday, the strongest since Sept. 15.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index (ADXY)  rose 2 percent
this year, fueled by foreign investors buying $22 billion more
equities than they sold in  India ,  South Korea ,  Taiwan  and
Thailand, according to stock exchange data.  Market intervention is likely to be optimal in emerging
markets to counter a “sudden surge in capital inflows” and
remove economic dislocation from temporary appreciation in
currencies, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a  report  on
its website.  The yuan had its biggest decline since Feb. 6 as the
central bank weakened its reference rate by 0.15 percent to
6.3016, from a record yesterday. That eclipsed an official
report showing manufacturing in the world’s second-biggest
economy improved for a third month in February, based on a
survey of purchasing managers.  Philippine Rate Cut  “The fixing reflects a rebound in the greenback as another
round of quantitative easing looks unlikely now,” said Kenix
Lai, a currency analyst at Bank of East Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong .
“ China ’s manufacturing data should be good news but investors
might want to look for another month of data to confirm the
recovery trend.”  The Philippine peso declined 0.2 percent to 42.82 per
dollar. The central bank lowered its benchmark  interest rate  to
4 percent from 4.25 percent today, a move predicted by 14 of 18
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Three expect no change and one
a cut to 3.75 percent.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s  dollar  reversed earlier gains to post a
0.2 percent loss at NT$29.487 against its U.S. counterpart.
Vietnam’s dong was little changed at 20,830. Financial markets
in South Korea were closed for a holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 