-- Red Cross Says Syria Allows Access to Rebel Town After UN’s Rights Vote
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-03-01T16:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/assad-prepares-attack-on-rebel-town-as-un-condemns-syrian-forces-violence.html
The International Committee of the
Red Cross  said it had won permission from President Bashar al- Assad’s government to enter a besieged Syrian town, hours after
the United Nations  Human Rights Council  deplored “systematic
violations of human rights."  The organization and its Syrian counterpart would be
allowed to deliver emergency supplies and evacuate those wounded
following a month-long siege of the central city of Homs, the
 Associated Press  reported, citing a Red Cross official. Rebel
forces said they were retreating from Homs after running out of
ammunition. The Geneva-based UN rights council voted for the
motion condemning Syria by 37 to three, with China,  Russia  and
Cuba opposed.  The resolution “sends a forceful message about the
international community’s outrage,” said Eileen Chamberlain Donahoe, the U.S. representative to the council. “The three
countries that chose to vote ‘no’ at the Human Rights Council
today find themselves isolated from the strong international
consensus on the need to protect the people of  Syria .”  After two UN Security Council votes failed to stem violence
now entering its 12th month, the U.S. is drafting a third
resolution requiring Syria to allow humanitarian-aid workers
into the country as part of the effort to squeeze Assad,
according to a Western diplomat not authorized to speak to the
media. The Syrian National Council, an opposition alliance,
today established a military bureau to aid rebel fighters,
accelerating the descent toward civil war.  Civil War Risk  “So long as the deadlock continues, there’s always a risk
of civil war, and the responsibility for that won’t be SNC’s
alone, but also of those who don’t support the Free Syrian Army
and block solutions,” Mustafa Hamitoglu, an Istanbul-based
member of the council, said by telephone. “The opposition has
reached a point where it’s beginning to believe that the
situation can only be resolved by taking up arms.”  The rights council’s  resolution  called for an “immediate
end to all attacks on civilians” and said those responsible for
human-rights violations, possibly including crimes against
humanity, must be held accountable. The council acts as a moral
authority and can ask the  Security Council  to take action when
rights violations occur. It didn’t recommend that the Security
Council refer Syria to the  International Criminal Court , as had
been suggested by the top UN human-rights official,  Navi Pillay .  The Syrian National Council said its new military office
would assist the rebel Free Syrian Army.  ‘Things Have Changed’  Protests against Assad were peaceful for months “but
things have changed” because the government started bombarding
cities, SNC leader Burhan Ghalioun said at a televised news
conference in Paris. The opposition group’s military bureau will
be based in  Turkey , he said, adding that it won’t replace the
FSA’s command, which is located in a refugee camp in Hatay, a
Turkish province near the Syrian border.  Britain withdrew all diplomatic staff from the Syrian
capital and suspended embassy services yesterday, Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  said in a written statement to
Parliament today.  The British decision followed a deterioration of security
in Damascus that “puts our embassy staff and premises at
risk,” Hague said. The move “in no way reduces the U.K.’s
commitment to active diplomacy to maintain pressure on the Assad
regime to end the violence.”  Kidnap Plot  Turkey’s spy agency foiled an effort by its Syrian
counterpart to kidnap the leader of the opposition army from a
refugee camp, Sabah newspaper reported, without saying how it
got the information. Prosecutors confirmed the accuracy of the
report, state-run Anatolia  news agency  said today.  Turkey’s Foreign Ministry told the news agency on Feb. 28
that reports in the London-based Times about Turkey turning a
blind eye to weapons transfers to Assad’s regime are untrue.  The Syrian government has severed all communications
between the rebel areas of Homs and the outside world ahead of
an assault, opposition activists told AP today.  Assad has faced mounting international pressure to halt the
onslaught that has left more than 7,500 civilians dead,
according to the UN. Russia and  China  have twice vetoed UN
Security Council resolutions calling for Assad to step down.  Robert Ford , the U.S. ambassador to Syria who was recalled
because of concerns about his security, told the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee today that Assad’s military is under greater
stress than it was even three or four months ago.  A meeting between Gulf Arab and Russian ministers planned
for March 7 to discuss the Syrian crisis has been postponed, Al
Arabiya television reported.  Crimes Against Humanity  The Human Rights Council’s vote came a day after members
discussed a report saying Syrian government officials were
responsible for crimes against humanity against opposition
members. The panel said it would take additional steps after the
forthcoming dialogue with its commission of inquiry.  Syria’s army has been shelling Homs for a month and has
launched operations against other parts of the country where the
opposition is concentrated, including Idlib in the north and
towns near Aleppo by the Turkish border. Some soldiers have
defected from Assad’s forces as he seeks to reaffirm his mandate
as Syria’s leader following a Feb. 26 referendum on a new
constitution.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and his predecessor  Kofi Annan , the new UN and  Arab League  joint special envoy to Syria,
met in  New York  yesterday to discuss measures to end the
violence. Annan said he plans to go to Syria “fairly soon,”
following talks at the Arab League in Cairo and said his message
to Assad is “the killing and violence must stop.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  