-- AstraZeneca, Nycomed Antitrust Probe Ended by EU Regulators
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-01T16:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/astrazeneca-nycomed-antitrust-probe-ended-by-eu-regulators-1-.html
European Union regulators  dropped  a
probe into  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker,
and  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s Nycomed unit over possible
collusion to keep cheaper copies of medicines off the market.  “Our investigation did not enable us to conclude that
AstraZeneca and Nycomed had infringed EU antitrust rules,”
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission, said
in an e-mail. “We are taking the issue of possible hindering or
delaying of generic entry very seriously and we have several
other ongoing antitrust investigations in the pharmaceutical
sector.”  The EU’s antitrust agency raided AstraZeneca and Nycomed in
November 2010. AstraZeneca said at the time that the inspections
at its premises concerned the ulcer drug  Nexium . London-based
AstraZeneca lost European patent protection on Nexium sales in
March 2010.  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between companies that make branded
medicines and generic-drug producers might harm consumers. The
EU opened a probe into  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  in
October and is also investigating Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. and its Cephalon Inc. unit over possible efforts to hinder
generic drugs.  AstraZeneca is “pleased that the commission has ceased its
investigation,” Sarah Lindgreen, a London-based spokeswoman for
the company, said in an e-mail. “We take compliance with all
laws seriously and have a fundamental commitment to doing
business in an ethical and proper manner.”  Nycomed has been “fully compliant with all applicable laws
and regulations” and it was “pleased to see this confirmed by
the commission,” said  Tobias Cottmann , a spokesman for Nycomed
in Zurich,  Switzerland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Luxembourg via 
 Awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  