-- AT&T Adds Speed Caps for Heavy Data Users as Traffic Soars
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-03-02T15:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/at-t-caps-unlimited-data-plans-to-cope-with-rising-traffic-on-its-network.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  will start slowing the
data speeds of customers with unlimited wireless plans once they
reach a certain threshold, a sign of the industry trying to cope
with soaring traffic and limited network capacity.  Customers will experience slower access speeds if their
data usage exceeds 3 gigabytes a month, the second-largest U.S.
wireless carrier said yesterday on its  website . For customers
with so-called long term evolution, or LTE, devices, the limit
is 5 gigabytes a month, the Dallas-based carrier said.  The move means millions of longtime  customers  may need to
deal with reduced speeds at some point in their billing cycle, a
nuisance that AT&T is betting will persuade them to switch to
its more expensive plans. AT&T is struggling to accommodate
rising data traffic as the popularity of smartphones and tablet
computers increases, while trying to extract more revenue out of
a user base whose growth is slowing.  “The wonderful thing about smartphones is that they are
computers in your hand, but they are like cars from the 50s and
60s, real gas guzzlers,” said  Roger Entner , an analyst at Recon
Analytics in  Boston .  To expand their limited spectrum capacity, AT&T and bigger
rival  Verizon Wireless  have sought acquisitions and agreements.
AT&T Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  said in December
that the failed acquisition of  T-Mobile USA  -- a deal AT&T
abandoned amid regulatory opposition -- would result in capacity
constraints and higher prices.  Tiered Plans  AT&T’s new data caps only apply to existing customers with
contracts that include unlimited data, plans that the carrier
has stopped offering to new subscribers. The new limits
represent a change to a previous AT&T policy of reducing speeds
to the 5 percent of unlimited users who used the most data.  Instead of offering unlimited data, AT&T now sells so-
called tiered plans that include a certain amount of data at
various price points. In January, AT&T raised those plans’
prices by $5 a month and increased the capacity allowances.  AT&T’s tiered data plans cost $30 a month for 3 gigabytes
and $50 for 5 gigabytes, and $10 for every gigabyte over those
limits. The longtime customers with the old unlimited plans
typically pay $30 a month.  To reach 3 gigabytes, every day users would have to stream
about an hour of video or 3.5 hours of music, or post photos to
Facebook about 300 times, according to AT&T’s  data calculator .  Sprint Benefiting  AT&T’s caps leave  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  as the only carrier
in the top three to offer an unlimited data plan with no caps or
speed limits. Sprint’s unlimited data plan costs $79.99 a month.  “This is part of the reason Sprint has been able to turn
its subscriber losses to gains with its offer of unlimited
data,” Entner said.  AT&T  rose  0.3 percent to $30.74 at 10:32 a.m. New York
time. Sprint was little changed at $2.50.  Verizon Wireless, the No. 1 mobile carrier, slows the
speeds of 5 percent of users who use the most data. Verizon
reduces the speed when the phone is in what the company calls a
congested area in order to preserve the quality of the network
for other users, said  Brenda Raney , a company spokeswoman.  AT&T says it’s still honoring the original unlimited plans
and not capping usage, only reducing speeds to customers going
over the monthly thresholds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  