-- Tata Communications Says It’s in Talks Regarding Offer for C&W Worldwide
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-01T09:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/tata-communications-says-it-s-in-talks-regarding-offer-for-c-w-worldwide.html
Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM)  said it may
make a cash offer for  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/) , setting up
a potential rivalry with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  to win control of
the owner of Britain’s largest U.K. business fiber network.  Talks are “at a very preliminary stage” and Tata
Communications must decide whether it will make an offer by
March 29, the Mumbai-based company said today. Vodafone, which
said last month it was evaluating a bid, has until March 12 to
announce whether it will make a formal offer for London-based
 Cable & Wireless . Simon Gordon, a Vodafone spokesman, declined
to comment today.  Cable & Wireless jumped as much as 27 percent in  London .
The company, which has replaced two chief executive officers
since June, has assets ranging from a U.K. core fiber network to
an overseas enterprise unit. After losing 70 percent of its
market value in less than two years, Cable & Wireless’s equity
and net debt as a multiple of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization is the lowest of any
telecommunications carrier in the world greater than $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Demand Tension’  “Two bidders always make for a bit of demand tension,”
said Paul Marsch, a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank. “I
would imagine that it focuses even more Vodafone’s scrutiny on
what exactly is this business worth to us.”  Purchasing Cable & Wireless would complement Tata
Communications’s operations in emerging markets including South
Africa, the  Middle East  and Asia, a person familiar with the
matter said today.  Tata Group (TATA) , which controls the
telecommunications company, has acquired companies in the U.K.
including Jaguar Land Rover and Corus Group Plc.  While earnings are slumping at Cable & Wireless, Newbury,
England-based Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-phone
operator, needs to boost its fixed-line system in the U.K. to
relieve the strain of surging data traffic.  In November, Cable & Wireless suspended future dividend
payments as sales fell in its traditional voice network and it
announced that John Pluthero was stepping down as CEO after less
than six months at the helm. The operator said Feb. 16 that
profitability in its voice business has declined as contracts
are renegotiated.  The shares rose 5.12 pence, or 18 percent, to 33 pence as
of 9:20 a.m. in London, giving the company a market value of 906
million pounds ($1.4 billion).  Cable & Wireless may also lure bids from private equity
firms, analysts at Espirito Santo Investment Bank said last
month.  Tata Communications has hired  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  to
advise it on the potential purchase of Cable & Wireless, a
person with knowledge of the matter said earlier. Cable &
Wireless is advised by NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd. and  Barclays
Capital. (JNK)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Barcelona via 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  