-- Mattel Asks Appeals Court to Reverse $310 Million Bratz Doll Award to MGA
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-03-01T02:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/mattel-asks-appeals-court-to-reverse-310-million-bratz-doll-award-to-mga.html
Mattel Inc. (MAT)  asked a federal appeals
court to reverse the $310 million in damages and fees that
toymaker MGA Entertainment Inc. won last year in a trial over
ownership of the rights to MGA’s Bratz dolls.  Mattel said in a brief filed Feb. 27 with the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in  San Francisco  that “after two trials and eight years
of litigation,” it isn’t contesting the jury’s finding that MGA
didn’t infringe Mattel’s copyright when it developed the dolls
from an idea and drawings by a former Mattel designer.  The El Segundo, California-based maker of the Barbie doll
said it wants the appeals court to throw out the $172.5 million
MGA won on its counterclaims that Mattel stole its  trade
secrets . Those claims were time-barred and shouldn’t have been
brought to trial, Mattel said. Nor was there evidence that the
alleged trade secrets were actually secrets, it said.  “MGA failed to prove on a trade-secret-by-trade-secret
basis that the 26 products on which the jury found liability and
damages were trade secrets, adducing at best only vague and
general proof that MGA protected the secrecy of some of the
products it displayed at toy fairs for publicity purposes,”
Mattel said.  The company asked the court to reverse what it called the
unprecedented $105.6 million in attorneys’ fees and
$31.6 million in costs U.S. District Judge David O. Carter in
 Santa Ana ,  California , awarded to MGA for having to defend
against Mattel’s copyright-infringement suit.  Victory in 2008  Its victory at the first trial, in 2008, proves the claims
were reasonable, the toymaker said.  Carter called Mattel’s claim “stunning in scope and
unreasonable in relief it requested.”  “I’m pleased that Mattel and its board of directors, after
wasting $400 million of shareholders’ money in a lawsuit they
should have never brought, have now abandoned that and the
ownership of the Bratz brand belongs to MGA,”  Isaac Larian ,
chief executive officer and founder of  Van Nuys , California-
based MGA, said in an e-mailed statement.  “As for the damages for their crimes against MGA, as well
as 40 other toy companies, and the legal fees, I am confident we
will prevail on appeal,” Larian said.  The jury in April agreed with closely held MGA that Mattel
stole its trade secrets when company employees got into MGA’s
showrooms at toy fairs using phony business cards.  The jury rejected a claim that MGA stole Mattel’s trade
secrets in 2000 when it made an agreement with  Carter Bryant , a
toy designer, who Mattel said was one of its employees when he
came up with the idea for the Bratz dolls and made the first
sketches.  The jury also rejected claims that the pouty multiethnic
dolls, which MGA started selling in 2001, violated Mattel’s
copyright.  The case is Mattel v. MGA, 11-56357, U.S. Appeals Court for
the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles 
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 