-- AU Optronics’s LCD Price-Fixing Case Goes to Federal Jury in San Francisco
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-03-01T21:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/au-optronics-s-lcd-price-fixing-case-goes-to-federal-jury-in-san-francisco.html
Jurors in  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) ’s
price-fixing case began deliberating in federal court in San
Francisco today, more than two years after U.S. regulators
accused the company of violating antitrust laws.  The company,  Taiwan ’s second-largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, was charged in 2009 with participating in a
conspiracy to fix prices of LCD panels, used in computers and
other devices, that netted at least $500 million and raised
costs for consumers. Five company executives also are on trial.  The executives met with competitors secretly in hotel
rooms, karaoke bars and other locations in Taipei from 2001 to
2006 to set LCD prices in response to an oversupply that pushed
down prices by 40 percent, government lawyers told the jury
during an eight-week trial.  Lawyers for the company and the executives denied their
clients fixed prices and told the jury that the government
lacked specific evidence that they entered into illegal
agreements. The meetings were a way of monitoring market trends
and garnering price information, which isn’t illegal, they said.  AU Optronics is the only LCD maker charged with price-
fixing by the U.S. to take its case to trial. Since 2008, rivals
including LG Display Co., Chunghwa Picture Tubes, Chi Mei
Optoelectronics Corp. and Sharp Corp. agreed to plead guilty and
pay more than $860 million in fines.  Price-fixing carries a maximum penalty of a $1 million fine
and 10 years in prison. The government can seek damages of as
much as three times the gain from price-fixing.  The case is U.S. v. AU Optronics, 09-110, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  