-- Towns Evacuated as Floods Threaten Australia’s NSW State
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-03-01T04:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/australia-towns-evacuated-as-floods-threaten.html
Hundreds of residents are being
forced from their homes in New South Wales as floodwaters
threaten as much as half of  Australia ’s most populous state and
heavy rainfall spreads to neighboring Victoria.  About 50 percent of NSW, home to the nation’s biggest city
Sydney, is flooded or under threat after 100 millimeters (3.9
inches) of rain fell in a 24-hour period in some areas, Julie
Evans, a meteorologist at the  Bureau of Meteorology , said by
telephone today.  “We’ve broken a few records already and we expect to break
some more,” Evans said today. “This event hasn’t finished.
We’re expecting widespread falls of 50 to 100 millimeters and
some over 100 millimeters  today  in parts of” the state’s
southeast.  Areas of Cooma, a town of about 6,500 people 390 kilometers
(240 miles) south of Sydney, and parts of Goulburn, with a
population of more than 20,000, are being  evacuated , the State
Emergency Service said. Floodwaters in northern New South  Wales 
last month damaged homes, ruined cotton crops and caused cattle
sales to be canceled, one year after natural disasters cost the
Australian economy A$9 billion ($9.7 billion).  Residents in Tallygaroopna, a township of 270 people about
200 kilometers north of Melbourne, have been told to prepare to
evacuate, Victoria State Emergency Service said today.  Warragamba Dam, about 65 kilometers west of Sydney, is
almost 94 percent full and may reach capacity and begin  spilling 
over in coming days, according to a statement on the Sydney
Catchment Authority website.  Newcrest (NCM) , BHP  Newcrest Mining Ltd.’s mines in New South Wales state’s
Cadia Valley weren’t affected by the most recent rain,
spokeswoman Kerrina Watson said by telephone today. The company
cut its full-year gold output estimate by 6 percent in December
after a landslide at Cadia Hill mine and heavy rain in  Papua New
Guinea .  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s (BHP)  operations “aren’t experiencing any
significant impact due to wet weather,” Kelly Quirke, a
Melbourne-based spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  This week’s downpour may help achieve above-average wheat,
barley and canola yields,  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist
at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , said Feb. 28. Australia
typically begins planting winter crops about early May.  About 17 properties near Cowra in NSW’s central west were
 evacuated  late yesterday, the SES said. Coolamon recorded a
record 123 millimeters of rain yesterday, according to Evans.  Most of New South Wales and eastern Victoria may receive
between 50 millimeters and 100 millimeters of rain in the four
days to March 4, according to a  model  on the bureau’s website.
Some regions may get between 150 millimeters and 300 millimeters
in the period, the model shows. Australia may have wetter-than-
normal weather in most of its eastern regions between March and
May, the bureau said Feb. 22.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in  Melbourne  at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  