-- Australia’s $4.3 Trillion Housing Market May Get Tradable Property Index
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-03-01T01:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/australia-gets-daily-housing-price-data-as-compilers-plan-tradable-index.html
Investors may soon be able to wager
on Australia’s A$4 trillion ($4.3 trillion) housing market
without having to buy or sell homes as  RP Data (RPAUMED)  and  Rismark
International  start a daily property price index and discuss
ways to make it tradable with the nation’s exchange operator.  The two companies have begun computing their home value
index daily, with data that takes the entire housing stock into
account, RP Data, a unit of  Santa Ana , California-based real
estate information company  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX) , said in an e-mailed
release. RP Data and Rismark, a Sydney-based research group that
is 53 percent owned by Macquarie Group Ltd., are in talks with
ASX Ltd. on making the index tradable.  Home prices  in the nation’s eight capital cities fell 4.4
percent in the 12 months to Feb. 29, following two years of
growth, according to the index. Australia escaped the housing
rout seen in the U.S. and U.K. after the 2008 financial crisis,
leaving some investors arguing its homes are overpriced.  “The ability to obtain and optimize residential property
exposure with an exchange-traded product will enable investors
to efficiently manage exposure to this asset class,” Brian
Goodman, product development manager at the Australian stock
exchange, said in the release. “The performance of this asset
class is an important indicator of Australian economic growth
and the average household’s wealth accumulation.”  Entire Housing Stock  The new daily index, which is available on  RP Data ’s and
the stock exchange’s websites, eliminates the need for revisions
to figures, and represents the country’s entire housing stock,
rather than just the ones that are bought or sold, according to
the release.  It does so by assigning values to various components of
properties, such as location, bedrooms and land size, and
computing the price based on these characteristics, the
companies said.  “As  Australia ’s most valuable asset class, accounting for
around 60 percent of Australia’s major banks’ balance sheets, it
is important to have the best possible measurement of housing
returns and rental yields,” Tim Lawless, Brisbane-based
research director at RP Data, said in the release. “The new
method for calculating capital movements provides a significant
step forward in understanding housing market conditions across
Australia.”  The daily updates will cover dwelling prices for
Australia’s five biggest capital cities, RP Data said. It will
also track rental markets by estimating rental income and yields
using a similar methodology to the values, the companies said.  RP Data and Rismark will continue to provide end-of-month
figures, which break down prices into houses and apartments, and
will cover all capital cities and the Gold Coast in Queensland.
The data will be released on the first working day of each
month, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  