-- Australia January Home-Building Permits Rise Less Than Economists Forecast
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-01T00:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/australian-home-permits-advance-less-than-forecast-on-weakened-job-market.html
Australian home-building  approvals 
rose by less than economists forecast in January as weakness
outside the resources industry hurts housing.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments gained 0.9 percent from December, when they
dropped a revised 0.8 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today. The result compares with the median forecast for a
2 percent rise in a Bloomberg News survey of 17 economists.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered
the overnight cash rate target by a quarter percentage point on
Nov. 1 and Dec. 6, before unexpectedly keeping the benchmark
unchanged last month at 4.25 percent. Employment in Australia
stalled last year as the currency’s climb hurt non-resource
companies and  house prices  slumped by a record 4.8 percent.  “The housing market remains soft” and “building
construction activity remains subdued,” the central bank said
in its quarterly monetary policy statement released Feb. 10.  Building approvals in January fell 14.6 percent from a year
earlier, the report showed. That compares with economists’
forecast for a 13.7 percent drop year-over-year.  Approvals to build private houses fell 0.1 percent to 7,508
in January from the previous month, the report showed. Approvals
for apartments and renovations advanced 1.5 percent to 4,024.  ‘About Right’  Australia has the highest borrowing costs among major
developed nations. The nation’s benchmark rate is “about right
for the moment,” with economic growth close to trend as
concerns ease that  Europe ’s debt crisis will disrupt global
output, Stevens said in testimony to lawmakers Feb. 24.  Australian house prices plunged by the most on record in
2011 as global economic uncertainty and concerns about its
impact at home kept a lid on demand, a government report showed
last month.  An index measuring the weighted average of prices for
established houses in eight major cities slid 4.8 percent from a
year earlier, the Feb. 1 report showed, the biggest calendar-
year drop since the data began in March 2002. They fell 1
percent in the three months to December from the previous
quarter, when they retreated a revised 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  