-- Stocks Rally as Spanish Bonds Gain, Treasuries Retreat; Crude Oil Surges
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-03-01T21:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/australian-dollar-oil-gain-as-japanese-stocks-rally-on-economic-outlook.html
Stocks (SXXP)  and commodities rose, while
Treasuries slid, as borrowing costs fell for  Spain  and France
and U.S. jobless claims matched a four-year low. Oil extended
gains, tempering the rally in  stocks (SXXP) , on reports of a pipeline
explosion in Saudi Arabia.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.6 percent to
1,374.09 at 4 p.m. in  New York , returning to an almost four-year
high after yesterday’s retreat. The yield on Spain’s two-year
 notes  dropped for an 11th day, losing 13 basis points to 2.19
percent. The  10-year Treasury (USGG10YR)  yield increased six basis points
to 2.03 percent. The S&P GSCI index of commodities climbed 1.4
percent as oil and industrial metals rallied.  Financial shares led gains after Spain and France sold 12.5
billion euros ($16.7 billion) of bonds as the European Central
Bank’s loans to banks helped spur demand. Euro-area finance
ministers authorized the region’s bailout fund to issue bonds
for the Greek debt restructuring, while the International Swaps
& Derivatives Association said $3.25 billion in Greek credit-
default swaps won’t be triggered. Initial jobless claims fell
2,000 to 351,000 last week, less than economist estimates.  “The economy is slowly getting better,” said Matt Lloyd,
who oversees $8 billion as chief investment strategist at
Advisors Asset Management Inc. in Monument, Colorado. “When
people have much more negative expectations, it allows for
outperformance. That’s what’s catching investors off guard.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Bank of America Corp. and Pfizer
Inc. rose at least 1.9 percent to  lead  gains in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU) , which increased 28.23 points, or 0.2
percent, to 12,980.3 after surging as much as 81 points. All 10
of the main industry groups in the  S&P 500  advanced except for
companies that sell consumer staples.  Gap, GM   Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest U.S. clothing chain, surged 7.2
percent as same-store sales beat estimates. General Motors Co.
climbed 1.7 percent after reporting a surprise U.S. sales gain,
while  Ford Motor Co. (F)  jumped 2.3 percent after light-vehicle
sales increased a more-than-estimated 14 percent in February.
Kroger Co. advanced 2.7 percent after the largest U.S. grocery-
store chain forecast earnings that topped projections.  UBS AG raised forecasts for the S&P 500 and its companies’
earnings amid improvement in the economy. Chief U.S. market
strategist Jonathan Golub’s year-end forecast for the benchmark
gauge rose to 1,475 from 1,325. The  S&P 500 (SPXL1)  has the potential to
reach 1,700 by the end of the year, pushed higher as economic
growth surprises investors, Birinyi Associates Inc. said in a
report.  Israel Buys Stocks  The Bank of Israel will began a pilot program to invest a
portion of its foreign currency reserves in U.S. equities. The
investment, which in the initial phase will amount to 2 percent
of the $77 billion reserves, or about $1.5 billion, will be made
through UBS and BlackRock Inc., Bank of Israel spokesman Yossi
Saadon said in a telephone interview today. At a later stage,
the investment is expected to increase to 10 percent of the
reserves.  Stocks  briefly  pared gains today after the Institute for
Supply Management’s factory index fell to 52.4 in February from
54.1 a month earlier. Fifty is the dividing line between growth
and contraction, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected the gauge would climb to 54.5. Another report showed
consumer spending rose 0.2 percent in January, less than the 0.4
percent increase forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  European Stocks  About three shares rose for every one that fell in the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index,  (SXXP) which climbed 1 percent as results from
Adecco SA and WPP Plc beat estimates. Adecco SA surged 8.5
percent. WPP gained 3 percent after saying revenue from
continuing businesses will grow 4 percent this year as the
London Olympics and U.S. presidential elections buoy the
industry.  The difference in yield investors demand to own Spanish 10-
year bonds rather than benchmark German bunds fell 17 basis
points. The yield on  France ’s 10-year bond slid 11 basis points,
narrowing the spread with bunds to 91 basis points.  Italian two-year note  yields  fell 38 basis points to 1.76
percent, dropping below 2 percent for the first time since
October 2010.  The yield on Greece’s 10-year bond rose 165 basis points to
a record 36.44 percent. The ISDA made its decision on Greek
default swaps after it was asked to rule whether part of the
nation’s $170 billion bailout was a credit event. The decision
was unanimous, ISDA said.  Bailout Progress  Euro-area finance ministers authorized the region’s bailout
fund to raise money for Greece’s bond exchange, the first step
in releasing funds from a 130 billion-euro ($173 billion) rescue
package. Greece has passed all required legislation and the
ministers “note with satisfaction” the progress achieved, said
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker in a statement
after chairing a meeting of the finance chiefs in Brussels
today. They gave the go-ahead to the European Financial
Stability Facility to issue bonds to finance their role in the
debt swap.  Crude oil for April delivery rose $1.77 to settle at
$108.84 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  before
extending gains to as high as $110.55 after the floor closed.
The report of the Saudi pipeline blast, which appeared on
English-language websites from the  Middle East , explained the
rise in the oil market after 2:30 p.m. New York time, said  John
Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund that focuses on energy.  Saudi Arabia  said there was no sabotage to its oil
facilities in the Qatif region. The statement came from Major
General Mansour Al-Turki, a spokesman for the Ministry of
Interior, after reports of a fire near the Ras Tanura refinery.  Commodity Leaders  Silver, brent crude and gasoline climbed more than 2.5
percent to lead gains among 17 of 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI
index. Copper rallied 1.3 percent to $3.9315 a pound. Gold
futures jumped 0.6 percent to $1,722.20 an ounce, rebounding
from its biggest drop of the year.  Commodities, led by oil, beat stocks, bonds and the dollar
last month for the first time since July as the EU prepared to
embargo Iranian crude, the  U.S. economy  improved and  China  took
steps to shore up growth.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24 raw
materials rose 6.5 percent in February, extending the previous
month’s 2.2 percent gain, as Brent crude advanced 11 percent.
The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares increased 4.8
percent, extending stocks’  best start  to a year since 1991.
Bonds of all types were little changed on average, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index. The
 Dollar Index  slid 0.6 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.2 percent, dropping
from a seven-month high. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) 
slid 1.9 percent on speculation China won’t ease monetary policy
further. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  retreated 1 percent on
concern a wider-than-estimated  budget deficit  may restrict the
central bank’s scope to cut rates and spur growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  