-- Barclays Sticks to Celpa Bond Call in Predicting Rebound
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-03-01T21:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/barclays-sticks-to-celpa-bond-call-in-predicting-rebound-1-.html
Dollar bonds issued by Centrais
Eletricas do Para SA, the Brazilian utility that filed for
bankruptcy this week, will recoup all of their losses because
the government will support the company,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said.  The $250 million of bonds due 2016 will “ultimately”
recover in full after sinking as much as 54 cents to 50 cents on
the dollar on Feb. 28 following the company’s bankruptcy filing
that day,  Juan Cruz , a New York-based analyst with Barclays,
said in a report.  Barclays is sticking to its view that Brazil’s minority
stake in Celpa, as the company is known, makes it likely that
the government will prop up the company. Barclays listed the
Celpa dollar bonds among its top Latin American picks as
recently as September and said in a November report that the
company was benefiting from “perceived sponsorship” from
state-run companies. State-owned utility Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA, known as Eletrobras, owns a minority stake in
Celpa.  “We expect the government to either buy out the
controlling shareholders directly or to provide financial
incentives to a private buyer,”Cruz wrote in today’s report.
“We ultimately expect bonds to recover all of the value lost
since the filing announcement and most likely trade at well
above those levels once the process is concluded.”  Eletrobras won’t “rescue” Celpa, Minister of Mines and
Energy Edison Lobao told reporters in Brasilia today. The
federal government may intervene to ensure power supplies for
 Brazil ’s northern state of Para, where Celpa operates, he said.  Bonds Plunge  In backing a financial restructuring of Celpa, as the
company is known, the government would likely avoid imposing
losses on bondholders, according to the report. Cruz didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  Celpa’s bonds rose 4.5 cents to 66 cents on the dollar at
4:44 p.m. in  New York  after climbing 11.5 cents yesterday,
according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. They rose as much as
8.5 cents earlier today.  The bonds traded at 104.25 cents, equal to a yield of 8.55
percent, on Feb. 27, the day before the bankruptcy filing.  Fitch Ratings  cut Celpa’s rating to D from B- after it
filed for bankruptcy. Fitch lowered the company’s bonds due 2016
to C from B-.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  