-- Bernanke Tells Senators Fed Securities Purchases Helped Create Employment
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-01T21:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/bernanke-tells-senators-fed-securities-purchases-helped-create-employment.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the central bank’s expansive monetary policy,
telling a Senate hearing that it helped create jobs and
stabilize prices.  “We’ve had about 2.5 million jobs created,” since
November 2010, when the Fed started its second round of large-
scale securities purchases. “We’ve seen big gains in stock
prices, improvement in credit markets.”  Bernanke, 58, sought to justify policies that have come
under growing scrutiny from Republicans in Congress and on the
campaign trail. Presidential candidate Mitt Romney has said he
wouldn’t give Bernanke another term as chairman, and lawmakers,
including Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  and House
Speaker  John Boehner , sent Bernanke a letter in September asking
him to “resist further extraordinary intervention” in the
economy.  “If you look back at quantitative easing two, so-called,
in November 2010, the concerns at the time were that it would be
highly inflationary, it would hurt the dollar, that it would not
have much effect on growth,” Bernanke said today in response to
a question from Senator  Robert Menendez , Democrat of New Jersey,
during testimony before the Senate Banking Committee.  “I think the record is positive,” Bernanke said. “Looking
back, I think that those actions played a constructive role,”
he said.  Deflation Threat  The Fed decided in November 2010 to purchase an additional
$600 billion in longer-term  Treasury securities  to ward off a
threat of deflation. The personal consumption expenditures price
index, minus food and energy, rose 0.9 percent that year. In
January, the index was up 1.9 percent from a year earlier.  The actions helped bring the economy back to a “more
stable inflation environment,” Bernanke said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index is up about 16
percent since Nov. 1, 2010. The index rose 0.6 percent today in
 New York  to 1,374.09. Yields on U.S. 10-year notes have fallen
to 2.03 percent today from 2.62 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  