-- Bernanke Can’t Blame His Sins on Milton Friedman: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-03-01T00:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/bernanke-can-t-blame-sins-on-milton-friedman-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Ben and Milton are together. Ben is
asking Milton a question: “Shall there be action, Master, or
depression?” Ben is like  Obi-Wan Kenobi  to Milton’s Yoda. At
first, Milton doesn’t answer. Finally, Milton speaks.
“Depression let it be. Deflation it must be.”  This dialogue between  Ben S. Bernanke , the Federal Reserve
chairman, and  Milton Friedman , the great economics professor,
never happened. It’s a fantasy. But you can bet a gold dollar
that some version of the question, with or without the “Star
Wars” motif, rolls over and over again at night in the minds of
those who obsess about the economy.  Perhaps the Fed chairman is abusing his old connection to
the monetary master, Friedman, as a cover for a policy that
Friedman might not endorse. That policy is doing anything
Bernanke feels like -- dumping money in the economy, or simply
scaremongering -- with the defense that doing so is honoring
Friedman’s desire to avoid that deflation, that recession or
that Depression.  It is time to call Bernanke’s Friedman bluff. It seems
destructive for Bernanke to make statements like the recent one
in which  he warned  that a “very sharp change in fiscal stance”
(the tax cuts expiring) would slow the recovery, that we would
trip into a “pothole.” We want to get Friedman back to tell us
he never wanted concern over a depression to be used this way.
Bernanke is operating with a license Milton never gave him.  But, of course, we can’t haul Yoda back. Friedman died in
2006. What we can do, though, is go back through the record and
try to discern what Friedman intended.  Fed Vigilance  This story begins 10 years ago, when Bernanke, then a mere
Fed governor,  publicly honored  Friedman on Friedman’s 90th
birthday. Friedman had often suggested that a more vigilant Fed
would have prevented the strong deflation that featured in the
early part of the 1930s, that monetary intervention and change
in policy might have prevented the Great Depression.  Concern about Fed errors had been the basis of Friedman’s
 first great work , co-written with Anna J. Schwartz, “A Monetary
History of the  United States .” Now Bernanke swore out loud
before Friedman that he would use his powers to block a repeat:
“Thanks to you,” Bernanke said, “we won’t do it again.”  That does not mean, however, that Friedman always thought
 monetary policy  was the most important kind of policy, or that
he would have endorsed all the moves that Bernanke and the Fed
take in relation to money. Survey his former  padawans , his old
apprentices in economics, and they will give you different
answers, but most say Friedman disliked policy that was too
arbitrary.  After all, Friedman’s career was not all monetary.
You could even say monetary was “Milton I,” that is, a period in
the master’s life. In addition to his “Monetary  History ,”
Friedman wrote “Capitalism and Freedom,” which placed much
emphasis on other factors that affect the economy:  taxes,
regulation, rent control and cronyism. All, at one time or
another, were Friedman’s subjects.  While Friedman considered deflation more dangerous than
many economists did, especially Friedrich Hayek and others of
the  Austrian school , he moved beyond it. Many Americans know
that Friedman did monetary work, but remember that they first
encountered him when they read “ Capitalism and Freedom ,” or
his Newsweek magazine column, or the landmark  TV series 
featuring Friedman, “Free to Choose.”  Other scholars and students do not believe that Friedman
would have sanctioned the dollar amounts or the style of
“QEII,” the second great quantitative easing by the Fed; or
Operation Twist and other recent interventions of the Bernanke
Fed. One skeptic is  John B. Taylor , a former undersecretary of
the Treasury. Taylor’s math suggests that the Fed started to err
back in the period of Bernanke’s predecessor,  Alan Greenspan ,
then continued to err later.  An Untidy Performance  In a new book,  “First Principles,”  Taylor takes on
temporary stimuli, such as Fed purchases of debt. He has lately
taken pains to point out that Friedman, while emphasizing the
importance of the monetary tool, also liked monetary rules:
Friedman believed  money supply  should follow a regulation, not a
whim.  Another skeptic has been Anna J. Schwartz herself, who
said as far back as 2009 that Bernanke had been too “ad hoc.”
 Said Schwartz : “Considering Bernanke’s background, you would
have expected a much more, should I say, a tidy kind of
performance by the  Federal Reserve .” Or, as Yoda might have put
it: “Reckless is he: now matters are worse.”  Other clues to what Friedman might have done can be found
in his analyses of foreign economies. He took  a good look  at
postwar India, which was enduring a problem from which the U.S.
suffers today: slow growth. Friedman thought India could grow at
5 percent per annum, a level many other development experts
found too high. He blamed the slow growth on the “attempt to
control private investment in too rigid and detailed a
fashion,” and the “attempt to do too much in the public
sector.”  Friedman didn’t say monetary policy didn’t matter in  India .
He rather made it clear he didn’t believe that monetary policy
should be foremost. Monetary policy should get out of the way:
“a stable monetary climate is a basic prerequisite.”  But because Friedman is gone, and because Bernanke is a
great scholar in a high post, we cannot contradict Bernanke. The
only way to get around this problem is to appoint more Fed
governors who are trained by other masters: Taylor, or, say,
Friedrich “Yoda”  Hayek .  (Amity Shlaes is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the  Four Percent Growth Project  at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.   To contact the writer of this article:
 Amity Shlaes  at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 