-- Biggest Japan Capital Spending Jump in Five Years Adds to Recovery Signs
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-03-01T06:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/biggest-japan-spending-jump-in-five-years-adds-to-signs-economy-rebounding.html
Japanese companies’  capital spending 
jumped by the most in almost five years in the fourth quarter,
adding to signs that the world’s third-biggest economy is set to
return to growth.  Capital spending  excluding software rose 4.9 percent from a
year earlier, after declining 11 percent in the previous
quarter, the  Finance Ministry said  today in  Tokyo . The first
gain in three quarters compared with a  median estimate  of a 7.4
percent decline in a Bloomberg News survey of six economists.  A weakening yen, gains in  industrial production  and retail
sales, and increased government spending on reconstruction from
last year’s earthquake may drive an expansion this quarter.
Today’s report may force the Cabinet Office to revise upward
preliminary data that showed gross domestic product shrank an
annualized 2.3 percent in the final three months of last year.  “Reconstruction demand was probably the biggest support
for the increase in capital spending,” said Akiyoshi Takumori,
chief economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. “The
upward trend in business investment is likely to continue as
companies become more optimistic as rebuilding demand
materializes more and the yen weakens.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average closed 0.2 percent lower after
the yen gained.  ‘Very Strong’ Data  “Given today’s very strong capital investment data, there
is no doubt that the fourth-quarter GDP growth will be revised
upward,” said Yuichiro Nagai, a Tokyo-based economist at
 Barclays Capital .  The yen traded at 81.05 per dollar as of 3:14 p.m. local
time, compared with a postwar high of 75.35 on Oct. 31. The
currency has declined, aiding exporters, since the  Bank of Japan 
announced extra monetary stimulus and set an inflation goal on
Feb. 14.  Some of the boost to spending came from chemical and
transport equipment companies rebuilding factories damaged in
last year’s disaster, the  finance ministry  said. It also cited
the construction of supermarkets and convenience stores,
including in quake-affected areas.  The government has allocated about 21 trillion yen ($260
billion) in stimulus since the March 11 disaster. The  Bank of
Japan (8301)  has also expanded monetary stimulus to 65 trillion yen to
support growth and drive down the value of the yen.  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the world’s biggest tiremaker by market
value, said on Feb. 16 that it will spend about 4.7 billion yen
to boost output capacity at its plants in Fukuoka and Saga,
western  Japan .  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s largest carmaker, said
on Feb. 7 that the company raised its profit forecast 11 percent
for the year ending March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  