-- Billionaire Chung Proving Hyundai No Joke Aiming for BMW
-- B y   J o h n   L i p p e r t ,   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-03-01T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/billionaire-chung-proving-hyundai-luxury-no-joke-in-drive-to-top-bmw-cars.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005389)  Chairman  Chung Mong Koo  crosses the stage for his New Year’s address, his heels
clicking as 600 employees wait in silence.  Wearing a blue pinstriped suit, blue sweater and red tie,
the 73-year-old son of Hyundai’s founder praises workers for
building the world’s fifth-largest automaker. Then he considers
the year ahead. Europe’s debt crisis will trim global growth,
Chung says, yet he sees a bright side: Hyundai will have time to
improve quality to take on the likes of BMW and Mercedes --
making a full-speed run at becoming what he calls an ilryu giup,
a global top player, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
April issue.  “We have the unyielding will to make challenges into
opportunities,” he says. The throng assembled at Hyundai’s
Seoul headquarters applauds.  With unbridled ambition, clout unmatched in most executive
suites and workers who labor more hours than almost any on
earth, Chung has fashioned Hyundai Motor Group into South
Korea’s second-biggest chaebol and elevated the motor company to
its centerpiece.  Hyundai and its  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  affiliate are the most
profitable of the world’s top six automakers, with a combined
operating margin of 9.21 percent. Chung has dashed
preconceptions -- and jokes -- about Hyundai’s quality by
winning buyers from Mumbai to  Los Angeles . Those customers kept
factories that make Hyundai models humming at 104 percent of
planned capacity last year.  Excel to Equus  Once known as the builder of cheap, utilitarian urban cars
like the $4,995 Excel subcompact, Hyundai has emerged as an
industry contender. It makes vehicles in nine countries with a
2012 lineup that includes the $12,545 Accent and the $59,000
Equus premium sedan. Its Elantra compact won acclaim in January
when Detroit automotive journalists  named  it North American Car
of the Year.  At the Namyang research center 30 miles (48 kilometers)
southwest of Seoul, Hyundai is looking toward a future of luxury
models and green technologies. Some 250 engineers dedicated to
fuel cells hold hundreds of patents on the battery-like devices
that combine hydrogen and oxygen to make electricity that will
power cars and leave behind only heat and water.  ‘Working Night and Day’  As Hyundai’s momentum grows, it’s challenging conventional
wisdom about management, governance and investor relations --
and evolving a model of capitalism that straddles East and West.  “Chung is working night and day to prove the Koreans are
as good as anybody,” says Kishore Mahbubani, dean of the Lee
Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of
Singapore. “This is drive and determination of the first order.
It’s helping shift the weight of history back to Asia.”  Dead last in J.D. Power & Associates quality surveys in
1994, Hyundai Motor spent years as fodder for late-night
comedians. Chung, whose father built postwar Korea’s bridges and
expressways, took over in 1998. He bought Kia from creditors
during a bankruptcy auction that year and insisted his cars
would match the quality of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  He backed that
claim with a 10-year engine warranty, still among the industry’s
longest.  In 2004, he scrapped the boxy look of a prototype for the
Genesis luxury sedan in favor of a crouching, athletic style --
later luring Bavarian-born Peter Schreyer, the designer of Audi
AG’s TT Coupe, to overhaul Kia’s lineup.  In 2005, as Korea’s won strengthened against the U.S.
dollar, Chung ordered cost cutting to ensure the automaker would
earn money even if the won surged. The company opened its first
U.S. assembly plant that year.  Jewel of the Chaebol  By 2011, Hyundai Motor had become the jewel among the 63
companies in the chaebol, the family-controlled conglomerate
that reported 129.6 trillion won ($115.9 billion) in revenue in
the year ended that April.  The carmaker’s profit increased 35 percent to 8.1 trillion
won in the 2011 calendar year; revenue climbed 16 percent to
77.8 trillion won. Operating profit margin was triple Toyota’s
3.08 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are taking note. Hyundai Motor shares more than
tripled since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s September 2008
bankruptcy, trading at 216,000 won on Feb. 29.  During that time, U.S. carmakers cut 100,000 jobs, or one
in seven.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC struggled
through bankruptcy as Toyota wrestled with an 8-million-vehicle
recall for unintended acceleration, earthquakes and floods.  Riding the Surge  Vehicle sales at Hyundai and 34 percent-owned Kia climbed
56 percent from the end of 2008 through the end of last year,
faster than those of any major automaker.  “I’m quite comfortable Hyundai will continue to outperform
its peers in a highly competitive market,” says Christopher Yip, an analyst in  Hong Kong  for Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price
Group Inc. Yip’s firm began investing in Hyundai Motor in 2004
and held 650,612 shares on Sept. 30.  Chung is riding the surge. The value of his public
stockholdings in five companies in the Hyundai chaebol was $6.01
billion on Feb. 29. The shares of his only son and heir
apparent, Chung Eui Sun, 41, totaled $2.4 billion, Bloomberg
data show.  In its growth drive, Hyundai Group has stirred up some
investor concerns. Standard & Poor’s complained in August that
Chung’s crossholdings in chaebol companies let him handpick
directors. Shareholders question whether last year’s $4.4
billion purchase of  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. (000720) ,
which builds subways in the Philippines and power plants in
Iraq, was a stroke of business acumen or a ploy to gain the
upper hand in a family feud. And no one can assess how Eui Sun
will perform when he becomes chairman because his father keeps
him on a tight leash.  ‘Total Control’  Even with these caution flags,  Maryann Keller , who covered
the auto industry for Wall Street firms for four decades, says
one shouldn’t count Hyundai out.  “Nobody should underestimate Chung,” says Keller, who’s
now an independent consultant in Stamford, Connecticut. “He has
total control, and he’s determined to use great design and
leading-edge technology so he won’t get left behind.”  Ultimately, Chung may do in cars what Korea’s No. 1
chaebol, Samsung Group, has accomplished in televisions: push
Japanese rivals into decline, says Kei Nihonyanagi, a Barclays
Capital analyst in Tokyo. From 2004 to 2010, Sharp Corp. and
 Sony Corp. (6758)  cut their LCD TV prices by almost two-thirds to match
Samsung, Nihonyanagi says.  “The key management issue for Japanese automakers is to
again surpass Hyundai in cost and quality,” he says.  ‘Japanese Were Complacent’  Mazda Motor Corp. Chief Executive Officer Takashi Yamanouchi knows the Hyundai juggernaut. He says the Japanese
underestimated Chung and then further lost out when the yen
strengthened 27 percent against the dollar from Lehman’s demise
to March 1. That meant they couldn’t block Hyundai with low
prices.  “As Hyundai came out with high-quality products, the
Japanese were complacent,” Yamanouchi says.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  CEO Martin Winterkorn praises Hyundai for
doing what his company can’t. In a video that’s gone viral,
Winterkorn was filmed in September seated in Hyundai’s i30
hatchback at the Frankfurt Motor Show and lauding the adjustable
steering column.  “Nothing rattles,” he says. “Why can they do it? BMW
can’t. We can’t.”  ‘Stop the Koreans’  The ever-ambitious Chung is making a run at  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s top luxury-car seller. At the
Chicago Auto Show in February, the company showed off a concept
car that hints at its strategy for building a direct competitor
to the BMW 3-Series, the top-selling premium compact. The  Kia GT 
features a low-slung front end and a 3.3-liter V-6 engine
generating 390 horsepower -- just 40 hp less than the 6.2-liter
V-8 in Chevrolet’s base-model Corvette.  Hyundai’s Genesis sedan comes with a 3.8-liter, 333-hp V-6,
an eight-speed automatic transmission and a $34,200 price tag.
Similar models from BMW and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes cost at least
$5,000 more.  “Genesis has taken away enough buyers from other brands to
establish Hyundai as a real player in the luxury market,” says
Alexander Edwards, president for automotive research at San
Diego-based Strategic Vision Inc. “In five years, if history is
any guide, BMW and Mercedes could be asking, ‘How are we going
to stop the Koreans?’”  Fuel Cells  Hyundai is already challenging Daimler -- the inventor of
the first mass-produced internal combustion engine 127 years ago
-- in an area where the German company claims leadership: fuel
cells. By the end of 2012, Yang Woong Chul, vice chairman for
research, expects Hyundai to produce 2,000 fuel-cell vehicles a
year at about $100,000 apiece, or twice the price Toyota plans
to charge when its cars come out in 2015. Hyundai could match
Toyota’s price by 2015, when production could grow to 20,000, he
says.  As recently as 2005,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  said it was spending
$1 million for hand-built fuel-cell prototypes. Yang predicts
costs will decline to less than $50,000 as production increases.
If he’s right, and if governments support fuel cells with
hydrogen-pumping stations, they could become the first full-
blown replacement for internal combustion engines.  Christian Mohrdieck, Daimler’s director for fuel-cell
development, says his company confirmed its fuel-cell supremacy
with 18,600-mile, four-continent test drives last year.  “If we didn’t do anything on fuel cells or hybrids, then
you may imagine our company just makes reliable cars,” Yang
says. “We don’t want to remain that way. We like to be a
technically innovative company.”  Helicopter to Dangjin  Chung, a vigorous septuagenarian who has been test-driving
fuel-cell prototypes, sets a pace that keeps Hyundai hopping. He
arrives at the 21-story twin-towers headquarters at 6:30 most
mornings, prompting executives to rush to their desks by 6:20.
Salarymen, the middle managers in gray or black sweaters, leave
after sundown.  Engineers feel pressure 6,000 miles away in Costa Mesa,
California. Erwin Raphael, director of engineering and quality
at Hyundai Motor America, says his department responds almost
daily to queries from Chung and other executives about existing
or potential problems. In a similar Chrysler job, Raphael heard
from top management once or twice a quarter, he says.  Chung personally heads monthly quality reviews with senior
executives -- and sets high expectations.  “Every engineer, any quality problem they have, they have
to bring it up in front of the chairman,” Yang says. “They
have to come with solutions.”  ‘Like a Tank’  When  Hyundai Steel Co. (004020) , the sister company that supplies
metal for a third of Hyundai vehicles, was building three blast
furnaces, Chung supervised. He took a helicopter 40 miles to
Dangjin three or four times a week to oversee the $8 billion
effort, says Cho Won Suk, senior executive vice president.  On a smoggy January afternoon in Dangjin, ore carriers from
around the world line a dock on the Asan Bay. Conveyor-borne
buckets drag out iron, coal and limestone. Blast furnaces tower
like 20-story Thermos bottles. Trucks with steel for Chung’s
cars rumble through the gate.  Chung is reprising the strategy of Henry Ford, another
innovator who owned the steps of production. Without furnaces,
Hyundai would be at the mercy of  Posco (005490) , Korea’s largest
steelmaker, and of a fluctuating won that could make importing
expensive, says Kim Gyung Jung, an analyst at Eugene Investment
& Securities Co. in Seoul.  “He’s like a tank,” Kim says. “His insight is very
strong.”  In the Pines  Key ingredients of Hyundai’s strategy are on display among
the pine forests of the American South.  Here, Hyundai imports components from Asia and snaps them
together with low-wage firms, including chaebol member  Hyundai
Mobis (012330) , the world’s No. 8 automotive supplier. With 2,650 workers
making 1,370 cars each day, the Montgomery, Alabama, Hyundai
Motor plant has the highest productivity of any North American
vehicle assembly factory, an entrance-hall banner citing Harbour
& Associates announces. Ron Harbour, president of the Harbour &
Associates unit of Oliver Wyman, declined to comment.  At nearby Hyundai Mobis, some 1,000 workers build chunks of
cars called modules -- a chassis with suspension and brakes or a
cockpit with a steering wheel, an air conditioner and air bags.
A quarter of the value of Hyundai vehicles is tied up in the
modules, more than at any competitor, senior production control
manager Chung Daero says.  Cleaning Up  On a December afternoon, Mobis trucks loaded with modules
head to Hyundai Motor every few minutes. Robots deliver them to
assembly lines and fit them into partially built vehicles
without human contact.  Mobis saves Hyundai money by paying workers $11 an hour to
start, compared with $15.50 at Hyundai Motor, 11 miles away.  After importing chassis components from Korea and radios
from China, 34 percent of the value of Elantras sold in the U.S.
originates in the U.S. or Canada; Toyota’s Avalon leads the
industry at 85 percent from those two countries.  At the Kia plant in West Point, Georgia, gray buildings
sprawl for almost a mile along Interstate 85. Inside, workers
use forklifts, robots and stamping presses from Chung’s
companies to build sedans and SUVs. Brooms with employees’ names
rest near posters that say “Cleanliness is the first step to
zero defects.”  Veloster Frenzy  Hyundai demands such attention to detail in its 20 assembly
plants worldwide. It also requires workers to adjust on the fly.
In the 1970s, special Toyota teams labored for months to save
workers incremental steps between tasks on assembly lines.
Hyundai, in comparison, leans toward frenetic re-engineering.
That approach paid off last year, when Hyundai introduced a non-
hydraulic dual-clutch transmission on the $18,060 Veloster
hatchback.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  had already selected the same transmission
and then tumbled in Consumer Reports’ reliability survey because
of jerky shifting at low speed.  Alarmed, two dozen Hyundai engineers began reprogramming
onboard computers that control gear shifts, Raphael says. They
worked around the clock for three weeks straight before the
Veloster went on sale, accomplishing up to 18 months of normal
development. Shin Jong Woon, the automaker’s quality vice
chairman, got daily reports and test-drove modified cars.  By January, Velosters were selling so fast that Hyundai had
a 13-day supply compared with the industry average of 34 for all
2012 models, according to automotive website Cars.com.  On a grander scale, Hyundai is shaking up notions about
management and governance. And, along with Samsung, it’s
evolving a form of capitalism that blends the competition of the
West with the government backing of Asia, notably China.  Rich and Glorious  For decades after World War II, U.S.-style capitalism --
rooted in private enterprise and lightly regulated markets --
towered over the world economy. In 1989, as the Berlin Wall fell
and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  embarked on an 11-year
climb that quintupled its value, economist John Williamson of
the Institute for International Economics dubbed the embrace of
free-market economics the Washington consensus.  Even as Williamson spoke, a competing system was taking
hold in Asia. In 1992, a quote attributed to Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping -- “To be rich is glorious” -- helped unleash long-
dormant potential. By 2004, China’s economy was growing 9.5
percent annually, almost triple the U.S. pace.  At the Foreign Policy Centre in London, journalist Joshua Cooper Ramo coined the phrase Beijing consensus. He chronicled
China’s willingness to experiment with private property and free
enterprise to the extent the regime’s need for political
stability would allow.  Korea’s Path  Korea navigated its own distinctive path, says Yasheng Huang, a business professor at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology’s Sloan School of Management.  Beginning in the 1950s, a succession of presidents showered
cheap financing and favorable tax policies on Hyundai and the
other chaebols they chose as cornerstones of national growth.
Hyundai Group founder Chung Ju Yung used a government-sponsored
loan to buy 82 acres (33 hectares) in the southeastern city of
Ulsan for what is now the world’s largest automotive assembly
plant.  Government support continues today. In the past two years,
South Korea signed free-trade agreements that eliminate tariffs
on automotive exports into the U.S. and European Union. Japanese
automakers still pay tariffs of 2.5 percent into the U.S. and 10
percent into the EU, Yamanouchi says.  Unlike its Chinese counterparts, Hyundai was determined to
export, forcing the company to hone its skills head-to-head with
entrenched competitors like GM in their home market.  “Export meant you were operating in an extremely
competitive environment,” Huang says.  ‘Top-Down Management’  Hyundai also copied the Japanese, says John Shook, chairman
of the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Lean Enterprise Institute,
which consults on efficiency. The Chinese, in comparison, were
slow to export or establish global brands; the U.S. and Japanese
were buffeted during the recent recession, he says.  “State capitalism, or the support they receive from
Korea’s government, is part of the Hyundai story,” Shook says.
“Their top-down management system has obvious advantages in
terms of speed.”  Some investors say Korea’s capitalism needs more Western-
style governance and transparency.  Kim Byung Kwan, an analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in
Seoul, worries about Chung’s purchase last year of Hyundai
Engineering.  Coffee Shops  “We’re concerned about Hyundai buying companies that
really don’t affect its core motor business, because we don’t
know what they’re going to buy next,” Kim says. Affiliates of
Kim’s company, including Mirae Asset MAPS Investment Management
Co., owned 595,428 Hyundai Motor shares on Sept. 30.  As presidential politics heat up before the December
election, Koreans are questioning whether chaebols have too much
clout and whether their ties to government are too strong. At
Hyundai, a Seoul court in 2007 convicted Chung of selling
chaebol securities to his son at below-market prices. First, the
elder Chung received a three-year suspended sentence. Then in
2008, Korean President  Lee Myung Bak , a former Hyundai
executive, pardoned him.  Last year, a company for which Chung’s eldest daughter,
Chung Sung Yi, acts as an adviser set up coffee shops in Hyundai
headquarters and at a company-owned resort. Some Koreans blasted
Hyundai for nepotism and crowding out entrepreneurs. President
Lee in January asked all large conglomerates to respond to such
grievances. Hyundai will run the shops as nonprofits, spokesman
Frank Ahrens says. Chung was unavailable to comment for this
story, Ahrens says.  ‘Complex Group Ownership’  Standard & Poor’s complained about governance in August.  “Hyundai operates under a complex group ownership
structure, and Chung wields disproportionately strong control,”
Sangyun Han, an S&P analyst in Hong Kong, wrote.  The interlocking companies include Hyundai Motor, which
owns 34 percent of Kia. Kia, in turn, owns 16.9 percent of
Mobis, the parts company, which owns 20.8 percent of Hyundai
Motor. Because the companies essentially control each other, no
outside shareholder is strong enough to name board members. That
means Chung controls Hyundai Motor’s board even though he holds
just 5.2 percent of the stock, Han says.  Han says crossownership is one reason S&P hasn’t moved
faster to boost the automaker’s debt rating from BBB, or two
steps above junk. He pointed to the Hyundai Engineering purchase
to illustrate what he calls undisciplined financial policies.  ‘May Not Help Shareholders’  After Chung won the company by outbidding his brother’s
widow in a duel played out in Korean headlines, he promised to
invest $8.9 billion to quintuple sales. Han, though, says Chung
may have been driven by a family rivalry rather than a clear
rationale for an automaker owning a company that, unlike Hyundai
Steel, plays only a small role in making cars.  “There’s not a lot of transparency, which makes it hard to
track motivations of management,” says Rolf Kelly, an analyst
at Thornburg Investment Management Inc. in Sante Fe, New Mexico,
whose company owned 2.5 million Hyundai Motor shares on Nov. 30.  The purchase may be a good investment, Kelly says. “But
there’s obviously some interest in propping up family
companies,” he says. “This may not help shareholders.”  Chief Operating Officer Kim Seung Tack says  family
management  makes it easier to reach decisions and invest for
long-term goals, like fuel-cell research, instead of short-term
profits.  Pushing Eui Sun  Han questions what will happen when Chung steps down or
dies. Even though Eui Sun was Kia president from 2005 to 2009
and is Hyundai Motor vice chairman, investors can’t assess how
he’ll perform because his father’s lieutenants always assist
him, Han says. Chung, who had a difficult relationship with his
own father, pushes Eui Sun to get him ready, Yang says.  “To lead this big, big group, the son cannot be treated
better or mildly,” he says.  Eui Sun, who holds an MBA from the University of San
Francisco, is starting to take the stage with English-language
speeches at auto shows. In private, though, he refers to his
father as chairman, a person who knows him says.  “There’s instability in management in the sense it’s
highly dependent on one strong figure,” Han says. Eui Sun
declined to comment for this story.  Yang, who joined Hyundai from Ford in 2004, says hard work
drives Korean society.  “We put the highest priority on the company,” he says.
“Second is family. Third is me. In Western countries, it’s the
other way around.”  ‘More Pressure’  Even after Chung said in January that expansion would slow
this year, employees haven’t relaxed, Yang says.  “We have to make 6.5 million vehicles with the quality of
a BMW or Mercedes,” he says. “It’s giving us more pressure.”  That pressure boiled over on Jan. 8. An engine plant
employee named Shin Seung Hoon in Ulsan set himself on fire and
died. The Hyundai Motor Workers Union says Shin became
distraught after making the one complaint Hyundai least wanted
to air publicly -- that his bosses were pushing him to stop
protesting poor quality.  COO Kim blames labor unrest on social ills rocking Korea,
including a growing gap between rich and poor. He says union
leaders aren’t making better progress because they’re busy
promoting political candidates.  “Sometimes they do not represent employee concerns like
fringe benefits or working conditions,” he says.  Long Hours  Union spokesman Kim Gi Hyuk says members agitate for change
because Korea’s government is dedicated to helping corporations
make bigger profits -- an area where Korean capitalism may hurt
workers.  “This causes employment instability, long working hours
and low wages,” he says.  Koreans worked 2,193 hours on average in 2010, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development  found .
That compares with an average of 1,778 in the U.S. and 1,419 in
Germany.  Chung, in his January address, warned of tougher
competition ahead. GM sold 9.03 million vehicles last year,
enough to reclaim its No. 1 global sales ranking. Net income
soared to $9.19 billion, the most in its 103-year history.
Toyota expects a 21 percent sales increase during 2012.  As Chung spoke, he displayed small signs of fallibility. He
slurred a few words slightly and didn’t correct himself after
announcing a 2012 sales target of 700,000 vehicles when he meant
7 million.  By the time Eui Sun takes over, Chung may have completed a
100-story chaebol headquarters he’s planning along the Han
River. Hyundai may have gained recognition as a leader in fuel-
cell technology for the 21st century.  What would remain for Eui Sun is to harness the Korean-
style capitalism that his grandfather and father helped invent,
even with Toyota and GM poised to roar back.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lippert in Chicago at 
 jlippert@bloomberg.net 
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohsman@bloomberg.net 
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at   lcolby@bloomberg.net  