-- U.S. Senate Democrats Seek Political Gain From Contraception Coverage Vote
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-03-01T19:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/birth-control-vote-roils-both-parties-seeking-election-advantage.html
Senate Democrats say Republicans in
close re-election races will suffer for voting to let employers
and insurers refuse to cover  birth control  and other  health
services  that violate their religious beliefs.  The Democratic-controlled chamber voted 51-48 today to
block the proposal by Missouri Republican Roy Blunt. It would
have canceled a requirement from President Barack Obama’s
administration that health insurers cover contraception without
charge for insured employees of religiously affiliated
institutions.  The Republican measure “takes aim at women’s access to
health care,” said Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat. “It would allow any employer or insurer to deny
coverage for virtually any treatment for virtually any reason.”
Mammograms, flu shots and prenatal care are among the services
women could be denied, Reid said.  Maine Senator  Olympia Snowe , who announced this week she
won’t seek re-election, was the only Republican who voted
against Blunt’s proposal. Three Democrats supported it --
Pennsylvania’s  Bob Casey  and West Virginia’s Joe Manchin, who
are Roman Catholics seeking re-election this year, and Ben Nelson of Nebraska, who is retiring.  Republicans, outraged over the administration’s rule, said
Blunt’s proposal was needed to protect religious freedom and
rights of conscience under the Constitution. Catholic doctrine
forbids the use of artificial birth control, and church leaders
said its affiliated hospitals and colleges should be able to
refuse contraception coverage to their employees.  First Amendment  “If Democrats no longer see the value in defending the
First Amendment because they don’t think it’s politically
expedient to do so, or because they want to protect the
president, then Republicans will have to do it for them,” said
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the Senate’s third-
ranking Democrat, said Republican senators seeking re-election
in moderate or Democratic-leaning states, such as Republican
Scott Brown of Massachusetts, would face a backlash from voters
for supporting the measure.  “It’s going to be awfully hard to defend it back home,
especially in places like New England,” Schumer told reporters,
referring to Republican votes in favor of Blunt’s proposal.  Democrats portray Blunt’s measure as the latest example of
a Republican attack on women’s access to health care. Today’s
vote will be “very helpful” to Democrats in November, Senator
 Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the Senate’s second-ranking
Democrat, told reporters yesterday. “Ours is a mainstream
position shared by not only Democrats but many independents.”  ‘Boss Deciding’  Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat facing a
tough re-election fight, said in an interview that she wasn’t
concerned about backlash from Catholic voters over her
opposition to Blunt’s proposal.  “Most voters in my state do not want the boss deciding
what health care they can get,” McCaskill said.  Another Democrat seeking re-election this year, Jon Tester
of Montana, said in a statement that the proposal was “a
reckless attempt to undermine individual freedom and restrict
access to health care for women.”  Casey of  Pennsylvania  said in a statement that although he
supports contraception, Obama’s rule doesn’t do enough to
protect religious liberty.  The administration’s original version of the rule included
religious-affiliated universities and hospitals among other
employers required to provide coverage for contraception. Houses
of worship were exempt.  Compromise Rule  After Republicans in Congress and officials within the
Catholic Church reacted with outrage, Obama announced a
compromise Feb. 10 requiring insurers, and not religious-
affiliated colleges and universities, to finance contraceptives
for employees of those institutions.  Blunt’s proposal would have allowed any health coverage
provider, not just those affiliated with religious institutions,
to refuse to cover services or procedures that conflicted with
its religious or moral beliefs. He offered it as an amendment to
a Senate highway bill, S. 1813.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said he is
trying to get a bipartisan agreement to end what he called
“government encroaching” on “the American people’s right to
their own religious views.”  “It’s important for us to win this issue,” said Boehner,
a Catholic.  Congressional Republicans say opposition to the
administration’s rule may boost turnout among religious voters
for Republican candidates in the November election. Republican
presidential front-runners  Mitt Romney  of  Massachusetts  and Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania are among the Republicans who have
accused the Obama administration of violating religious liberty.  Senator Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma Republican, said yesterday
in an interview that if Obama’s rule isn’t overturned, “it is
going to markedly increase turnout” among religious voters for
Republican candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  