-- BOE’s Miles Says Inflation Will Slow on Job Cuts, Spare Capacity
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-01T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/boe-s-miles-says-inflation-will-slow-on-job-cuts-spare-capacity.html
Bank of England  policy maker  David Miles  said high unemployment and slack in the economy will
continue to put downward pressure on inflation after he was
defeated in a push to increase stimulus by 75 billion pounds
($120 billion) last month.  “Inflation is likely to continue to fall as domestically
generated price pressures are restrained by downward pressure
from unemployment and spare capacity, and the contribution of
past energy and import price rises diminishes,” Miles said
today in a speech in Manchester, England. He repeated the
central bank’s projection last month that risks to inflation at
the end of its forecast period are “broadly balanced” around
its 2 percent target.  The Bank of  England ’s Monetary Policy Committee voted to
increase its target for asset purchases by 50 billion pounds to
325 billion pounds on Feb. 9 after the economy shrank in the
fourth quarter. Miles and  Adam Posen  were defeated in their call
for a larger increase at the meeting. The new round of purchases
is scheduled to be completed in May.  Miles’s speech comes after fellow policy maker  Martin Weale 
said late yesterday that inflation may prove more persistent
than expected, making it unlikely the economy will require
further stimulus once the current round of bond purchases ends.
U.K.  inflation  slowed to 3.6 percent in January, the least in 14
months.  Policy Difference  Weale’s comments were the most explicit indication by an
official that the MPC’s latest increase in stimulus may be the
last.  Paul Fisher  said on Feb. 26 that if recent positive
economic developments continue, “that would put more weight
onto the argument for stopping rather than carrying on” with
bond purchases. Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said Feb. 28 that
policy makers must be “alert to the need” to gradually
withdraw stimulus when the economy strengthens.  Still, Governor  Mervyn King  said yesterday that any further
loosening of policy will depend on how the economy performs.  Miles said asset purchases have helped the economy by
boosting demand and increasing asset prices, making it easier
for companies and households to borrow. He also countered
criticism that the so-called quantitative-easing program was
hurting the incomes of savers. The central bank’s bond purchases
bolstered equity and corporate-bond prices in the U.K. over the
past few months, he said, and that will have boosted the assets
of pension funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  