-- BOJ Openings Give Noda Chance to Push Japan Stimulus as Deflation Persists
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-03-02T01:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/boj-board-openings-give-noda-chance-to-shape-monetary-stimulus.html
Japan ’s government will make two
appointments to the central bank’s nine-member board in coming
weeks, giving the administration scope to affect monetary
policymaking as politicians press for greater stimulus.  A group of lawmakers yesterday told ruling-party policy
chief Seiji Maehara the replacements should favor doubling the
 Bank of Japan ’s inflation target and stepping up asset
purchases. The five-year terms of board members  Seiji Nakamura ,
69, and Hidetoshi Kamezaki, 68, former executives in the
shipping and trading-company industries, conclude April 4.  The picks may offer clues of Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s intentions when BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s term
ends next year, and color policy discussions as the economy
pulls out of its 2011 contraction. One hint would be any break
from the practice of appointing members with similar backgrounds
to those retiring, said economist  Hiromichi Shirakawa .  “If they break tradition, or choose people clearly
enthusiastic about beating deflation, that will make an impact
on markets because it indicates more easing policies in the
future,” said Shirakawa, who is chief Japan economist at  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in  Tokyo , used to work at the BOJ, and is no
relation to the governor. “Politicians want some achievement
before next year’s election,” he said, referring to a vote for
the lower house of parliament due next year.  Surprise Move  The shift on the board follows the BOJ’s surprise decision
on Feb. 14 to boost its asset purchases by 10 trillion yen ($123
billion), a move that confounded the forecasts of 12 of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The step set off the biggest
monthly slide in the yen against the dollar since December 2009.
The currency was at 81.26 at 10:21 a.m. in Tokyo.  A group of lawmakers within the ruling  Democratic Party  of
Japan said yesterday in Tokyo that the new BOJ members should
favor increasing the inflation goal, set only last month, to
more than 2 percent from the current 1 percent, a shift that
would mirror the stance of the U.S. Federal Reserve.  They also called for further monetary easing at the March
12-13 policy board meeting, with lawmaker Sumio Mabuchi saying
that acting two months in a row would be “epoch-making” and
signal the BOJ is as committed to inflation targets as central
banks in other nations.  The selection of candidates for the BOJ seats also brings
focus to Maehara, 49, who ran against Noda for the party
leadership last year and said in an interview in June that the
central bank “can expand its balance sheet a little more.”  Falling Prices  Lawmakers have criticized Shirakawa and the BOJ for falling
short in efforts to counter more than a decade of deflation,
rein in the yen, and drive a recovery from the earthquake and
tsunami that devastated the nation’s northeast last year.  “The government will want the new members to be people who
will support more easing measures and believe that pumping cash
into the economy can determine the trend for prices,” said Jun Ishii, chief fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. “The Japanese people have a great
interest in ending deflation and the politicians know that an
election year is coming up.”  Noda’s approval ratings plunged to 26.4 percent last month,
falling below one third for the first time since he took office
in September, the Sankei Newspaper reported on Feb. 14.  The yen’s rise to a post-World War II record against the
dollar in October contributed to Japan’s economy contracting for
a third year in four by making exports less competitive and
paring manufacturers’ earnings. Last month, Sony Corp. more than
doubled its annual loss forecast.  Signs of Revival  Now, there are signs of a revival, with retail sales and
industrial production exceeding estimates in January and the yen
weaker since the added BOJ asset purchases.  Gross domestic product probably shrank less than initially
estimated, with economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
forecasting that fourth-quarter GDP contracted 0.6 percent
compared to an earlier reading for a 2.3 percent drop. The
 unemployment rate  rose to 4.6 percent in January, a report
showed today. Consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.1
percent from the same month a year earlier, the government said,
showing that Japan has still not escaped from deflation.  Exiting board member Kamezaki said this week that easing
wasn’t the only cause of the currency’s decline, also citing a
trade deficit swelled by energy imports after nuclear-plant
closures.  New Members  Of the nine members of the BOJ board, two are career
central bankers, four are former corporate executives and three
are academics. Traditionally new board members are chosen from
the same background as their predecessor, but that may not
happen this time, according to Shirakawa, of Credit Suisse.  “It’s easier for the BOJ to tame someone who isn’t an
expert in monetary policy but the government may want a member
who has a background in banking or academia to shake up the
board,” Shirakawa said. “The political pressure on the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  will continue” even after the the bank expanded easing,
he said.  Noda has called for “bold” action to end deflation, and
Credit Suisse and  Fujitsu Research Institute (KJJITZ)  say political
pressure was key in the extra bond purchases and inflation
target last month. Shirakawa, the central bank governor, has
rejected such claims.  Monetary board members are appointed by the Cabinet and
must be approved by both houses of the Diet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  