-- Bovespa Rises on Brazil Rate Outlook, Commodities Gain
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-03-01T22:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/bovespa-futures-rise-as-commodities-advance-on-china-outlook.html
(Corrects to say  China ’s purchasing managers’ index rose
for a third month in February in the third paragraph.)  The Bovespa index headed for a 10-
month high as bets for lower Brazilian borrowing costs lifted
consumer stocks and raw material-producers followed commodities
higher after a report showed manufacturing expanded in China.  Steelmaker  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  rose the
most among raw-material producers as metals prices increased.
 Localiza Rent a Car SA ,  Latin America ’s biggest car-rental
company, led gains by companies that depend on domestic
consumption.  The Bovespa climbed 1.3 percent to 66,654.5 at 1:35 p.m. in
Sao Paulo. A close at that level would be the highest since
April 26. Fifty-six stocks advanced, while 11 fell. The real
strengthened 0.4 percent to 1.7115 per  U.S. dollar . Industrial
metals advanced, with the  Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price
Commodity Index (CMDIBAS3)  rising 0.9 percent, after China’s  purchasing
managers’ index  climbed for a third month in February.  “China’s economic activity should remain strong, at least
in the short term, sustaining the demand for Brazilian
commodities,” Marc Sauerman, who helps oversee about 650
million reais ($380 million) at JMalucelli Investimentos in
Curitiba, Brazil, said by phone. In Brazil, “policy makers have
indicated they’ll keep cutting rates aggressively, which should
continue to push the Bovespa higher.”  Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas is known, climbed 2.4
percent to 11.93 reais.  Interest-Rate Outlook  In the interest-rate futures market, yields on most
contracts fell. The yield on the contract due in January 2013
slid 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 9.13 percent.  Brazil  announced today it will tax foreign loans and bonds
by local companies that mature in three years or less in a bid
to stem the currency’s appreciation, which could be a sign
policy makers may take other measures, including lowering
borrowing costs, to curb a rally in the real, said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist with Banco WestLB do Brasil SA.  “There’s speculation the central bank may use rate cuts to
help push the real” lower, Rostagno said by phone from Sao
Paulo. The tax increase announced today “reinforces the
speculation.”  Localiza rose 3.3 percent to 32.76 reais. BR Malls gained
3.2 percent to 22.72 reais.  Overseas demand for Brazil’s commodities, combined with
interest-rate cuts, will keep pushing investors into Brazilian
stocks, said Pedro Bastos, Latin America head for HSBC Holdings
Plc’s wealth management division. The Bovespa index will reach
75,000 by year-end, surpassing the record of 73,516 set in 2008,
Bastos said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo  yesterday.  Relative Value  The Bovespa has advanced 17 percent this year, after
slumping 18 percent in 2011, buoyed by Brazil’s interest-rate
cuts, signs of growth in the U.S. and renewed optimism  Europe 
may be closer to solving its debt crisis. The gauge trades at
10.6 times analysts’ earnings estimates, compared with a 10.6
ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, weekly data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Traders  moved  7.86 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 6.97 billion reais this year through Feb. 13,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  