-- Brazil Real Advances as Mantega Rules Out Investment Tax to Stem Inflows
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-01T16:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/brazil-real-advances-as-mantega-rules-out-investment-tax-to-stem-inflows.html
Brazil ’s real rose after Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said the government wasn’t considering
taxes on foreign direct investments as he laid out a plan to
stem the currency’s appreciation, easing investor concern policy
makers would take stronger steps to limit capital inflows.  The real gained 0.3 percent to 1.7120 per  U.S. dollar  at
1:22 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , after tumbling 1.3 percent to 1.7174
yesterday. It fell as much as 0.5 percent earlier today. The
yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2013 fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point,
to 9.14 percent.  Brazil has an array of tools to curb gains in its currency
as  Europe ,  Japan  and the U.S. adopt monetary policies that lead
to excessive global liquidity, even as it refrains from taxing
direct investment, Mantega told reporters in Brasilia today. The
government said it will increase levies on local companies’
foreign loans and bonds by extending the maturity of debt
subject to the tax to three years from two.  “The measures adopted are harmless,” Alfredo Barbutti, an
economist at Liquidez DTVM Ltda, said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“The minister said they won’t tax FDI and there’s a positive
expectation for investments.”  Foreign direct investments in Brazil climbed to $67 billion
last year from $49 billion in 2010 and less than $20 billion
five years ago, according to central bank data.  The 6 percent tax on foreign borrowings that mature in
three years or less takes effect immediately, according to a
decree published today in the official gazette.  Local Manufacturers  Mantega also said the real at 1.50 or 1.60 per U.S. dollar
is “bad” for the Brazilian economy. Mantega has repeatedly
pledged to take all necessary steps to prevent the  exchange rate 
from hurting local manufacturers.  Brazil resumed efforts to rein in currency gains last
month, with the central bank buying dollars in the spot and
forward markets. The bank also auctioned currency swaps and
bought dollars in the  spot market  yesterday.  The government will likely rely on central bank dollar
purchases as long as the real remains around the 1.70 level, but
further appreciation could spur the government to use “more
creative intervention mechanisms,” Marcelo Salomon, co-head of
Latin America economics at Barclays Plc in  New York , wrote in a
research note today.  Sovereign Fund  Mantega said policy makers can also use the sovereign
wealth fund to buy dollars to protect the real from excessive
global liquidity.  The Brazilian government raised taxes on overseas loans and
foreign-exchange derivatives last year after tripling the so-
called IOF tax on foreign investors’ fixed-income purchases to 6
percent in 2010 in a bid to stem the real’s gains.  The central bank’s  foreign reserves  have nearly doubled in
the past four years, to $355 billion as policy makers intervened
to weaken the real.  Futures yields declined for a third day as new currency
measures bolstered bets the central bank will continue cutting
 interest rates  to reduce the attractiveness of Brazilian assets
and stem speculative inflows, said  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at Banco West LB in Sao Paulo.  “Speculation has been surging since yesterday that the
central bank may use the drop in rates to help control the
real,” Rostagno said in a telephone interview. “Even though a
stronger U.S. dollar can pressure inflation, the market sees
that the government is prioritizing growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  