-- Brazil Readies Additional Measures to Contain Real’s Rally, Mantega Says
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-03-01T21:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/brazil-broadens-scope-of-foreign-capital-tax-in-bid-to-stem-currency-rally.html
Brazil  is ready to take more
measures to stem a rally in the real, the world’s second-best
performing major currency in 2012, after a decree broadened the
scope of a tax on companies raising funds in the international
market, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  The government today imposed a levy on foreign loans and
bonds with durations of three years or less. The 6 percent tax,
which takes effect immediately, was previously applied to
foreign borrowing of up to two years, according to a decree
published today in the  official gazette .  Measures available to protect Brazil from surging global
liquidity include using the sovereign wealth fund to buy
dollars, intervention by the central bank in the spot and
futures market, and taxes on derivatives, said Mantega, who
ruled out a levy on foreign direct investment to stem the real’s
gains. While the U.S.,  Europe  and Japan keep rates near zero,
Brazil pays investors the highest inflation-adjusted benchmark
interest rate within the Group of 20 nations.  “The government won’t be a passive observer in this
currency war,” Mantega told reporters today in Brasilia. “The
government will continue to take measures to prevent the real
from strengthening, from hurting Brazil’s manufacturers.”  Real, Maturities  The real strengthened 0.2 percent at 1.7142 per  U.S.
dollar  at 6:04 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , after Mantega ruled out taxing
FDI flows as part of the plan to curb the rally. He also said
the central bank’s dollar purchases have been enough and there
is no need to use the sovereign wealth fund to reinforce the
intervention in the  spot market  for the moment.  The currency dropped 1.3 percent to 1.7174 yesterday, the
biggest decline since Dec. 12, after a Bloomberg News report
that the government was considering measures to stem the
currency rally.  Brazil resumed efforts to rein in currency gains last
month, with the central bank buying dollars in the spot and
forward markets. The bank also auctioned currency swaps
yesterday.  “There is a currency war based on an expansionary monetary
policy that creates unfair conditions for competition,”
President Dilma Rousseff said in an event today in Brasilia.  The impact of the measure announced today may be limited
because most foreign borrowings by companies have maturities
longer than three years, said Italo Abucater, head of  currency
trading  at Icap do Brasil DTVM.  “Currently, most of operations are of five to 10 years,”
Abucater said.  ‘More Steps’  Brazil’s benchmark interest rate discounted by inflation is
at 4.3 percent a year, after the central bank reduced the Selic
rate by half a percentage point at each of its four previous
meetings. Inflation slowed to 6.22 percent in January, remaining
above the 4.5 percent inflation target for the 17th straight
month.  The real gained 8.9 percent this year, the second-best
performer amid the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The  Mexican peso  has gained 9.4 percent.  Mantega said that a real trading at 1.50 to 1.60 per U.S.
dollar is “bad” for the economy, adding the government doesn’t
seek a specific  exchange rate .  “We are likely to see more steps, more measures,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, local markets strategist at Royal Bank of
 Scotland , said. “We will continue to see pressure on the real
to appreciate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  