-- Basci Breakeven Rates Show Inflation Targets Beyond Reach: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2012-03-02T16:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/breakeven-rate-shows-inflation-goal-beyond-reach-turkey-credit.html
Bondholders are losing confidence in
central bank Governor Erdem Basci’s ability to meet his target
of cutting the highest inflation rate among major economies in
half.  While Basci says consumer price gains will slow to 5.1
percent by the end of 2013, investors raised projections to 6.9
percent March 1 from 6.5 percent on Feb. 21 as the central bank
lowered borrowing costs for a second time this year, based on
the gap between fixed-rate bonds and those paying returns tied
to inflation known as the  breakeven rate . Bets on rising
consumer costs made Turkey’s inflation-linked bonds the best
performers after  Italy  this month, according to data compiled by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Inflation (TUCPIY)  more than doubled last year to the highest among
the Group of 20 economies as the world’s biggest currency
depreciation drove up the cost of imported goods. The rate
probably held at a three-year high of 10.6 percent in February,
according to the  median estimate  of three economists polled by
Bloomberg before a report from the statistics office due March
5. Basci cut banks’ overnight lending rates and its benchmark
one-week repo rate in the past two months, saying a 7.9 percent
rebound in the lira against the dollar this year and slowing
domestic economic growth had damped price pressures.  Close to ‘Peak’  “I don’t see any reason why inflation would drop
quickly,”  Paul McNamara , who oversees $7 billion at GAM
Investment Management in London, said in a telephone interview
on Feb. 27. While “we’re close to the peak in terms of
inflation, all that really matters is how the lira behaves,” he
said.  The two-year breakeven rate, which reflects expectations
for inflation over the period, climbed to a record high of 8.76
percent on Nov. 25 as the currency plunged 18 percent against
the dollar last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It fell
to as low as 6.16 percent on Jan. 31 after Basci sought to stem
the depreciation and consumer price increases by selling dollars
and raising banks’ interest costs to the highest end of a
corridor between the benchmark one-week repurchasing rate at
5.75 percent and the overnight lending rate of 12.5 percent.  Basci, 45, reversed that policy in January, lending mostly
at the lower rate, after economists from banks including  New
York-  based Bank of America and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
pointing to the record current-account deficit, warned that the
nation’s growth rate threatened to send the economy off the
rails. He then cut the overnight lending rate to 11.5 percent
from 12.5 percent on Feb. 21 and kept the benchmark one-week
repo rate unchanged at 5.75 percent.  Hurting Growth  The effect of the lira’s depreciation is starting to fade
and inflation will slow, according to policy documents published
on the central bank’s website on Jan. 31. Tightening monetary
policy to accelerate the slowdown in inflation would hurt
economic growth, Basci said in a quarterly briefing in Ankara
the same day. Inflation will be 6.5 percent by the end of this
year before dropping toward the bank’s 5 percent medium-term
goal, he said.  The central bank survey of more than 80 economists and
executives published Feb. 22 shows inflation at 6.9 percent in
12 months and 6.4 percent in 24 months.  “The market is less optimistic than the central bank,
particularly in the short term, where pricing is much more
cautious,” said Erkin Isik, a fixed-income strategist at Turk
Ekonomi Bankasi AS in Istanbul. The bank’s decision to cut the
overnight lending rate last month showed that “it’s getting
less hawkish on inflation,” he said.  Inflation-Linked Debt  Inflation-linked bonds accounted for 13 percent of lira
debt sold in January, according to the Treasury in Ankara.
 Turkey ’s debt totals $289 billion, about 40 percent of gross
domestic product and almost double Russia’s $143.9 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Basci’s rate cuts helped spur speculation Turkey will
avert a recession and sent two-year fixed-rate bond yields
sliding 230 basis points this year, the most in  emerging
markets , the rally is starting to lose momentum. Yields climbed
as much as 18 basis points from a four-month low of 9 percent on
Feb. 22, the day after Basci cut rates, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Two-year lira yields rose 1 basis points, or 0.01
percentage point, to 9.24 percent, according to an  index of the
securities  compiled by Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS.  The extra yield for Turkish dollar bonds over similar-
maturity  U.S. Treasuries  rose two basis points to 325 today,
compared with an average of 348 basis points for emerging
markets, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Lira Falls  The lira fell 0.6 percent to 1.7646 per dollar, paring this
year’s advance to 7.2 percent.  The cost of protecting Turkish bonds against default using
five-year credit-default swaps fell six basis points yesterday
to 236, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately-negotiated
market. The spread was 182 for  Russia , rated three levels higher
by  Standard & Poor’s , 194 for  Poland  and 156 for  South Africa .  Turkish contracts cost 30 basis points less than the
average for countries in central and eastern  Europe , the  Middle
East  and  Africa  included in the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index.
The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Energy Prices  The central bank has warned that rising global energy
prices pose a risk to inflation. The bank’s inflation forecasts
are based on an assumption of Brent crude prices at an average
$110 a barrel. The price has been above that level since Jan. 25
and was $123 on March 1.  Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said Feb. 28 that the
government is “struggling” to stop higher oil and gas prices
being passed on to homes and businesses.  Basci will probably keep his policy unchanged provided  oil
prices  don’t threaten the broader market outlook, Turker Hamzaoglu, an economist for Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
 London , said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  “We do not expect a pro-active policy response unless
higher oil prices tip risk sentiment globally,” Hamzaoglu said.
“Tolerance for higher inflation is quite high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  