-- Brent Oil Rises a Second Day as Iran Risk Counters U.S. Supply Increase
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-01T13:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/brent-oil-rises-a-second-day-as-iran-risk-counters-u-s-supply-increase.html
Brent crude advanced a second day in
 London  as the U.S. intensified pressure on Iran to halt its
nuclear program, outweighing signs of increased crude supplies.  Futures gained as much as 0.6 percent after climbing 10.5
percent last month. U.S. officials are escalating warnings that
the nation could join  Israel  in attacking Iran if the Islamic
republic doesn’t dispel concerns that its nuclear-research
program is aimed at producing weapons. U.S.  crude stockpiles 
increased almost four times more than forecast and OPEC output
advanced to the highest in more than three years.  “With the background of Iran, oil investment certainly
looks like a good investment these days,” said Gerrit Zambo,
trader at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich, who predicts  Brent
crude  may rise to $127 a barrel. “From a fundamental point of
view, prices should be much lower. There’s at least $15 priced
in from the Iran factor.”  Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange gained as much as $1.28 to $123.94 a
barrel. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to  New York- 
traded West Texas intermediate grade widened for a second day to
$16.17. The spread reached a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  On the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, oil for April delivery
was at $107.21 a barrel, up 13 cents, in electronic trading at
1:01 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday rose to $107.07,
the highest settlement since Feb. 27. Prices have advanced 7.5
percent in the past year.  Economic Growth  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a “modest to moderate pace”
the past two months, the  Federal Reserve  said in its Beige Book
survey. A Chinese manufacturing index rose to 51.0 in February
from 50.5 in January, the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and the  China  Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said today, while an index by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics climbed to 49.6 from 48.8. A reading above 50
indicates expansion. The U.S. and China are the world’s biggest
oil consumers.  “The economic data feeds into the demand picture for the
U.S.,”  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC
Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney, said by phone. “While it’s
not boom time, it’s a lot more positive than the double-dip
recession scenario we were looking at last year and should add
to the firm tone of the oil market.”  Crude output by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries increased 255,000 barrels to an average 31.1 million
barrels a day in February from 30.8 million the prior month,
according to a Bloomberg survey of  oil companies , producers and
analysts. Production was the highest since November 2008.  Iran ’s
output was the lowest in more than nine years.  Iran Supply  Oil has risen this year as Western nations tighten
sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program. Iran has threatened
to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for a fifth of the
world’s oil, in response to an embargo.  Brent crude prices may average as much as $150 a barrel in
the third or fourth quarter if international relations with Iran
deteriorate, Barclays Plc said in a report today.  “There are new fears about the security of the Strait of
Hormuz,” Tim Whittaker, an analyst at Barclays in London, said
in the report. “We still contend that the risk of either an
Israeli or a U.S. strike on the Iranian nuclear facilities is
low, but it has risen, in our view, from 5 to 10 percent last
year to 25 to 30 percent now.”  Saudi Rigs  Excluding Iran from the global crude market would increase
the shortfall between worldwide supply and demand six-fold,
according to U.S. Energy Department calculations using February
estimates. Fuel use averaged 3 million barrels a day more than
output when Iran is excluded, and 500,000 more when it is
included, the department said in a report yesterday.  Saudi Arabia  is deploying the most oil rigs in four years
as it prepares for possible shortages caused by tension with
Iran. The number of rigs used more than doubled in January from
a year earlier, the biggest annual increase on record, data from
Houston-based  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  showed.  Oil in New York dropped as much as 1.6 percent yesterday
after the Energy Department said  crude stockpiles  rose 4.2
million barrels last week. They were forecast to climb 1.1
million, according to the median projection of 12 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for New York-traded oil, rose 1.6 million barrels
to 33.8 million, the highest level since Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  