-- BRIC Investors Lose Out as Statists Forgo Earnings
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-03-02T11:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/bric-investors-losing-as-state-companies-forgo-earnings-amid-slower-growth.html
Investors in the biggest state-
controlled companies are being punished with the lowest
valuations in six years by emerging-market leaders putting
public services ahead of shareholder profits as economies slow.  Brazil’s  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3)  posted a 52 percent drop in
fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 9 after government-imposed price
caps led to losses on fuel sales. Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  said last
month that tax increases will cut 2012 profit by $2 billion,
while  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  was ordered to sign supply agreements with
the nation’s power companies.  China ’s  banks  trade near record
lows versus net assets on concern local governments may default.  The average valuation of 47 state-owned firms in the so-
called BRIC countries sank below that of the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF)  in December for the first time since 2005, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The four biggest developing nations
are growing at the slowest pace since 2009 just as Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  seeks to reclaim the presidency on March
4 and China hands power to new leaders later this year.  “You’re seeing more companies acting as facilitators for
the rest of the economy,” said John-Paul Smith, the London-
based strategist at Deutsche Bank AG who has “underweight”
recommendations on Brazilian, Russian and Chinese shares partly
because of the governments’ influence on businesses. “State-
owned companies a lot of the time have different objectives than
the objectives investors imagine they have.”  Putin Spending  Brazil ’s price caps on fuel have helped the government
reduce  inflation  from the fastest in six years in September,
giving the central bank room to cut  interest rates  to an 18-
month low. Higher taxes on  Gazprom (GAZP)  provide revenue for Putin’s
campaign pledges, which Capital Economics Ltd. estimates may
boost  government spending  by $164 billion. China cut banks’
reserve requirements last month to boost lending, even as UBS AG
analysts estimate as much as $476 billion of local-government
debt may go bad.  The 47 state-owned companies tracked by Bloomberg and
Trusted Sources, a London-based emerging markets consulting
firm, are valued at an average 1.7 times net assets, a 1 percent
discount versus the MSCI gauge, monthly data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The average price-to-book ratio for the BRIC
firms slipped below the MSCI  gauge  in December for the first
time since December 2005, after trading at a premium of about 25
percent a year ago.  China Model  The MSCI index rose 0.2 percent to 1,078.50 at 11:47 a.m.
in  London . Gazprom depositary receipts in London were unchanged,
while Coal India shares lost 0.7 percent in Mumbai.  Policy makers have become more willing to compel state-
owned companies to support growth after government-directed
 lending  and investment in China helped the world’s second-
largest  economy  weather the global financial crisis, said
Deutsche Bank’s Smith, who correctly predicted that emerging-
market stocks would  trail  advanced-country equities last year.  President Hu Jintao’s administration maintained economic
expansion of at least 6.2 percent during the crisis as  Chinese (HSCEI) 
banks lent record amounts of money to fund infrastructure
projects and real-estate development. In the U.S., gross
domestic product shrank by as much as 5 percent.  “The Chinese model isn’t necessarily good for everybody,”
said Gabriel Wallach, who manages $2.5 billion in emerging-
market equities at BNP Paribas Investment Partners in Boston and
is avoiding Chinese bank stocks partially because of the loans
they issued during the financial crisis. “At the end of the
day, they were misallocating capital in an attempt to grow at 9
percent or 10 percent.”  Government Backing  Earnings at the government-controlled firms averaged 5.4
percent during the past three years, versus 17 percent for the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Their mean return on equity was 17
percent during the latest fiscal year, compared with 20 percent
for stocks on the MSCI gauge and 25 percent for the world’s 20
biggest companies by market value, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The BRIC companies’ average revenue per 1,000 workers was
$449,000, or about 40 percent less than in the MSCI index.  Shares of government-owned companies may outperform
benchmark indexes should the global economic slowdown worsen.  A market-capitalization weighted gauge of state-owned
companies in the BRICs compiled by Bloomberg and Trusted Sources
beat the  MSCI emerging-market  measure by seven percentage points
in the three months after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
bankruptcy in September 2008, as investors bet government
backing would prevent the companies from collapsing. The
government-owned index has since trailed by 40 percentage
points.  Corporate Governance  Equity valuations for companies including  Gazprom (GAZP)  have
already discounted the impact of state control and the stocks
will rally when corporate governance improves, according to
Aivaras Abromavicius, a  money manager  at East Capital, which
oversees about $4.6 billion. The Stockholm-based firm owns
Gazprom shares in part because they’re “cheap” and the company
may return more cash to investors by raising its  dividend ,
Abromavicius said.  Russia ’s gas-export monopoly trades for 3.6 times reported
profit, the third-lowest ratio among oil and gas companies in
global MSCI  indexes  and 84 percent less than the industry
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gazprom said
in December it plans to distribute about $6.2 billion of
dividends linked to its 2011  earnings , a payout that would
amount to 4.3 percent of yesterday’s share price. The average
dividend yield for global energy companies is 2.1 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Things Are Changing’  “Every asset has its price and Gazprom will only remain
cheap as long as it has a low level of disclosure and corporate
governance,” said Abromavicius. “It does appear that things
are changing. A good, stable dividend policy is the first sign
of good corporate governance.”  Ian Hague, who manages Russian equities as a partner at
Firebird Management LLC in  New York , said he’s avoiding shares
of government-controlled companies such as Gazprom.  The Russian government, which has a controlling stake of
more than 50 percent in Gazprom, is boosting taxes on the
company to help fund an increase in social spending. The  Finance
Ministry  raised the mineral-extraction tax for gas producers by
61 percent last year and the rate for Gazprom will more than
double this year, according to the Kremlin website. The company
said on Feb. 6 that higher extraction taxes will cut profit by
$2 billion this year.  Income-Tax Expenses  Gazprom, whose $150 billion of revenue during the past 12
months amounts to about 10 percent of Russian GDP, recorded more
than $11 billion of income-tax expenses during the period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s almost four
times as much as state-owned oil producer  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , which had
tax expenses of $3.3 billion, the second-biggest bill among
listed Russian firms tracked by Bloomberg.  Putin, who served as president from 2000 to 2008 and
oversaw the government’s seizure and liquidation of Yukos Oil
Co. in 2004, is seeking to return to the office in an election
on March 4. Spending pledges made during his campaign may raise
government outlays by $164 billion, or as much as 5 percent of
economic  output , through 2018, according to Capital Economics,
an economics consulting firm in London.  “There are people who subscribe to the view that the
Kremlin’s relationships are positive for the stocks they
control,” said Hague, who founded Firebird in 1994 to buy
shares in Russian companies that privatized after the collapse
of the  Soviet Union . “We don’t take that view.”  Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman at Gazprom in Moscow, didn’t
return a voice message seeking comment.  VTB Ploy  A proposal by Putin for  VTB Group (VTBR) , Russia’s second-largest
lender, to buy back shares from investors who lost money in the
bank’s 2007 initial public offering has been denounced as a
political maneuver by stockholders Charlemagne Capital Ltd. and
Van Eck Associates. The buyback, which is capped at a level that
would exclude most institutional investors, is a ploy that will
dilute the value of their holdings, the firms said.  Common shares of Petrobras, the world’s fifth-largest oil
producer by market value, plunged 8.3 percent on Feb. 10 after
fourth-quarter  earnings  trailed analysts’ estimates because of
higher costs for imported fuel.  The Brazilian government, which controls at least 51
percent of Petrobras’s voting  shares , has allowed the company to
increase domestic gasoline prices by about 15 percent since
September 2005, compared with an 80 percent surge in U.S.
prices, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Petrobras imported
about 30,000 barrels of gasoline a day last year because its
refineries can’t process enough of the fuel to meet demand. The
company lost about $14 for every barrel of imported gas and
diesel fuel sold in 2011, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  ‘Worst Business’  “Refining is one of the worst businesses in the world,”
said  Kevin Shacknofsky , who manages the Alpine Dynamic Dividend
Fund in New York and sold holdings of Petrobras at the end of
2010 because the company invested in its refining units instead
of more profitable projects.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  prefers low inflation to
“fantastic” earnings at Petrobras, Energy Minister Edison Lobao told O Estado de S.Paulo, a Brazilian newspaper, in an
interview after the company’s earnings report.  Petrobras is valued at 9.2 times estimated profit, down
from 11 times a year ago and less than the current multiple of
11 for Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s
largest oil company by market value.  Vale Ouster  Petrobras “has strategic goals which need to balance the
company’s remunerative endeavors with a social agenda,” John Herrlin, a Societe Generale SA analyst who cut his
recommendation on Petrobras shares to “hold” from “buy” on
Feb. 16, wrote in a report. “These goals on a short-term basis
can be at cross purposes.”  Paula Almada, a spokeswoman for Petrobras in  Rio de
Janeiro , said in an e-mail that the company didn’t want to
comment.  Rousseff, a former energy minister who took office in
January 2011, has sought to boost mining taxes, a move that may
erode profits at Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale SA. (VALE)  The iron-ore
mining company ousted Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  last
year after the government, which holds direct and indirect
stakes in Vale, criticized management for not generating enough
jobs.  China’s government has helped its banks grow earnings
through interest-rate policy. The one-year  deposit rate  of 3.5
percent is less than the 6.56 percent  lending rate  and the gap
has been at least three percentage points for most of the past
decade, allowing banks to profit from the difference.  Local-Government Credit  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939) , both government-controlled, are the
world’s most-profitable lenders, with combined 12-month earnings
of about $55 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even as Chinese banks posted record profits, their shares
retreated during the past 12 months on concern that loans
extended to local governments and developers won’t be repaid.
More than $4.3 trillion of new loans by Chinese banks since
November 2008 have helped support growth as President Hu
prepares to hand over leadership of the Communist Party to Vice
President  Xi Jinping , expected later this year.  As much as 30 percent of loans to local governments may
eventually turn sour, according to estimates last month by UBS,
Switzerland’s biggest bank. Economic  growth  in China dropped to
8.9 percent in the fourth quarter from 9.8 percent a year
earlier.  ICBC Valuation Drops  ICBC (1398)  trades for 7.9 times reported earnings, compared with
11 times a year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The government owns at least 67 percent of the Beijing-based
bank’s shares through Central Huijin Investment Ltd., a unit of
the nation’s sovereign wealth fund operator, and the Finance
Ministry, according to ICBC’s semi-annual report.  The price-to-earnings multiple for Construction Bank,
China’s second-largest lender by market value, has  dropped  to
8.1 from 11 a year ago. Huijin owned at least 57 percent of
Beijing-based Construction Bank as of June 2011, according to
the company’s semi-annual report.  Chinese borrowers are “going to have to defer repayments
of lots of loans,”  Jim Chanos , the president and founder of New
York-based hedge fund Kynikos Associates Ltd., said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. Chanos said he’s betting shares
of Chinese banks will fall.  Construction Bank has high standards of risk control on
loans to local governments and stock valuations don’t
necessarily reflect the lender’s fundamentals, said Yu Baoyue, a
Beijing-based press officer. Wang Zhenning, a press officer at
ICBC also based in Beijing, declined to comment.  Long-Term Drag  Government-controlled companies may become a long-term drag
on China’s economic growth, the  World Bank  said in a report last
month titled “China 2030.” More than 25 percent of the
country’s state-owned enterprises are unprofitable and their
productivity growth has trailed that of private firms by about
66 percent during the past three decades, the World Bank said.  Coal India shares  plunged  5.8 percent on Feb. 16 after
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s administration ordered the
company to sign supply agreements with utilities and import the
fuel to overcome local production bottlenecks caused in part by
heavy rains. The world’s largest coal producer will pay a fine
should supplies fall short of commitments, the government said.  Bigger State Role  India, which  owns  about 90 percent of Coal India, is
stepping up pressure on the company after a dearth of domestic
fuel prompted power companies to halt plans to increase the
electricity capacity needed to spur economic growth. Indian
economic expansion decelerated to 6.1 percent in the fourth
quarter from 6.9 percent in the previous three months.  Coal India shares trade for 14 times estimated profits,
compared with 16 times for the benchmark BSE India Sensitive
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Zohra Chatterji,
the company’s chairman, didn’t return two calls and a text
message seeking comment.  “It’s the nature of emerging markets, the state plays a
bigger role,” said Sam Vecht, an emerging-market money manager
in London at BlackRock Inc., which oversees about $3.5 trillion
worldwide. “Whether they do better or worse over time depends
on who’s running them and what are the interests of the state.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  