-- British Airways to Target New York, Asia With 12 Superjumbos
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   O l i v i a   S t e r n s
-- 2012-03-01T16:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/british-airways-to-target-new-york-asia-with-a380-superjumbos.html
British Airways (IAG)  plans to deploy its
first  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A380 superjumbos on flights to  New York  and
three Asian metropolises while using  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s smaller 787
Dreamliner to develop new destinations in  emerging markets .  BA will take delivery of 12 525-seat A380s starting next
year and is looking at using the double-deckers on high-density
routes from London’s Heathrow airport to  Hong Kong , Beijing and
 Singapore , as well as on its busiest trans-Atlantic service.  “We’ll use bigger aircraft for routes with enough traffic
density and restriction on slots,” Enrique Dupuy, chief
financial officer at BA parent International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, said in an interview in London. “You can’t
increase your frequencies so you bring more bigger planes.”  British Airways will generally use its A380s on “very well-
known routes,” Dupuy told Bloomberg Television. The London-based
company will be the third European carrier to employ the world’s
biggest passenger plane, after Air France and  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG (LHA) , which have contracts for 12 and 17 of the jets respectively.  New York currently has A380 flights operated by  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , Dubai-based Emirates and Korean Air Lines Co., as
well as Air France. Lufthansa flew superjumbos there last year
and plans to restore services for the summer timetable.  Asian Additions  Deployment of the 24 Dreamliners that BA has on order will
seek to exploit the carbon-fiber plane’s reduced unit costs,
which make it suited to lower-density routes and adding fresh
locations, Dupuy said in the interview yesterday.  “The 787 will be about opening new destinations in the
east, in  Asia  specifically,” the executive said. “It’s an under-
served market for IAG and we are going to work intensively in
recovering our position.”  IAG (IAG) , created last January via a merger of BA and  Spain ’s
Iberia, which has no A380s or 787s on order, currently allocates
only about 9 percent of capacity to Asia, versus 31 percent to
 North America , according to a November investor presentation.  The company doubled operating profit in 2011, spurred by
demand for business travel to the U.S., it said yesterday. BA
currently operates 11 times a day between London and New York.  U.K. billionaire Richard Branson’s Virgin Atlantic Airways
Ltd., BA’s biggest competitor at Heathrow, has six A380s and 15
Dreamliners on order. The Boeing planes will arrive from 2014,
with the first superjumbo due in the second-half of 2015.  Spokeswoman Jo Foster said it’s too early to say where the
planes will operate.  IAG fell  0.9 percent to 162.80 pence in  London  today. The
stock has advanced 10 percent this year, giving a market value
to 3.02 billion pounds ($4.8 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Olivia Sterns in London at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  