-- BTG Files for Brazil IPO After $1.5 Billion in Takeovers in Five Months
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-03-01T15:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/btg-pactual-files-for-brazil-initial-offering-after-1-5-billion-takeovers.html
Banco BTG Pactual SA, the Brazilian
bank led by billionaire  Andre Esteves , plans to sell new and
existing shares in an initial public offering after pursuing
about $1.5 billion of acquisitions in the past five months.  BTG will seek to sell units that represent voting and non-
voting stakes, the Sao Paulo-based company said today in a
regulatory filing. The firm didn’t disclose how many shares or
when it plans to sell them. Banco Bradesco SA, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will manage the offering.  Brazilian banks including BTG and  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,
the nation’s biggest lender by market value, are expanding to
capitalize on the region’s economic growth. BTG said last month
it agreed to buy Chilean brokerage Celfin Capital SA for $245
million in cash and 2.4 percent of BTG equity. The deal was at
least the fifth the company announced since October, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BTG’s IPO “makes one suppose they will keep buying other
financial institutions,” Ricardo Almeida, a professor of
finance at Insper business school in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview. “BTG is a leading investment bank, but
even for them it’s very difficult to grow in the Brazilian
retail market organically, without acquisitions, because the
barriers to entry are too big.”  BTG said it plans to use the proceeds to “continue
expanding its businesses” and to improve its “funding
structure.”  Amsterdam Exchange  The lender also said it will offer global depositary
receipts, which will be listed on the Amsterdam exchange. BTG
Pactual Participations Ltd., which is controlled by Esteves,
Marais LLC and Europa Lux III S.A.R.L. are the shareholders
planning to sell stocks in the offering, according to the
prospectus filed in  Brazil .  The lender said in February 2011 it would pay 450 million
reais ($263 million) for 51 percent of the voting shares of
Banco Panamericano SA, the Sao Paulo-based bank bailed out in
November 2010 after suspected accounting fraud. Panamericano
gave Esteves a partnership with  Caixa Economica Federal (CEFN3) ,
Brazil’s biggest mortgage lender. In December, Panamericano and
BTG announced the purchase of Brazilian Finance & Real Estate
SA, the country’s biggest issuer of real estate-backed
securities, for about 1.2 billion reais.  Proceeds from the IPO may help BTG boost  capital ratios 
that Pedro Gomes, financial institutions director at  Fitch
Ratings , said were falling fast enough to cause concern.  Leverage Ratio  The bank’s core capital ratio, Fitch’s gauge of leverage
that measures Tier one capital in relation to total risk-
weighted assets, dropped to 14 percent in September from 20
percent in December 2010, Gomes said.  “The IPO plans, if executed successfully, could increase
BTG’s equity” and improve the ratio, Gomes said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “More significant pressures in the
capitalization levels could be negative for BTG ratings.”  Fitch rates BTG’s external long-term debt BBB-, one level
below the Brazilian government’s rating and two below Itau and
Banco Bradesco SA, the country’s second-biggest lender by market
value. Lower ratings mean BTG pays more to borrow than its
rivals.  “BTG has a very good rating for an investment bank in an
emerging market, but the bank has a less diversified business
model, funding and sources of revenue than Bradesco or Itau,”
Gomes said.  ‘Strong Risk Controls’  Gomes said BTG ranks among the top three investment banks
in Brazil, along with Credit Suisse Group AG and Banco Itau BBA
SA, Itau’s wholesale arm. “BTG has strong risk controls, very
experienced and capable executives and a flow of recurring
revenue that covers fixed costs,” he said.  BTG sold an approximately 16 percent stake in December 2010
to a group of investors that included the Rothschild family and
 Italy ’s Agnelli family, which controls automaker Fiat SpA. Other
investors were J.C. Flowers & Co., Government of Singapore
Investment Corp., China Investment Corp. and the Abu Dhabi
Investment Council. The investors paid $1.55 billion, Fitch said
in a report, and are able to select three board members.  Previous shareholders at the time invested an additional
$250 million. About 20 percent of the total $1.8 billion went to
BTG Investments LP, the bank’s shareholders’ fund that mirrors
the ownership structure of BTG Pactual. Fitch said BTG Pactual
also received an injection of 271 million reais in December from
shareholders.  The 2010 transaction valued BTG at about $10 billion. On
the Celfin deal, the 2.4 percent of BTG equity totaled about
$355 million, according to a person familiar with the matter,
meaning BTG was worth about $15 billion. The bank has 5.68
billion reais in equity and 100 billion reais in assets,
according to Fitch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  