-- Buffett Poised to Win Bet on U.S. With Burlington
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/buffett-poised-to-win-wager-on-america-with-burlington-freight.html
When  Warren Buffett  bought  North
America ’s second-biggest railroad, he called it an “all-in
wager” on the  U.S. economy . It’s turning out to be a pretty
good bet on the oil industry, too.  Burlington Northern Santa Fe’s track network puts it among
the best situated of its peers to meet shipping demand for
fracking sand, pipe and crude in the northern U.S. Bakken
region, where oil production has more than tripled since 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gains in mineral and chemical carloads helped Burlington
Northern pay a $1 billion distribution to Buffett’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  last month. The railroad is the busiest in the
U.S. in 2012 by traffic, positioning it to build on a 16 percent
jump in 2011 sales that helped narrow the revenue lead of  Union
Pacific (UNP)  Corp., which lacks tracks into the Bakken area.  “It’s kind of like if somebody discovers gold in your
backyard but not your neighbor’s,” said  John Anderson , advisory
director at Greenbriar Equity Group, a private-equity firm based
in Rye, New York, focused on the transportation industry. “It’s
just good luck.”  Drilling in the Bakken region in  Montana  and North Dakota
is increasing because of improvements in hydraulic fracturing, a
technology that uses sand and other chemicals to hold open
fissures in shale formations to extract oil. With no pipelines
in place yet, railroads are taking oil to refineries and
delivering materials such as pipe and specialized fracking sand.  North Dakota  Burlington Northern has “been lucky” to some degree,  Tony Hatch , an independent rail analyst in New York, said in an
interview. “They’ve got a big presence in  North Dakota , which
was probably not something that was probably in the forefront in
their mind two or three years ago as a competitive advantage.”  That’s adding to the benefits Buffett received when he
spent $26.5 billion to acquire the 77.5 percent of  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based Burlington Northern that Berkshire didn’t already
own. Buffett, 81, called the deal an “all-in wager” on the
U.S. economy when he announced it in 2009.  He negotiated his biggest-ever purchase so Berkshire could
benefit from demand for shipping on routes in the U.S. West. The
deal has helped boost Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s profit
in the past two years as a recovering economy pushed Burlington
Northern’s revenue to $19.5 billion in 2011.  Burlington Northern “has benefitted from the shale play
probably more than Union Pacific,” said  Lee Klaskow , a
Bloomberg Industries analyst in Skillman,  New Jersey .  Two Railroads  The railroad serves about 30 percent of U.S. oil
refineries, Klaskow said in an interview. It’s also one of only
two major carriers, along with  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) ,
with tracks into the region. That means Burlington Northern can
pick up shipments from drillers and take them to the refineries
across its 32,000-mile (51,500-kilometer) system.  Having a “full service” approach contrasts with Union
Pacific’s need to exchange carloads with Burlington Northern or
 Canadian Pacific  to move petroleum to refineries on its network,
Klaskow said. Freight that stays on one railroad’s system for
the full trip is typically more profitable.  Oil and gas-field servicing are “exploding very
healthily” for Burlington Northern, said Paul Bingham,
economics practice leader at consultant CDM Smith in Arlington,
Virginia. “In the west I think the BN disproportionately
benefits from that.”  Fourth-quarter net income advanced 41 percent, Burlington
Northern said this week in a filing. Buffett didn’t respond to a
request for comment e-mailed to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Fracking Fallout  The increase in fracking has hurt another Buffett bet: $2
billion in bonds of Energy Future Holdings Corp. He wrote down
the investment by more than $1 billion as lower gas prices
pressured the power company and told shareholders in a Feb. 25
letter that the investment is at risk of losing all value.  Investors following Buffett’s lead on railroads have
outperformed the broader U.S. market.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Railroads Index (S5RAIL) , a gauge of
Burlington Northern’s three publicly traded peers, surged 80
percent through yesterday from Nov. 2, 2009, the day before
Buffett agreed to buy the carrier. The  S&P 500  rose 31 percent
in the same period.  Canadian Pacific’s shares were up 57 percent since then in
Toronto. Its largest shareholder, Pershing Square Capital
Management LP’s William Ackman, has cited Bakken access as one
of the railroad’s potential advantages as he pushes for a
management change.  Trade Group’s Data  Association of American Railroads data offer glimpses of
Burlington Northern’s drilling-related traffic.  Fourth-quarter originated carloads of non-metallic minerals
and products grew about 15 percent, while chemicals climbed 5.4
percent. Fracking sand and petroleum are included in the latter
two categories, according to the Washington-based trade group.  The railroad doesn’t report oil cargo as a category, and
Krista York-Woolley, a spokeswoman, said Burlington Northern
doesn’t break down volumes by shipping locations.  Burlington Northern is leading the North American industry
in originated carloads of all kinds in 2012, with a four-week
moving average of almost 165,000 through Feb. 18. That compares
with about 140,000 for Union Pacific, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg Industries.  Union Pacific’s chemical volumes also are rising because
fracking technology is boosting natural-gas drilling. Chemicals
are Union Pacific’s second-biggest commodity by volume, after
coal. And its route system blunts the disadvantages of not
serving the Bakken region directly, said Tom Lange, a spokesman
for the Omaha-based railroad.  Gulf Coast Access  “The majority of Bakken crude shipments ultimately are
delivered by Union Pacific to the Gulf Coast refineries,” Lange
said yesterday by e-mail. “Other railroads interchange with us
in  Kansas City  and  St. Louis .”  The revenue lead for the largest U.S. railroad over
Burlington Northern dwindled to only $9 million in 2011 from
more than $2 billion in 2003. Sales growth at Burlington
Northern has been faster since then, and it eclipsed Union
Pacific sales in 2008 for the first time since at least 1987.  Burlington Northern has a “bigger position in what I think
in the next cycle will be faster-growing elements -- intermodal,
the Bakken, international grain,” Hatch said. “If you just
woke any rail analyst in 1990 or 2000 and said, ‘Best
franchise?’ They’d have said Union Pacific. I think it’s closer
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in  New York  at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  