-- California City Can’t Use Local Law to Block Marijuana Sales, Court Rules
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-03-01T23:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/california-city-can-t-use-local-law-to-block-marijuana-sales-court-rules.html
The city of Lake Forest,  California ,
can’t use its municipal nuisance statute to ban medical
marijuana dispensaries when they are allowed to operate under
state law, a state appeals court said.  The California appellate court for Orange County ruled
yesterday that local governments can’t prohibit dispensaries
altogether insofar as the state legislature allows them where
medical marijuana is “collectively or cooperatively
cultivated.”  “Under the city’s ban, a medical marijuana dispensary
always constitutes a nuisance, though the legislature has
concluded otherwise,” a unanimous three-judge panel said.
“Because the city’s ban directly contradicts state law, it is
preempted and furnishes no valid basis for a preliminary
injunction in the city’s favor.”  A lower court had agreed with the city that its decision
not to recognize dispensaries as permitted property use, and its
prohibition against unpermitted uses, established a complete ban
against them. The court ordered Evergreen Holistic Collective to
close. The appeals court blocked the order while it considered
the dispensary’s arguments.  Small Office  Jeffrey Dunn, a lawyer for  Lake Forest , said that he didn’t
know whether Evergreen was growing its own marijuana. The
dispensary operated out of a small office suite in a strip mall,
which made it unlikely that it could grow sufficient marijuana
for its many customers, he said in a telephone interview.  The dispensary was closed by the federal government last
year with the other remaining ones in Lake Forest, as part of a
state-wide crackdown on commercial distribution of medical
marijuana through storefront outlets, Dunn said.  California was the first state to permit marijuana
consumption for medical purposes when voters approved a 1996
ballot measure. The dispensaries generate sales of as much as
$1.3 billion a year and sales taxes of as much as $105 million
annually, according to the Board of Equalization, the state’s
tax administrator.  The case is City of Lake Forest v. Evergreen Holistic
Collective, G043909, California Court of Appeal, Fourth
Appellate District, Division Three (Orange County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles 
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 