-- Canada Fourth Quarter Current Account Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-01T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/canada-fourth-quarter-current-account-report-text-.html
Following is the text of Canada’s
current account report for the fourth quarter released by
 Statistics Canada .  Canada’s current account deficit (on a seasonally adjusted
basis) narrowed by $2.0 billion in the fourth quarter to $10.3
billion, largely the result of an increase in the export of
goods. For 2011, the current account deficit declined to $48.3
billion following a record high of $50.9 billion in the previous
year.  Current account balances  In the capital and financial account (unadjusted for seasonal
variation), foreign investment in Canadian government debt
securities was the main supply of funds to the Canadian economy.
Foreign investment in Canadian securities was $95.6 billion in
2011.  Current account  Largest trade in goods surplus since third quarter of 2008  The surplus on trade in goods increased to $3.1 billion in
the fourth quarter of 2011. This was the largest surplus since
the third quarter of 2008, and was the result of stronger
exports of energy products and automotive products. Exports to
the United States rose by $5.9 billion leading to a $4.0 billion
increase in the goods surplus with that country.  Goods balances by geographic area  For the year as a whole, the  trade balance  shifted to a $1.4
billion surplus after two back-to-back years of deficit.  Total exports of goods were up $6.7 billion in the fourth
quarter to $121.5 billion, the highest level since the third
quarter of 2008. The $4.1 billion increase in exports of energy
products reflected a rise in crude petroleum exports, mostly on
higher prices. Exports of automotive products were up $1.9
billion, with all the gains from higher volumes of automobiles.
Exports of agricultural and fishing products advanced for a
third straight quarter, on higher prices.  Imports of goods increased $3.8 billion to $118.3 billion.
Energy products were up $1.8 billion mostly on higher volumes of
crude petroleum. Imports of machinery and equipment rose by $1.3
billion, mainly because of higher prices.  Deficit on trade in services edges up  The services deficit edged up $0.1 billion to $6.2 billion in
the fourth quarter. This increase was led by a lower commercial
services surplus and a higher transportation deficit, largely
accounted for by lower receipts on both accounts. This result
was partially offset by a reduction in the travel deficit of
$0.2 billion as Canadians lowered their payments on travel
abroad, especially to the  United States .  On an annual basis, the services deficit of $24.6 billion for
2011 arose mainly from increased deficits on travel and
transportation accounts.  Investment income deficit increases on higher payments  The deficit in cross-border investment income flows was up
$0.6 billion to $6.0 billion, as payments outpaced receipts in
the fourth quarter. Profits earned by foreign direct investors
in Canada increased $1.1 billion to $11.4 billion-the highest
level since the second quarter of 2008. This largely reflected
increased un-remitted earnings of Canadian affiliates. On the
other hand, profits earned abroad by Canadian direct investors
edged down in the quarter.  Annually, the investment income deficit increased $4.6
billion in 2011, mainly on the growth of profits from foreign
direct investment in Canada relative to those of Canadian direct
investment abroad. Payments on portfolio investment rose 7% in
2011, which reflected higher non-resident holdings of Canadian
securities and led to a fourth consecutive increase of the
portfolio investment income deficit.  Capital and financial account  Foreign investors acquire Canadian securities for a 12th
straight quarter  Non-residents continued to increase their holdings of
Canadian securities with a $26.1 billion investment in the
fourth quarter. This level of activity was in line with the
average quarterly investment observed since the first quarter of
2009. Over 80% of the purchases in the quarter were in the
Canadian  debt market , largely in government instruments.  Foreign portfolio investment in Canadian debt securities  Foreign acquisition of Canadian bonds was $11.4 billion, led
by purchases of federal and provincial bonds on the secondary
market. This activity was moderated by net retirements of
provincial and private corporate bonds. Foreign investment in
Canadian bonds was $42.9 billion in 2011 and was less than half
the inflow of the previous year, as the pace of investment in
both government and corporate bonds slowed compared with 2009
and 2010.  Non-resident investment in the Canadian money market slowed
to $9.8 billion in the fourth quarter from $16.2 billion in the
third quarter. Transactions were led by acquisitions of federal
Treasury bills. Foreign purchases of Canadian short-term
instruments increased in the second half of the year to a high
of $32.0 billion in 2011. The differential between long- and
short-term interest rates in  Canada  narrowed progressively over
the year to be, by the end of December, at their lowest level
since August 2008.  Foreign investment in Canadian equities was $5.0 billion in
the fourth quarter. Most of the activity took place in the last
two months of the year as Canadian stock prices declined.
Canadian equity prices were down 11% over the course of the year.
Non-resident investors added $20.7 billion of Canadian portfolio
shares to their holdings in 2011, largely through secondary
market transactions.  Canadians invest in foreign bonds for the first time in 2011  Canadians acquired $7.8 billion in foreign securities in the
fourth quarter, the largest quarterly outflow of the year.
Investment was focused in foreign bonds and stocks, as holdings
of foreign money market instruments were further reduced over
the quarter.  Canadian portfolio investment abroad1  Canadian investment of $5.0 billion in foreign bonds in the
quarter was the largest since the second quarter of 2007 and was
primarily composed of US government and corporate issues. This
outflow was moderated by a $1.2 billion Canadian divestment in
foreign money market instruments, mainly US paper. Despite
increased investment in the fourth quarter, Canadians reduced
foreign bonds from their portfolios for a fourth straight year
in 2011.  Canadian investment in foreign stocks slowed again, but
remained relatively strong at $4.0 billion. For the first time
in 2011, acquisitions by investors were primarily targeted at
non-US foreign shares. US stock prices were up 11% in the
quarter while other major foreign stock markets also increased,
but at a slower pace. For the year, foreign equity purchases
were $25.5 billion, almost double that of 2010.  Inward and outward direct investment slow  Foreign direct investment in Canada slowed to $3.4 billion in
the fourth quarter. Inflows in the quarter were led by European
direct investors, mainly from merger and acquisition
transactions. This activity was partially offset by a rare
repatriation of funds from the Canadian economy by US direct
investors. Foreign direct investment in Canada increased to
$40.3 billion in 2011, with most of the activity concentrated in
the first half of the year.  Canadian direct investment abroad declined to $13.1 billion
in the fourth quarter from $17.1 billion in the previous quarter.
These outflows originated primarily from the finance and from
the energy and metallic mineral sectors. Investment for the year
was up by $5.5 billion to $45.2 billion, despite the lowest
level of cross-border mergers and acquisitions in five years.
Outward direct investment was led by the finance sector in 2011.  Note to readers  The balance of international payments covers all economic
transactions between Canadian residents and non-residents in two
accounts, the current account and the capital and financial
account.  The current account covers transactions in goods, services,
investment income and current transfers.  The capital and financial account is mainly composed of
transactions in financial assets and liabilities.  In principle, a current account surplus/deficit corresponds
to an equivalent net outflow/inflow in the capital and financial
account. In practice, as international transactions data are
compiled from multiple sources, this is rarely the case and
gives rise to measurement error. The statistical discrepancy is
the unobserved net inflow or outflow.  For more information about the balance of payments, consult
the “Frequently asked questions” section in the National
economic accounts module of our website. The module also
presents the most recent balance of payments statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  