-- Canada Jan. Industrial Product and Raw Materials Prices (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-01T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/canada-jan-industrial-product-and-raw-materials-prices-text-.html
The following is the text of the
industrial product and raw material prices report as reported
by  Statistics Canada .  Compared with December, the Industrial Product Price Index
(IPPI) rose 0.3% in January, led by petroleum products and
primary metals. The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) edged up
0.1%, primarily because of higher prices for non-ferrous metals
and wood.  Prices for industrial goods increase  Industrial Product Price Index, monthly change  The IPPI increased in January, following a 0.9% decline in
December. The advance of the index was largely because of higher
prices for petroleum and coal products (+2.1%) and primary metal
products (+1.9%).  The increase in petroleum and coal product prices was mostly
the result of gasoline (+3.5%). The upward movement of gasoline
prices in January was a turnaround, as prices had fallen in the
previous five months.  Primary metal prices (+1.9%) rose for the first time since
August 2011, pushed higher by copper and copper alloy products
(+6.8%), aluminum products (+2.8%) and nickel products (+8.1%).
The increase in copper and aluminum prices was largely because
of reduced supply, while nickel prices were driven by stronger
demand for steel.  Aside from these increases, a few product groups showed some
downward movement in January, particularly motor vehicles and
other transportation equipment (-0.5%). Motor vehicle prices
were affected by the 1.0% appreciation of the Canadian dollar
relative to the US dollar.  Some Canadian producers who export their products are
generally paid on the basis of prices set in US dollars.
Consequently, the strength of the Canadian dollar in relation to
the US dollar in January had the effect of reducing the
corresponding prices in Canadian dollars. Without the impact of
the exchange rate, the IPPI would have risen 0.6% instead of
0.3%.  The IPPI excluding petroleum and coal prices was unchanged in
January, following a 0.4% decline in December.  12-month change in the Industrial Product Price Index  The IPPI increased 2.3% in January compared with the same
month a year earlier, continuing the slowdown in the growth of
prices for a fourth consecutive month. Of the 21 major commodity
aggregations, 17 were up in January.  Compared with January 2011, the IPPI was pushed upward mainly
by higher prices for petroleum and coal products (+11.8%). More
modest contributions were made by chemical products (+3.9%) and
motor vehicles and other transportation equipment (+1.8%).  Year over year, the growth of petroleum and coal products
continued to slow from the most recent high in July 2011.  Compared with January 2011, the IPPI excluding petroleum and
coal rose 1.0%, a slightly slower pace than in preceding months.  The advance of the IPPI relative to the same month a year
earlier was moderated primarily by a decrease in primary metal
products (-4.2%). This third consecutive decline was mainly the
result of lower prices for copper and copper alloy products (-
12.8%), nickel products (-21.2%) and aluminum products (-5.8%).  In January, the 1.9% year-over-year decline in the value of
the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar contributed to the
increase in the IPPI. Without the impact of the exchange rate,
the IPPI would have risen 1.9% instead of 2.3%.  Raw Materials Price Index, monthly change  In January, the RMPI rose 0.1%, following a 2.5% decrease in
December. The advance was mainly the result of higher prices for
non-ferrous metals (+3.6%) and wood (+2.4%).  Prices for raw materials increase slightly  All the major non-ferrous metal groups except precious metals
and radioactive concentrates were up, including copper
concentrates (+9.9%) and non-ferrous metal scrap (+3.7%).  The increase in wood products was largely the result of an
increase in softwood logs and bolts (+3.0%). A strengthening in
demand for wood, notably because there was favourable weather
for construction, contributed to the price rise.  The upward movement in the RMPI was moderated by lower prices
for mineral fuels (-1.1%). Among mineral fuels, crude oil
declined 1.1%, its second consecutive monthly decrease.  The RMPI excluding mineral fuels posted a 1.3% increase in
January, its first advance since August 2011.  12-month change in the Raw Materials Price Index  Compared with January 2011, the RMPI was up 4.3%, continuing
the slowdown that started in May. The main contributors to the
year-over-year advance of the RMPI in January were higher prices
for mineral fuels (+12.2%) and animals and animal products
(+11.6%). The growth of the RMPI was moderated by non-ferrous
metals (-12.3%), which experienced a fourth consecutive decline.  Year over year, the RMPI without mineral fuels fell 2.4% in
January, its second consecutive decline.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally unadjusted and
usually subject to revision for a period of six months (for
example, when the July index is released, the index for the
previous January becomes final).  The Industrial Product  Price Index  (IPPI) reflects the prices
that producers in Canada receive as the goods leave the plant
gate. It does not reflect what the consumer pays. Unlike the
 Consumer Price Index , the IPPI excludes indirect taxes and all
the costs that occur between the time a good leaves the plant
and the time the final user takes possession of it, including
transportation, wholesale and retail costs.  Canadian producers export many goods. They often indicate
their prices in foreign currencies, especially in US dollars,
which are then converted into Canadian dollars. In particular,
this is the case for motor vehicles, pulp, paper and wood
products. Therefore, a rise or fall in the value of the Canadian
dollar against its US counterpart affects the IPPI. But the
conversion into Canadian dollars only reflects how respondents
provide their prices. Moreover, this is not a measure that takes
into account the full effect of exchange rates, since that is a
more difficult analytical task.  The conversion of prices received in US dollars is based on
the average monthly exchange rate (noon spot rate) established
by the Bank of  Canada  and is available on CANSIM in table 176-
0064 (series v37426). Monthly and annual variations in the
exchange rate, as described in the text, are calculated
according to the indirect quotation of the exchange rate (for
example, CAN$1 = US$X).  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) reflects the prices paid
by Canadian manufacturers for key raw materials. Many of those
prices are set on the world market. However, as few prices are
denominated in foreign currencies, their conversion into
Canadian dollars has only a minor effect on the calculation of
the RMPI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  