-- Canadian Dollar Reaches Strongest Level Since September on Global Outlook
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-01T22:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/canadian-dollar-gains-for-fourth-straight-day-on-global-growth-optimism.html
Canada ’s dollar gained to a five-
month high against its U.S. counterpart on optimism demand for
raw materials will accelerate as the global economy expands.  The currency rose for a fourth day, the longest string of
advances in more than a month, as jobless claims in the U.S.,
the nation’s biggest trade partner, fell to the lowest level in
four years. It gained versus the majority of its most-traded
peers before data tomorrow that may show the Canadian economy
grew in the fourth quarter. China’s manufacturing expanded, a
report showed.  “If you go around the world, there are three stories,”
said  David Watt , senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in Toronto. “The sense of
U.S. economic recovery is better, Greece has been on the
backburner and the Chinese economy is headed for a soft landing.
That supports some of the more traditional risk currencies, like
the Canadian dollar.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, advanced 0.5 percent to 98.55
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It reached 98.42
cents, the strongest since Sept. 19. One Canadian dollar
purchases $1.0147.  The loonie briefly pared gains earlier after a U.S. factory
gauge unexpectedly fell last month. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s manufacturing index declined to 52.4, from 54.1 in
January, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed today.  Stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advancing
0.6 percent and the MSCI World Index adding 0.4 percent.  Commodity Currency  The Canadian currency has gained 3.6 percent this year
versus the U.S. dollar on increased demand for higher-yielding
assets. Canada derives about half its export revenue from raw
materials such as crude oil, its biggest export, and copper,
lumber, gold and wheat.  Crude rallied to a 10-month high as the U.S. boosted
pressure on Iran to halt its nuclear program and escalated
warnings the Persian Gulf oil producer may face attack.
Speculation grew that global supplies of the commodity may
shrink. Crude for April delivery climbed as much as 3.4 percent
to $110.55 a barrel in  New York , the highest since May 4, before
trading at $108.60, up 1.6 percent.  Canada’s dollar would probably weaken if  oil prices  were to
surge amid market shocks caused by an event such as an attack of
 Iran  because that would damp risk appetite and spur demand for
haven, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The currency
has been more highly correlated with risk than with oil over the
past year, it said.  ‘Risk Theme’  “Canada is one of only two countries in the Group of 10
who are oil net exporters, so you’d think high oil prices would
be a positive,” said New York-based David Grad, one of the
currency strategists at the firm who wrote a client note today
on the subject. “However, the Canadian dollar has also been
very related to the risk theme, and that would dominate.”  The loonie’s 120-day correlation coefficient with the S&P
500 today was 0.86. A reading of 1 would indicate they move in
lockstep. The currency’s correlation coefficient with crude oil
futures was 0.59.  Applications for  unemployment  benefits in the U.S. fell to
351,000 in the week ended Feb. 25, a level matching the lowest
since March 2008, Labor Department figures showed today.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast 355,000 claims.  In  China , the  purchasing managers’ index  rose for a third
month, rising to 51.0 from 50.5 in January, the statistics
bureau and logistics federation said in a statement today. It
was the highest level since September. The dividing line between
expansion and contraction is 50.  ‘Reasonably Encouraging’  “The data coming out at the moment from the major
economies seems reasonably encouraging,” said Tom Levinson, a
currency strategist in  London  at ING Groep NV. In the absence of
“another issue from the  euro zone , the expectation would be
that those riskier assets, commodities, commodity currencies and
emerging market high-yielding currencies all extend the gains
that they’ve already put on this year.”  Canada’s dollar remained higher as data showed the nation’s
fourth-quarter current account deficit narrowed to C$10.3
billion ($10.5 billion) compared with a revised C$12.3 billion
in the third quarter,  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa.  Gross domestic product  expanded at an annualized rate of
1.8 percent from October through December, after growing at a
3.5 percent pace in the third quarter, a Bloomberg survey
forecast before Statistics Canada reports the data tomorrow.  Bonds Decline  Government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on Canada’s
benchmark  10-year note  up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 2.01 percent.  U.S. debt  also dropped today, and yield on the Treasury 10-
year note rose above that on its Canadian counterpart for the
first time since January. The  difference  was two basis points,
compared with the U.S. yield declining two basis points
yesterday below the Canadian.  The loonie rose for a second day versus  Europe ’s shared
currency, its first back-to-back gains in two weeks, as euro-
area finance ministers authorized a bailout fund to raise money
for  Greece ’s bond exchange. Canada’s dollar gained 0.5 percent
to C$1.3119 to the euro.  The currency climbed 1.5 percent yesterday versus the euro,
the most since May 2011, after the  European Central Bank  loaned
800 euro-area banks 529.5 billion euros to shore up liquidity.  The Canadian dollar may be approaching a decline against
its U.S. counterpart. The greenback was at 31.3 today on the 14-
day relative strength index against the currency, compared with
35.6 yesterday. A reading below 30 signals an asset may be due
to reverse direction.  The loonie gained 1.5 percent over the past week against
nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Currency Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  was
little changed, and the euro declined 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  