-- Canadian Natural Gas Gains as Power Generators Switch Fuels
-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 2012-03-02T19:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/canadian-natural-gas-falls-after-inventory-drop-misses-estimates.html
Canadian natural gas rose as low
prices encouraged power producers to use more of the fuel.  Alberta  gas for April delivery gained 0.5 cent after
falling 37 percent this year, making it more competitive with
coal for generating electricity. Nuclear output slipped to a
four-month low yesterday, raising demand for other fuels.  “If gas stays down it’s going to start displacing some
coal,” said Gordy Elliott, a risk-management specialist at INTL
FCStone in St. Louis Park,  Minnesota .  Alberta gas for April delivery was at C$1.80 a gigajoule
($1.73 per million British thermal units) as of 1:45 p.m. New
York time on  NGX , a Canadian Internet market.  Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada 
and the U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 1.8 cents to $2.481 per million Btu at 1:51 p.m.  Volume on TransCanada’s Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.3 billion cubic
feet, 496 million below target.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.62 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2.16 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 486 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 2.17 billion cubic feet today, or 87 percent of its
capacity of 2.65 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 3.04
billion cubic feet at 1:50 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  