-- Chenoweth Snarls in ‘GCB’; ‘Awake’ Has Death Wish: Greg Evans
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/chenoweth-snarls-in-gcb-awake-has-death-wish-greg-evans.html
NBC’s new crime drama “Awake”
doubled its chances for intrigue by offering two parallel
storylines per episode -- one’s a dream, one isn’t -- and still
is only half compelling.  Craggy-faced British actor Jason Isaacs plays Michael
Britten, a detective back on the job after surviving a horrific
car crash that killed either his teenage son or his wife.  Britten wakes up each morning to one of two realities --
his wife is alive, or his son. He (along with the audience) is
unsure which universe is real, which is a dream.  In the Mom’s-dead world, he struggles to connect with his
devastated son (Dylan Minnette), confides his troubles to a
sympathetic therapist (Cherry Jones) and investigates crimes
with a veteran cop ( Steve Harris ).  In the kid’s-dead world, Britten grieves with his wife
(Laura Allen), blabs to a sterner therapist (B.D. Wong) and
solves cases with his rookie partner (Wilmer Valderrama).  To avoid confusion, creator/writer Kyle Killen has Isaacs
wear a color-coded wristband for each reality.  Dismissing advice to recover his sanity by consigning
either son or wife to the hereafter, Britten tells one
therapist, “I have no desire to ever make progress.” Probably
true.  “Awake” airs tonight on NBC at 10 p.m.  New York  time.
Rating: **  ‘GCB’  Until its last-minute title change to the pointless
“GCB,” ABC’s desperately sassy new comedy was called “Good
Christian Belles,” amended from the comic novel “Good
Christian Bitches.”  ABC (DIS)  might want to keep whittling away.  “Ladies!” sniffs the ring-leading GCB (Kristin Chenoweth)
as her clique of backstabbing harpies gossip about an old
nemesis. “It is not appropriate to speak of such things on the
phone -- I’ll see you in church.”  Southern Sniping  Based on Kim Gatlin’s novel and developed by Robert
Harding, whose play “Steel Magnolias” was the godmother of
such Southern-fried sniping, “GCB” is an over-the-top camp
fest.  Leslie Bibb plays Amanda Vaughn, a transplanted Los
Angelena returning to  Dallas  with two children after a tawdry
sex-and-money scandal leaves her broke and husbandless.  Her old high-school gang -- mean girls aged into church-
going, honey-tongued shrews -- carries ancient grudges and ill
intent.  Chenoweth’s Carlene, who drives a car stenciled “John:
3:16,” welcomes Amanda to a church service by sweetly reminding
parishioners that a lack of moral decency is no one’s job to
judge.  “GCB” drips poison molasses thicker than any comedy since
“Designing Women,” the 1980s sitcom that costarred Annie
Potts, featured here as Amanda’s judgmental mother.  Comparing Dallas to  Los Angeles , Potts’s big-haired
socialite snorts, “We got the same weather, without the
liberals.”  To be charitable, that’s as graceful as “GCB” ever gets.  “GCB” airs Sunday on ABC at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: *1/2  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 