-- Chilean Peso Weakens as Greek Swaps Ruling Damps Riskier Assets
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-03-01T14:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/chilean-peso-weakens-as-greek-swaps-ruling-damps-riskier-assets.html
Chile’s peso weakened as traders
sought assets perceived as safer after the swaps association
ruled that investors who had insured themselves against a Greek
debt default won’t get paid.  The peso depreciated 0.3 percent to 480.75 per  U.S. dollar 
as of 10:11 a.m. in Santiago, extending yesterday’s 0.6 percent
drop following remarks by Federal Reserve chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  that failed to indicate further quantitative easing is
planned.  The determinations committee of the International Swaps &
Derivatives Association today said the  European Central Bank ’s
exchange of Greek bonds for new securities exempt from losses
being imposed on private investors hasn’t triggered $3.25
billion of outstanding credit-default swaps. The euro, which
yesterday weakened 1 percent against the dollar, extended that
decline today after the ISDA statement. The euro and peso moved
in the same direction versus the dollar on 182 of the last 282
trading days.  “People here are buying dollars because the euro fell so
much,” said Ronal Volpi, head of spot currency trading at
EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago. “Commodities
are holding solid, but there’s really a lot of dollar buying.”  Euro-area finance ministers are meeting in Brussels to
review  Greece ’s progress on meeting the conditions of the 130
billion-euro ($173 billion) aid package, which they approved
last week, clearing the way for payment ahead of 14.5 billion
euro bond payment on March 20.  Offshore investors in the peso forwards market trimmed
their short position in the Chilean peso to a four-week low of
$4.2 billion on Feb. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  