-- Chile Banker Says Intervention for Special Circumstances
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-03-01T20:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/chile-banker-says-intervention-for-special-circumstances-1-.html
Chile  can intervene in the foreign
exchange market under extraordinary circumstances, central
banker Enrique Marshall said today, declining to say if policy
makers are considering restarting a U.S. dollar-buying program.  “The central bank reserves the right to intervene when
circumstances merit,” he told reporters in Punta del Este,
Uruguay. “If there is an intervention, it’s for special or
extraordinary circumstances, and when an announcement is made
the operation begins right away. Clues aren’t given ahead of
time.”  Chile’s fruit producers’ federation, known as Fedefruta,
has asked the central bank to take steps to weaken the peso, and
Deputy Finance Minister Julio Dittborn said last month that the
bank should consider intervening.  The peso yesterday appreciated through 475 per dollar for
the second time since September before slumping 1.4 percent to
close today at 481.68. The currency has gained 7.9 percent this
year as the price of Chile’s biggest export, copper, has risen.  The central bank last year bought $12 billion in an effort
to stem currency gains and augment international reserves.  Flows of capital into  Latin America  are volatile and could
reverse direction, Marshall said.  Colombia  started buying at least $20 million a day to
weaken its currency on Feb. 6, while  Brazil ’s central bank
bought dollars in the currency forwards market on Feb. 3 for the
first time since July.  Fiscal discipline could help restrain the appreciation of
regional currencies, said Marshall, who is in Punta del Este for
a meeting of economists and International Monetary Fund
officials to discuss financial regulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  