-- China Money Rate Drops for Fifth Day as Central Bank Skips Sale
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-03-01T09:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/china-money-rate-drops-for-fifth-day-as-central-bank-skips-sale.html
China ’s money-market rate slipped
for a fifth day, the longest run of declines since November, as
the central bank refrained from selling three-month bills today
to help ensure an adequate cash supply.  The  seven-day repurchase rate  has dropped 222 basis points
since the People’s Bank of China relaxed lenders’ reserve
requirements with effect from Feb. 24. The central bank has
refrained from selling three-month and one-year bills this year
as policy makers ease credit controls to support the economy,
which expanded in the fourth quarter at the slowest pace since
2009.  “Repurchase rates continue to drop after the reserve-ratio
cut,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe Generale SA
in  Hong Kong . “The PBOC skipped the bill sale today, but it may
start again as redemptions get considerably bigger this month.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 20 basis points to 3.28 percent as
of 4:40 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It touched
2.75 percent earlier, the lowest level since Jan. 6. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The central bank sold 20 billion yuan ($3.2 billion) of 91-
day repurchase agreements today, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. Sales of three-
month and one-year bills are usually held weekly and were last
held on Dec. 22 and Dec. 27, respectively.  About 172 billion yuan of central bank bills will mature in
March, compared with a total 38 billion yuan over the last three
months, Chong said.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, was steady at 3.32
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.01 percent government bonds due November
2012 was little changed at 2.7 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 