-- Chinchilla Says Costa Rica Deficit Plan Faces Failure
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-02T02:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/chinchilla-says-costa-rica-deficit-reduction-plan-faces-failure.html
(Corrects  Guatemala  local-currency rating in 12th
paragraph.)  Costa Rican President Laura Chinchilla said her administration may not succeed in
overhauling the country’s tax system to pare a deficit that has
grown to more than 5 percent of gross domestic product.  If the latest push on tax increases fails, “there would
not be enough time in my administration to do it and we would
leave it to the next government,” Chinchilla, 52, said in an
interview yesterday in her office in San Jose. “What we want to
avoid is that what’s now only a fiscal crisis contaminates the
rest of our economy.”  Costa Rica ’s $40.3 billion  economy , the second-biggest in
Central America, is weighed down by a deficit equivalent to
about $2 billion, approximately the amount the country earns
from tourism. Central bank President Rodrigo Bolanos predicted
in January that as a result, growth will slow to 3.8 percent
this year from 4.2 percent in 2011.  Legislation proposed by the government would replace the
current national 13 percent sales tax with a 14 percent value-
added tax. At stake also is the continued presence of companies
such as  Intel Corp. (INTC) , based in  Santa Clara ,  California , and
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , based in Redwood City, California, that were
attracted to Costa Rica by the free-zone system under which some
foreign-owned companies pay no income taxes for the first 12
years of operation.  Free Zones  The tax bill would introduce a 15 percent income tax for
companies entering free zones after 2015.  Two previous attempts to raise taxes died in the
legislature last year. If the current overhaul is approved, the
government estimates it would raise at least $600 million in
annual revenue. Chinchilla said there is no “Plan B” if the
current tax bill fails to pass.  “Because the decision has been so delayed, there are some
effects that our economy is already starting to feel,” she
said. “ Interest rates , for example, have already increased two
to three points since the end of last year.”  There is a strong possibility that 18 months from now,
Costa Rica’s legislature may still not have approved the tax
increases, said  Boris Segura , a strategist at Nomura Securities
International, in a telephone interview from  New York . He said
“a kind of dictatorship of the minorities,” referring to
procedural maneuvers by small groups of legislators who can
block bills, is holding up the tax overhaul.  Prospering Economy  Foreign direct investment in Costa Rica rose 52 percent to
a record $1.56 billion in the first nine months of 2011, and a
record-high 2.2 million tourists visited the country last year.
GDP per capita is $7,691, the highest among in Central America.  High-tech companies such as Intel, the country’s highest
revenue earner,  Palo Alto , California-based  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
and Armonk, New York-based International Business Machines Corp.
have Costa Rican operations. High-tech companies brought in $9
out of every $10 in revenue from free zones during the last
decade, according to Gabriela Llobet, director general of the
Costa Rican Investment Board.  Chinchilla said in the interview that she met with Intel
management and reassured them that they would not lose their tax
benefits because the new levies only apply to newcomers.  Increased government spending and stalled tax legislation
prompted Standard & Poor to cut Costa Rica’s local-currency
credit rating on Feb. 13 by one notch to BB, two levels below
investment grade and one level below Guatemala.  The yield on Costa Rica 6.548 percent bonds due in 2014
fell 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 2.908 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
Guatemala 2013 bonds dropped 38 basis points to 3.117 percent in
the same period.  The colon weakened 0.3 percent to 513 per  U.S. dollar  today
and has depreciated 0.2 percent this year as of 3:45 p.m. New
York time. That compares with a 9.2 percent appreciation of
 Mexico ’s peso in the same period. In Panama, the balboa is
pegged to the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  San Jose  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in San Jose at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  