-- China’s February Home Prices Fall Most in 19 Months on Curbs, SouFun Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-01T10:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/china-s-february-home-prices-fall-most-in-19-months-on-curbs-soufun-says.html
China ’s February home prices posted
the biggest decline in 19 months as the government pledged to
maintain curbs on property, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
the nation’s biggest real-estate website owner.  Home prices dropped 0.3 percent last month from January,
according to SouFun, which began compiling the figures in July
2010 when housing values fell 1.3 percent. Residential prices
slid in 72 of 100 cities tracked by the company last month, 12
more than in January, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  Shanghai  restated home purchase restrictions on local
permanent residents buying second homes on Feb. 28, a week after
a newspaper affiliated with state-run Xinhua news agency said
China’s financial center had broadened its definition. Premier
 Wen Jiabao  has maintained that he won’t waver on real estate
controls and efforts to bring prices down to a reasonable level.  “ Home prices  will continue to fall in the coming months
because it’s pretty clear that the central government won’t ease
the tightening soon,” said Zhao Zhenyi, a Shanghai-based
property analyst at Yuanta Securities Co. “Developers will
launch more projects as inventories increase.”  Local governments have attempted to ease property
tightening policies with little success. The eastern Chinese
city of Wuhu on Feb. 13 reversed its decision to relax property
curbs. The mid-sized city in Anhui province had planned to waive
a deed tax and subsidize some purchases on Feb. 9, becoming the
first Chinese city this year to signal its intention to ease
property measures.  Developers Fall  Average home prices nationwide climbed 0.93 percent in
February from the same time in 2011 to 8,767 yuan ($1,391) a
square meter (10.76 square feet), the slowest pace of growth
since August, SouFun said. The month-on-month decline in
February was the sixth straight drop, the longest losing streak
since SouFun started tracking the data.  Shanghai’s February new home prices dropped 12 percent from
the previous month, according to property consultant Shanghai
UWin Real Estate Information Services Co.  Chinese property developers fell in  Hong Kong  trading and
made up eight of the 10 biggest decliners on the  MSCI China
Index (MXCN)  at the close.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the
nation’s biggest developer listed in Hong Kong, declined 5.5
percent to HK$15.36, the most since Dec. 6.  Some Chinese developers are allowing first-time home buyers
to delay their down payments to boost sales, China Business News
reported on Feb. 27, citing unidentified sales agents.  Down Payment Incentive  Developers in cities including Nanjing, Shenzhen, Guangzhou
and Wuhan sold some projects with a 10 percent down payment, the
newspaper reported. The sellers advanced the remaining 20
percent, which buyers don’t have to pay back for as long as
three years in some cases, the newspaper said, citing agents and
sales people it didn’t identify. First-home buyers in China need
a minimum 30 percent down payment.  Home prices in the western city of Chengdu fell 1.1 percent
from January, the biggest decline among China’s 10 biggest
cities, while Beijing dropped 0.6 percent, according to SouFun.  The  property market  will remain challenging this year,
though there won’t be a “collapse” as leading cities prove
more resilient, according to a Citigroup Inc. report today, led
by analyst Oscar Choi.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  