-- China, India Manufacturing Gains Show Growth Rebounding in Asia: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-01T07:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/china-manufacturing-increases-for-third-month-as-global-prospects-improve.html
China ’s manufacturing expanded at a
faster pace in February and a gauge for  India  showed sustained
growth, indicating that Asian economies are maintaining momentum
even as  Europe ’s debt crisis caps exports.  In China, the  purchasing managers’ index  rose for a third
month to 51.0 from 50.5 in January, the statistics bureau and
 logistics federation  said in a statement today. In India, a PMI
released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was close to
an eight-month high.  Today’s data, along with a surprise gain in Japanese
companies’ capital spending and South Korea’s biggest increase
in exports in six months, add to signs that global growth
prospects are improving as the U.S. recovery strengthens and
Europe works to contain its debt crisis. Asia’s benchmark index
entered a  bull market  yesterday, led by gains in China Shipping
Container Lines Co.  “Pent-up demand will produce an export-led bounce in Asian
economic activity” now that Europe’s debt turmoil is receding,
said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Financial Markets
in Singapore, which accurately forecast today’s China PMI.
result.  In China, the PMI’s level, above the expansion-contraction
dividing line of 50, was the highest since September and
compares with the 50.9 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Economic data in the first two months are distorted by
the weeklong Chinese New Year holiday.  A separate manufacturing index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 49.6 in February from
48.8 the prior month, the third straight improvement and the
highest since October.  Stocks Fall  Meanwhile, the Indian gauge was at 56.6 in February from
57.5 in January, HSBC and Markit said.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index slid 0.7 percent as of 3:02
p.m. in  Tokyo , poised for the biggest drop since Feb. 16, on
speculation that better-than-expected data from China means the
government will refrain from more monetary easing.  A fourth-quarter slowdown in exports was probably
“transitory” and economic-growth forecasts for Asia “are too
low,” said Condon, who previously worked at the  International
Monetary Fund .  Caterpillar Inc. the world’s biggest maker of construction
and mining equipment, said it’s seeing an improvement in the
economy.  “China is recovering a little bit and before the end of
the year we will see more activity” there, Chief Executive
Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said yesterday in Santiago in comments
that were translated from Spanish.  GDP Growth  China’s gross domestic product expanded 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2011, slowing from a 9.1 percent gain in the
previous three months, as the government waged a campaign to
tame gains in consumer and housing prices.  Australia  was an exception today to positive economic data
in the Asia Pacific region. Business investment unexpectedly
fell in the three months through December, while Australian
home-building approvals rose by less than economists forecast in
January.  Japanese companies’ capital spending excluding software
rose 4.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier,
adding to signs that the world’s third-biggest economy is set to
return to growth. The gain compared with a median estimate of a
7.4 percent decline in a Bloomberg survey of six economists.  South Korea Exports  South Korea ’s overseas shipments rose 22.7 percent in
February from a year earlier after falling a revised 7 percent
in January. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 14
economists was for a 16.4 percent increase.  The euro zone’s jobless  rate  is forecast to remain at 10.4
percent in January, the highest in 14 years, according to the
median forecast of 35 economists. Inflation in the region was
probably 2.6 percent in February, according to an initial
estimate, unchanged from January’s final reading. Both reports
are due out later today.  U.S. manufacturing may have accelerated for a fourth month
in February. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index
rose to 54.5, the highest since May, from 54.1 in January,
according to the median estimate of 78 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News for a report due today.  Initial jobless claims in the U.S. probably rose to 355,000
in the week ended Feb. 25 from a four-year low of 351,000 a week
earlier, according to the median projection of 48 economists.
 Consumer spending  may have increased 0.4 percent in January,
according to the median of 80 economists, after being little
changed in December.  Growth Slowing  In China, slowing overseas sales and Premier Wen Jiabao’s
pledge to maintain curbs on the  property market  may cause growth
to drop to 7.5 percent this quarter, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc. That would be the least since the global financial
crisis.  In contrast, Lu Ting at Bank of America Corp. expects
first-quarter expansion of 8.6 percent.  Wen said economic-policy fine-tuning needs to begin this
quarter, Xinhua reported on Feb. 12. The central bank cut
lenders’ reserve requirements effective Feb. 24, the second
reduction in three months, to spur lending and sustain
expansion.  Economists combine Chinese data for the first two months to
smooth distortions caused by the timing of the weeklong Lunar
New Year holiday. The festival fell in January this year and
February last year.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Tracy Withers in Wellington,
Ailing Tan in  Singapore  and Regina Tan and Huang Zhe in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  