-- China Has Emergency Oil Tanks at Shanshan, Jintan, OGP Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-01T11:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/china-has-emergency-oil-tanks-at-shanshan-jintan-ogp-says-1-.html
China  is setting up emergency oil-
storage facilities at Shanshan in western China, Jintan and
Zhoushan in the east and Huizhou in the south, according to
China Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals.  The four centers are part of the second phase of the
country’s strategic petroleum reserves program, which is
expected to bring national crude-storage capacity to 270 million
barrels when construction of all tanks is completed at the end
of the year, according to the e-mailed newsletter by the
official Xinhua News Agency.  China, which  relies on imports  for more than half its crude
demand, plans to bolster  energy security  and reduce the impact
of global oil-price fluctuations by accumulating emergency
supplies in a three-phase program. The four bases are part of a
list of eight that OGP wrote will make up the second-phase
development. The other four have been reported by the government
and state oil companies.  Shanshan in the western Xinjiang province is being built by
China National Petroleum Corp. and will have a capacity of 8
million cubic meters, or 50.4 million barrels, OGP reported. The
facility, which was started up at end-2008, may be filled with
oil from  Kazakhstan , according to the newsletter.  Jintan in the eastern Jiangsu province is an underground
facility that can hold 3 million cubic meters of oil, OGP
reported. CNPC is building and will operate the site, according
to the newsletter.  High-Sulfur Crude  The Zhoushan project in the eastern Zhejiang province is a
2.5 million cubic-meter expansion of an existing 5 million
cubic-meter facility in the first-phase program built by
 Sinochem Group , according to the report.  The Huizhou facility is able to store 5 million cubic
meters of crude, possibly from the  Middle East  and  Africa , in
natural underground caves, OGP published. China National
Offshore Oil Corp. is the builder and operator of the base, the
newsletter reported.  China started buying higher-sulfur crude to bolster its
emergency oil reserves, China Business Journal reported on Feb.
25, citing people involved in the purchase that it didn’t name.  All the tanks in the second phase are able to store higher-
sulfur crude, according to the newspaper.  The other bases in the second phase are at Dushanzi in
Xinjiang, Lanzhou in Gansu, Jinzhou in Liaoning and Tianjin
municipality, according to government and oil-company reports.  China’s third-phase crude-reserves program may be completed
by 2020 and will raise total capacity for state inventories to
500 million barrels, OGP reported.  The nation finished filling the four bases in the initial
phase in 2009 with about 103 million barrels of oil.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  