-- CIMB Proposes Purchasing Royal Bank of Scotland’s Asian Equity Assets
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-03-01T11:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/cimb-said-to-consider-keeping-two-thirds-of-rbs-workers-in-asian-divisions.html
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  has
proposed to buy some of the Asian assets of  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest state-owned lender.  The two companies signed a memorandum of understanding to
negotiate the sale of “the cash equities, equity capital
markets and corporate finance businesses” that RBS has in the
Asia-Pacific, CIMB, Malaysia’s second-biggest lender, said in a
 filing  to the Malaysian stock exchange today.  CIMB may keep about two-thirds of the workforce at the
divisions after the takeover, said three people familiar with
the negotiations earlier today. They asked not to be named
because the discussions are private. The units up for sale
together employ as many as 600 workers, according to the people.  RBS has cut more than 30,000 jobs since receiving the
world’s biggest banking bailout. Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  last month reported a wider-than-estimated loss of 2
billion pounds ($3.2 billion) for 2011 and is shrinking the
bank’s balance sheet by selling assets overseas.  Kuala Lumpur-based CIMB is negotiating guaranteed
compensation packages to lock in some RBS bankers under new
ownership, the people said. The number of RBS employees that
will stay with CIMB after the takeover may change, according to
the people.  CIMB officials didn’t return e-mails and  text messages 
seeking comment on the talks. Yuk Min Hui, a spokeswoman for
Edinburgh-based RBS, declined to comment.  CIMB Chief Executive Officer  Nazir Razak , seeking to build
a pan-Asian financial-services provider, said Feb. 28 that the
company was in talks to buy part of RBS’s investment banking and
securities business in the region.  RBS said last month it plans to move its Australian fixed-
income and currency trading business to Singapore and  London .
RBS was in discussions about the sale of its local equities and
mergers advisory businesses, Andrew Chick, who leads the bank’s
Australian unit, said in a Feb. 28 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  