-- Citic Studies New Mine Builder as Chinese Contractor Costs Rise
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-03-01T10:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/citic-studies-new-mine-builder-as-chinese-contractor-costs-rise.html
Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) , the Chinese
company developing a $7.1 billion iron ore mine in  Australia ,
may switch to local building contractors to finish the project
after  China  Metallurgical Group Corp. demanded higher payments.  “We haven’t made a final decision” as to whom the company
will hire to build the remaining four production lines, Managing
Director Zhang Jijing told reporters today in Hong Kong. China
Metallurgical is building the first two lines that will start
output by the end of the year, Citic said.  Citic,  a steelmaker and property company  that’s backed by
China’s biggest state-owned investment company, said on Dec. 30
it would pay an additional $822.1 million to China Metallurgical
to build the Sino Iron project due to higher labor, material,
and foreign exchange costs. The company is “very disappointed
with the performance” of the Chinese contractor, it said at the
time.  “The decision depends on factors including price, time,
and quality,” Zhang said. “We have confidence that the first
and second production lines can proceed as scheduled, but it’s a
very complicated and highly automated project.”  The company is considering removing construction of a
pellet plant and part of its tailings dam to reduce costs or
accelerate development, it said. The first  production line  will
be completed in May and first output is to begin by the end of
August, it said in December.  The mine producing magnetite, a low-grade ore than
hematite, has 2 billion metric tons of resources and will supply
the company’s special steel plants, according to Citic Pacific’s
 website . The Citic Group unit is China’s largest producer of
specialized steel, the website said.  Earnings Gain  Citic Pacific closed 0.6 percent lower at HK$14.52 in Hong
Kong. It reported  full-year profit  rose 4 percent to HK$9.23
billion ($1.19 billion) and sales for the year gained 42 percent
to HK$100.1 billion.  The company will pay a final dividend of 30 Hong Kong cents
a share, taking full-year dividends to 45 cents.  “The first half of 2011 showed strong demand for steel
products but the second half, particularly the last quarter of
the year, was much weaker,” Chairman Chang Zhenming said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  