-- Coldplay, Jon Stewart Boost Amnesty International’s Secret Ball
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/coldplay-jon-stewart-boost-amnesty-international-secret-policeman-s-ball.html
For three decades,  Amnesty
International ’s Secret Policeman’s Ball has brought together A-
list comics and rockers for a fund-raising show in  London .  To help the human-rights group celebrate its 50th
anniversary, the organizers are staging the show for the first
time in the U.S. at New York’s Radio City Music Hall on Sunday
night. The headliners donating their talents include  Coldplay ,
 Russell Brand ,  Jon Stewart , and  Mumford & Sons .  To lure a mixed crowd, tickets are priced at $50 to $500.
VIP packages, $10,000 and $15,000 for two, include prime
orchestra seats and admission to the private after-party where
one can rub shoulders with the performers.  “We wanted to make it bigger and we wanted to make the
event global,” Andy Hackman, the show’s executive producer, said
by phone about this year’s move to  New York . “We just want to
say, ‘Value your free speech,’ and in doing that, they may
realize that some people aren’t as lucky as we are.”  Launched in 1976, the Secret Policeman’s Ball started out
as a small comedy revue for charity with talent-recruiting help
from John Cleese of Monty Python fame. Over the years, it
evolved into a major event and became an inspiration for mega-
fundraisers such as the 1985 Live Aid concert for Ethiopian
famine relief.  London-based  Amnesty International , which won the 1977
 Nobel Peace Prize  for exposing and preventing human-rights
abuses around the world, has more than three million supporters,
volunteers and activists in 150 countries.  Kristen Wiig  The lineup for the three-hour show includes talent from the
U.K and U.S. such as actor David Cross, British comedians Noel
Fielding and Micky Flanagan and U.S. actress Rashida Jones. Last
month, cast members of NBC’s “ Saturday Night Live ” such as
Bill Hader,  Seth Meyers ,  Kristen Wiig , Andy Samberg and Jason
Sudeikis signed on to write material or perform.  “If we got a call from  Barack Obama  saying that he wanted
to be in the show, we would probably make room for him,” said
D.J. Javerbaum, former executive producer for Stewart’s “Daily
Show.” “Material is still coming in, and that’s the kind of
thing that keeps the show vital.”  Javerbaum said the program will be a mix of comedy
routines, music and video presentations. Some comedians from
other countries who have been imprisoned will be featured
performers. They include Myanmar comedian and poet  Zarganar , who
was sentenced to 35 years in prison in 2008 for criticizing his
government’s handling of Cyclone Nargis. He was released in
October under a broad amnesty for political prisoners.  ”We want to move people, but we don’t want to make them
feel bad or guilty,” Hackman said.  (Amnesty International’s Secret Policeman’s Ball is Sunday
at Radio City  Music Hall , 1260 Avenue of the Americas in
 Manhattan , at 7 p.m. Tickets are still available at $50 to $500.
The event also will be streamed live at  http://www.epixhd.com .
For more information:  http://www.radiocity.com )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 