-- Colombian Peso Falls on Speculation for More Currency Measures
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-03-01T19:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/colombian-yields-hold-near-one-week-high-on-inflation-outlook.html
Colombia ’s peso fell, ending five
straight days of increases, on speculation policy makers may
take additional measures to ease gains in the local currency
after Brazil escalated efforts to stem a rally in the real.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 1,769.25 per  U.S. dollar , from
1,767 yesterday. The Colombian currency has advanced 10 percent
in the past three months, the best performer among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil today imposed a levy on foreign loans and bonds that
mature in three years or less. The 6 percent tax, which takes
effect immediately, was previously applied to foreign borrowing
of up to two years, according to a decree published today in the
official gazette. The South American country is ready to take
more measures to stem a rally in the real, Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said.  Brazil’s move is “leading to generalized nervousness in
the  currency market  in Latin America,” said  Camilo Perez , head
analyst at Banco de Bogota SA, the country’s second-biggest
bank. “Some may be speculating that if more measures were taken
in Brazil, other countries in the region may follow suit.”  In a bid to ease gains in the peso, Colombia’s central bank
said Feb. 24 it will extend a program of daily purchases of a
minimum of $20 million to at least Aug. 4, from the initially
announced minimum three-month period.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso debt due July 2024
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.34
percent, according to the central bank. The price rose 0.136
centavo to 121.066 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  