-- Commodities Rally to Highest Level Since May, Led by Soaring Energy Prices
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-03-01T22:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/commodities-rally-to-highest-level-since-may-led-by-soaring-energy-prices.html
Commodities rose to the highest
since May, led by surging energy prices, as tensions in the
 Middle East  escalated and improving economic data signaled
rising demand for raw materials.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
rose 1.4 percent to settle at 713.18 at 3:48 p.m. New York time,
after touching 717.45, the highest since May 5. Crude oil topped
$110 a barrel for the first time in 10 months, and gold futures
rebounded from the biggest decline of the year.  Crude-oil futures surged after a report of a pipeline
explosion in  Saudi Arabia  added to concern that supplies may be
disrupted as the U.S. steps up pressure on Iran to stop
developing nuclear weapons. Commodities also gained as data
showed a third straight monthly  expansion  in Chinese
manufacturing, and U.S. auto sales and jobless claims that were
better than analysts forecast.  “Energy prices are being pushed by fear and the concern
over supply disruptions,” Dennis Cajigas, a senior market
strategist at Zaner Group in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “We also saw some better numbers coming out of
China, and that’s helping metals.”  Crude oil for April delivery rose 1.7 percent to close at
$108.84 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . In
electronic trading after the settlement, the price reached
$101.55, the highest since May 4.  The report of the pipeline blast, which appeared on
English-language websites from the Middle East, explained the
rise in the oil market after 2:30 p.m., said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy.  Oil Gains  Oil rose in regular trading as the U.S. warned  Iran  to halt
its nuclear program and after a report showed the number of
Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits
fell to the lowest in almost four years.  In China, the world’s biggest consumer of everything from
zinc to copper to cotton, a purchasing managers index rose by
more than economists forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The Standard & Poor’s Industrial Metals Spot  Index (SPGSIN)  climbed
1.1 percent, as copper rebounded from its biggest drop in more
than a week. Copper futures for May delivery advanced 1.3
percent to settle at $3.9315 a pound on the Comex in New York.
Prices slid 1.1 percent yesterday, the most since Feb. 17.  “This is very much a  China  story, with the manufacturing
numbers coming out stronger than people expected,”  Bart Melek ,
the head of commodity strategy at TD Securities in Toronto, said
in a telephone interview. “Markets are thinking there will be a
soft landing in China, and that copper demand over the long term
does OK.”  Gold Rebounds  Gold futures for April delivery advanced 0.6 percent to
settle at $1,722.20 an ounce on the Comex. Bullion lost 4.3
percent yesterday in the biggest one-day slump since Dec. 14,
after the  Federal Reserve  gave no signal that it favored a third
round of economic stimulus.  Commodities, led by oil, beat stocks, bonds and the dollar
in February for the first month since July. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24 raw materials rose 6.1
percent in February, extending the previous month’s 2.2 percent
gain, as  Brent crude  advanced 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  