-- Construction Spending in U.S. Unexpectedly Fell in January
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-01T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-declined-in-january-as-some-projects-slowed.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
unexpectedly fell in January as commercial and government
projects slowed, a sign the building industry will take time to
rebound.  The 0.1 percent  drop , the first decline since July, followed
a revised 1.4 percent gain in December that was lower than
previously estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 1 percent increase.  Foreclosed properties returning to the market will keep
putting pressure on prices and discouraging builders from taking
on new projects. Along with the lack of a strong rebound in
housing, budget constraints at government agencies also will
weigh on the  construction industry .  “We’re in a very weak period still for housing,”  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , said before the report. “There’s a
substantial overhang of foreclosed homes. It’s going to be a very
long time before we see any real strength in this sector.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from gains of 0.3
percent to 2.5 percent, following the initially reported 1.5
percent increase for December.  Construction Spending  Construction spending increased 8 percent in the 12 months
ended in January, before adjusting for seasonal variations.  January private construction spending was unchanged from the
prior month.  Private residential outlays increased 1.8 percent, including
a 1.3 percent rise in home improvement. Private non-residential
projects fell 1.5 percent, hurt by hotels, factories and
religious institutions.  Spending on public construction fell 0.2 percent from the
prior month. Federal construction spending declined 5.5 percent,
while state and local construction gained 0.4 percent.  The fourth-warmest January on record may have boosted
construction. The average temperature was 36.3 degrees Fahrenheit
(2.39 degrees Celsius), 5.5 degrees above the 1901-2000 long-term
average, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  Housing  starts  rose 1.5 percent to a 699,000 annual rate in
January from December’s 689,000 pace that was stronger than
previously reported, Commerce Department figures showed on Feb
16.  Exceeded Forecasts  Purchases of new homes exceeded forecasts in January after
climbing in December to a one-year high, and sales of previously
owned houses rose to the highest level since May 2010, recent
reports showed.  The housing market has “improved somewhat in most
districts” with “several reports of increased home sales and
some reports of increased construction,” the Fed said yesterday
in its Beige Book business survey. It also said the economy
expanded at a “modest to moderate pace” in January.  Three straight months of job gains, unemployment at a three-
year low and rising consumer confidence may encourage households
to refurbish their houses, helping construction.  Atlanta-based  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer, reported fourth-quarter profit that
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  “Certainly we think that as the economy continues to
improve, hopefully as unemployment improves, that people will
continue to want to do small and large projects in their home,”
Chief Executive Officer  Frank Blake  said on an analyst conference
call on Feb. 21.  Construction funded by government agencies is likely to stay
under pressure. Estimates show that 29 states have faced budget
shortfalls for the next fiscal year totaling $47 billion,
indicating a long and uncertain recovery, according to a Center
on Budget and Policy Priorities report released this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  