-- Costa Rica’s Chinchilla Calls for Drug Legalization Debate
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-02T01:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/costa-rica-calls-for-debate-on-drug-legalization-amid-record-trafficking.html
(Corrects  Guatemala  local-currency rating in 20th
paragraph, Rousseff’s presidency in 23rd.)  Drug legalization in Central America
merits a “serious” debate as a solution to the crime and
violence coursing through the region even if it runs up against
U.S. opposition, said Costa Rican President Laura Chinchilla.  “If we keep doing what we have been when the results today
are worse than 10 years ago, we’ll never get anywhere and could
wind up like Mexico or  Colombia ,” Chinchilla said yesterday in
an interview in San Jose.  While U.S. opposition to legalization is well-known,
Central Americans “have the right to discuss it” because “we
are paying a very high price,” said Chinchilla, 52.  She isn’t the only leader to part company with the U.S. by
calling for consideration of alternatives to military action to
counter Mexican drug cartels. These traffickers have unleashed a
fresh bout of violence in the region as they establish new
routes to smuggle cocaine to the U.S., the world’s largest
consumer of narcotics, according to a United Nations  report .  Guatemala’s President Otto Perez, a former army general,
said Feb. 13 that “if drug consumption isn’t reduced, the
problem will continue,” and suggested legalizing the use and
transport of drugs even while proposing a military crackdown.
Seeking to win over other nations to give the legalization
proposal more heft, he was turned down by  Panama  and El
Salvador.  Blaming the U.S.  In his Jan. 10 inauguration speech, Nicaraguan President
Daniel Ortega said that while the U.S. “continues to fail to
control the consumption of drugs, it continues to contaminate
and poison this region.” Ortega has not taken a public position
on legalization.  Trafficking in Central America has reached “alarming and
unprecedented” levels as cocaine passing through the region may
equal about 5 percent of the countries’ gross domestic product,
the UN International Narcotics Control Board said in a  Feb. 27
report .  “Despite efforts to counter drug trafficking in Costa
Rica,  Honduras  and Nicaragua, in 2010, those countries were, for
the first time, identified as major transit countries,”
according to the UN board.  In  Costa Rica , murders jumped to 11 per 100,000 inhabitants
in 2010 from 7 in 2006, according to the UN  Office on Drugs and
Crime . That rate compares with 13 per 100,000 in Nicaragua, 41
in Guatemala and 82 in Honduras.  Having dismantled its army in 1948, Costa Rica has had to
tackle drug-related violence differently from its neighbors,
Chinchilla said. For example, last year the country ratified a
law to decriminalize drug possession in recreational quantities.  More Police  In response a surge in crime, Chinchilla has added 1,500
police officers since taking office in May 2010. This year her
government plans to add at least 400 more patrol cars to reduce
response time for reported crimes, Security Minister Mario
Zamora said in December.  When she won the 2010 elections, Costa Rica’s first female
president became leader of a country with Central America’s
 lowest murder rate  and whose 4.3 million citizens are on average
the region’s wealthiest. Still, crime was on the rise and the
previous administration’s spending saddled her with a 2010
budget deficit of 5.2 percent, highest in the region.  With two years remaining in power, the former security
minister is struggling to preserve Costa Rica’s self-image,
enshrined in a popular song entitled “The Switzerland of
Central America.” Her approval rating slumped to a record low
of 23 percent in January, according to a quarterly poll
published by San Jose-based research firm Unimer, which had a
margin of error of 2.8 percent. Chinchilla is barred by the
constitution from seeking a second, successive term.  No Oasis  “Costa Rica is far from the Central American oasis that it
used to be,” said  Michael Shifter , president of Washington-
based research group Inter-American Dialogue, in an e-mailed
message. “Its vulnerability is real and it has little
experience in dealing with the drug problem.”  The U.S. would be “smart” to engage with Costa Rica
“right now before more violence and intense drug trafficking
gets there,” said Vanda Felbab-Brown, a fellow at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington  and author of “Shooting Up:
Counterinsurgency and the War on Drugs.” For its part, Costa
Rica needs “to try to make  law enforcement  more efficient.”  Chinchilla met with U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano two days ago and Guatemala’s deputy president,
Roxanna Baldetti de Paz, yesterday. Napolitano, who this week
has been meeting with the region’s leaders, reiterated on Feb.
28 the U.S. position that legalization “is not the way” to
stop drug traffic.  In Washington, the spokesman for White House Drug Policy
Director Gil Kerlikowske, Rafael Lemaitre, said President Barack Obama’s goal is to reduce the demand for drugs in the U.S. Even
so, Lemaitre said, “Neither a law-enforcement only ‘war on
drugs’ approach or outright drug legalization are policies that
are realistic, humane, or grounded in research.”  Rising Violence  Despite the rising drug violence, Costa Rica’s economy is
proving resilient. Foreign direct investment rose 52 percent to
a record $1.56 billion in the first nine months of 2011. Gross
domestic product expanded 4.2 percent last year, compared with
4.7 percent in 2010, reaching $7,691, the highest in Central
America.  Still, fiscal woes have cast a shadow on the country’s
growth outlook. With the economy weighed down by a deficit of
more than $2 billion, central bank President Rodrigo Bolanos
predicted in January that growth will slow to 3.8 percent this
year.  Increased  government spending  and stalled tax legislation
prompted Standard & Poor to cut Costa Rica’s local-currency
credit rating on Feb. 13 by one level to BB, two levels below
investment grade and one level below Guatemala.  Bond Yields  The yield on Costa Rica 6.548 percent bonds due in 2014
fell 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 2.908 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
Guatemala 2013 bonds dropped 38 basis points to 3.117 percent in
the same period.  The colon weakened 0.3 percent to 513 per  U.S. dollar  today
and has depreciated 0.2 percent this year as of 11:25 a.m. New
York time. That compares with a 9.2 percent appreciation of
 Mexico ’s peso in the same period. In Panama, the balboa is
pegged to the dollar.  Married and mother of a 15-year-old son, Chinchilla studied
public policy at  Georgetown University  in Washington and is
among a recent crop of first-time Latin American female leaders.
 Dilma Rousseff  became president of  Brazil  in 2011,  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  was re-elected president of  Argentina  last
year and  Michelle Bachelet  governed  Chile  for four years between
2006 and 2010.  Nobel Prize Winner  Chinchilla is a member of the National Liberation Party,
which demilitarized the country and has produced some of the
nation’s most influential politicians, including her predecessor
and mentor, Nobel Peace Prize winner Oscar Arias.  Costa Rica and its northern neighbor,  Nicaragua , have
engaged in frequent border disputes. Chinchilla said that even
though her country has “suffered many aggressive incursions”
from Nicaragua, she is willing to overlook those hostilities and
has the “utmost confidence” both countries can work together
on the drug problem.  “No Central American leader is more knowledgeable about
the security issue than President Chinchilla: her expertise in
this area is unquestioned,” said Shifter. Still, “her
country’s politics are complicated and have put her leadership
skills to a severe test.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Williams in San Jose at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in San Jose at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  