-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Drop to 7-Month Low on Manufacturing Data
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-01T22:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/credit-swaps-in-u-s-drop-to-7-month-low-on-manufacturing-data.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk fell to the lowest level in more than seven months
as data showed global manufacturing is weathering the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 1.3 basis points to a mid-price of 92.7 basis points
at 5:12 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd. That’s
the lowest level since July 22.  The gauge slid as  China ’s purchasing managers’ index rose
in February for a third month and U.S. initial jobless claims
declined 2,000 to 351,000 last week, stoking optimism that the
pace of global economic growth will bolster corporate balance
sheets.  The European Central Bank’s record allotment of cheap
three-year crisis loans to 800 banks under its longer-term
refinancing operation yesterday has helped boost confidence in
euro-region and U.S. banks, according to a note yesterday from
Bank of America Corp. credit strategists led by Hans Mikkelsen.
That, along with “continued decent U.S. economic data,” and a
lack of announcements about further easing from the Federal
Reserve yesterday are “good for credit,” they wrote.  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Gap’s Swaps Fall  Credit-default swaps on Gap Inc. declined for a sixth day,
after sales at the largest U.S. apparel chain climbed 4 percent,
beating the average projection for a 1.4 percent drop from
analysts surveyed by Retail Metrics Inc.  The contracts fell 23.8 basis points to 209.5 basis points,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The  European Central Bank ’s exchange of Greek bonds for new
securities exempt from losses being imposed on private investors
hasn’t triggered $3.25 billion of outstanding contracts, the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association said after it was
asked to rule on whether part of the nation’s 130 billion-euro
($173 billion) bailout was a  credit event .  ISDA Greece Ruling  The ruling, by  ISDA ’s determinations committee, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Pacific Investment Management Co., was
given on its website. The switch didn’t constitute
subordination, one of the criteria for a payout under a
restructuring event, the group said.  “The situation in the Hellenic Republic is still
evolving,” and today’s decisions “do not affect the right or
ability to submit further questions,” ISDA said in a statement.  A swaps payout may still happen if  Greece  uses collective
action clauses on private investors who refuse to take so-called
haircuts on their debt holdings, according to ISDA’s rules.
Officials including former ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
have opposed triggering swaps because they’re concerned traders
would be encouraged to bet against failing nations and worsen
 Europe ’s fiscal turmoil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  