-- Credit Suisse U.S. Stock-Trading Head DeSalvo Leaves, Trading Desks Merge
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-01T02:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/credit-suisse-u-s-stock-trading-head-desalvo-leaves-trading-desks-merge.html
Matthew DeSalvo, who ran  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s top-ranked stock sales and trading unit in the
U.S., left the firm this week as the company merged the business
with electronic trading.  DeSalvo, 53, said in a telephone interview that he will
probably look for another job in  stock trading . He declined to
discuss the reasons for his departure. The bank’s U.S. stock
unit has ranked first in the industry for the past two years, up
from fifth in 2008, Zurich-based Credit Suisse said in a Feb. 9
 presentation , citing consultant Greenwich Associates.  “I’m a manager, I’m a leader, and if somebody wants to end
up being in the top tier and can use me, I’m sure something will
come together,” said DeSalvo, who joined Credit Suisse in 2006
from  Morgan Stanley (MS) , where he had worked since 1985. “I’m
already getting calls.”  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, told
staff in a memo this week that Dan Mathisson, who heads
electronic trading, assumes responsibility for block trading --
where large orders of stocks are filled by brokers using phones
or other methods. In electronic trading, computers handle the
orders. Credit Suisse also ranked No. 1 in U.S. electronic
trading last year, where it has stood since 2008, according to
the Feb. 9 presentation.  “We are combining the U.S. high-touch and low-touch
execution businesses into a single execution and trading
group,” the bank said. The memo, which didn’t mention DeSalvo,
was signed by Steve Garnett and Mike Paliotta, the bank’s co-
heads of equities for the Americas. Traders magazine reported
the news earlier on its website.  Cutting Costs  Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan , who announced two
rounds of job cuts last year, is seeking to reduce costs and
assets as the bank adjusts to a slowdown in trading activity and
higher  capital requirements .  Last year, revenue in the equities division, which includes
stock trading as well as options and electronic trading, fell by
19 percent to  4.74 billion  Swiss francs ($5.25 billion).  Credit Suisse said it would merge teams that provide
research and analytics on stocks and bonds under Stefano Natella, global head of equity research, and Eric Miller, head
of fixed-income and economic research.  A Credit Suisse spokeswoman, Katherine Herring, declined to
comment on DeSalvo’s departure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 