-- Criminal Libor Probe Cited by U.S. Judge in Denying Document Access
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-03-02T05:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/criminal-libor-probe-cited-by-u-s-judge-in-denying-document-access.html
Investors suing  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and other companies over claims they
artificially suppressed Libor lost a bid for some documents
related to a U.S. Justice Department investigation.  In denying the investors’ request yesterday, U.S. District
Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in  Manhattan , who’s presiding over 21
class-action lawsuits, cited a letter from the department
claiming that a release of the documents may interfere with its
criminal antitrust probe.  “To me, it is simply too much to have them piggyback on
the government’s investigation at this stage,” the judge said
in a ruling from the bench. “It is quite clear from the
Department of Justice’s letter that they would have serious
problems with my granting the request.”  The multidistrict litigation before the judge involves
group lawsuits filed against member banks of the British
Bankers’ Association London Interbank Offer Rate Panel, known as
Libor. The member banks are accused of conspired to artificially
suppress Libor by understating their borrowing costs to the BBA.  Buchwald said that if she agreed to let investors have the
documents they want, it would “inhibit the fullest response to
the government requests for information.”  ‘Enormous Litigation Benefit’  “If the government finds wrongdoing, the plaintiffs will
get an enormous litigation benefit from that,” she told
lawyers.  Plaintiffs include those which directly engaged in
transactions with one or more of the defendants in over-the-
counter transactions, most commonly interest rate swaps,
Buchwald said in an order filed in the case last year.  A second group of plaintiffs are investors who didn’t
directly transact with the defendants and instead purchased
financial products tied to Libor on an exchange, such as the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange or the Chicago Board of Trade.  Both sets of plaintiffs assert antitrust claims.  The case is In re: LIBOR-Based Financial Instruments
Antitrust Litigation, 11-MD-2262, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net 
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 