-- Crude Oil-Tanker Hire Costs Gain as Surplus of Vessels Declines
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-03-01T17:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/crude-oil-tanker-hire-costs-gain-as-surplus-of-vessels-declines.html
Charter rates for the largest  oil
tankers  hauling Middle East crude to  Asia  increased as the
number of ships available for loading shrank.  Hire costs  for very large crude carriers, each able to hold
2 million barrels, on the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage
gained 0.2 percent to 52.56 industry-standard Worldscale points
today, according to the London-based  Baltic Exchange .  Daily
income for VLCCs  on the benchmark route advanced 7.7 percent to
$14,250, according to the exchange.  The number of ships for hire in the  Persian Gulf  over the
next four weeks shrank by 21 percent to 71, according to Kevin
Sy, a Singapore-based freight-derivatives broker at Marex
Spectron Group. There are 33 ships for 17 cargoes due to be
loaded in the second ten-days of March, he said.  The vessel surplus means rates are unlikely to “ramp up,”
he said, adding that some owners may not yet be marketing
vessels that they have for hire in late March.  The exchange’s day-rate assessments don’t reflect speed
changes that can cut fuel costs, vessel owners’ largest expense.
The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, fell for a second session to
$721.83 a metric ton, according to figures collected by
Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide, paring this year’s gain to 9
percent.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
decreased 0.4 percent to 781.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  