-- Carnival’s Costa Allegra Liner Arrives in Seychelles Port After Fire
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R a m a s a w m y
-- 2012-03-01T15:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/cruise-passengers-disembark-in-seychelles-after-three-days-without-power.html
The Costa Allegra, the  Carnival
Corp. (CCL)  cruise liner that became stranded in the  Indian Ocean 
after a fire, arrived in the Seychelles port of Victoria under
tow from a French fishing boat.  The ship arrived at 11:25 a.m. local time today and was met
by paramedics and tourism officials from the Seychelles
government. The liner had about 1,000 passengers and crew
aboard.  “It was very uncomfortable,” Suzy Thoudot, a French
passenger, said in an interview after disembarking. “Never
Costa” again.  The accident came six weeks after the Costa Concordia ran
aground off the coast of the Italian island of Giglio leaving at
least 25 people dead. Shares of Carnival, which owns Genoa,
Italy-based  Costa Crociere SpA (COCR) , rose 2.8 percent to 1,900 pence
at 3:57 p.m. in  London .  The fire broke out at 10:39 a.m. Italian time on Feb. 27,
Costa Crociere said in a statement that day. The blaze erupted
in one of the ship’s diesel generators, Captain Nicolo Alba said
at a press conference in the Seychelles today. Passengers and
crew prepared for an evacuation, which wasn’t ultimately
necessary, he said. Crew members were able to put the fire out
within an hour, the captain said.  A back-up diesel engine powered the vessel for 24 hours
before it lost propulsion, Alba said at the press conference.  Helicopter Supplies  Passengers, who gathered on outside decks as air
conditioning inside cabins went down, were given cold food and
drinks supplied by helicopter as the ship was towed. They were
kept constantly informed of the status of the ship, he said.  Costa Crociere said yesterday the situation on the ship was
“regular.” The company had been supplying passengers on the
powerless Allegra with flashlights and fresh bread and “doing
everything possible to make the situation onboard more
comfortable,” Buck Banks, an outside spokesman for Carnival,
said.  Alba disputed an assertion by Joel Morgan, Seychelles’s
home affairs minister, that the French fishing vessel, M/V Le
Trevignon, has refused to hand over towing duties to two tug
boats sent to the Allegra by the Seychelles Ports Authority.  The decision to have the liner towed by the French ship has
been his decision and it had been made for “practical”
reasons.  Almost half of the passengers on the ship have accepted a
two-week stay in Seychelles hotels as compensation, Norbert
Stiekema, an official at Costa Crociere, told reporters in the
Seychelles today. The rest will start leaving the island nation
on chartered flights from later today, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Ramasawmy in Johannesburg at 
 rramasawmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  