-- Dark Pools Win Record Stock Volume as NYSE Trading Slows to 1990s Levels
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-03-01T01:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/dark-pools-capture-record-share-of-declining-u-s-equity-volume.html
Private trading venues known as dark
pools accounted for more U.S. equity trading than ever in
January as volume fell on the biggest exchanges.  Dark pools matched 935 million shares a day, or 13.5
percent of stock changing hands, compared with 1.02 billion, or
12.4 percent, a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Rosenblatt Securities Inc. That topped the prior market-share
record of 13.2 percent in April. The firm tracks transactions on
18 dark pools, or venues that don’t publish bids and offers and
are used by fund managers and brokers trying to limit the impact
of their trades on prices.  Dark pools got a larger piece of a shrinking pie. Trading
at the New York Stock Exchange has declined to the lowest level
since 1999, with the average volume over the 50 days ended Feb.
28 slowing to 789.5 million shares, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. The 50-day average for all exchange-listed
securities, including transactions on dark pools,  fell  to 6.62
billion shares on Feb. 28, the lowest in Bloomberg data going
back to June 2008.  “January was a slightly better institutional month than
the broader market volume might imply,”  Jamie Selway , head of
liquidity management at New York-based  Investment Technology
Group Inc. (ITG) , said in a phone interview. His firm runs dark pools.
“Modestly better institutional volume and low volatility adds
up to good things for institutionally focused dark pools.”  Volatility Narrows  Price swings have narrowed this year. The  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) , a gauge of expected
fluctuations derived from Standard & Poor’s 500 Index calls and
puts, has fallen 62 percent since reaching a 2 1/2-year high in
August. The measure has decreased 21 percent to 18.43 this year
and is 10 percent below its average since inception of 20.56.  The rise of dark pools has reflected the fragmentation of
U.S. equity markets following rules adopted in the last decade
to limit the dominance of NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. Share transactions are split among 13  stock exchanges ,
several alternative venues and as many as 50 private platforms
including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s Crossfinder, the biggest,
which averaged 132.5 million shares a day in January, or 1.9
percent of the average daily equities volume, according to the
report from New York-based Rosenblatt.  Crossfinder is followed by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Sigma
X with 1.6 percent of U.S. equities volume in January and  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG) ’s Knight Link system at 1.4 percent, the
Rosenblatt report said.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Getco LLC also have
more than 1 percent each.  Mutual Funds  Increased volume from  mutual funds  in January spurred more
trading in alternative venues, according to Tim Mahoney, chief
executive officer of BIDS Trading LP, a dark-pool operator owned
by 12 investors including 10 brokers,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and the
estate of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. He said trading in
February is likely to be similar to January’s results, based on
volume his firm sees.  “It was an investor’s marketplace,” Mahoney said. “We
saw long-term money going into mutual funds and traditional
investors and that money flowed into the market,” he said.
“Low volatility favors the fundamental investor.”  Liquidnet Holdings Inc.’s two venues saw the biggest
increase in trading volume in January versus December, with the
number of shares handled almost doubling for both, according to
Rosenblatt.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank AG’s dark pool, called Super X, had a 0.7
percent market share in January after shares matched surged more
than 6,200 percent from a year earlier to 50.7 million a day,
the report said.  European and Canadian dark pools also had record trading in
January, Rosenblatt said. The 17 European pools tracked by the
broker had 4.6 percent of trading, compared with 3.8 percent in
December and the previous record of 4.2 percent in October, the
brokerage said.  Canadian venues that match equity orders without showing
prices in advance reached a record high of 4.45 percent in
January. The biggest are ITG’s MatchNow and Alpha Group’s Alpha
IntraSpread, Rosenblatt said.  Lower volatility means the cost of taking liquidity, or
executing against bids or offers, may be higher compared with
trading in a dark pool at the midpoint of the best available
prices, Selway said. The share of institutional trading in dark
pools tends to rise when volatility is lower, he said.  “Waiting for serendipity in a dark pool doesn’t make sense
when volatility or correlations are very high,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  