-- Darlington Fans Use Internet to Raise Funds to Buy English Soccer Team
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-01T00:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/darlington-fans-use-internet-to-raise-funds-to-buy-english-soccer-team.html
Fans of English soccer team
Darlington have turned to the Internet to help them keep their
129-year-old club running.  Darlington, which plays in  England ’s fifth tier, went into
administration, a form of bankruptcy, on Jan. 3. Facing
liquidation, the supporters stepped in and formed a company
which turned to crowdfunding -- the soliciting and pooling of
small investments, often online -- to raise money to buy the
team.  “It was the only way realistically we were going to be
able to raise the funds,” Laura Drew, a board member of the
company -- Darlington FC 1883 Ltd. -- said in a telephone
interview. “Were trying to put together a sustainable business
model based upon community involvement and community engagement.  A total of 291,450 pounds ($464,000), 39 percent of the
investment target of 750,000 pounds, has been raised so far
according to a statement from crowdfunding website Crowdcube,
which has listed  the bid . The campaign runs until April 23 and
if successful, would give the fans 100 percent ownership of the
northeastern England club.  Investors can buy a share online for a minimum of 100
pounds, with no party able to own more than 15 percent,
according to the bid listing. Backers will get an opportunity to
vote in the annual election to appoint a board to run the club
and to put themselves forward to sit on this board.  Drew said her group has signed an exclusive right with
administrator Taylor Rowlands to buy the club.  ‘‘We’d had various people come forward to look at buying
the club and they’d all fallen away,” she said. “We were the
only people that offered in, a kind of variable option for the
future of the club.”  Positive  Harvey Madden, a joint administrator for the club, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  Response to the crowdfunding campaign has been
“overwhelmingly positive” and has come from some unlikely
sources, according to Drew.  “An under-11s football team has raised enough money to buy
a couple shares and it gives them a bit more of a connection
with the team,” she said.  The share sale has been structured to raise 250,000 pounds
in each of three phases.  The first, which needed to be raised quickly, allowed the
club to pay off all soccer debts. Investors in this stage
received two shares for every 100 pounds invested.  “We reached the first target in five days flat, which was
far better than we could have dreamed of,” Drew said.  The second phase would help satisfy the club’s remaining
creditors and the final would provide Darlo, as the club is
known, with money to start next season and provide the basis for
long-term sustainability.  Big Clubs  Several British clubs have gone into administration this
season as overspending and the economic slump hurt profits.
Portsmouth, which won the 2008 F.A. Cup, went bankrupt last
month for the second time in two years as it struggled to pay
wages and bills after parent Convers Sports Initiatives Plc
entered administration Nov. 29. CSI, a U.K.-based investment
vehicle used by ex-owner  Vladimir Antonov  to buy Portsmouth,
defaulted on an interest payment to former operator Balram
Chainrai.  Rangers Football Club Plc (RFC) , the Scottish soccer champion,
went into administration Feb. 14 as U.K. tax authorities
attempted to force the Glasgow team to pay bills.  Darlington has mainly played in the lower divisions of
English soccer since its founding in 1883. The Quakers last year
won the second-tier F.A. Trophy and currently are in 20th place
in the 24-team Blue Square BET Premier division after a 10-point
deduction for going into administration.  The club is trying to raise additional funds by auctioning
shirts autographed by Arsenal,  Manchester United , Newcastle and
other Premier League clubs. The players have also organized a
horse race fundraiser after the March 3rd match.  Local businesses, along with school and civic groups, will
be turned to in the next round of fund-raising as locals get the
chance to become a soccer team owner.  “ There’s a buzz about the club again,” Drew said.
“We’ll be looking to involve them more in the day to day
operations and really embed the club as the hub of the local
community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 