-- Deutsche Bank Rejects Proposed Settlement in 10-Year-Old Leo Kirch Dispute
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-03-01T15:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/deutsche-bank-rejects-settlement-on-kirch-case-after-revi.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  rejected a proposal
to settle a 10-year dispute tied to comments by its former Chief
Executive Officer  Rolf Breuer  about  Leo Kirch ’s media group.  The bank, Germany’s biggest lender, made the decision after
a “thorough review,” it said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Based on this review, which included the consideration of
internal and external legal advice, the board decided without
dissent not to accept the settlement proposal.”  Deutsche Bank and Kirch’s heirs discussed a possible 800
million-euro ($1 billion) settlement of claims Breuer’s comments
caused the collapse of Kirch’s media group, a person with
knowledge of the negotiations said last month. The Frankfurt-
based bank last year was said to have rejected a 775 million-
euro settlement proposed by a Munich court.  “It seems the people at Deutsche Bank who had to look at
the proposal came to the conclusion the bank’s legal odds in
court are better than what the settlement amount suggested,”
said Michael Seufert, an analyst with Norddeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale in Hanover,  Germany . “The pain threshold was
reached with the 800 million euros and the bank’s leadership had
to look at what’s in the interest of shareholders.”  Kirch, who died in July, pursued claims against Breuer and
Deutsche Bank seeking at least 3.3 billion euros. The lawsuits,
which continued after Kirch’s death, claim his media group
failed because Breuer questioned its creditworthiness in a 2002
Bloomberg TV interview.  Biggest Bankruptcy  In the interview, Breuer said “everything that you can
read and hear” is that “the financial sector isn’t prepared to
provide further” loans or equity to Kirch. Within months,
Kirch’s group filed the country’s biggest bankruptcy since World
War II.  A spokesman for Kirch’s heirs, who declined to be
identified, said they “are relaxed about Deutsche Bank’s
decision and can only shake our heads about the leadership chaos
at the bank.”  While winning a declaratory judgement by Germany’s highest
civil court saying Breuer was wrong in questioning the company’s
creditworthiness, Kirch’s side has so far failed to win any
damage payments. To do that, it needs to show that the comments
caused the bankruptcy.  Damage Suits  Under German law, a corporation may face damage suits by
its shareholders if it gives away money without justification.
Deutsche Bank’s legal department and external lawyers had to
analyze whether a settlement was in the best interests of the
bank and what amount was justified based on an assessment of
plaintiff’s chances of success in court.  Deutsche Bank  rose  51 cents, or 1.5 percent, to 35.565
euros in Frankfurt trading at 4:41 p.m.  The settlement would have ended a plethora of lawsuits that
Kirch instigated against the bank and Breuer. They included two
damage suits currently pending at a Munich appeals court that
yielded criminal probes against several bank executives over
their testimony at trial.  Breuer last year agreed to pay 350,000 euros to settle a
criminal attempted-fraud case over testimony he gave in 2003 in
one of the suits. The litigation spawned a separate probe over
statements Breuer gave last year in the second case.  Current Deutsche Bank CEO  Josef Ackermann , Chairman  Clemens Boersig  and former board member Tessen von Heydebreck are also
under investigation over their testimony. Deutsche Bank has
denied wrongdoing by any of its executives.  The Munich appeals court today rejected a motion filed by
Deutsche Bank in November seeking the removal of three judges in
the case for bias, saying the bank’s bid was baseless.  The lender had claimed the judges secretly cooperated with
prosecutors and were holding back parts of files Deutsche Bank
lawyers wanted to inspect at the court. The bank didn’t provide
evidence for its allegations and even “freely invented” some
of the facts it argued took place, according to the ruling.  Deutsche Bank spokesman Christian Streckert declined to
comment on today’s ruling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  