-- Deutsche Bank Tweets on IPOs as Street Warms to Social Media
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-03-01T13:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/deutsche-bank-tweets-on-ipos-as-street-warms-to-social-media.html
Ted Tobiason,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s
head of  equity capital markets  for the technology industry, is
doing something that would get most investment bankers fired:
tweeting about work.  Tobiason is the only investment banker authorized by the
German firm to have a business-related account on Twitter Inc.’s
website, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its March 5 issue.
While he’s no  Ashton Kutcher , who has 9.6 million followers,
Tobiason has attracted more than 100, including executives at
Silicon Valley startups. His first tweet, in January, predicted
that there would be more than 40 initial public offerings by
technology companies this year.  “I want venture capitalists and entrepreneurs to know that
our bankers love technology, that we are evangelists and not
mercenaries,” said Tobiason, 43, who is based in San Francisco.
“ Tweeting  is a way to show that we are part of the game and
that we understand the changes in technology and we are using
them.”  With his @TedTobiasonDB account, he’s trying to reach more
potential clients after Deutsche Bank climbed to second place
behind Morgan Stanley last year in Bloomberg’s global ranking of
underwriters for technology IPOs, from the fourth spot in 2010.
He is a rare bird on  Wall Street . Investment banks tend to use
social media for marketing and recruiting purposes only.  Employee Communications  Morgan Stanley,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the banks
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  chose to underwrite its $5 billion IPO, ban
investment bankers from using Facebook, Twitter and other social
media on their work computers. One reason: The U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission requires banks to monitor and archive
employee communications, and doing so on third-party platforms
such as Twitter and Facebook is much harder than on corporate e-
mail programs.  Banks sometimes permit financial advisers to have business
accounts, and investment bankers can have personal social-media
accounts. Those advising technology companies have found ways to
use clients’ products to build professional relationships
without violating their firms’ policies. Michael Grimes, global
co-head of technology investment banking at  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
plays Zynga Inc.’s “CityVille” and “Empires & Allies” games
on Facebook with company founder  Mark Pincus . Zynga chose Morgan
Stanley to lead its IPO last year.  Clearing Tweets  Deutsche Bank started using Twitter in 2008 to promote a
 golf tournament  it sponsored in  Boston . Tobiason raised the idea
of having a professional account in the fall of 2011 and
eventually won approval from the communications and legal and
compliance departments.  “He happened to be at the right place at the right time,”
said John Tracey, head of the bank’s brand communications for
the Americas. The bank expects to say yes to other executives
who have asked for permission to tweet, he said.  Tobiason’s tweeting is not off-the-cuff: He can’t write
about share offerings Deutsche Bank underwrites, he must clear
his tweets through the firm’s communications department and the
bank has software that records his posts.  “For Deutsche Bank, it is a great PR and marketing
opportunity,” said Joe Ciarallo, vice president of
communications at Buddy Media Inc., a  New York  firm that
develops social-media advertising software. The bank should let
Tobiason tweet on his own, without prescreening, he said, which
slows down his posts and keeps him from being part of the
Twitter “conversation.” For companies, Ciarallo said, making
full use of Twitter is “all about training and trusting
employees.”  Personal Account  Tobiason’s sporadic tweets -- fewer than 40 so far -- focus
on the IPO market, commenting on whether the latest offerings
are pricing above or below what’s expected. On Feb. 17, when
Brightcove Inc., the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based provider of
cloud-based services, rose 30 percent on its first day of
trading, he wrote “Congrats Brightcove #IPO.”  He also maintains a personal account with fewer followers
and only four tweets to date, compared with 38 for his work
account. That barrier between personal and professional will
eventually go away, and financial services firms will come to
fully embrace social media, said Jules Maltz, a general partner
at Institutional Venture Partners, a  Menlo Park , California-
based venture capital fund and a Twitter investor.  “Tobiason is an expert on tech IPOs and the fact that he
embraced Twitter to share his notes with the market shows that
Deutsche Bank is forward-thinking,” said Maltz, who follows him
on Twitter.  Tudou, Renren  That’s exactly the message the firm wants to send after its
technology team capitalized on relationships it started in 2008
and 2009, when business in the U.S. was slow and  China ’s growth
presented better opportunities, said Emmanuel Desousa, Deutsche
Bank’s global head of Internet and new media banking, based in
 San Francisco .  Four of the fifteen technology IPOs Deutsche Bank helped
manage in 2011 were Internet Chinese companies, such as Tudou
Holdings Ltd. and Renren Inc., according to the bank. Deutsche
Bank was among advisers of Alibaba Group Holdings Ltd., China’s
biggest e-commerce company, in its $2.3 billion offer to take
its Alibaba.com unit private, the biggest announced technology
deal so far this year.  “Our social media and e-commerce clients are changing the
way the world communicates,” said Desousa. “We have to change
the way we communicate to stay relevant as Internet and tech
bankers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eric Gelman at 
 egelman3@bloomberg.net  