-- Dexia Bank Swings to Loss, Sees Former Parent Repaying Loans
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-03-01T13:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/dexia-bank-swings-to-loss-sees-former-parent-repaying-loans-1-.html
Dexia Bank Belgium SA, the former
 Dexia SA (DEXB)  unit now owned by the Belgian government, swung to a
loss last year on Greek debt writedowns and said its former
parent will repay all remaining unsecured loans this month.  The 2011 net loss of 1.37 billion euros ($1.83 billion)
compares with profit of 678 million euros a year earlier, the
Brussels-based lender said today in a statement.  Shareholders’
equity  fell to about 3.3 billion euros, about 700 million euros
less than what Belgium paid to take over the bank and insurer.  Chairman Alfred Bouckaert said Dexia Bank, which will
gradually adopt the brand name Belfius starting today, doesn’t
need to raise capital and won’t seek any other government
backstops. Its key priority after halting a decline in
customers’ deposits is to reduce outstanding loans to Dexia’s
French bank unit. Chief Financial Officer Johan Vankelecom also
said the lender is waiting for  Belgium  to pass legislation
enabling the issuance of covered bonds.  “With parliamentary approval possible before the summer
holiday, we could start selling covered bonds as early as the
third quarter,” Vankelecom told reporters in Brussels today.
“With a sizeable portfolio of residential mortgages and public-
finance loans, Dexia Bank has the perfect balance sheet to
become an issuer of covered bonds.”  LTRO Money  Dexia Bank said its former parent will sell additional
state-guaranteed debt “in coming days” and use the proceeds to
repay the remaining unsecured loans it got from its former
Belgian bank unit. Dexia Bank bought 13 billion euros of the 22
billion euros of government-backed debt Dexia’s French banking
unit sold so far. Secured lending to Dexia will drop to about 28
billion euros by the end of March, according to Dexia Bank.  Chief Executive Officer Jos Clijsters said Dexia Bank took
15 billion euros of three-year loans from the European Central
Bank yesterday and, unlike its former parent, isn’t clinging to
emergency loans from central banks. Vankelecom said the bank
currently has “some reserve” of eligible collateral left.  Dexia Bank’s funding from retail customers, corporate
clients and public authorities increased to 78.3 billion euros
at the end of January from 76.2 billion euros at the end of
November and its loan-to-deposits ratio is “close to
equilibrium,” according to Clijsters. Still, Dexia Bank is
losing retail clients at a rate of about 2,000 a month, net of
additions, and funding from retail customers has declined by
about 2.5 billion euros from a peak of 63 billion.  Holding Communal  Last year’s 1.37 billion-euro loss included a 1.31 billion-
euro on Greek  government bonds  and 246 million euros of
provisions, including for losses on loans to  Dexia shareholder 
Holding Communal SA. Dexia Bank also set aside 36 million euros
for expenses associated with the name change for two years.  Dexia’s core Tier 1 capital fell to 11.8 percent of risk-
weighted assets of about 53 billion euros from 13.6 percent at
the end of 2010. It would have been 12.4 percent following the
buyback of 459.2 million euros of perpetual subordinated notes
at a 75 percent discount to face value that was completed today,
according to Vankelecom.  The lender and its insurance subsidiary still held a
combined 6.48 billion euros of Italian, Spanish, Greek, Irish
and Portuguese government debt at the end of last year after the
Greek writedowns and the sale of about 500 million euros of
Italian bonds in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  