-- Dick’s Channels ’Rudy’ in New Branding Strategy
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-03-01T21:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/dick-s-sporting-goods-channels-rudy-film-in-branding-strategy.html
Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS)  is
working to double sales to more than $10 billion, and to help it
get there it’s taking a page from  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)   To become an even bigger national presence, the largest
U.S. athletic chain plans to re-shape its advertising to get
consumers to think of Dick’s as more than a place to go
shopping. Dick’s Chief Executive Officer Ed Stack started by
hiring 14-year Pepsi branding veteran Lauren Hobart as chief
marketing officer a year ago.  That change begins tonight as a nationwide “Untouchable”
campaign debuts with a 90-second  commercial  on ESPN. Aiming for
an emotional connection, the ad features amateur athletes and
music from the movie “Rudy,” a 1993 drama about an underdog
college football player. While consumer product companies such
as  Nike Inc. (NKEE)  and Pepsi have used lifestyle advertising for
years, the concept is foreign to big-box retailers like Dick’s,
which had previously focused on Golf-a-thon sales events and pro
athletes promoting shoes.  “It was paramount to demonstrate that we understood the
physical, mental and emotional challenges the athlete faces,”
Hobart, 42, said in an interview. “We’re trying to establish,
and amplify an emotional connection between our brand and our
customers.”  Dick’s is introducing the campaign at a time when sales in
the sporting goods industry are growing faster than other parts
of retail. Shares of Dick’s and competitors such as  Foot Locker
Inc. (FL)  and  Finish Line Inc. (FINL) , as well as manufacturers such as Nike
and  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  reached 52-week highs in the past month.  21 Percent Gain  Dick’s, which was founded in Binghamton, New York, and has
the majority of its stores in the Midwest and eastern U.S.,  rose 
1.3 percent to $45.34 at the close in New York. The shares have
gained 23 percent this year.  The retailer, which reports fourth-quarter results on March
6, boosted sales 9.2 percent to $5.12 billion in the 12 months
ended Oct. 29. Dick’s has also added stores when many chains in
the U.S. are slowing growth or reducing locations. The
Coraopolis, Pennsylvania-based retailer added about 40  stores  in
the past year, giving it 480.  The company, started by Stack’s father Dick in 1948, is
working to expand its store count to 900 in the U.S. by putting
more focus on Dick’s itself rather than only highlighting the
well-known brands it sells.  Pancake Block  “As we looked toward our goal of becoming a truly national
footprint, we recognized that we wanted be more deliberate about
building our brand,” The 57-year-old Stack, who took over the
then two-store chain from his dad in 1984, said in an e-mail.
“As a result, we made key decisions to infuse new marketing
leadership into our team and to develop a new approach.”  That shift begins with a commercial devoid of sports
celebrities and logos that are hard to spot. While a popular ad
from Dick’s last year featured NFL star  Clay Matthews 
demonstrating Nike cleats by smashing up a store, this spot
follows the natural progression of athletics. It starts with
empty fields, shows practice and playing games. Hands are taped.
A lineman makes a pancake block. A team celebrates.  “The goal is that when people think of sports, they think
of Dick’s Sporting Goods,” said Hobart, who oversaw soft drink
branding for Pepsi in  North America . The company wants to “keep
evolving as we become a national brand.”  Evaluate the Brand  When Hobart arrived in February of last year, she decided
the company needed to evaluate the brand. She hired brand
strategy firm  Redscout , based in New York, to conduct research
that included monitoring consumers as they shopped at Dick’s and
at competitors.  Those insights led Dick’s and ad agency  Anomaly , which has
created ads for Budweiser, to craft a campaign focused on the
fundamental goal of sports achievement while also reinforcing
its long-time tag line of “Every Season Starts at Dick’s,”
Hobart said.  “We just felt we wanted to come out in a big way,” Hobart
said. So consumers could see “what Dick’s is really about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  