-- Dish Bid for Waiver May Face Resistance at FCC, Analysts Say
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-01T21:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/dish-bid-for-waiver-may-face-resistance-from-fcc-analysts-say.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s bid for U.S.
permission to offer a high-speed wireless network may face
resistance from the Federal Communications Commission, two
analysts said.  The agency yesterday proposed writing new rules for
airwaves that Dish intends to use for the service, a process
that typically takes months. The step may indicate FCC Chairman
 Julius Genachowski  is “disinclined” to grant the waivers Dish
needs,  David Kaut  and  Christopher King , Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
analysts, said today in a note.  Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-television provider
behind  DirecTV (DTV) , asked the FCC in August for clearance to buy
assets of satellite companies DBSD North America Inc. and
TerreStar Networks Inc. Dish also asked for waivers to let it
offer service with handsets that use ground-based signals only
and don’t communicate directly with satellites.  The prospects for Dish may have been complicated by the
case of  LightSquared Inc. (SKYT) ’s wireless service, which won
preliminary FCC approvals that the agency now plans to withdraw
after tests showed interference to navigation gear, Kaut and
King wrote.  Interference isn’t an issue in the Dish waiver, “but the
LightSquared experience may have left the FCC gun-shy about
being perceived as cutting procedural corners,” they said.  Dish Chief Executive Officer  Charlie Ergen  said last week
he would “look at other alternatives” if the waivers were
denied or “kicked down the road without a decision through
rulemaking.”  ‘Regulatory Certainty’  The FCC should grant the waiver as it conducts the process
of writing the rules, Marc Lumpkin, a spokesman for Englewood,
Colorado-based Dish, said in an e-mail.  “We need regulatory certainty to begin development of
consumer devices and to design our state-of-the-art 100 percent
4G broadband network,” Lumpkin said. “A rulemaking alone would
delay that process indefinitely.”  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment on
prospects for the waiver, and on a report by DealReporter that
said the agency won’t grant the waiver. DealReporter didn’t
identify the source of its information.  Dish dropped 1.3 percent to $28.79 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading.  Aaron Johnson , a Dish spokesman, declined
to comment on the DealReporter report.  “If the company does not receive the waiver to build its
wireless network, investors speculate that Charlie may sell the
company since he has indicated that there is limited upside to
the core video business,”  Paul Sweeney , an analyst with
Bloomberg Industries, said in an e-mail.  CTIA-The Wireless Association , with members including
largest U.S. mobile providers Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
asked for a rulemaking in an Oct. 17 filing. Dish is seeking
waivers “that would appear to eviscerate” some restrictions on
airwaves use, the Washington-based association said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  