-- Disney Rejects Proxy Adviser Criticism of Pay, Governance
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-01T21:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/disney-rejects-proxy-adviser-criticism-of-pay-governance.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  said it
“fundamentally disagrees” with an advisory group’s criticism
of its pay practices and the process for naming Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Iger  to the added role of chairman.  Institutional Shareholder Services, which consults on
governance issues, has recommended voting against members of
Disney’s governance and nominating committee and criticized the
compensation of Iger, the Burbank, California-based company said
today in regulatory  filings .  The company accused ISS of second-guessing its independent
directors and urged shareholders to back the board’s decisions.
The filings are designed to bolster support for Disney ahead of
the March 13 annual meeting, when all 10 board nominees will be
up for re-election, including four ISS opposes.  “Disney fundamentally disagrees with certain of ISS’s
recommendations, which are based on both flawed premises and
methodology,” the company said in a statement.  The October decision to make Iger chairman when John Pepper
steps down this month represents an “about-face” from reforms
adopted in 2004 when then-chairman  Michael Eisner  relinquished
the title under pressure from shareholders, ISS said.  “We are not second-guessing the board’s rationale for
choosing to recombine the roles, or its right to do so,” ISS
said in a Feb. 29 report. “We are highlighting concerns with
the process underlying the board’s action, which reversed an
earlier commitment to independent board leadership without
transparency or shareholder input.”  CEO Pay  Iger’s pay has climbed to $30 million from $17.3 million
over a six-year period, ISS said in the 28-page document. While
Disney increased the dividend by 50 percent last year, an
investment of $100 in the stock five  years  ago was worth only
$105 at the end of fiscal 2011, the group said.  The ISS assertion that Disney “reversed a commitment to
independent board leadership without conducting outreach to
shareholders beforehand” is false, the company said, adding no
such pledge existed.  The company lived up to its commitment by explaining the
decision and appointing an independent lead director, according
to the filing. Iger’s pay is “entirely in line” with that of
its media peers that include  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  News Corp. (NWSA) ,  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) , Viacom Inc. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the company said.  Disney also said a $100 investment made when Iger took over
in October 2005 had appreciated to $171 as of year-end, while
comparable companies returned no more than $136.  Disney rose 1 percent to $42.39 at the close of  trading  in
 New York . The stock has gained 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  