-- Walt Disney’s Costly ‘John Carter’ Fights Film Critics Along With Martians
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-01T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/disney-s-costly-john-carter-fights-critics-along-with-martians.html
In the new  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  film
“John Carter,” a Civil War veteran transported to Mars fights
giant saber-toothed apes and four-armed, sword-wielding aliens.  Things are only a little less scary here on earth, where
the pricey picture -- researcher  Box Office Mojo  pegs its cost
at about $250 million, not counting marketing -- is already
battling bad buzz, reports of cost overruns, and criticism of
Disney’s early marketing.  Hollywood studios in recent years have made fewer, more
expensive films that can spawn sequels and become long-lived
franchises. When it works, the payoff is big: The Harry Potter
string of eight films has brought in $7.7 billion at the box
office. For every “Toy Story,” there’s a “The Adventures of
Pluto Nash,” which made back less than a 10th its estimated
$100 million budget through ticket sales, Bloomberg Businessweek
 reports  in its March 5 edition.  “ John Carter ” is also a test of whether Burbank,
California-based Disney can spread the magic of animation
powerhouse Pixar, which it  acquired  in 2006 for $7.01 billion,
to live-action films.  Andrew Stanton, the writer and director of “John Carter,”
previously co-wrote and directed Pixar hits “Finding Nemo” and
“WALL-E,” for which he won Academy Awards. He was a writer on
“Monsters, Inc.” and all three “Toy Story” movies. While
“John Carter” isn’t just different because it uses real
actors, it’s more costly than any of Stanton’s previous films.  ‘Hurt Earnings’  “It can hurt earnings if it’s not huge,” Vasily Karasyov,
a New York-based analyst with Susquehanna Financial Group, says.  So far, “John Carter,” which opens March 9, isn’t looking
huge.  Entertainment website  Boxoffice.com  estimates the film will
take in $60 million in its domestic theatrical run, based on the
performance of similar films, the release date, and online
chatter on websites such as Twitter and Facebook.  “This is a movie that should be hitting the sweet spot of
males age 18 to 34,” says Phil Contrino, editor of the site.
“It better make a killing internationally.”  Stanton’s  Nemo , produced for an estimated $94 million in
2003, took in some $868 million in global ticket sales,
according to Box Office Mojo.  “WALL-E,”  a 2008 release, cost
$180 million and grossed $521 million worldwide. That resume
hasn’t shielded Stanton from doubters.  Big-Budget Scrutiny  “When people make a $250 million picture, they’re putting
themselves in the middle of a bull’s-eye,” says James Jacks, a
producer of “The Mummy,” who himself spent eight years trying
to bring the “John Carter” story to life at  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s
 Paramount Pictures . Jacks says he liked Stanton’s film and told
him so at the Feb. 22 premiere for industry notables. Still, “I
would have made it for a lot less money,” he says.  Critics point to marketing gaffes, such as an initial
trailer that appeared too similar to other movies, and the
studio’s decision to drop the identifying words “of Mars,”
from the title after Disney’s similarly named “Mars Needs
Moms” bombed last year.  “It doesn’t have an audience looking forward to it,” says
Harry Knowles, a reviewer for the website  aintitcool.com , who
says he enjoyed the film. “Disney marketing has been lazy and
too late.”  Disney’s Marvel unit has published a series of “John
Carter” comic books, while other merchandise, from action
figures to costumes, has yet to appear.  No Merchandise  “John Carter” joins  “Tangled”  and “Pirates of the
Caribbean: On Stranger Tides” as among the most expensive films
Disney has produced, according to Box Office Mojo. First place
goes to  “Pirates of the Caribbean: At World’s End”  at $300
million, which had successful predecessor films before its large
budget was set.  The movies are part of a trend at Disney of placing larger
bets on fewer films. The studio expects to distribute 12 of its
own pictures in the U.S. this year, down from 19 a decade ago,
according to company filings. Disney put 80 percent of its
fiscal 2011 production budget into multifilm franchises such as
“Cars” and “Pirates of the Caribbean,” up from 40 percent in
2010, Chief Financial Officer Jay Rasulo said last year.  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst at Denver-based Wunderlich
Securities, says some of “John Carter” may be unsuitable for
small children, and it’s unlikely to spawn products elsewhere in
the Disney universe, such as theme-park rides or cartoons.  Edgar Rice Burroughs  The film is based on a 100-year-old series of novels by
Edgar Rice Burroughs, creator of Tarzan. Stanton recalled
reading the stories as a child and has long itched to bring them
to the big screen.  Paul Roeder, a Disney spokesman, says criticism of the
film’s budget and marketing are unfounded. He says Stanton
finished the film on time and stayed within the original budget.
It’s also too soon to judge the still-unfolding marketing
campaign, he says.  Stanton has already outlined two potential sequels should
“John Carter” become a hit.  Asked by a fan via Twitter on Feb. 24 whether he was
nervous about the opening, Stanton replied: “Wouldn’t you be?
(but it’s a good nervous.)”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Ellis  at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  