-- Dollar Falls Versus Higher-Yield Currencies Before U.S. Manufacturing Data
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-03-01T22:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/dollar-yen-fall-on-signs-of-manufacturing-growth.html
The dollar depreciated against the
majority of its most-traded counterparts as reports showed
manufacturing from China to the U.S. expanded in February,
increasing speculation that global growth is on the mend.  Mexico’s peso and the Australian dollar were among the
biggest winners of the 16 major currencies on demand for higher-
yielding assets. Brazil’s real rebounded after earlier falling
against the dollar when the nation extended a foreign investment
tax to try and curb the currency’s strength.  “The global economy appears to be headed in the right
direction,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at
 Western Union Co. (WU) ’s Western Union Business Solutions unit. “The
market may have entered a period of consolidation and that has
caused the dollar to surrender some of its gains.”  The dollar declined 1.1 percent to 12.7241 Mexican pesos at
5 p.m. in  New York . The greenback rose 0.1 percent to $1.3311
per euro and was little changed at 81.12 yen. The euro declined
0.4 percent to 83.42 U.K. pence and was 0.1 percent lower at
107.98 yen.  Brazil said the 6 percent tax, which has been extended to
foreign loans and bonds that mature in three years or less,
takes effect immediately in a government effort to stem an 8.9
percent gain this year in the currency. The tax was previously
applied to foreign borrowing of up to two years.  The real rose 0.2 percent to 1.7142 per dollar after
reaching 1.6890 yesterday, the strongest level since Oct. 31.  ‘Moderate Pace’  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index
fell to 52.4 in February from 54.1 in the prior month, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed today. Readings above
50 signal growth. A separate report showed U.S. personal
spending increased 0.2 percent in January, less than the 0.4
percent forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a “modest to moderate pace” in
January and early February, fueled by manufacturers, the Fed
said yesterday in its Beige Book business survey.  The growth is being echoed in other parts of the world,
spurring investor confidence in the global economic recovery.  China’s purchasing managers’ index rose for a third month
in February, increasing to 51 from 50.5 in January, the
statistics bureau and logistics federation said. Japanese
 capital spending  excluding software climbed 4.9 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, after declining 11 percent in the
previous three months, the  Finance Ministry  said in Tokyo.  Australia’s dollar appreciated 0.7 percent to $1.0809.
 China  is Australia’s biggest trading partner.  Dollar Index  “Positive Chinese data is good for global growth and it’s
good for the high yielders,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior
currency strategist in New York at  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK) , the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $26
trillion in assets under administration.  The yen, which was the worst-performing major currency in
February, dropped against most of its counterparts.  “The yen is the ugliest of the ugly,”  John Taylor ,
founder of currency hedge fund FX Concepts LLC, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg on the Economy” with Sara Eisen and
 Michael McKee . “Japan is in a situation which is really not
very pretty. World growth is generally bad for the yen because
it stimulates the Japanese people to put their money offshore.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 78.799. The gauge slid
to 78.095 yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 2.  Bernanke Testifies  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in testimony
today before Congress, said elevated unemployment and subdued
inflation mean interest rates are likely to stay low, without
offering any sign that the economy needs an additional monetary
boost.  The euro fell for a fifth day versus the pound, the longest
such streak since November 2010, after a second round of loans
from the European Central Bank yesterday failed to bring down
Portuguese bond yields. The yields on five-year Portuguese notes
rose for an eighth day, touching 17.5 percent, the highest level
since Feb. 7.  Default insurance on Greek debt won’t be paid out, the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association said after it was
asked to rule whether part of the nation’s $170 billion bailout
was a  credit event . The decision of the committee was unanimous,
ISDA said on its website.  The ISDA said the  European Central Bank ’s exchange of Greek
bonds for new securities exempt from losses being imposed on
private investors hasn’t triggered $3.25 billion of outstanding
credit-default swaps. A swaps payout may still happen if  Greece 
uses collective-action clauses on private investors who refuse
to take a loss on their debt holdings, according to ISDA’s
rules.  ‘Double Top’  A “modest” rise in U.S. interest rates, falling euro-zone
rates and the ECB’s second refinancing operation this week may
help weaken the euro against the dollar, according to Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc.  Currency strategists led by Robert Sinche recommend
establishing a short position at $1.3330 per euro, targeting a
drop to $1.2650 and with a stop on a two-day close above the
pair’s 200-day moving average at $1.3717.  Signs of a short-term “double top” in the euro around the
$1.3487 level -- which the currency has twice failed to breach -
- and a key reversal yesterday, also suggest the  currency pair 
may be poised for a correction, Sinche, global head of currency
strategy, wrote in a note to clients.  Oil Surges  The  yield  on 10-year Treasury notes rose to 2.03 percent
today, from as low as 1.79 percent this year. The ECB has
lowered its benchmark interest rate twice since October and is
expected to do so once more this year, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  Mexico ’s peso and Canada’s dollar surged as oil, which both
nations export, rose above $110 a barrel for the first time
since May.  Crude for April delivery rose 1.7 percent to $108.75 a
barrel after earlier touching $110.55. Canada’s dollar advanced
0.4 percent to 98.55 Canadian cents after reaching 98.42, the
strongest level against the greenback since Sept. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  