-- Drugmaker Code Deprives Doctors of Football and Lunch for Two
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-03-01T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/drugmaker-code-deprives-doctors-of-football-and-lunch-for-two.html
Doctors can still get free samples
of medicines, though not football tickets or lunch for their
spouses, under a revised code of conduct drafted by a global
drug industry trade group.  The new rules clarify the differences between gifts,
promotional aids and items such as anatomical models that can be
used in medical practice, the  International Federation of
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations  said today in a
statement. The federation’s member companies will be required to
adopt the new guidelines and provide related training to their
1.3 million employees, the group said.  The code may help curb legal expenses related to marketing,
particularly in the U.S., where  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  last year
agreed to pay $3 billion to resolve criminal and civil
investigations and other matters.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY)  each paid more than $1 billion to settle marketing
allegations in 2009.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  are among
drugmakers that in the past year have disclosed U.S. subpoenas
seeking information on the selling of certain products.  “The new code provides a framework for the industry to act
with integrity and build trust,” AstraZeneca Chief Executive
Officer David Brennan, the federation’s president, said in the
statement. “This is not about doing the easy thing, but the
right thing.”  Free Samples  Free samples of medicines may be given to doctors who are
authorized to prescribe them to patients, the federation said in
the code. Companies should avoid extravagant venues for
meetings, be transparent in promotional materials, and shouldn’t
offer items for the personal benefit of a doctor or nurse, such
as gift certificates or concert tickets, according to the
guidelines.  “As a general rule, the hospitality provided must not
exceed what participants would normally be prepared to pay for
themselves,” the federation said in the code. “Companies
should not pay any costs associated with individuals
accompanying invited health-care professionals.”  The rules don’t address direct-to-consumer advertising,
pricing or other trade terms for supplying wholesalers and other
commercial customers, or promotion of medical devices, the
federation said. Drugmakers that fund patient advocacy groups
shouldn’t insist on being the sole sponsor of such an
organization, and should outline in writing the nature of the
financial support, according to the code.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  