-- Drug Crackdown Fuels Guatemala Bond Rally as Ex-General’s Taxes Fund Fight
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-03-01T15:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/drug-crackdown-fuels-guatemala-bond-rally-as-ex-general-s-taxes-fund-fight.html
Guatemalan President Otto Perez Molina is sparking a bond rally by pledging to tame drug
violence that has pushed the  murder rate  up 60 percent in the
past decade and cut into economic growth.  Yields on the government’s dollar-denominated bonds due
2013 have tumbled 81 basis points, or 0.81 percentage point, to
3.12 percent since the Nov. 6 election of the ex-army general,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on similar-
maturity debt issued by  Costa Rica , whose credit ranking from
 Fitch Ratings  matches Guatemala’s BB+, fell 31 basis points over
that time while those on  emerging-market  sovereign bonds slid
33, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Perez Molina, who was sworn in Jan. 14, says he’ll boost
tax collection to fund his push to root out Mexican cartels that
slip through  Guatemala ’s jungles as they ferry U.S.-bound
cocaine from  South America . Traders’ optimism about Perez
Molina’s proposals, which range from a military crackdown to
drug legalization, is slashing the government’s borrowing costs
after  Standard & Poor’s  said in December that the violence was
limiting growth in the Central American country.  “The fact that he’s an ex-military man obviously gives us
assurance,” said Consuelo Palomo, who manages $300 million in
assets, including  government bonds , at Guatemala City-based
Banco G&T Continental. “He wants to use the army to address
security issues, which I think is exactly what is needed.”  ‘Worst Points’  Guatemala’s dollar bonds due 2034 yield 62 basis points
less than  El Salvador ’s securities with a similar maturity and
structure, compared with 30 less on the day of the November
vote, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 6.20 percent
yield on the Guatemalan bonds is 328 basis points over similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Fernando Pontaza, a 33-year-old  money manager  in Guatemala
City, said investors and executives are counting on Perez Molina
to curb violence because lawlessness has started to affect their
daily routines. Last year, Pontaza was walking to work in
Guatemala City’s Zone 10, the district known for luxury hotels
and corporate headquarters, when he said a passenger on a
motorcycle pulled up beside him, pointed a gun at his head and
demanded his iPhone.  Crime “has invaded the lives of everybody,” Pontaza said
in a telephone interview from the capital, where he manages
fixed-income investments and stocks at Invercorp International.
“This has gotten basically to one of the worst points in the
country’s history.” He declined to give his assets under
management.  Drug Legalization  Perez Molina is also urging Central American neighbors to
consider legalizing drugs as a way of curbing violence. The U.S.
Embassy in Guatemala issued a  statement  Feb. 12 that said it
opposes legalization “because evidence shows that our shared
drug problem is a major public health and safety threat.”
Cocaine passing through Central America may equal about 5
percent of the countries’ gross domestic product, according to a
 report  this week from the International Narcotics Control Board,
an independent body monitoring implementation of UN drug
conventions.  The Zetas drug cartel, spawned in  Mexico  by former elite
members of that country’s armed forces, has been blamed by
Guatemalan officials for an increase in crime, including the
 massacre  in May of 27 people in the Peten jungle region near the
northern border.  Perez Molina has said he will fund the security spending
increase in part with new  tax revenue . Congress approved Jan. 26
an anti-tax evasion law that gives the government power to
temporarily shutter businesses not in compliance. A separate
 package  of measures approved Feb. 16 includes raising the income
tax rate paid by non-salaried workers to 7 percent from 5
percent.  ‘Auspicious Start’  The government’s budget deficit will top 3 percent of gross
domestic product this year, compared with 3.3 percent in 2011,
according to S&P forecasts.  Analysts in a Guatemalan central bank survey conducted last
month project the economic expansion will slow to 3.1 percent
this year from 3.8 percent last year. Growth will accelerate to
3.3 percent in 2013, they said.  While Perez Molina needs to do more to boost funding, the
efforts mark an “auspicious start,” said  Boris Segura , a Latin
America strategist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in
 New York . The progress may save the country as much as 75 basis
points in financing costs if it borrows in international bond
markets this year, he said.  Bond Sale  Segura forecasts Guatemala may sell a dollar bond due 2022,
which would yield about 5.5 percent. Rosa Maria Ortega, the head
of public credit at the  Finance Ministry , said the government
won’t rule out a sale “depending on conditions,” according to
a Feb. 16 e-mailed response to questions. Guatemala last sold
bonds overseas in 2004.  Perez Molina has “a clear diagnosis of what needs to be
done,” Segura said in a Feb. 23 telephone interview from New
York. Crime “is a weakness not only for the overall welfare of
the population but also for the business environment. That’s why
the fiscal reform was so sorely needed.”  The homicide rate in Guatemala, Central America’s most
populous country with 15 million  people , jumped to 41.4 per
100,000 inhabitants in 2010 -- or 5,960 total -- from 25.8 a
decade earlier, making it about double the rate in Mexico,
according to the most recent United Nations  report .  Foreign Investment  The security concerns are deterring foreign investment, S&P
analyst Lisa Schineller said in a telephone interview from New
York. Perez Molina may struggle to implement reforms and rein in
crime, according to Schineller. In Mexico, drug-related killings
climbed 11 percent to 12,903 in the first nine months of 2011
even as President Felipe Calderon used the federal police and
military to battle gangs.  “The president ran on a platform of an iron fist,”
Schineller said. “But this is not an easy problem to tackle
given the inherent institutional weaknesses.”  Francisco Cuevas, a spokesman for the Perez Molina, didn’t
return an e-mail or telephone calls seeking comment.  Economic growth in  Colombia , the world’s biggest supplier
of cocaine, is surging after the government scored military
victories over drug traffickers and Marxist guerrillas that
opened up swathes of the countryside to energy and mining
exploration. The central bank forecasts the economy expanded as
much as 6 percent in 2011, the most since 2007. Foreign direct
investment climbed to a record $14.5 billion, more than
quadruple levels a decade ago.  Security Outlook  Guatemala’s bond rally shows “there’s a generally positive
sense about the future of the country in various spheres,
including that of security,” the Finance Ministry’s Ortega
said.  The central bank’s economic confidence index, based on a
survey of analysts, climbed to 79.17 in February, the highest in
five years. Guatemala’s currency, the quetzal, has gained 0.7
percent since the November vote to 7.7765 per dollar at 8:15
a.m.  Guatemala City  time, stemming a 3 percent slide in the
previous six months.  “Sentiment with almost everyone you talk to is positive,”
Pontaza said. “The best possible outcome from the elections was
realized.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  