-- Dubai’s Drydocks World to Complete $2.2 Billion Debt Restructuring by July
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-03-01T07:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/dubai-s-drydocks-world-to-complete-2-2-billion-debt-restructuring-by-july.html
Drydocks World LLC plans to present
next week the terms to restructure $2.2 billion of debt as the
global credit crisis forces Dubai’s state-linked companies to
alter terms on loan repayments.  Drydocks World, a unit of state-controlled Dubai World,
will on March 8 “present the terms of its proposal and the
steps required to implement it along with the associated
timeline to all its syndicated lenders,” the company said in an
e-mailed statement today. The company, which expects to complete
the restructuring by July, “is confident that it will receive
the support of a majority of its syndicated lenders to the terms
of its debt restructuring,” it said.  Drydocks World is one several companies in Dubai seeking to
restructure debt after property prices and asset values slumped
in the Persian Gulf business hub and credit markets froze. Dubai
World, one of the three main state-controlled holding companies,
reached a deal last March with about 80 banks to delay payments
on $25 billion of debt, while Dubai Group LLC is seeking to
restructure $6 billion of bank debt.  Drydocks World borrowed $2.2 billion to finance two
acquisitions in Singapore in 2008 to gain ships and Asian
shipbuilding sites. The company borrowed $1.7 billion for three
years at 170 basis points, or 1.7 percentage points, over the
London interbank offered rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It borrowed another $500 million for five years at
190 basis points over Libor, the data shows.  BNP Paribas SA, DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) ,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , ING Groep NV, Lloyds TSB Group Plc,
 Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ)  and Standard Chartered Plc were helping Drydocks
World get the loans, the company said in 2008.  Government Support  Chairman Juma Buamim said in December Drydocks World hasn’t
asked for government support on its debt. The company will pay
back the loans in five to eight years and continues to pay
interest on them at existing terms, he said at the time.  Drydocks World’s Dubai unit, the  Middle East ’s largest
shipyard, will post a profit of $116 million in 2011 that may
rise by 15 percent next year, Buamim said. It reduced losses
from its southeast Asian business to 5 percent of revenue in
2011 from more than 20 percent last year and is looking for
joint venture partners for its contracting and manpower
businesses as well as to add capacity, he said.  The Dubai unit  carries out vessel conversions , ship
building and offshore construction, apart from ship repairs,
mainly of ultra and very large crude carriers. The company has
yards operating in  Singapore  and  Indonesia , in Graha, Pertama
and Nanindah. It also operates a fleet of 158 vessels,
comprising tankers, bulk, cargo vessels and tugs, according to
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  