-- Megaupload’s Dotcom to Fight Conspiracy Charges, Says He’s No Piracy King
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-03-01T08:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/megaupload-s-dotcom-to-fight-charges-says-he-s-no-piracy-king.html
Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom
said he will fight U.S. charges that he orchestrated the
country’s biggest copyright infringement conspiracy.  “I’m no piracy king, ” Dotcom said in an interview with
 New Zealand ’s TV3 today. “I offered online storage and
bandwidth to users and that’s it. I am a fighter and I am going
to fight this thing.”  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money laundering charges in the indictment.  High Court Justice Timothy Brewer yesterday ruled Dotcom
can remain out of jail on bail pending an extradition hearing,
rejecting an appeal by New Zealand prosecutors. The prosecutors
were acting at the request of the U.S. to keep Dotcom in prison
until the extradition hearing, currently scheduled for Aug. 20.  “Why would I leave after everything has been frozen,
everything has been taken from me,” Dotcom said. “The company
that was worth probably a billion-dollars-plus has been given a
death sentence without trial, you know, what point is there for
me to run away?”  Copyright Counts  In a revised indictment filed in a U.S. court in
Alexandria,  Virginia , on Feb. 17, Dotcom was also charged with
three new criminal copyright counts and five new wire-fraud
counts.  The conspiracy deprived copyright owners of more than $500
million, the U.S. government said.  Dotcom, who legally changed his family name from Schmitz,
has denied any criminal misconduct.  Megaupload advertised that it had more than 1 billion
visits to the site, more than 150 million registered users and
50 million daily visitors, and accounted for 4 percent of
 Internet traffic , prosecutors said. The  site  was shut down by
the U.S. Justice Department and now shows an FBI anti-piracy
warning, saying the domain name has been seized pursuant to a
U.S. court order.  “Everybody knows that the internet is being used for
legitimate and illegitimate uses,” Dotcom said. “Every online
service provider has the same challenges that we have.”  “I create a website that is popular and that people want
to use and have used for a lot of legitimate uses and it is just
completely bizarre how I am being put on a pedestal like this
and pointed at like the over-pirate of the planet. It’s
insane.”  The New Zealand case is Kim Dotcom v.  United States of
America . DCNSD [25 January 2012]. District Court at North Shore
( Albany ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net . 