-- Egyptian Judge Lifts Travel Ban on NGO Workers Facing Trial, Lawyer Says
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-03-01T14:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/egyptian-judge-ends-travel-ban-on-ngo-workers-on-trial-for-foreign-funding.html
Egypt ’s Muslim Brotherhood
criticized a court decision lifting a travel ban on a group of
foreign non-governmental organization workers, who are on trial
in a case that has strained U.S.-Egyptian relations.  “It’s a regrettable decision,” Mahmoud Ghozlan, a
spokesman for the Brotherhood, which controls the largest bloc
in Egypt’s parliament, said in a telephone interview today. The
case “shows that America continues to interfere in Egypt’s
affairs,” he said.  The 43 NGO employees, including 16 Americans, are being
tried for illegally accepted foreign funds and stoking unrest,
charges they deny. The U.S. has warned that the case could lead
to a cut in the $1.3 billion a year of military aid it gives to
Egypt, signaling the deepest rift in relations between the
longtime allies in decades.  The April 6 movement, one of the youth groups that helped
organize protests that led to the overthrow of President  Hosni Mubarak  last year, said in a statement that it “strongly
condemns” the “blatant intervention” in the work of the
judiciary and the “mysterious decision to revoke the travel ban.  The ruling was disclosed earlier today by a lawyer
representing some of the defendants. Attorney Negad El-Boraie,
who represents employees of Freedom House and the International
Republican Institute, said bail was set at 2 million pounds
($332,000).  The National Democratic Institute and the International
Republican Institute, two of the five NGOs whose employees face
charges, have links to the two main U.S. political parties and
one of the Americans barred from travel was Sam LaHood, the son
of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood. Several U.S. senators
and the head of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff traveled to Egypt
after the charges were announced.  Change of Judges  Adding to the confusion, the judges on the court that
oversaw the first session excused themselves from the case on
Feb. 28. The judge who handles case assignments, Abdel-Moez
Ibrahim, said yesterday the reason was a conflict of interest
and that he would reassign the case within a couple of weeks.  The Brotherhood, banned under Mubarak, has emerged as the
most organized political force in the country. Its Freedom and
Justice Party won almost half the seats in parliamentary
elections that ended in January.  Any external intervention in Egyptian affairs would “have
a negative impact on relations between Egypt and that country,”
Ghozlan said. “If this was the case before the revolution, it
is now no longer acceptable to accede to, now that the people
have their dignity, honor and sovereignty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  