-- Elan Chief to Stay on Until Alzheimer Drug Data Published
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2012-03-01T10:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/elan-chief-to-stay-on-until-alzheimer-drug-data-published-1-.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  Chief Executive Officer
Kelly Martin, who planned to step down by May 1, will remain in
the job until data is published from late-stage clinical trials
of an experimental drug for Alzheimer’s disease.  The results on  bapineuzumab  are “potentially of
transformational significance for Elan,” Chairman Robert Ingram
said in a statement today.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  acquired Dublin-
based Elan’s Alzheimer’s immunotherapy program, including
bapineuzumab, in 2009. J&J has said it expects to announce the
study outcomes in the middle of this year.  “After much thought and consideration, the full board and
I believe that Elan and our shareholders will be best served by
having Kelly continue his leadership through this critical
period,” Ingram said. “After a number of discussions between
me and the full board of directors, I have requested that Kelly
extend his tenure as the Elan CEO until the bapineuzumab data
has been shared publicly, evaluated and assessed.”  Elan fell 0.1 percent to 9.37 euros at 10:35 a.m. in
Dublin. The company’s American depositary receipts have soared
95 percent in the  past year , compared with a 15 percent return
for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Alzheimer’s Alliance  Elan has a 25 percent stake in the Alzheimer’s program. The
company developed bapineuzumab with Wyeth, now owned by  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  J&J and Pfizer are now overseeing research into the drug.  J&J expects to be able to file for regulatory approval for
bapineuzumab by the end of the year if the trial results are
positive, the company said in January.  The board held discussions with “a number of exceptionally
high-caliber candidates regarding the Elan CEO role” and will
maintain a dialog with those “who remain interested in the
position and who support this decision,” according to the
statement.  Martin, a former Merrill Lynch & Co. banker, joined Elan in
2003 after an accounting scandal led to the ouster of his
predecessor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  