-- Emerging Stocks Fall From 7-Month High
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-01T15:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/emerging-stocks-fall-from-7-month-high-on-china-policy-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell from a
seven-month high on concern the U.S. and China will refrain from
further steps to ease monetary policy as their economies
improve, curbing appetite for emerging-market assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  declined 0.5 percent to
1,073.9 as of 3 p.m. in  London , snapping a two-day, 2.2 percent
gain that took it to its strongest level since Aug. 3. Benchmark
gauges in  Russia  and  Poland  slipped 0.2 percent.  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) ,
Russia’s second-biggest oil company, retreated after its fourth-
quarter profit missed estimates.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa Index  gained
0.9 percent.  China’s manufacturing improved for a third straight month
in February, signaling the world’s second-biggest economy is
maintaining momentum amid the euro area’s debt crisis. In the
U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell
to 52.4 in February from 54.1 a month earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group’s data showed today. Readings above 50
signal growth.  “As the  U.S. economy  continues to recover and with  China ’s
manufacturing still expanding, there’s less likelihood of
further monetary easing,” said  Castor Pang , head of research at
Core-Pacific Yamaichi International Ltd in  Hong Kong .  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has climbed 17 percent this
year, while the MSCI World gauge gained 9.9 percent. The measure
of developing nations is  valued  at 11 times estimated profit,
below the four-year average of 12, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Purchasing Data  China’s purchasing managers’ index rose to 51.0 from 50.5
in January, China’s statistics bureau and logistics federation
said today. That’s the highest level since September. Economic
data in the first two months are distorted by the Chinese New
Year holiday.  The Labor Department said today the number of Americans
filing first-time claims for unemployment insurance payments
fell to a level matching a four-year low.  “The big question is whether the good American trend is
going to continue or not,” said John Plassard, director at
Louis Capital Markets SA in Geneva.  Russia, Turkey, Hungary  Russia’s 30-stock  Micex (MICEX)  Index slipped after closing
yesterday at the highest since Aug. 4.  OAO Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s
biggest producer of coal for steelmaking, retreated 1.4 percent.
OAO Transneft, the state oil pipeline operator, lost as much as
2.3 percent.  Turkey ’s benchmark  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  added 0.1
percent. Mardin Cimento Sanayii & Ticaret AS, a cement producer,
gained 1.3 percent after 2011 profit beat estimates.  In Poland, the  Wig 20 Index (WIG20)  fell for a second day.  PBG SA (PBG) ,
third-largest builder, lost 3.6 percent after fourth-quarter
profit missed analysts’ estimates.  Brazil’s Bovespa Index rebounded from yesterday’s 0.2
percent declined, led by a 5.4 percent jump in  Marfrig Alimentos
SA (MRFG3) ,  Latin America ’s second-largest beef producer.  Home Prices  China’s February home prices posted the biggest decline in
19 months, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s
largest real-estate website owner. Soho China Ltd., a
homebuilder in Shanghai and Beijing, retreated 3.5 percent.  The  Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index  of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps retreated seven
basis points to 266, according to data provider CMA.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 350, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  