-- Empire State Realty Trust Sued by Investor Over Plan to Become Public REIT
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-03-01T21:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/empire-state-realty-trust-is-sued-by-investor-over-plan-to-become-reit.html
Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) , the
company that controls the Empire State Building, was sued by an
investor over its plan to become a real estate investment trust
and sell shares on the  New York  Stock Exchange.  The company said on Feb. 13 that it plans to raise as much
as $1 billion in an initial public offering, giving investors
the opportunity to own a piece of the landmark 102-story
Manhattan skyscraper. A group of closely held companies will be
consolidated to form the REIT as part of the IPO, according to
regulatory filings.  The investor, Leon Meyers, sued in New York State Supreme
Court today, accusing Empire State Realty Trust and Malkin
Holdings LLC, supervisor of the company that holds the title to
the tower, of breaches of fiduciary duties.  “Defendants seek to consummate this proposed transaction
through self-interested consent solicitations that fail to
provide the participants with material information sufficient to
allow them to make informed decisions regarding whether to
support the planned transaction,” Meyers said in the complaint.  Meyers seeks unspecified compensation for losses and
damages, as well as a declaration that the transaction is
“unfair, unjust and inequitable” to the plaintiff and other
investors. He asked a judge to stop the defendants from taking
any steps necessary to complete the transaction “via a process
that is not fair and equitable.”  ‘Reasonable Alternatives’  “The Malkin defendants failed to consider reasonable
alternatives to the proposed transaction, which were potentially
more beneficial to the participants but less likely to be
economically beneficial to the defendants,” according to the
complaint.  Malkin Holdings supervises property partnerships led by
 Peter Malkin  and his son Anthony Malkin. It owns the
2.9 million-square-foot (269,000-square-meter) Empire State
Building in conjunction with the estate of  Leona Helmsley .  “This is a baseless lawsuit,”  Brandy Bergman  of Sard
Verbinnen & Co., a spokeswoman for Malkin Holdings, said in a
phone interview. She said the company will fight the suit.  The REIT would consolidate Manhattan and New York-area
properties owned by companies including Empire State Building
Associates LLC, 60 East 42nd St. Associates LLC and 250 West
57th St. Associates LLC. Participants can opt to receive cash
instead of shares for as much as 15 percent of the value.  Twelve Buildings  The companies that would make up Empire State Realty owned
12 buildings totaling about 7.7 million square feet of rentable
offices as of Sept. 30, according to the filing. Seven
properties, including the Empire State Building, are in Midtown,
totaling 5.8 million square feet. The other five are in New
York’s Westchester and  Connecticut ’s Fairfield counties.  The REIT would also hold rights to develop land near the
commuter railroad station in  Stamford , Connecticut, plus four
standalone retail properties in Manhattan and two in Westport,
Connecticut.  For years, the Empire State Building underperformed because
of friction and litigation between parties in a complex chain of
ownership. The landlord,  Donald Trump ’s organization for a time,
leased the entire building to a venture controlled by Peter
Malkin and Lawrence Wien, which then subleased it to a Helmsley
partnership.  Bigger Suites  The Malkins bought out the Trump Organization in 2002 and
settled litigation with Helmsley in 2006, giving them management
rights to the tower. They began renovations, making larger
office suites to attract higher-paying tenants, at a cost that
may exceed $500 million by the end of 2013, according to the
filing.  The improvements included retrofitting the tower to reduce
its energy consumption and carbon emissions, in part by
replacing all 6,500 windows. The $20 million makeover, in which
former President  Bill Clinton ’s foundation was a partner, won
the building the second-highest rating in September from the
U.S. Green Building Council.  In 2010 and 2011, Li & Fung Ltd., a Hong Kong-based
consumer products marketing company, signed leases for 588,944
square feet in the tower.  The Empire State Building -- the tallest in the world from
its completion in 1931 until the World Trade Center’s north
tower was finished in 1972 -- accounted for 41 percent of Empire
Realty’s revenue in the nine months through September, the
company said in the filing. The tower’s observatory, one of New
York’s most popular tourist attractions, provided 17 percent of
the company’s revenue during that period.  Some proceeds from the public offering will be used as
payment to investors who choose to receive cash for their equity
in existing Malkin entities, according to the filing. Other
proceeds will be used to pay fees in connection with debt, and
possibly for future acquisitions.  The case is Meyers v. Empire State Realty Trust Inc.,
650607/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net 
ESB US <Equity> CN 