-- Energy’s Chu Defends U.S. Efforts to Curb Gasoline Prices
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-03-01T20:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/energy-s-chu-defends-u-s-efforts-to-curb-rising-gasoline-prices.html
U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu
rebutted Republican claims that President Barack Obama’s
administration isn’t doing enough to reduce gasoline prices.  “We very much want to not only slow the price, but
reverse” the rising cost of gasoline, Chu said today at a House
hearing in Washington on the Energy Department’s budget. “We
definitely feel the pain that every American and every business
feels when the price of gas goes up.”  The average cost of gasoline at the pump, which is tied to
 oil prices , rose to $3.78 a gallon in the week ended Feb. 27,
double the $1.89 when Obama took office in January 2009,
according to the U.S.  Energy Information Administration .
International events, including political turmoil in the  Middle
East , have threatened to reduce oil supplies while demand from
 developing countries  including  China  has increased, placing
upward pressure on prices.  “As the price of gas goes up, money that can be invested
in our already fragile economy is taken out of consumers’
pockets,” Representative James Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin
Republican, said to Chu at today’s hearing.  The Energy Department is investing in technologies to
improve automobile gas mileage, expand battery life and develop
biofuels to curb U.S. oil imports, Chu said.  ‘A Minus’  “We want to diversify our energy supplies,” including
increasing production of oil and natural gas, he said. Chu said
he would give himself a grade of “A minus” for his efforts as
Energy Secretary, allowing “room for improvement.”  Republicans including presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich 
have attacked Chu for not focusing on curbing the rise in
gasoline prices after he said the administration’s “overall
goal is to decrease our dependency on oil” during testimony to
a House Appropriations subcommittee on Feb. 28.  “Just this week, Obama’s own Energy secretary, Steven Chu,
admitted what we all know is true -- that the Obama Energy
Department really isn’t trying to lower gasoline prices,”
Gingrich, a former U.S. House speaker, said today in a
statement. “President Obama must announce today” during an
energy-policy speech in Nashua,  New Hampshire , “that he is
firing Secretary Chu and replacing him with a pro-American-
energy appointment,” Gingrich said.  The administration is “very, very concerned about the
rising gasoline prices and will do everything it can to help
reduce those prices,” Chu told reporters after the hearing
today. “As the president has said time and time again, there
are no single magic bullets.”  Strategic Reserve  The U.S. is considering the option of tapping its Strategic
Petroleum Reserve as a short-term way to curb gasoline price
increases, Chu and Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said Feb. 28
in separate Washington appearances.  House Speaker  John Boehner  told reporters that Obama’s
comments yesterday during a meeting with Republican and
Democratic congressional leaders suggests he doesn’t think
tapping the reserve would lower gasoline prices.  “It did not appear to me the president believed that
using” the oil reserve “would have any meaningful effect on
gas prices,” Boehner said today at his weekly press conference.  “Just releasing” the reserve oil “without coordinating
with our allies around the world, all that does is shift where
the supply’s coming from,” the Ohio Republican said.  Boehner said Chu has “made it pretty clear that his goal
is to have higher energy prices.” Unlike his energy secretary,
Obama made it clear in the meeting that “he would prefer to see
lower gas prices, at least through Election Day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  