-- EPA Defends Cross-State Air Pollution Rule to U.S. Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-01T23:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/epa-defends-cross-state-air-pollution-rule-to-u-s-court-1-.html
U.S. regulation of interstate air
pollution will have “dramatic” health benefits for 240 million
people and should be implemented, the Environmental Protection
Agency told a federal appeals court.  The agency today urged the U.S. Appeals Court in  Washington 
to uphold the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule, which was put on
hold by the court in December while it considered the legality
of the regulation. The EPA said in its filing that it
“reasonably projected” what areas of the country should be
included in the rule.  “The transport rule represents the culmination of decades
of congressional, administrative and judicial efforts to fashion
a workable, comprehensive regulatory approach to interstate air
pollution issues that have huge public health implications,”
according to the 116-page filing.  The EPA rule, which apply to  Texas  and 26 eastern states,
impose caps on sulfur dioxide, which can lead to acid rain and
soot harmful to humans and ecosystems, and nitrogen oxide, a
component of ground-level ozone and a main ingredient of smog.  More than three dozen lawsuits were filed challenging the
rule as “one of the most costly, burdensome and arbitrary”
ever issued under the  Clean Air Act , according to court filings.  April Arguments  Arguments in the case are scheduled for April 13 before
judges  Judith Rogers ,  Thomas Griffith  and Brett Kavanaugh.  Southern Co. (SO) , EME Homer City Generation LP, a unit of
 Edison International (EIX) , and  Energy Future Holdings Corp (TXU) . units in
Texas are among the power companies challenging the rule. The
 state of Texas , the National Mining Association and the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers joined in
parallel cases, saying the rule puts an undue financial burden
on power producers and threatens electricity reliability by
forcing companies to shut some older plants.  The rule, issued in July and revised in October, applies
to emissions that cross state lines.  “EPA refused to consider real-world air quality data
contradicting its own implausible air quality projections that
were the basis for subjecting upwind states to” the regulation,
Peter Keisler, a partner at Sidley Austin LLP who represents
opponents, said in court papers filed Feb. 9.  He said the agency also set “unprecedented, truncated”
compliance deadlines that “assumed that industry should have
begun installation of costly controls even before the final rule
had issued.”  The case is EME Homer City Generation LP v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 11-1302,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 