-- Mercedes SLS Trades Classic Gullwing for $200,000 Top-Down Roar
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/mercedes-sls-trades-gullwings-for-200-000-top-down-roar-jason-h-harper.html
Highway 101 just south of  San
Francisco , and the orderly lines of traffic are holding a steady
65 miles per hour (105 kilometer per hour), placid and in no
apparent hurry. California calm.  The roof is down on your $224,000 Mercedes-Benz SLS AMG
Roadster and the feral burble of the V-8 engine is even louder
than the sharp snap of wind in your face.  That hunk of rumbling metal, with its furious pistons and
hot oil, seems to be talking directly to you, a voice that
smokes unfiltered cigarettes and gargles whisky.  Let me loose. Free me.  A California highway patrolman on a motorcycle idling on
the inside shoulder reminds you why letting the SLS Roadster
loose is not a good idea. Yet, it’s impossible to shut out its
persuasive urgings.  As a reincarnation of the famed  Mercedes (DAI)  SL Gullwings of
the 1950s, the convertible SLS supercar is a quintessential West
Coast ride. The original coupes and roadsters are pricy
collectors’ items today, defined by clean lines and (in the
coupe’s case), exotic pop-up doors. You’ll rarely see a more
beautiful car.  Mercedes introduced the $190,000 SLS AMG coupe in 2009. It
was a spiritual successor, with a 6.3-liter, 563-horsepower
engine in its belly and a set of top-hinged gullwing doors. Less
pretty, far faster.  The 2012 convertible model was recently released and it
starts just south of $200,000. The roof is canvas and since the
doors can’t hang off of it, the car loses the gullwings. That
might seem as if you’ve just negated the whole point, but the
SLS makes the transition to a convertible surpassingly well.  Wide Body  The body is extremely low and wide, as if a titan had
squished it down with a massive thumb. These distorted
proportions appear even more exaggerated without a top. Same
supercar, fewer inhibitions.  Lower the roof electronically in just over 10 seconds,
trigger the engine, and the next part of the equation becomes
clear. There’s no sound insulation between you and the engine.  No surprise, it’s best when your foot pins the accelerator
mercilessly to the floor. Which might remind you that, like the
coupe, the convertible is rated to travel at up to 197 mph.  Too bad there’s no road in  California  where one might do
such a thing legally.  Rising Tide  Even around stoplights, the power of the SLS is
irrepressible, like being in the belly of a slow-moving wave way
out to sea. It looks placid enough, but there’s a deep reservoir
of power. The SLS surges through its lower gears, eddying
through third and fourth -- but you can cause it to tsunami at a
pedal push.  The transmission is only available as a seven-speed double
clutch; you can leave it in automatic or click through gears
using the steering-wheel paddles. The interior on this
particular car is a mix of bright red leather, nice stuff, and
carbon-fiber (a $9,000 option). Racy and rich.  Off the highway, for the sake of both a change of scenery
and safety of keeping your driver’s license, you might head over
the hills toward the Pacific, randomly choosing back roads. Even
on narrow lanes the ride is firm and dependable, with
predictable turns and good steering.  Low Nose  The car’s width is a liability on some lanes, especially a
very narrow road that runs along a wooded mountain ridge,
passing through Christmas-tree farms lightly shrouded in mist.
If you meet another vehicle coming the other way, it will be
tough to find a place pull off into the rocky shoulder,
especially with the low nose.  (A hotel valet in Monterey can attest to this after
returning the roadster with the bottom of the front fascia
chewed up and a fresh scrape on the paint.)  It’s chilly in the higher elevation, but rather than put
the top up, you turn on the seat warmers and Mercedes’s clever
system that blows warm air directly onto the nape of your neck
from the seatback.  What’s a California car without a dash along Highway 1? It
can seem like the world’s most overrated road until you’re
actually swinging through the curves, and you recall why it’s so
beautiful and fun. With the top down, you really get a sense of
the crashing waves below you, and the salt in the air.  But then the sun goes away and a few wet dots appear on the
windshield. Rain. You could stop and put the roof up. Instead
you add in throttle and the car happily responds, going ever
faster. The cabin remains dry.  Who says you can’t outrun the rain? It might be the best
excuse you have for letting the SLS Roadster run free.  The 2012 Mercedes-Benz SLS AMG Roadster at a Glance  Engine: 6.3-liter V-8 with 563 horsepower and 479 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: Seven-speed double-clutch automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 3.7 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 14 city, 20 highway.  Price as tested: $224,275.  Best feature: Noise, when the top is down.  Worst feature: Trying to keep to legal speeds on the  highway.  Target buyer: The Californian who likes his speed in top-  down style.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 