-- Tesco Failing to Reverse 22% Decline Promises More Fresh
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-03-01T00:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/tesco-failing-to-reverse-22-decline-promises-more-fresh-retail.html
A year since succeeding  Terry Leahy 
as chief executive officer of  Tesco Plc, (TSCO)   Philip Clarke  has few
reasons to celebrate.  Clarke’s anniversary this week coincided with the U.K.
retailer’s dominant share of the 151 billion-pound ($241
billion) grocery market slumping to a seven-year low as
competitors win business with a focus on quality and innovation.
Some shoppers are heading upscale to such premium chains as
Waitrose Ltd., while others are seeking savings at discounters
such as Aldi and Lidl, according to a report from London-based
researcher  Kantar Worldpanel .  To revive  sales growth  that’s slowed to almost half that of
Britain’s food-retailing industry, Clarke is promising to go
beyond Tesco’s failed discounting strategy. Instead, the mega
chain will offer more fresh-food and product choices. Still,
profitability in the U.K. may never regain its 2009 peak,
according to Jan Meijer, an analyst at ING Groep NV.  “They clearly became too price focused and that’s not a
differentiator in the supermarkets anymore,” Natalie Berg, an
analyst at Planet Retail in  London  said, given J Sainsbury Plc’s
Price Match, an everyday low price guarantee by Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.’s Asda and William Morrison Supermarket Plc’s Price Crunch.  Tesco  shares  have dropped 22 percent since Clarke took over
on March 2, 2011, rattling shareholders accustomed to an
annualized 12.7 percent total  return  per year under Leahy, who
spent 14 years building the Cheshunt, England-based company into
Britain’s biggest retailer. Tesco’s share of grocery spending
fell to 29.7 percent in the 12 weeks ended Feb. 19, from 30.3
percent in the same period a year earlier, Kantar said.  Years to Recover  The “Tesco supertanker will likely take some turning,”
said John Kershaw, an analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in London. “Investors are right to remain cautious.” Kershaw
cut the stock to “underperform” from “neutral” on Feb. 22,
one of at least 10 recommendation downgrades since Jan. 12.  “Clarke has a job on his hands now,” said William Hobbs,
who helps manage 164.2 billion pounds in assets at  Barclays
Wealth  in London. Hobbs said his fund removed Tesco from its
portfolio in January after the grocer posted sales that missed
estimates and forecast “minimal” profit growth in 2013.  Food retailers can take years to recover after reducing
profit forecasts and often underestimate the amount of work
needed to turn around underperforming units, according to
Deutsche Bank AG analyst James Collins.  Store Trial  Carrefour SA (CA) , Tesco’s largest European competitor, lowered
its profit forecast twice in three months last year and in
January said profit would be at the lower end of its range as
weaker discretionary spending hurt sales.  J Sainsbury, (SBRY)  the
U.K.’s third-largest supermarket company behind Tesco and Asda,
has not fully recovered past levels of profitability since
reporting a pretax loss in 2005.  Clarke, 51, started working for Tesco as a stock boy at 14
and became CEO after overseeing international expansion. The
retailer gets about a third of  revenue  from countries other than
the U.K. such as  South Korea , Poland and the U.S.  “It’s range, quality and service where we feel we can be
much stronger” in Britain, Clarke told investors in January,
adding that  employees  will be given additional training in areas
such as  customer service  and fresh food.  Tesco has made changes at a medium-sized “Metro” store on
Tooley Street near  London Bridge , including a green-uniformed
“Fruit and Veg” team that checks for damaged produce every 30
minutes. Signs identify the store’s fishmonger by name and the
wine section is decked out with burgundy-and-wood trimmings.  Organic Garlic  The outlet has a self-serve salad bar, in-house bakery with
hot croissants and a Krispy Kreme donut concession. There are
also color-coded signs for each category, wider aisles, brighter
lighting and cleaner floors than neighboring Tesco stores.  Fresh items under a “Tesco Organic” banner include a
black garlic bulb for 1.40 pounds, while a plastic-wrapped ham
roll in the “Fresh Today” section costs 1.60 pounds. Five
aisles are dedicated to produce in closed-door refrigerators,
such as chicken breast and chilled prepared meals.  Gail Nield, a 52-year-old office administrator who works
locally to the Tooley Street outlet, said she now regularly buys
ready-meals and takeaway lunches there. Most Tesco stores offer
a “fairly dismal environment” and need updating, she said.  A Tesco spokesman declined to comment on the Tooley Street
store, saying that trials have focused on putting more staff
into areas such as fresh foods.  Reduced Estimates  Tesco’s U.K. trading margin, at 6.1 percent of sales in the
year ended February 2011, may fall to 5.3 percent in fiscal 2012
and take many years to return to 6 percent, according to Black.
ING’s Jan Meijer said the margin, or operating profit excluding
some items as a percentage of sales, “will be lower forever”
and cut his estimate for the year through 2013 to 5.4 percent.  In the last four weeks, estimates for Tesco’s earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization in fiscal
2012 have fallen by 20.2 million pounds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. For the following two years, they’ve been
cut by 49.3 million pounds and 51 million pounds, respectively,
the data shows. The grocer reports annual results on April 18.  Analysts haven’t written off Clarke’s chances of turning
the domestic business around. About 31 percent have a “buy”
 recommendation  on Tesco, compared with 20 percent for Sainsbury
and 7.5 percent for Carrefour.  “We think that Tesco is fixable,” said  Philip Dorgan , an
analyst at Panmure Gordon in London with a “buy” rating on the
stock. “It won’t be a rapid turnaround, but it can be done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  