-- European Leaders Speed Up Cash for Bailout Fund in Response to Global Push
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-03-02T08:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/eu-to-speed-payments-to-permanent-aid-fund-amid-global-pressure.html
European leaders agreed to provide
capital faster for the planned permanent bailout fund in a
concession to international pressure to strengthen the bloc’s
defenses against the debt crisis.  Euro governments might pay the first two annual
installments into the 500 billion-euro ($666 billion) fund this
year and complete the capitalization in 2015, a year ahead of
schedule. A decision will come later today.  “There will be an acceleration,” European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy  told reporters in Brussels late yesterday
after an EU summit. “It could be starting with the payment of
two tranches in 2012 but we have to take a definite decision.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who last year pushed for
the longer five-year payment schedule, reversed course this
month and spearheaded the drive to speed up the timetable as
world leaders and the  International Monetary Fund  pressed for
bolder European action to stamp out the crisis.  At the same time, Merkel forced the EU to put off a
discussion of increasing the overall ceiling for rescue lending.
Others, including Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
have pushed to pair the permanent fund, to be set up in July,
with the temporary facility that is set to lapse in mid-2013.  The euro weakened 0.3 percent to $1.3270 at 9:25 a.m. in
Brussels while the Stoxx 600 Index added as much as 0.3 percent.  Finance ministers from Group of 20 countries made clear
last month that they won’t pour more money into the IMF’s anti-
crisis resources until the 17-nation euro zone does more to help
itself.  IMF Deadline  Europe  faces a March 13 deadline -- a day after the next
meeting of euro finance chiefs -- to boost the rescue limit in
order to win over the IMF, Juncker said.  “The IMF is meeting on March 13 and will only allow its
participation to increase if the euro group countries build the
firewalls a little higher than they are now,” Juncker, who
chairs euro finance meetings, told reporters.  A decision to raise the lending limit can be made by
finance ministers without the need for a leaders’ summit,  Van
Rompuy  said.  Europe plans to equip the permanent fund, known as the
European Stability Mechanism, with 80 billion euros in cash and
give it the right to call another 620 billion euros in an
emergency. The total would enable it to lend 500 billion euros
and maintain a buffer to garner an AAA credit rating.  Firewall  “The firewall needs to be strong and we’ve also said the
ESM can be more efficient by speeding up installments,” Dutch
Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said.  Leaders opened the second day of their two-day summit by
signing a German inspired  deficit-control treaty , putting a
tighter bind on spending just as they switch from fighting the
debt crisis to  promoting growth .  All 17 countries in the euro and eight outside it signed
the treaty, which mandates automatic corrections of deficits
that stray from targets. It is due to take effect on Jan. 1,
2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremerin Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  