-- Euro Bailout Fund Gets Ministers’ Approval to Raise Money for Greek Swap
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-03-01T23:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/euro-bailout-fund-gets-ministers-approval-to-raise-money-for-greek-swap.html
Euro-area finance ministers kept up
pressure on Greece as they authorized the region’s bailout fund
to raise money for a bond exchange, the first step in releasing
funds from a 130 billion-euro ($173 billion) rescue package.  Greece has passed “all required legislation” and the
ministers “note with satisfaction” the progress achieved,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said after
chairing a meeting of the finance chiefs in Brussels yesterday
before he joined a European Union summit. As a result, they gave
the go-ahead to the European Financial Stability Facility to
issue bonds to finance their role in the debt swap.  After the summit, Juncker said there was a back-up plan if
the swap intended to ease the country’s financing load falls
short. Speaking to reporters in Brussels after a European Union
summit today, he declined to provide further details. “Yes, it
exists,” he said, when asked, without saying more.  The progress toward wrapping up the second bailout for
Greece came amid signs the crisis that has roiled the region
since 2009 is easing. As leaders wrote a new budget rulebook,
the  European Central Bank  pumped 1 trillion euros into the
financial system, pushing the  risk premium  on Italian 10-year
bonds compared to German securities to the lowest in six months.
Yields on Italian two-year notes fell under 2 percent for the
first time since October 2010.  Bond Swap  The bond exchange, part of a strategy drafted in October,
imposes a loss of more than 70 percent on private investors. It
needs to succeed for the EFSF to distribute the cash and for the
rescue package to receive final approval, said Juncker.  He said the ministers were “confident” that the swap
offer includes “sufficient attractive and unique features” to
attract broad participation.  The euro-area ministers will check on results of the debt
swap on March 9 as they move forward on the rescue program. On
March 12, the ministers will meet in Brussels, in the same week
that the IMF is slated to decide on its role in the program and
in which the full package may be activated.  Speaking to lawmakers at the European Parliament in
Brussels yesterday, Juncker said he expected the next aid
payment to  Greece  by March 20 “at the latest,” the date of a
bond payment of about 14.5 billion euros.  In addition to the bond-exchange financing, they also
agreed on a backstop facility for the recapitalization of Greek
banks. And they authorized the EFSF to implement a buyback
scheme for Greek bonds used as collateral in monetary-policy
operations.  ‘Very Positive’  Greek finance minister Evangelos Venizelos called
yesterday’s assessment of Greece’s progress “very positive.”
Aiming to meet conditions for the bailout, Greek lawmakers
approved cuts in pensions and health care in the early hours
yesterday, a day after ratifying 3.2 billion euros of spending
reductions.  Default insurance on Greek debt won’t be paid out as a
result of the swap, the International Swaps & Derivatives
Association ruled yesterday. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said Greece should complete the debt swap next week.  The euro officials meeting in Brussels “appreciated that
the preliminary actions required have been done by Greece,”
Monti told reporters. “We will verify next week the progress on
the PSI and that should be positively solved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  