-- Euro Finance Ministers Set to Approve Greek Rescue Plan as Leaders Gather
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-03-01T12:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/euro-finance-ministers-set-to-approve-greek-rescue-plan-as-leaders-gather.html
Euro-area finance ministers are set
to clear a second rescue for Greece today to avoid what Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  described as a potential “brutal
outcome” for the  Greek economy .  Euro finance chiefs, gathering in Brussels today before a
summit of leaders from the 27-nation European Union, will review
Greece’s progress on meeting the conditions of the 130 billion-
euro ($173 billion) aid package, which they approved last week.
That will pave the way for a loan payment before a March 20
Greek bond redemption and the completion of a debt exchange
intended to ease the country’s financing load.  If leaders “had not come to an agreement on the second
package, this might have brought a brutal outcome for Greece,”
Monti said in an interview yesterday in  Rome . That would have
led to “contagion effects flowing to  Spain ,  Italy , in spite of
the good progress being made by these countries.”  Europe’s debt woes have eased this week after 1 trillion
euros of emergency cash from the  European Central Bank  helped
push the yield on Italy’s 10-year bonds -- and their  risk
premium  to German securities -- to the lowest in six months.
Yields on Italian two-year notes fell under 2 percent for the
first time since October 2010.  Spain and  France  sold 12.5 billion euros of bonds today and
Europe’s Stoxx 600 Index added 0.6 percent at 1:40 p.m. in
Brussels.  Speaking to lawmakers at the European Parliament in
Brussels yesterday, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said he expected the next aid payment to  Greece  by March
20 “at the latest” and he urged holders of Greek bonds to take
up a debt-swap that will impose losses of more than 70 percent.  Completing the Swap  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he expects
Greece to complete the swap in two weeks if all conditions are
met. If ministers clear the bailout package, the debt swap
“should be concluded the week after next.”  Default insurance on Greek debt won’t be paid out, the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association ruled today.  The ECB’s exchange of Greek bonds for new securities exempt
from losses being imposed on private investors hasn’t triggered
$3.25 billion of outstanding credit-default swaps. ISDA’s
determinations committee said the switch didn’t constitute
subordination, one of the criteria for a payout under a
restructuring credit event.  ‘Premature’  With officials including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
expressing doubt that that bailout was no guarantee of success,
Schaeuble said it’s “premature” to consider a third package.
“We haven’t even signed off on the second one,” he said.  The finance chiefs from the 17-nation euro will probably
officially complete that rescue today, an official told
reporters yesterday on condition of anonymity. The country,
swamped by debt and facing the prospect of default, received a
110 billion-euro lifeline in May 2010.  In the early hours today, Greek lawmakers approved cuts in
pensions and health care a day after ratifying a 3.2 billion
euro package of spending reductions, aiming to meet conditions
for the bailout.  Officials are trying to maintain the region’s progress
against the debt crisis triggered by Greece in 2009. Monti,
signaling the worst may be over for the euro region’s most
distressed bonds, said he expects leaders to strike a deal by
the end of the month on expanding a debt-crisis firewall.  While Merkel has expressed reluctance to discuss increasing
the size of  Europe ’s bailout funds at the summit, Monti said
he’s “confident” a deal will come.  “Size matters,” said Monti. “If the approach to
firewalls is constructive enough in Europe, I believe we will
all be in a better position to face any further contagion effect
or any resurgence of the crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net 
Gabi Thesing in Brussels at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  