-- Europe Factory Report Shows Region Trailing as Joblessness Rises: Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-03-01T11:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/europe-factory-report-shows-region-trailing-as-joblessness-rises-economy.html
Euro-area manufacturing shrank for a
seventh month and  unemployment  rose to the highest in more than
14 years, stoking concern that the regional economy may struggle
even as global growth improves.  A  manufacturing gauge  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation region increased to 49 in February
from 48.8 in January, remaining below the 50 line that divides
expansion from contraction, London-based Markit Economics said
today. Separate reports showed the jobless rate rose to 10.7
percent in January, the highest since October 1997, and
inflation accelerated last month.  The manufacturing survey contrasts with reports in  China ,
 India  and the U.K. showing continued expansion in factory
output. While Europe is pressing on with measures to stem its
sovereign debt crisis, the region is likely to lag behind growth
elsewhere in the world as  Asia  and the U.S. boost global
prospects.  “We won’t get an economic improvement anytime soon in
Europe,” said  Alexander Krueger , chief economist at Bankhaus
Lampe KG in Dusseldorf. “The first quarter will definitely be
negative and there are concerns that we’ll see a deeper or
longer recession. Downside risks are prevailing.”  The euro-area manufacturing index was in line with a
preliminary estimate on Feb. 22. Markit economist  Chris Williamson  said the survey showed new orders continued to
decline last month and there is “still lots to worry about.”  Inflation Accelerates  The unemployment report from the European Union’s
statistics office showed that the number of jobless in the
region rose 185,000 in January to 16.93 million people.
 Inflation (ECCPEST)  quickened to 2.7 percent in February from 2.6 percent
in January, the office said.  Oil prices have increased in recent months on concern that
sanctions against  Iran  will disrupt supplies.  European Central
Bank  council member Ewald Nowotny said on Feb. 28 that
“disturbing developments in the  Middle East ” could fuel
inflation. “That could make life a bit more difficult,” he
said.  The  International Monetary Fund  has forecast that the euro-
area economy will contract 0.5 percent this year, according to a
report in January. The U.S. may expand 1.8 percent and the
global economy by 3.3 percent.  Europe’s Struggles  Europe’s economy is struggling to gain strength after
shrinking in the fourth quarter as governments from  Italy  to
 Greece  step up budget cuts, undermining hiring and consumer
demand. While the European Central Bank has provided banks with
more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of cash since
December, it may take time for fresh liquidity to seep through
and spur investment.  The output figures “support our view that we have a slow-
burn recession in  Europe ,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at
Standard Chartered Plc in  London . “The ECB is clearly providing
a boost to confidence, though there is a lag in that feeding
through and we still have a lot of drag on activity.”  In the U.K., a  manufacturing gauge  slipped to 51.2 in
February from 52.0 in January, Markit said in a separate report.
While the index still indicates expansion, the report said
“weak demand from the euro zone offset new business wins in the
U.S. and Asia.”  Asian Surge  Data from China today showed that a  purchasing managers’
index  rose for a third month to 51 in February from 50.5 in
January. In India, a PMI released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit was close to an eight-month high.  Today’s Chinese data, along with a surprise gain in
Japanese companies’ capital spending and South Korea’s biggest
increase in exports in six months, add to signs that global
growth prospects are improving.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slid 0.9 percent today on
speculation that the better-than-expected data from China mean
the government will refrain from more monetary easing. The gauge
entered a bull market yesterday, gaining more than 20 percent
from an Oct. 5 low. Europe’s Stoxx 600 Index was up 0.4 percent
as of 10:53 a.m. in London.  U.S.  manufacturing  may have strengthened for a fourth month
in February. The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
rose to 54.5, the highest since June, from 54.1 in January,
according to the median estimate of 78 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News for a report due today.  Initial jobless claims in the U.S. probably rose to 355,000
in the week ended Feb. 25 from a four-year low of 351,000 a week
earlier, according to the median projection of 48 economists.
 Consumer spending  may have increased 0.4 percent in January,
according to the median of 80 economists, after being unchanged
in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  