-- Euro-Area Inflation Accelerates on Energy Cost
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-03-01T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/euro-area-inflation-accelerates-on-energy-cost.html
European inflation  accelerated in
February as political tensions in the Middle East boosted  oil
prices  even as the economy heads into a recession.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation euro area rose to 2.7
percent from 2.6 percent in January, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said in an initial estimate
today. Unemployment rose to 10.7 percent in January, a 14-year
high, it said in a separate report.  Europe ’s economy may struggle to gather strength after
shrinking in the  fourth quarter  as governments from  Italy  to
 Greece  step up budget cuts, undermining hiring and consumer
demand. While crude-oil prices have increased about 23 percent
over the past year, companies may find it difficult to raise
prices in coming months, economists said.  “Oil-price developments will be a key factor in future
euro-zone consumer-price developments,”  Howard Archer , chief
European economist at IHS Global Insight in  London , said before
today’s report. “But the likelihood remains that weakened
economic activity and high and rising unemployment should
generally limit underlying price pressures.”  The euro-region economy may shrink 0.3 percent this year
after expanding 1.4 percent in 2011, the European Commission
said on Feb. 23. While  Germany ’s economy, Europe’s largest, is
seen growing 0.6 percent in 2012, the commission projected
contractions for Belgium, Greece, Spain, Italy, Cyprus and the
Netherlands.  ‘Disturbing Developments’  Rising energy costs threaten to further weaken the region’s
economy by sapping the purchasing power of companies and
consumers. Oil prices have increased in recent months on concern
that sanctions against Iran will disrupt supplies from the
second-largest producer in the Organization for Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  European Central Bank council member Ewald Nowotny said at
a conference on Feb. 28 that “disturbing developments in the
 Middle East ” could fuel euro-region inflation. “That could
make life a bit more difficult,” he said.  Still, euro-region  producer-price inflation  probably slowed
to 3.5 percent in January, a Bloomberg survey shows. That would
be the weakest since June 2010. The statistics office will
release the report tomorrow.  The ECB cut borrowing costs twice in the fourth quarter,
bringing the  benchmark rate  to 1 percent, matching a record low,
to bolster the economy. The Frankfurt-based central bank will
publish its latest inflation projections when council members
meet on March 8. In December, it forecast that inflation will
slow to 2 percent this year from 2.7 percent in 2011.  The statistics office is scheduled to release a breakdown
of February consumer prices later this month. Euro-area  core
inflation , which excludes volatile costs such as energy, slowed
to 1.5 percent in January from 1.6 percent in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  