-- Ex-BTA Bank Chairman Ordered to Turn Himself in for Prison
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-03-02T09:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/ex-bta-bank-chairman-must-turn-himself-in-for-prison-judge-says.html
Mukhtar Ablyazov, the ex-BTA Bank
chairman who went into hiding last month after being sentenced
to 22 months in jail, must turn himself in or risk losing his
right to defend a $5 billion fraud lawsuit, a U.K. judge ruled.  BTA, which sued Ablyazov after he fled three years ago to
Britain from  Kazakhstan , can block his defense and seek a
default judgment if he doesn’t report to court authorities by
March 9, Judge Nigel Teare ruled Feb. 29.  Ablyazov “has gone into hiding,” Teare, who oversaw a
two-week trial in December in London, said in his judgment.
“Not even his own solicitors, who continue to act for him in
this matter and to receive instructions from him, know where he
is.”  BTA, which was the biggest lender in Kazakhstan before it
defaulted on $12 billion of debt in 2009, filed a series of
civil suits against Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive Officer
Roman Solodchenko claiming they took more than $5 billion from
the Almaty-based bank using fake loans, back-dated documents and
offshore companies. Both men have denied the claims.  Ablyazov didn’t appear at a Feb. 16 sentencing hearing
after Teare found him in contempt of court for lying about his
assets, including a mansion and two apartments in London, and
moving money in violation of 2009 asset freeze issued in the
fraud case. The bank’s lawyers said he may be in  France  now.  After Ablyazov fled the Feb. 16 hearing, Ukrainian
authorities blocked what may have been an attempt to use an
entity there to set up shell companies in Belize, BTA lawyer
 Stephen Smith  said at a Feb. 24 hearing.  ‘Most Draconian Order’  Ablyazov’s spokesman, Locksley Ryan, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment. Ablyazov’s lawyer,  Duncan Matthews , said
last month that to deny his client’s right to defend himself in
the fraud case would be “the most draconian order the court
could take.”  “Ablyazov continues to defy the orders of the English high
court,” the bank said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “BTA
Bank will persist in its efforts to protect and recover assets
which will benefit our creditors and shareholders.”  The case is: JSC BTA Bank v. Mukhtar Ablyazov, [2011] EWHC
1136 (Comm), Royal Courts of Justice ( London ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  