-- Ex-U.S. Senator Edwards Healthy Enough for Trial Next Month, Judge Rules
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-03-01T21:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/ex-u-s-senator-edwards-healthy-enough-for-trial-next-month-judge-rules.html
Former U.S. Senator  John Edwards  was
cleared to go on trial next month for campaign-finance law
violations as a judge said his medical condition is manageable.  Jury selection in the case is scheduled to begin on April
18, U.S. District Judge Catherine Eagles said at a hearing today
in Greensboro, North Carolina. Opening statements would begin
April 23. The trial is expected to last six weeks.  Edwards, 58, was granted a delay in January because of a
heart condition. That is now in the management stage, Eagles
said, citing a letter from Edwards’s doctor.  The former presidential candidate, a Democrat from North
Carolina, is charged with violating campaign-finance laws to
conceal his relationship with filmmaker Rielle Hunter. Edwards,
who was married at the time, allegedly used more than $925,000
in contributions to conceal the affair.  Federal law prohibits the use of campaign funds for
personal expenses such as rent and vacations. Edwards, who has
pleaded not guilty, argues that the contributions in dispute
were gifts from his pre-existing friendships with
multimillionaire heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon and Dallas-
based trial lawyer Fred Baron, who died in October 2008.  ‘The Politician’  In court papers filed last month, Edwards asked Eagles to
bar the government from introducing at the trial statements made
by Mellon and Baron. The statements will probably be referenced
in testimony from Andrew Young, Edwards’s former aide whose 2010
book “The Politician” details the affair, Edwards said in
court papers.  “Andrew Young is a cooperating witness with the government
under a letter of immunity,” Edwards said in the filing. “Ms.
Mellon is over 101 years old and physically unable to attend a
trial. Mr. Baron is dead. Ms. Hunter has not been charged with
any wrongdoing by the government.”  Eagles reserved ruling on the request today.  “It sounds like a lot of these statements will be
admissible at trial,” Eagles said.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 1:11-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of  North Carolina  (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Greensboro, North Carolina, at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  