-- Texas Primary Election Scheduled for May 29, Court Rules After Map Dispute
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-01T23:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/texas-primary-election-scheduled-for-may-29-court-rules-after-map-dispute.html
Texas will hold its general primary
election for 2012 on May 29, a panel of three federal judges in
 San Antonio  ruled after approving interim electoral maps in an
effort to resolve differences over congressional redistricting.  Today’s announcement by the judges comes amid months of
wrangling over the state’s electoral maps, which were created
last year by the Republican-controlled state legislature and
challenged by activists as racial gerrymanders intended to
prevent the election of Latinos. The judges approved interim
maps Feb. 28.  The redistricting fight delayed the state’s election
schedule and knocked Texas out of the so-called Super Tuesday
contests on March 6, when more Americans vote in primaries or
caucuses than on any other date. The judges had been pushing
state officials and opponents of the maps to reach a compromise
that would let elections proceed without further delay.  “This date was a long time coming,” Trey Martinez Fischer, chairman of the  Texas  Legislature’s Mexican American
Legislative Caucus, which opposed the state’s maps, said in a
phone interview. “More needs to be done, but at some point
there needs to be an election.”  Lauren Bean, a spokeswoman for Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott , declined to comment on the new primary date.  ‘Pushed Back’  “We’re very happy to have a primary date, although we’re
disappointed it has been pushed back so late in the primary
process,” Chris Elam, a spokesman for the Texas Republican
Party, said in phone interview. “The will of the Legislature
had been that we have a primary next week.”  While the 2012 primaries will proceed according to the
revamped schedule, the redistricting battle will continue until
there’s a final resolution in a pair of lawsuits that have
already reached the U.S. Supreme Court.  To accommodate the delayed primary schedule, U.S. District
Judge Orlando Garcia ordered the candidate filing window to be
reopened until March 9, so that candidates can make adjustments
for the new boundaries.  Texas gained four new congressional seats to accommodate
4.3 million new residents since 2000, according to the 2010  U.S.
Census . About 65 percent of the new Texans are Latinos, who more
often vote for Democrats than Republicans. Republican Governor
 Rick Perry  approved the new voter maps created by the
legislature, which his party dominates.  ‘Pre-Clearance’  Minority voting-rights activists and Democratic lawmakers
sued Perry in San Antonio federal court, while Texas filed its
own lawsuit seeking “pre-clearance” from a federal court in
Washington. All states with a history of voting rights
violations must obtain pre-clearance from either the  Justice
Department  or a Washington court before they can use new maps in
an election.  The U.S. Supreme Court ordered the San Antonio panel to
redraw maps the lower-court judges had created in November,
ruling that the San Antonio judges hadn’t been deferential
enough to elected officials who had created the state’s original
maps.  Fischer said the court’s redrawn interim voter maps appear
to create two new districts that favor the election of Latinos
that weren’t in the Republican versions.  State political party leaders had cautioned the San Antonio
panel that there wouldn’t be enough preparation time to hold
primary elections by May 29 if new maps weren’t approved by the
end of this week.  The judges said they wanted to avoid imposing the financial
burden of holding primary elections on multiple dates. They also
said they wanted to hold the primaries before the political
parties’ state conventions, which were scheduled for early June.  Elam said state Republican party leaders met yesterday to
approve procedural changes that will allow the Texas Republican
convention to begin June 7 as scheduled.  The Texas case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio). The
 Washington  case is Texas v. U.S., 1:11-cv-1303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The appellate case is
Perry v. Perez, 11A536 (Congressional map), U.S. Supreme Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 