-- Mexico Should Turn to More Nuclear Power, Herrera Says
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-03-01T00:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/mexico-should-turn-to-more-nuclear-power-herrera-says.html
Mexico  should turn to nuclear power
to reach renewable energy goals and could “easily” build two
more reactors at its Laguna Verde plant, Energy Minister Jordy Herrera said.  “It’s time to put nuclear power on the table,” Herrera
said during an event in Mexico City today. The ministry is
recommending expanding nuclear capacity as part of its strategic
energy plan through 2026.  Mexico, one of three Latin American nations that use
nuclear power, has delayed for over three years a decision on
building nuclear plants as lower natural-gas prices make the
energy source less attractive.  The country operates a 1,360-megawatt nuclear plant in
Laguna Verde, Veracruz state. In an interview Nov. 1, Herrera
said Mexico’s rising gas reserves made the  fossil fuel  a cost-
effective option over nuclear power.  To implement the ministry’s recommendations to increase
Laguna Verde’s capacity, the government would need to find
funding for Comision Federal de Electricidad to build new
reactors, the state power company.  Mexico’s long-term energy strategy does not currently
contemplate adding nuclear capacity, Herrera said. The nation
could opt to build one or two more reactors, he said.  The country’s wind power capacity is poised to surpass 700
megawatts and will reach 1,500 megawatts by the end of the year,
he said.  Pipeline Projects  The government is in the process of taking bids on three
natural gas pipelines, according to the Energy Ministry’s long-
term strategy, released today. The winners of the contracts to
build three pipeline projects in Mexico’s north and one on the
Yucatan Peninsula will be announced in March, Herrera said.  The ministry sees  crude  production rising to 2.822 million
barrels a day in 2016 and 3.354 million barrels a day in 2026,
according to the strategic plan.  If Mexico fails to enact the recommendations listed in the
ministry’s plan, oil output would probably be 2.826 million
barrels a day in 2026, according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 