-- Facebook Marketing Boom Fuels Social-Advertising Startup Demand
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-03-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/facebook-marketing-boom-fuels-social-advertising-startup-demand.html
Entrepreneur Michael Lazerow
parlayed booming demand for advertising on  Facebook  Inc. -- and
reassurances from its operating chief,  Sheryl Sandberg  -- into a
business that generates almost $100 million a year in sales.  Lazerow, 37,  founded  Buddy Media Inc. in 2007 to help
companies promote their brands on Facebook. Two years later,
amid concern that Facebook would put him out of business by
replicating his company’s services, he called Sandberg.  “Sheryl told me, ‘We want you to make a ton of money. We
want to enable you with great technology,’” Lazerow said of the
2009 conversation with Facebook’s  chief operating officer . “‘We
don’t have aspirations to be in the enterprise software
business.’”  Facebook’s decision to stay out the way, along with its
surge in popularity, have spawned a cottage industry of startups
like  Buddy Media  that help companies peddle their wares and
brands on the world’s largest social network. Marketers eager to
reach Facebook’s 845 million users pay these software-savvy go-
betweens fees as high as millions of dollars a year to create
pages where customers can get discounts, participate in contests
and interact with fellow fans.  “They know the Facebook infrastructure inside and out, and
they have developed interesting apps that marketers can tap into
so they don’t have to reinvent the wheel,” said Debra Aho
Williamson, an  analyst  at EMarketer Inc. in New York.  Market Doubles  The market for social-media management tools will more than
double to $970 million in 2016, from $389 million this year,
according to Forrester Research Inc. This category includes
Facebook page managers such as New York-based Buddy Media, as
well as so-called “listening platforms,” which let businesses
monitor conversations about their brands on social networks.  Facebook gave social-media startups a broader range of
tools for helping companies reach social media junkies
yesterday, announcing its first foray into mobile advertising.
Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , also unveiled
features that give businesses more flexibility in posting photos
and other content while keeping closer tabs on interaction with
customers.  Other social-advertising startups include  Wildfire
Interactive Inc. , Vitrue Inc. and Syncapse Corp.  PepsiCo Inc. worked with Wildfire Interactive in October to
create a “Dew Labs” Facebook page, where more than 6,500 fans
of Mountain Dew post photos and videos of themselves enjoying
the beverage and offer their opinion on new flavors. The company
said it pays Wildfire $35,000 a year for the page.  ‘Scores of Engineers’  Wildfire specializes in services Facebook can’t offer, said
 Victoria Ransom , chief executive officer of the  Redwood City ,
California-based company.  “They’ve got companies like Wildfire and Buddy and others
that have scores of engineers and people thinking all day long
about how we can provide the best tools that will support a
company’s advertising on Facebook,” Ransom said. Facebook “can
focus on what’s core to them.”  The social-ad industry that has sprung up around Facebook
is comparable to the search-engine marketing boom that followed
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s emergence as the dominant Web-search provider.
Unlike search marketers, which make money based on consumers’
interaction with search-related ads, social-advertising
companies generate recurring sales of software subscriptions.
That makes them comparable to business-application vendors like
Salesforce.com Inc., said Jules Maltz, a  venture capitalist  at
Institutional Venture Partners.  Comparable to Salesforce  “It’s analogous to Salesforce,” said Maltz, who is a
Buddy Media investor and board member. “They are selling
subscription software to directors and managers everyday and
making it an essential part of their marketing.”  Advertisements are Facebook’s lifeblood, making up $3.15
billion in revenue, 85 percent of the  total  last year. Most of
those sales are from marketers buying graphical advertisements
on the right-hand side of profile pages. Increasingly, these ads
direct users to brand pages on the social network, many of which
are run by Buddy Media and its ilk, Lazerow said.  “We probably work with clients that represent 20 to 25
percent of all Facebook revenue,” Lazerow said. “Facebook is
making significantly more money off of our clients than we
are.”  Ransom estimates that for every dollar clients spend on
Wildfire services, they may spend up to $10 buying Facebook ads.  Annie Ta, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to comment
for this story, citing Securities and Exchange Commission
restrictions on companies that have filed for an initial public
offering. Facebook filed in February to sell shares in the
largest-ever Internet IPO.  Facebook as ‘Frenemy’  Any company that relies on Facebook for revenue runs the
risk of being overdependent, said  Andrew Frank , an analyst at
Gartner Inc. in New York.  “Facebook is a frenemy to many of these companies,” he
said. “They have such market power in social media that they
can make the rules.”  Frank cites the social network’s decision last year to
force all game developers on its platform to cough up a 30
percent cut of sales from all virtual goods. Developers like
Zynga Inc. had little choice but to fall in line, Frank said.  To help mitigate such risks, the social-ad startups are
expanding their services to other sites, including Twitter Inc.,
LinkedIn Corp. and Google’s new social-networking service.  “That’s why they’re going to invest in LinkedIn and
Twitter and Google+,” said  Jeremiah Owyang , an analyst at
Altimeter Group. “That’s how you keep Facebook honest.”  Fostering Social Advertising  For now, Facebook is doing more to nurture social-ad
companies than by merely staying out of their way. Through its
fbFund, Facebook invested in Wildfire in 2009. It also maintains
a stable of 80 vendors, calling them “Preferred Developer
Consultants,” that get an early peek at new products.  Facebook executives sometimes refer large advertisers
directly to certain startups.  “They approach us and say, ‘We have a client that wants to
do a major campaign and they have a short window of opportunity
to have it delivered,’” said Don Beck, CEO of  Involver Inc. , a
San Francisco-based social-ad company.  Acquisitions have become one way to win customers in social
advertising. Social-ad service provider Context Optional was
acquired last year by Efficient Frontier, the online-ad company
later purchased by Adobe Systems Inc. Buddy Media said earlier
this week it bought Brighter Option, a service for purchasing
banner ads on Facebook.  “There is going to be a massive consolidation in the
industry,” said Lazerow, whose company has raised a total of
$90 million from venture capitalists and still has more than
half of it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  New York  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  