-- Fairfax’s Once-Sprawling Racketeering Suit Shrinks as Hedge Funds Drop Out
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-01T22:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/fairfax-s-once-sprawling-racketeering-suit-shrinks-as-hedge-funds-drop-out.html
Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) ,
with seven of eight hedge funds it accused of spreading false
rumors out of a lawsuit, may see the $24 billion case shrink
again with a judge poised to rule whether racketeering counts
allowing triple damages should be tossed.  Three of the funds that won dismissal in the case,
including billionaire Steven A. Cohen’s SAC Capital Advisors LP,
have a total $29 billion in assets under management. The two
main defendants remaining are a New York hedge fund with less
than $100 million and a Memphis, Tennessee, brokerage recently
sold for $930 million.  Fairfax, in the suit filed in New Jersey state court in
2006, accused the funds of trying to drive down its stock as
they bet against it in a so-called bear raid. The remaining
defendants seek to block Toronto-based Fairfax from tripling its
$8 billion claim, as allowed under the state’s anti-racketeering
law. The case can be viewed as an example of civil racketeering
suits moving into the realm of hedge funds, one legal expert
said.  “If they win that, that could be the nail in the coffin,”
Jonathan W. Wolfe, a lawyer who represented a fund released from
the litigation, said of the defendants’ effort. “I think you
will continue to see this case get smaller and smaller.”  Trial Date  New Jersey  Superior Court Judge Stephan C. Hansbury in
Morristown is considering whether Fairfax can invoke the state’s
anti-racketeering statute. The defendants, arguing at a Jan. 6
hearing that Canadian or New York law applies, said the case
doesn’t have enough connection to New Jersey to allow the counts
to go forward. They called the racketeering claims “a
manipulative public relations sham.”  Hansbury, who scheduled a March 16 hearing on other
motions, said he wants to set a trial date as early as May.  Fairfax, which owns stakes in Canadian and U.S. insurers,
said in its complaint that the hedge funds coordinated with
stock analysts to spread false rumors about it so the funds
could profit through short sales, borrowing shares in
anticipation of making money by replacing them with cheaper
shares later after the price dropped.  The company’s $8 billion damage claim is based on
allegations the hedge funds’ actions depressed Fairfax’s credit
ratings, diminished its ability to make acquisitions and reduced
the amount it could raise in debt and equity offerings,
according to court papers.  ‘Robust Remedy’  New Jersey’s Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
law, unlike anti-racketeering laws in  New York  and Canada,
allows private parties to sue and seek triple damages. The New
Jersey law covers conduct outside the state, said Michael Bowe,
a lawyer for Fairfax, at the January hearing. “It is a unique
and very powerful, robust remedy,” he said.  Fairfax’s Crum & Forster Holdings unit, a plaintiff in the
case, is located in Morristown and provides one of the bases for
suing under New Jersey law.  “The only reason they brought this case in New Jersey was
to try to take advantage of the New Jersey RICO statute,” Bruce
Collins, a lawyer for the Memphis brokerage Morgan Keegan, told
Hansbury in January. “If the New York law applies, as we urge,
then the New Jersey RICO claims must be dismissed.”  ‘New Intersection’  The case could be viewed as an example of the expansion of
civil RICO suits, usually brought in other commercial and
financial contexts, into the realm of hedge funds, said Kristin
N. Johnson, a law professor at  Seton Hall University School of
Law  in  Newark , New Jersey.  “This is a new intersection in terms of efforts to assert
civil-liability claims against players engaged in complex
transactions, including short selling,” Johnson said.  Biovail, once  Canada ’s largest publicly traded drugmaker,
sued SAC Capital over racketeering claims in New Jersey state
court six months before the Fairfax suit. Biovail, which used
the same  law firm  and public-relations firm as Fairfax, accused
the hedge fund of plotting to drive down its share price. As in
the Fairfax case, the Canadian parent was a plaintiff with a New
Jersey subsidiary.  The Biovail judge dismissed the case in 2009, finding that
New York, not New Jersey, law applied. SAC Capital sued the
company, now part of Mississauga, Ontario-based Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc., for “vexatious
litigation.” In 2010, Valeant settled for $10 million, saying
Biovail’s suit was “regrettable.”  Fairfax Trading  In September, Cohen, 55, and Stamford, Connecticut-based
SAC Capital, with $14 billion under management, won dismissal
from the Fairfax case. Hansbury said the evidence didn’t show
they were part of a conspiracy to bring down Fairfax.  “The deficiencies of plaintiffs’ case are particularly
glaring as to  Steven A. Cohen  and SAC Capital,” Hansbury wrote
in his summary of SAC Capital’s argument. “Cohen never
participated in an enterprise to injure Fairfax.”  Cohen was almost totally uninvolved in SAC Capital’s
Fairfax trading, the judge wrote.  SAC Capital’s biggest position in Fairfax was in 2004 when
it owned as many as 100,000 shares, and that for most of the
period the lawsuit covers, the hedge fund’s economic interests
were aligned with Fairfax’s, Hansbury wrote.  “I’m in the lawsuit because of marquee value,” Cohen said
in a February 2011 pretrial, sworn interview in the case.
“Meaning that, you know, I’m a well-known guy and -- on  Wall
Street .”  ‘Waste of Time’  In December, Hansbury ruled that  Daniel Loeb , 50, and his
Third Point LLC, with $8.8 billion, and  James Chanos , 54, and
his $6 billion Kynikos Associates LP couldn’t be sued in New
Jersey. The judge also dropped Institutional Credit Partners
LLC, or ICP, a fixed-income fund, and William Gahan, who was a
trader there and is now with P E Capital Markets LLC in New
York. Third Point, Kynikos and ICP are also based in New York.  “We are gratified that the judge has put an end to this
colossal waste of time and resources,” Third Point said in a
statement after Hansbury’s ruling.  Of the four other hedge funds sued by Fairfax, David Rocker
and his former fund company, New Jersey-based Copper River
Management LLC, formerly Rocker Partners LP, won dismissal in
2008.  Fairfax had said in its complaint that David Rocker was “a
key architect and manager” of the scheme. The previous judge in
the case, Deanne Wilson, ruled there wasn’t enough evidence
linking Rocker to a conspiracy.  Fairfax voluntarily dropped two other funds from the suit.
They were Greenwich, Connecticut-based Lone Pine Capital LLC and
Trinity Capital of Jacksonville Inc. in Jacksonville,  Florida .  Battle Continues  The legal battle continues between Fairfax and hedge fund
Exis Capital Management Inc. and  Morgan Keegan & Co. (3543Q) , the
Memphis-based brokerage that  St. Petersburg , Florida-based
 Raymond James  Financial Corp. agreed to buy in January. The
seller, Birmingham, Alabama-based  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , is
indemnifying Raymond James for litigation brought prior to the
sale.  Exis is one of the defendants seeking dismissal of
Fairfax’s racketeering claims. Morgan Keegan has said in court
filings that it, too, should be dropped from the case.  The remaining defendants include Exis Chief Executive
Officer  Adam Sender , 43, and Chief Operating Officer Andrew Heller, 40; Christopher Brett Lawless, a former analyst at Fitch
Group Inc.; and Spiro Contogouris, an outside analyst who
Fairfax said the funds hired to spread misinformation.
Contogouris’s companies, including MI4 Investors LLC, and
associate Max Bernstein, are also defendants.  Pursuing Claims  Hansbury’s ruling dismissing SAC Capital and the two other
hedge funds was a “clear error,” Bowe, the Fairfax lawyer,
said in an e-mail. Fairfax intends to get judgments against
Morgan Keegan and Exis this year, and then continue pursuing the
claims against the other defendants on appeal immediately after,
he said.  Dismissal of the racketeering claims, which would eliminate
the possibility of triple damages, wouldn’t affect other claims
or limit the billions of dollars in damages that Fairfax is
seeking, Bowe said in an e-mail last month.  The Fairfax complaint includes allegations of commercial
disparagement, tortuous interference with contractual
relationships, tortuous interference with prospective economic
advantage and civil conspiracy.  Weaker Underwriting  On Feb. 16, Fairfax reported net income of $45.1 million
for last year, compared with $335.8 million in 2010. It said the
drop was due to weaker underwriting results from large
catastrophe claims worldwide. Since July 2006 when the suit was
filed, Fairfax’s U.S. market capitalization has increased almost
four-fold to $8.06 billion from $2.16 billion.  Fairfax fell 1.5 percent to C$403, after dropping as much
as 2.3 percent, in Toronto today, the biggest one-day drop since
Feb. 22.  One of Fairfax’s main accusations centers on Contogouris
and another on a former Morgan Keegan analyst.  Fairfax said in the complaint that, as part of the funds’
bear raid, Contogouris began a dirty-tricks campaign in November
2005, when Bernstein, who worked with him, sent a letter under
the name P. Fate to Rev. Barry Parker at St. Paul’s Anglican
Church in Toronto. Fairfax founder  Prem Watsa  served as chairman
of the church’s investment committee. Watsa was bilking Fairfax
shareholders, according to the letter cited in the complaint.  Watsa, 61, who founded Fairfax in 1985, modeling its
management style after  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
received the same package via e-mail with computer code at the
bottom showing P. Fate was Bernstein, according to the
complaint.  Harassing Messages  The same day Watsa got the e-mail, someone phoned Fairfax
and left a message. “Tell Watsa that when he goes to jail next
year we will visit him and bring him some treats,” the caller
said, according to Fairfax’s complaint.  Contogouris and Bernstein sent other harassing messages to
Fairfax executives and false documents that put the company in a
negative light to analysts and shareholders, Fairfax said in its
complaint.  Michael Critchley, a lawyer for Contogouris, Bernstein and
MI4 at Critchley, Kinum & Vazquez LLC in Roseland, New Jersey,
didn’t return two calls seeking comment on the litigation.  The originating phone number for the November 2005 call to
Fairfax was listed to Exis, and the materials were sent to
Fairfax and Watsa from Exis’s New York office, the insurer said.
Contogouris worked out of Exis’s office.  Where the messages came from is irrelevant, Exis COO Heller
said in a phone interview.  “It doesn’t answer allegations of conspiracy and spreading
false and misleading statements,” Heller said. “You can’t have
a conspiracy if there’s no conspiracy.”  ‘Publicity Stunt’  Exis acquired a short Fairfax position in 2005 that peaked
in July 2006 at 230,000 shares, according to Hansbury’s
September ruling.  “This Fairfax lawsuit has caused our firm immense damage
and has prevented us from raising money despite great
performance over the last five years,” Exis CEO Sender said in
a phone interview. “The lawsuit is completely frivolous and
without any merit whatsoever.”  Bowe disagreed.  “If plaintiffs’ claims were meritless or a publicity
stunt, Contogouris, Exis, and the other defendants paying and
working with Contogouris would have moved years ago to be
dismissed because there was no evidence they did what they are
accused of,” Bowe said in an e-mail. “They never made that
argument because they can’t. The evidence is overwhelming.”  Negative Reports  Fairfax also said the hedge funds coaxed  John Gwynn , a
former insurance analyst at Morgan Keegan, into giving them his
negative Fairfax reports before they were published. Morgan
Keegan fired Gwynn in 2008 for disclosing research on Fairfax to
selected clients before publication, the brokerage said at the
time. He has since died.  Fairfax said Gwynn misrepresented the company’s finances in
his reports, including its reserves for claims.  On Jan. 17, Morgan Keegan asked Hansbury to drop the case
against it because Gwynn’s opinions were speech protected by the
U.S. Constitution’s First Amendment. Kathy Ridley, a Morgan
Keegan spokeswoman, declined to comment on the litigation.  On Feb. 3, Lawless, the former Fitch analyst who worked at
Exis for two months in 2006, also moved to be dismissed on First
Amendment grounds. In November, Hansbury declined to drop
Lawless, who in that motion argued the evidence didn’t connect
him to any conspiracy. Hansbury ruled there were enough facts in
dispute to present to a jury.  Kevin S. Reed, a lawyer for Lawless at Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP in New York, declined to comment on the
litigation.  Ethical Rules  Last year, the defendants tried to persuade Hansbury to
have Bowe’s law firm, New York-based Kasowitz Benson Torres &
Friedman LLP, removed from the case.  The defendants accused the law firm’s investigators of
posing as managing directors of a sham hedge fund and contacting
Gwynn even after the suit was filed in 2006 and they knew he had
a lawyer, which the defendants said violated ethical rules.  “Balanced against the interests of the plaintiff in
maintaining counsel it wishes, I can’t remove the firm and I
won’t,” Hansbury said at an Oct. 6 hearing. “It’s clear the
purpose of these motions is to get rid of plaintiffs’ counsel to
disadvantage plaintiff.”  Elicit Information  Hansbury said the investigators engaged in “a deception”
on Gwynn that was “orchestrated by counsel. These people told
lies in order to elicit information.” The judge said the
defendants could bring their allegations to the court’s ethics
committee.  Bowe denied his firm broke ethics rules.  “Moving to disqualify opposing counsel after six years of
litigation for something you have known about for five years is
a classic litigation tactic when you have little else to defend
your case,” he said in an e-mail.  “People spread lies about Fairfax,” he said. “Fairfax
sued. People who spread lies are sued all the time.”  The Fairfax complaint revealed the funds’ bear raid on the
company, Bowe said.  “The suit exposed that attack, restored billions in market
cap within months, and will provide damages for the substantial
business harm suffered,” he said.  The case is Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 