-- Fed’s Lockhart Says More Bond Buying Would Pose Risk Inflation Will Rise
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-03-01T19:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/fed-s-lockhart-more-bond-buying-would-pose-risk.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said he is concerned that a new round
of asset purchases by the Fed would fuel inflation while failing
to spur lending.  “I’m cautious about doing more involving expansion of the
Fed’s balance sheet,” Lockhart said today in a speech in
Atlanta. “Precisely because I see the transmission mechanism of
monetary policy through credit channels as constricted, I have
my doubts that the gains from such a policy action taken in the
near term would outweigh the longer-term potential costs,
including the risk to the Fed’s medium-term inflation outlook.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  repeated in congressional
testimony today that maintaining monetary stimulus is warranted
even as the unemployment rate falls and rising oil prices may
cause inflation to rise temporarily. Policy makers, who next
meet on March 13, said in January that economic slack and
subdued inflation are likely to warrant exceptionally low rates
through at least late 2014, extending a previous date of mid-
2013.  More bond purchases wouldn’t be appropriate now, Lockhart
told reporters after his speech. “The onset of recessionary
conditions and movement in the direction of deflation” would be
conditions that could lead to more easing, Lockhart said.  First-quarter economic growth will probably be “softer”
than the fourth quarter outcome, he said, adding that higher
gasoline prices pose a risk to his growth and inflation
forecasts this year.  Weakening Economy  “There is a rather high correlation between sustained
spikes in gasoline prices and the onset of recessionary
conditions or the weakening of the economy,” he told reporters.  The  U.S. economy  is expanding at a “moderate pace,”
Lockhart said in his speech, echoing a Fed report yesterday that
the U.S. economy grew at a “modest to moderate pace” in
January and early February, including “somewhat faster” growth
in the Atlanta region. The report, the Beige Book survey of
regional anecdotes, is published two weeks before the  Federal
Open Market Committee  meets to set monetary policy.  “I continue to think the benefits of the low rate policy
outweigh the costs,” Lockhart said at the Atlanta Fed’s
banking-outlook conference. “A realistic assessment of the
challenges associated with closing the employment gap call for
sustained extraordinary support for what is, like it or not, a
gradual process.”  Low Rates  Credit markets remain somewhat impaired, meaning the Fed’s
low rates haven’t spurred as much lending even among healthy
borrowers, Lockhart said, singling out the mortgage market as a
particular problem.  “Low funding costs and abundant bank reserves produced by
monetary policy still have not resulted in significant, broad-
based loan growth,” he said. “Still, as you are aware, we are
starting to see some movement in the right direction,” with
U.S. banks “issuing loans at the fastest rate in about four
years. But it’s too early to claim victory for lending.”  The U.S. economy is likely to expand at about a 2 percent
rate this quarter and 2.5 percent to 3 percent this year,
Lockhart said. Inflation is tracking “ price stability ” and
expectations for prices are “stable,” he said.  “While growth is proceeding at a moderate pace, the
question of sustainability continues to hang in the air,”
Lockhart said. “There remain significant levels of unused and
underutilized resources in the economy, especially human
resources.”  Stocks Rise  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,374.34 at 2:36 p.m. in  New York , while the yield on the 10-
year Treasury note increased seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 2.04 percent.  The Fed pushed down its target interest rate close to zero
in December 2008 and has engaged in two rounds of asset
purchases totaling $2.3 trillion to boost the economy. Fed
officials in January were keeping open the option of a third
round of bond purchases.  Lockhart, a former Georgetown University professor, has led
the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy, with Lockhart voting this year. The Atlanta Fed
district includes  Alabama ,  Florida ,  Georgia , and portions of
 Louisiana ,  Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  