-- Fernandez Avoids YPF Takeover Announcement in Argentine Congress Speech
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-01T20:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/fernandez-opens-argentine-congress-as-speculation-grows-over-ypf-takeover.html
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner defused speculation she would announce a
takeover of the country’s biggest energy company today during an
annual speech to Congress. Shares of  YPF SA (YPF)  soared.  Fernandez vowed to guarantee the country’s fuel supply
without calling for new measures against YPF, the local unit of
Madrid-based Repsol  YPF SA. (YPFD)  She criticized the company for
cutting production since 1999 and said higher fuel imports were
hurting the country’s trade balance, which fell to $10.3 billion
last year from $11.6 billion a year earlier.  “The curve of oil output has fallen since 1999 and fallen
drastically,” Fernandez, 59, said in a three-hour speech to
lawmakers in Buenos Aires. “If we hadn’t had the increase in
imports, we would have posted a trade surplus of $15 billion.”  YPF rose 14 percent to $29.91 in New York trading at 2:55
p.m. after Fernandez didn’t announce direct measures against the
company. The stock fell 14.3 percent yesterday after newspaper
Ambito Financiero reported the possibility of a takeover. YPF is
under pressure to boost investment and cut dividends after
Fernandez said fuel imports doubled in 2011.  Since her landslide re-election in October, Fernandez’s
government has tightened controls on the foreign exchange
market, raised restrictions on imports and ordered energy and
mining companies to bring all their export revenue to the
country after capital outflows accelerated to a record high in
the third quarter and the  trade surplus  narrowed.  Business Climate  “The business climate has deteriorated with the import
restrictions, exchange controls and pressures on YPF,” said
 Daniel Kerner , a Buenos Aires-based analyst at the Eurasia
Group. “She speaks at a time when the economic slowdown is
starting to be noticed.”  A YPF spokesman, who can’t be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak publicly, declined to comment.  Repsol Chairman  Antonio Brufau  is visiting the Argentine
capital this week for the third time this year, Investor
Relations Director Maria Victoria Zingoni said during the
company’s earnings conference call yesterday, without disclosing
the purpose of the visits.  YPF last week barred three politicians from entering a
meeting in Buenos Aires, prompting the government’s
representative on its board, Roberto Baratta, to walk out in
protest. Baratta, who voted against YPF’s dividends last year,
left the board meeting after being told Energy Secretary Daniel Cameron, Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof and other
officials accompanying him weren’t allowed to attend.  ‘Blaming YPF’  “ Argentina  has passed from being a fuel exporter to a
country that will import about $10 billion this year,”
opposition Senator Maria Eugenia Estenssoro told reporters after
the speech. “Blaming YPF for that is not acknowledging that
there has been a failure in energy policies.”  Spain and Argentina formed a working group to resolve their
“differences” over YPF, Spanish Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said today.  South America ’s second-biggest economy is facing a  slowdown 
after expanding 9.2 percent in 2011, according to Fernandez’s
estimates. The government forecasts that the economy will grow
5.1 percent in 2012. An inflation rate that private economists
estimate at more than 20 percent and the elimination of some
subsidies led  consumer confidence  to fall 8.2 percent in
February, the biggest decline since October 2008, according to a
poll released by Torcuato Di Tella University.  Confidence in the government declined 7 percent last month,
the most since August, according to the Buenos Aires-based
university.  Central Bank Charter  Fernandez also asked Congress to change the central bank’s
charter to be more closely tied to the “real economy” in order
to sustain growth and employment. She said the government will
eliminate the so-called convertibility law, which limits the use
of central bank reserves to savings that exceed the monetary
base. Fernandez plans to tap $5.7 billion of the bank’s $46.7
billion savings to pay debt this year.  Argentina will also seek to renegotiate a 1998 accord with
the U.K. that allows two monthly flights by Santiago-based Lan
Airlines SA to the Falkland Islands. Fernandez says she wants
three direct flights from  Buenos Aires  to the Falklands by the
country’s flagship airline, Aerolineas Argentinas SA.  On Feb. 28, the government asked companies to cut their
imports of goods made in the U.K. as a protest over control of
the islands. Fernandez said the U.K. has “militarized” the
Malvinas, as the Falklands are known in  Latin America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  