-- Finmeccanica Says NATO Contract Is Gateway for More Cyber Work
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-03-01T11:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/finmeccanica-says-nato-contract-is-gateway-for-more-cyber-work.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s contract from
NATO to develop security for  computer networks  linking members
may be a gateway to more than 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in
cyber security contracts, according to a company executive.  Finmeccanica yesterday became the first non-U.S. company to
be named prime contractor on a NATO cybersecurity contract, with
the Italian company getting a 50 million-euro contract to detect
and respond to cyber security threats to the 28 member nations
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC)  is Finmeccanica’s senior partner on the contract.  The state-controlled company,  Italy ’s largest weapons
maker, expects a flurry of contracts within five years from NATO
nations, and Finmeccanica expects to win between 10 percent to
20 percent of those, said Paul MacGregor, Finmeccanica Cyber
Solutions director, in an interview late yesterday from  London .  “We’ve all been talking about cyber for the last two
years, and defense companies are all looking to this emerging
market, but not a lot has happened,” said MacGregor. “This is
the tipping point.”  MacGregor said that the U.K. alone has invested about 650
million pounds ($1 billion) in developing cyber security.
Extrapolating from that, he said, assuming all 28 nations in
NATO invest 100 million euros each over the next three to five
years, the figure invested would be well over 2 billion euros.  The U.S. is ahead of all other countries in investing in
cyber security though he predicted NATO’s move to start building
protection systems will encourage other countries to begin
investing, he said.  The current contract will see Finmeccanica and Northrop
Grumman develop systems and defend and protect the information
infrastructure linking those nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  