-- Flowers Says Spain, Italy Defaults Would Be ‘Catastrophic’
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   A n n e   S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-03-01T15:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/flowers-says-spain-italy-defaults-would-be-catastrophic-.html
A default of  Spain  or  Italy ’s debt
would be “catastrophic,” according to J. Christopher Flowers,
founder of private-equity firm JC Flowers & Co.  “If Spain or Italy defaults or leaves the euro, it’s going
be catastrophic, and the damage will be indescribable,” he said
today in an interview at SuperReturn International conference in
Berlin. “So for that reason, I hope and expect the euro zone
will stick together.”  The firm is looking to buy financial-services companies
including banks and insurers in the U.K., Ireland, Spain, Italy,
 France , Poland and  Germany , he said.  “There will be significant consolidation in the banking
industry in Europe and the process is being considerably
accelerated by the crisis,” he said. “A cross-border merger of
two big weak banks is unlikely to happen because they won’t like
each other’s assets. But we may see the combination of two weak
banks in the same country and strong banks taking over weak
banks in the same country, or a strong bank buying a weak bank
in another country.”  J.C. Flowers’s most recent fund closed in 2009 after
raising $2.3 billion, according to London-based research firm
Preqin. In October, the New York-based firm agreed to buy
insurance broker Fidea NV from  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , the recipient of 7
billion euros ($9.3 billion) in Belgian rescue funds, for 243.6
million euros. The firm also invested in the U.K.’s  Kent
Reliance Building Society . Last year, it submitted a bid with
Apollo Global Management LLC for Irish Life & Permanent Plc’s
life assurance unit. The sale was suspended after bids were too
low, the seller said.  “Timing is really tricky because of what will happen,”
Flowers said. “You need to drive with two hands on the wheel
because the situation here is just so dynamic. The U.S. is
actually a more appealing market right now because it offers
substantially better economic prospects. But it´s also a lot
more competitive and there is not much for sale, while in
 Europe , there is a lot on offer, a lot of trouble.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  