-- Fredriksen to Spend $3 Billion From Seadrill Stake on Ships, Arctic Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-03-01T10:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/fredriksen-to-spend-3-billion-from-seadrill-stake-on-ships-arctic-says.html
Billionaire  John Fredriksen  will use
the proceeds from selling shares of oil-rig operator  Seadrill
Ltd. (SDRL)  to buy new ships worth as much as $3 billion, Arctic
Securities ASA said.  Fredriksen plans to sell as many as 24 million shares in
Seadrill through his stake in Hemen Holding Ltd., raising about
5.6 billion kroner ($1 billion), according to a statement
yesterday. That will free up money to “increase firepower for
shipping acquisitions,” Oslo-based investment bank Arctic said
in an e-mailed note today.  The billionaire may make his largest shipping investments
in more than 12 years, said Arctic, which drew parallels to his
purchase of 80 vessels worth $4.6 billion between 1996 and 2001.
Fredriksen is probably aiming to enter new shipping areas,
particularly oil-product tankers, according to Arctic.  “This could effectively turn into $3 billion of
investments,” analyst Erik Nikolai Stavseth said in the note.
“This is where Fredriksen will employ his Seadrill money.”  Norway-born Fredriksen, now a Cypriot citizen, is ranked by
Forbes magazine as the world’s 72nd-richest person with a net
worth of $10.7 billion. He has public and private shipping
interests spanning container vessels, dry-bulk carriers,  oil
tankers  and offshore drilling rigs and has revealed orders for
vessels worth at least $1.1 billion this year.  14-Year Low  The billionaire is chairman of Frontline Ltd., which he
split in two in December after a plunge in returns to the lowest
level in more than 14 years left the oil-tanker company at risk
of running out of cash. Frontline 2012, the new company created
by the separation, bought 10 new tankers and contracts for five
under construction from Frontline, paying $1.21 billion.  Arctic placed $285 million as one of the arrangers in the
December transaction.  Fredriksen ordered six medium-range oil-product tankers
last month. He briefly owned a fleet of the vessels in 2001,
inherited in a takeover of Osprey Maritime, and sold them within
months of the transaction. The ships haul refined products such
as jet fuel and gasoline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  