-- U.K. Stocks Rebound on WPP, Man Group Earnings, Manufacturing Expansion
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-03-01T17:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/ftse-100-stocks-rebound-before-u-s-data-cable-wireless-worldwide-gains.html
U.K. stocks  advanced, rebounding
from yesterday’s selloff, as  WPP (WPP)  Plc forecast higher revenue,
and U.K. manufacturing expanded in February, adding to signs
that the economy hasn’t slipped back into recession.  WPP gained 3 percent, while Man Group Plc jumped 13 percent
after it reported an increase in assets. Cable & Wireless
Worldwide Plc surged 15 percent after Tata Communications Ltd.
said it may make a cash offer.  The FTSE 100 Index gained 1 percent to 5,931.25 at the
close in  London . The gauge lost 1 percent yesterday after U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  damped speculation of
further measures to stimulate growth. The FTSE All-Share Index
rose 1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index also added 1
percent.  “There are a number of positives today: WPP has had a very
strong year, which augurs well for the future and  Man Group (EMG)  are
starting to recover some of the business they recently lost,”
said  Richard Hunter , head of U.K. equities at Hargreaves
Lansdown Plc in London. “There seems to be a recognition now
that Bernanke didn’t really say anything new yesterday and is
very much keeping an eye on the situation.”  U.K. manufacturing expanded for a second month in February,
according to a survey by  Markit Economics  and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply . The factory gauge fell to
51.2 from 52.0 in January, Markit said on its website today. The
figure was below the median forecast of 52 in a Bloomberg News
survey of 26 economists. Separate U.S. data showed jobless
claims dropped to a four year-low last week, adding to evidence
the labor market is recovering.  WPP Gains  WPP climbed 3 percent to 827.50 pence after the largest
advertising agency said revenue from continuing businesses will
grow 4 percent this year as the London Olympics and U.S.
presidential elections buoy the industry.  Sales last year rose 7.4 percent to 10 billion pounds ($16
billion), the Dublin-based company said. A Bloomberg survey
predicted revenue of 9.96 billion pounds.  Man Group jumped 13 percent to 147.50 pence after the
world’s largest publicly traded hedge fund manager said outflows
slowed and assets under management rose 1.9 percent in the first
two months of 2012, stemming last year’s decline.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide  Cable & Wireless Worldwide (CW/)  rallied 15 percent to 31.98
pence. The shares surged as much as 18 percent after Tata
Communications said it may make a cash offer and could decide on
a transaction by the end of the month.  Talks are “at a very preliminary stage,” and are part of
the company’s review of acquisition opportunities, Mumbai-based
Tata said.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  paced declining shares, falling 4.2 percent
to 1,062 pence after  Kazakhstan ’s biggest copper producer said
costs will increase as much as 58 percent for each pound of the
metal it manufactures as it expands mining to counter the effect
of falling ore grades.  The company today reported a 1.6 percent increase in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in 2011 to $1.96 billion.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  dropped 3.6 percent to 2,030 pence. The
world’s biggest maker of pumps for the  mining industry 
reiterated its intention to buy Ludowici Ltd. after FLSmidth &
Co. A/S made a higher bid.  The Scottish company offered A$10 a share on Feb. 23 for
Ludowici, matching an offer by FLSmidth. The Danish company
raised its price to A$11 a share, which the Australian Takeovers
Panel allowed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  