-- CFTC Futures Hearing, EU Bank Capital, Japan Asset Managers: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-01T13:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/futures-hearing-eu-bank-capital-japan-audit-laws-compliance.html
The futures industry is recommending
more rigorous reporting and internal controls for brokerages as
$1.6 billion of customer money is still unaccounted for after
the bankruptcy of  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) .  Brokerages should be required to submit daily reports of
how much customer money must be held separate from the firm’s
own money to their self-designated regulator, often a
clearinghouse the firm uses, the  Futures Industry Association 
said in a  statement  yesterday. The group also recommended that
firms file twice-monthly accounts of how customer money is being
invested.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and bankruptcy
trustees are among investigators probing the events surrounding
the Oct. 31 collapse of MF Global. The loss of customer money at
a bankrupt brokerage is a first in the futures industry,
according to  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest derivatives
exchange and self-regulatory auditor of MF Global.  The CFTC is holding two days of meetings in Washington,
which started yesterday, to discuss additional ways to protect
customer accounts. The hearings are an early step toward more
rules and regulations that would require an official CFTC
proposal and vote by the agency’s five commissioners.  Compliance Policy  Banks May Face National Capital Levy Under EU’s Basel Compromise  Bank regulators in European Union nations may retain powers
to set capital levels on  lenders  they deem too big to fail, in a
possible compromise to implement Basel rules in the region.  Under the plans, regulators would be free to force some or
all lenders in their jurisdiction to hold a “systemic risk
buffer” of as high as 3 percentage points, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg News. The measures drawn up by
Denmark, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, may also
relax a planned liquidity rule forcing banks to hold enough
easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze.  The compromise plan follows a clash over proposals by
 Michel Barnier , the bloc’s financial services chief, to fix
banks’ core capital requirements at 7 percent of their risk-
weighted assets, with limited exceptions for national regulators
to set higher thresholds during credit booms. The U.K. and
Sweden have said that Barnier’s plans would be an unacceptable
limit on national powers.  The  European Commission , the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
would have veto power over decisions to raise the buffer higher
than three percentage points of core capital, according to the
Danish document, dated Feb. 28.  The Danish proposals would give extra “flexibility” to
national regulators to go beyond the 7 percent threshold and may
“constitute a viable approach for reaching a compromise,”
according to the document.  For more, click here.  Debt Issuers Should Rotate Credit-Rating Companies, ESMA Says  Issuers of bonds should rotate the companies that evaluate
their debt to encourage competition from smaller rating firms,
one of Europe’s top markets regulators said.  Verena Ross, executive director of the European Securities
and Markets Authority, told lawmakers in  London  yesterday that
rotation could be a “good and valuable tool” to encourage
different players to enter the credit-rating market.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings registered with ESMA at the end of October, becoming
directly supervised by a single European Union regulator for the
first time.  Separately, EU lawmakers said they oppose calls from a
fellow member of the  European Parliament  to ban credit-ratings
companies from giving unsolicited ratings on sovereign debt.  The ban was sought by Leonardo Domenici, the lawmaker
tasked with drafting the Parliament’s opinion on credit-ratings
rules. He has called for the unsolicited ratings ban to be added
to a draft law that was presented last year by Michel Barnier,
the EU’s financial services chief.  CFTC Said to Delay March 9 Vote on Swap-Dealer Definitions Rule  The U.S Commodity Futures Trading Commission delayed a vote
on a rule defining swap dealers under the Dodd-Frank Act and may
take up the measure on March 20, according to a person briefed
on the schedule.  The CFTC’s five commissioners planned to vote March 9 on
the rule that will determine which banks,  hedge funds  and energy
companies face the highest capital and collateral requirements,
said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
schedule isn’t public. The agency already delayed a Feb. 23 vote
on the regulation.  The regulation is among the most contentious measures
required by Dodd-Frank and has led to hundreds of meetings and
comment letters.  IOSCO Publishes Guidelines for OTC Derivatives Clearing  The  International Organization of Securities Commissions 
published  guidelines  for regulators to limit risks stemming from
trading in over-the-counter derivatives by requiring central
clearing.  Regulators should “narrowly define exemptions” to central
clearing and “promote international consistency,” IOSCO said.  IOSCO, based in Madrid, brings together national market
regulators from more than 100 countries to coordinate rules and
share information.  Compliance Action  Japan Ruling Party Seeks More Asset-Manager Oversight After AIJ  Japan’s ruling party is seeking to amend laws to require
external audits for privately owned asset-management firms in a
bid to avoid a recurrence of the AIJ Investment Advisors Co.
case.  The Democratic Party of Japan expected to form a working
team under its financial committee as soon as yesterday to
discuss changes to rules governing investment managers for
pension money, Tsutomu Okubo, a lawmaker who leads the panel,
said in an interview in Tokyo on Feb. 29. Okubo, 50, expects a
bill to amend the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law will
win Cabinet approval as early as mid-March and then be sent to
the Diet.  Japan’s financial regulator yesterday began its biggest
investigation of asset managers following the Feb. 24 suspension
of AIJ, which has failed to account for the more than $2 billion
it oversaw for clients, including pension funds. The case has
raised concern over the safety of retirement assets in Japan,
where more than a fifth of the population is over 65.  AIJ had 122 contracts with domestic corporate pensions and
one with a foreign investor as of March 2011, according to
filings with the Japan Securities Investment Advisers
Association. The Tokyo-based firm managed 185.3 billion yen
($2.3 billion) of clients’ assets as of that date, labor
ministry figures show.  Under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, closely
held asset management firms don’t need to hire external auditors
to review their business reports.  The panel will discuss whether the Financial Services
Agency should hire inspectors with backgrounds in the hedge fund
industry, Okubo said. It will also consider whether trust banks
and life insurers should expand their oversight of funds as
custodians, he said.  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Joins Goldman in Disclosing Threat of SEC Enforcement  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in a filing yesterday that the
Securities and Exchange Commission warned in January it may
bring complaints stemming from two investigations into mortgage
securitizations.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  also said
Feb. 28 they received so-called Wells notices from the SEC,
warning that agency staff may recommend enforcement.  The SEC has issued such notices to multiple banks in probes
focusing on mortgage securities, said people with knowledge of
the matter who asked not to be identified because the
communications weren’t public.  John Nester , a spokesman for the agency, declined to
comment on the investigations.  For more, click here.  Expeditors Says EU to Hold Meetings on Freight-Forwarding Probe  Expeditors International of Washington Inc.  said European
Union regulators will hold meetings this month regarding an
antitrust probe of freight-forwarding companies.  “On February 24, 2012, the company received notice from
the EC that it plans to hold additional meetings, known as state
of play meetings, related to its ongoing investigation of
freight forwarders on or about March 15, 2012,” Expeditors said
in a regulatory filing Feb. 28.  Goldman Sachs Executive Said to Be Focus of U.S. Insider Probe  A U.S. investigation of possible  insider-trading  by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  employees expanded to include a managing
director whose name emerged at the trial of convicted hedge fund
manager  Raj Rajaratnam , a person with knowledge of the probe
said.  David Loeb , who works on Asia equity sales in  New York  and
focuses on Taiwan, is a subject in the criminal investigation,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
matter isn’t public. Loeb is the second Goldman Sachs employee
said to be under federal scrutiny. Last month, Henry King, an
analyst covering Taiwan, was identified as under investigation
by the FBI, a person familiar with the case said.  Goldman Sachs said in a Feb. 28 regulatory filing that
“from time to time, the firm and its employees are the subject
of or otherwise involved in regulatory investigations relating
to insider trading, the potential misuse of material nonpublic
information and the effectiveness of the firm’s insider trading
controls and information barriers.”  The bank said in the filing that it was “fully
cooperating” with any such investigations.  The law enforcement effort is being conducted by the FBI in
New York and the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan. Loeb didn’t return calls or e-mails seeking comment
yesterday.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based
Goldman Sachs, declined to comment. Peter Donald, a spokesman
for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York, declined to
comment.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Bharara, said it is
the office’s policy to neither confirm nor deny if Loeb is the
subject of any inquiry.  For more, click here.  Munich Prosecutors Conducts Raid in Insider-Trading Case  Munich prosecutors conducted 86 raids in Germany and other
countries yesterday in a probe of stock fraud, market
manipulation and insider trading.  Fifty-three raids took place in Germany, 29 in other
European countries and four outside Europe, Munich prosecutor
spokesman Thomas Steinkraus-Koch said in an e-mail. Several
people are being investigated, he said, declining to identify
them or the stock involved. The operation was handled by 11
prosecutors, 10 employees at financial regulator Bafin and 200
police officers.  The allegations relate to possible manipulation of share
prices “using publications,” Steinkraus-Koch said. The case is
“just beginning.”  Munich prosecutors have previously investigated fraud where
suspects used publications to inflate the price of penny stocks.  PNC Says It Expects to Unwind $1.3 Billion Because of Volcker  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , the sixth-largest U.S.
bank by deposits, may need to eliminate as much as $1.32 billion
in invested capital under the Volcker rule.  PNC held $880 million in private equity and hedge funds and
sponsored three such funds with total invested capital of $441
million as of Dec. 31, the Pittsburgh-based bank said yesterday
in its annual filing with regulators. PNC said it’s likely some
of the amounts will fall over time “in the ordinary course of
business before compliance is required.”  “A forced sale of some of these investments due to the
Volcker rule could result in PNC receiving less value than it
would otherwise have received,” the bank said in the filing.  PNC and other U.S. regional lenders are grappling with how
the Volcker rule, a proposal made under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
that seeks to limit risky trading, will affect their companies.
Executives at lenders such as Buffalo-based  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  have
said the rule would place a burden on smaller banks just to
prove they’re not in the business of proprietary trading.  Mexico Regulator to Fine Financial Firms for Misleading Clients  Mexico plans “very heavy” fines this year for at least
three financial companies that improperly advised clients on
corporate bond investments, said Guillermo Babatz, president of
the National Banking and Securities  Commission .  The companies either sold bonds that didn’t match their
clients’ risk profile or provided misleading information to
customers about the securities, Babatz said in a Feb. 25
interview. A fourth firm is also under investigation, Babatz
said, while declining to identify the companies before any fines
have officially been levied.  Customers’ portfolios are often concentrated in one
security, increasing risk, Babatz said. One in five individual
investors in private debt has more than half of their
investments in one asset, Babatz said.  Courts/Tribunals  BSkyB, RTL Group Face EU Antitrust Complaint on TV Rights  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM) 
and  Bertelsmann AG’s RTL Group SA (BTG)  are among broadcasters named
in an antitrust complaint to the  European Commission  over music
publishing rights.  The  European Composer and Songwriter Alliance  accused
broadcasters of coercing composers to cede publishing rights as
a precondition for contracts to write music for television, the
group told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  Composers can lose as much as 80 percent of potential
royalties for music used in television programs when they are
told to assign copyright to a publishing company owned by or
selected by a television company, said Dutch composer Johan van
der Voet. Broadcasters and production companies collude on the
practice which “has been exploding” over the past decade, he
said.  Julian Geist, a spokesman for Unterfoerhring, Germany-based
ProSiebenSat.1, said the complaint is “not justified” because
the company pays to use a large number of compositions in its
television programs that it doesn’t hold the rights to.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the Brussels-based
commission, declined to comment beyond confirming receipt of the
complaint.  Arthur Schuitemaker, NTR’s head of marketing and
communications, declined to comment on the details of the
complaint. Mediaset and the  BBC  also declined to comment.  BSkyB, RTL, ITV and RAI didn’t immediately respond to e-
mails on the matter. TF1, ZDF and ARD didn’t respond to calls
and e-mails seeking comment.  ING Rescue Terms Are Reviewed in First EU Court Case on Bailouts  The terms of  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s bailout by the Dutch government
may be questioned by a European Union court tomorrow in the
first case challenging EU conditions on more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) of bank rescues throughout the region.  ING was ordered by the  European Commission  to sell units to
shrink its balance sheet by 45 percent by the end of 2013 and
avoid undercutting rivals on prices for some banking products
for three years or until it repaid the aid. The EU must approve
large state subsidies and can impose conditions on the aid.  The EU’s general court will rule tomorrow on challenges by
ING and the Dutch government to the terms of the EU’s approval,
which the bank says punished it too harshly for state help in
2008 and 2009. ING said the regulator miscalculated the amount
of aid and imposed excessive restructuring demands.  Tomorrow’s ruling may clarify how far banks can challenge
EU decisions on commitments made in return for state aid
approval, said Christoph Arhold, a lawyer at White & Case LLP in
Berlin.  The cases are T-33/10, ING Groep v. Commission and T-29/10,
Netherlands v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 