-- G-20 Group Calls for Greater Oil Price Reporting Regulation
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-03-01T09:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/g-20-group-calls-for-greater-oil-price-reporting-regulation-1-.html
A commission appointed by the Group
of 20 nations called for stricter regulation of price-reporting
agencies to prevent the manipulation of oil markets.  The consultation  report , published today by the
International Organization of Securities Commissions, said that
price-reporting companies are at risk from  oil prices  being
manipulated and called for greater regulation in their
complaints process and in the appointment of board members.  “There is a risk that a price-reporting agency’s benchmark
price can be manipulated by the submission of false prices or by
over- or understating the volume transacted,” the report said.  The G-20 appointed IOSCO in November last year to look into
the role played by oil price reporting agencies, including
Platts, the energy and pricing unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  and
Argus Media Ltd., in the functioning of oil markets, their
methods of operation and governance and options for future
oversight.  “Argus has already contributed to a G-20 mandated study of
independent price reporting organizations and we are happy to
continue to provide information and work with regulators and the
industry,” Argus Media chairman and chief executive Adrian Binks said in an e-mailed statement.  “The oil price reporting process which we have employed
for nearly 20 years is a highly structured, transparent
process,” Kathleen Tanzy, a spokeswoman for Platts based in  New
York , said in an e-mailed statement. The company plans to
participate in the consultation process and submit comments to
IOSCO, she said.  Madrid-based IOSCO brings together national market
regulators from more than 100 countries to coordinate rules and
share information.  The closing date for responses to the consultation report
is March 28. A final report will be submitted to the G-20
Finance Ministers in June.  To contact the reporter on this story: Rupert Rowling in London
at   rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Stephen Voss
at   sev@bloomberg.net  