-- Gap Joins Target in Topping Same-Store Sales Estimates Amid Warmer Weather
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2012-03-01T21:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/gap-joins-target-in-topping-same-store-sales-estimates-amid-warmer-weather.html
Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  were among
U.S. retailers posting February same-store sales gains that
topped analysts’ estimates as unseasonably warm weather boosted
purchases of spring merchandise.  Sales at Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, climbed 4
percent, beating the average projection for a 1.4 percent drop
from analysts surveyed by Retail Metrics Inc. The shares surged.
Target, the second-largest U.S. discount retailer, posted a 7
percent same-store sales gain, topping the 5 percent estimate.  U.S. retailers that aggressively rolled out new products
benefited as warmer weather induced consumers to get a jump on
their spring shopping,  Eric Beder , an analyst at Brean Murray
Carret & Co. in New York, said in a report before results were
announced. December and January were the warmest in six years,
with mild temperatures continuing into February, according to
 Planalytics , a weather data provider.  “Warm weather could have led to a fairly stellar
February,” Joel Bines, head of retail practice at AlixPartners
in  Dallas , said in a telephone interview before the results.
“All indications point to a strong Valentine’s Day and the
retail world benefiting from pent-up demand.”  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based researcher Retail Metrics rose
6.5 percent, beating the estimate for a 3.5 percent gain.  Gap, based in  San Francisco , rose 7.2 percent to $25.05 at
the close in New York, the highest closing price since May 3,
2010. Minneapolis-based Target gained 0.1 percent to $56.76.  Nordstrom, T.J. Maxx  Sales at  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , the Seattle-based luxury
department-store chain, rose 10 percent, beating estimates for a
5.6 percent gain. TJX Cos., operator of T.J. Maxx discount
stores, rose 9 percent, topping the 7 percent projection.  Nordstrom rose 0.3 percent to $53.77. TJX, based in
Framingham,  Massachusetts , rose 1.3 percent to $37.09.  While March probably will maintain momentum with spring
clothes shopping, sales may start to slow significantly by
April, said Alison Paul, retail sector leader at Deloitte LLP in
 Chicago .  “There is concern about gas prices, and it won’t be long
before people are hesitant to make multiple trips to go
shopping,” Paul said in a telephone interview. “With prices
showing no signs of abating, consumers are going to start to
feel challenged.”  The average price for a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline
has increased 14 percent this year to  $3.74 (3AGSREG)  as of yesterday,
according to AAA, the largest U.S. motoring group.  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) ’s sales fell 0.8 percent, a bigger drop than
the 0.2 percent estimate. The shares slid 1.6 percent to $48.87.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is as key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in  New York  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  