-- Gazprom Takes Lithuania to Arbitration Over Gas Unbundling
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-03-01T12:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/gazprom-seeks-international-arbitrage-against-lithuanian-state.html
OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s natural-gas
export monopoly, is taking  Lithuania  to international
arbitration over its plan to break up the Baltic nation’s sole
gas utility.  Gazprom informed the board of  Lietuvos Dujos (LDJ1L)  AB that it
would defend its interests at a meeting held earlier this week,
the Moscow-based company said today in a statement. Gazprom
holds a 37 percent stake in Lietuvos.  Lithuania is splitting the gas sales and transmission
ownership of Lietuvos Dujos as part of the European Union’s
drive to force dominant energy companies to improve access for
competitors.  “We’re puzzled,” Kestutis Jauniskis, a spokesman for
Energy Minister Arvydas Sekmokas told the  Baltic News Service 
after the Gazprom statement. “These steps don’t help maintain
the dialog achieved in the Feb. 27 meeting.”  Unbundling “will go ahead as planned,” Lithuanian Prime
Minister Andrius Kubilius said in an interview in Brussels
today. “The end of 2014 is for us when unbundling has to be
implemented according to our law.”  Kubilius said he had a meeting with Gazprom Export’s
 Alexander Medvedev  on Feb. 27, where both sides agreed that
Gazprom will no longer question the unbundling plan.  The government delayed yesterday the deadline for Lietuvos
Dujos to prepare the program for unbundling by two months in
response to the meeting with Gazprom.  The Lithuanian government asked the European Commission in
January last year to investigate possible market abuse by
Gazprom after the company said Lithuania, unlike neighboring
Latvia and Estonia, won’t receive gas-price cuts because of its
unbundling proposal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  