-- Germany May Delay Solar Subsidy Cuts, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-03-01T14:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/german-lawmakers-discuss-delay-in-cuts-for-solar-subsidy.html
Germany , the world’s biggest solar-
power market, may delay a plan to cut subsidies in the industry
by at least three weeks to allow developers to complete
projects, a lawmaker said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition government is debating
changes to draft legislation, which proposes to reduce the
premium rates paid for solar power by as much as 29 percent
starting March 9 and to cut them further every month from May.  “We want to push back the date to at least April 1 for
rooftop units,” Georg Nuesslein, an energy spokesman for the
 Christian Social Union , the Bavarian sister party of Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats , said today by telephone. The government is
also debating details of a “reasonable transitional solution”
for large-scale ground-mounted plants, he said.  Germany is seeking to cut the annual pace of solar
installations by half after incentives for the industry pushed
capacity past government targets. The opposition  Green Party ,
the state premier of Saxony-Anhalt and companies including
 Solarworld AG (SWV) , the country’s largest solar-panel maker, have
protested that the cuts are too drastic and too soon.  Project Completion  The original proposal, endorsed by the Cabinet yesterday,
would eliminate aid for plants larger than 10 megawatts after
July 1. Amendments under consideration would ensure that
developers who have invested in projects with the current
tariffs in mind can actually complete them, Nuesslein said.  The initial proposal also includes a clause giving
officials authority to amend subsidy levels without fresh
backing from parliament. That clause would come into force if
installations exceed the government target of 2,500 to 3,500
megawatts a year.  The clause “will be linked to a parliamentary process”
giving lawmakers a certain amount of time to reject or change
subsidy adjustments proposed by ministers, Nuesslein said.  The premium-tariff reductions add to pressure on solar
companies such as  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and Conergy AG, German producers
that are already struggling with rising competition from  China ,
where the world’s three biggest panel makers are based.  Nuesslein said coalition lawmakers have no plans to adjust
the level of subsidy cuts before a draft bill goes to
parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  