-- Gingrich Makes Last Stand in Must-Win Georgia as Hopes Sputter
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-03-01T05:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/gingrich-has-last-stand-in-must-win-georgia-as-presidential-hopes-sputter.html
Campaigning across his adopted home
state of Georgia, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  this week
promised $2.50 gasoline, lambasted President  Barack Obama  and
excoriated  Iran  in a last-ditch push for a presidential primary
victory in a place he represented for 20 years.  Traveling from hangar to gymnasium to Statehouse, and
buoyed by a fresh infusion of super-PAC cash from billionaire
 Sheldon Adelson , Gingrich predicted a rout on March 6, when 11
states hold primaries. He told the Associated Press yesterday
that he will win Georgia, which has more delegates at stake than
any other Super Tuesday state, “and win it decisively.”  He had better, said Merle Black, who teaches Southern
politics at Emory University in Atlanta.  “Georgia is absolutely critical to the Gingrich
campaign,” Black said in a telephone interview. Gingrich is
“the only candidate who has spent a lot of time actively
campaigning here. He needs a big, big victory here. He won’t
advance his cause with a two-point victory. He needs something
in the double digits.”  Gingrich, 68, had a rocky start to his run after advisers
abandoned him. Then, as Republican voters cast about for
alternatives to  Mitt Romney , he soared, taking  South Carolina ’s
primary on Jan. 21. Since Romney unleashed advertisements
attacking Gingrich’s ethics and the $1.6 million he got for
advising  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , which many Republicans blame for enabling
the housing bubble, Gingrich faded -- except in Georgia.  Staying Alive  Polls show him ahead there, although not as far as he once
was. Real Clear Politics, a website that synthesizes polls, gave
Gingrich a nine-point lead over his closest rival, former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , in surveys conducted between
Feb. 20 and Feb. 26.  One December poll, by InsiderAdvantage Georgia, had
Gingrich topping second-place Romney, a former Massachusetts
governor, by 42 percentage points. A Feb. 20 report by the same
organization found his lead at two percentage points, in a
three-way statistical tie with both men.  “I really think Newt will win  Georgia ,” said Erick Erickson of Macon, author of the blog Red State, which bills
itself as the right’s most influential grassroots voice. “I
think Santorum will do better than expected, but he won’t beat
Gingrich. My question now is whether that’s the only state he
wins next week, which won’t be enough.”  Gone For Years  Gingrich, a Pennsylvania native and former West Georgia
College history professor, has disadvantages in the state.  Although he represented two districts between 1979 and
1999, he hasn’t lived in  Georgia (STOGA1)  since leaving office. The
former speaker has been based in  Washington , where he ran the
Gingrich Group, a consulting company, and the Center for Health
Transformation, among other businesses.  The thrice-married politician’s marital difficulties played
prominently in state news in the 1990s, said Tim Echols, an
evangelical Christian and Santorum backer who is the elected
chairman of Georgia’s Public Service Commission.  “The values vote is definitely with Santorum,” Echols
said in a phone interview. “Many evangelicals still hold the
infidelity against him. They have not forgiven him that.”  Those drawbacks may be balanced by a long history and high
name recognition: Metropolitan Atlanta, part of which he
represented, contains half of Georgia’s population of about 9.7
million.  Knowing Newt  “I’ve always liked him,” said Sue Dillard, 71, of Lilburn
in suburban Atlanta, at a Feb. 18 Gingrich rally. “I liked him
when he was in the House, and I liked this and I liked all his
debates. He’s the only one that talks like he knows what he’s
doing.”  Chuck Clay, an Atlanta-area lawyer prominent in state
Republican politics, said Gingrich shouldn’t be underestimated.
“People know him, and that’s an enormous advantage that other
people have to pay to buy,” he said.  Gingrich is also popular with rank-and-file state
Republicans, because of his role building the party, Erickson
said. Dozens of public officials and Republican stalwarts
flanked Governor Nathan Deal on the Statehouse steps in
December, when he held a press conference urging Georgians to
back Gingrich.  Remembering the Locals  In 1979, when Gingrich won his first congressional seat, he
was the state’s only Republican congressman. The party didn’t
win a statewide office until 13 years later. Even as Gingrich
ascended in the  House of Representatives , he remained supportive
at the local level, said Mark Rountree, a political consultant
in Alpharetta.  An example is framed on Rountree’s office wall at  Landmark
Communications Inc. , he said. It’s a handwritten note from 1993,
when Gingrich was the House minority whip. The note
congratulates Rountree on winning an obscure, weekly award from
a local politics television show.  “That’s the level of attention he paid,” Rountree said.
“For years, he built and built and built.”  Rountree said Gingrich must hold off Romney in metro
Atlanta and Santorum in the rest of the state to win.  A Romney super-PAC bought about $1.1 million in media ads
in Georgia, including about $400,000 in metro Atlanta, said
Christa West of MAXWest Media of Atlanta, a research company.
She described it as a “reasonably aggressive buy.”  The Winning Our Future super PAC backing Gingrich purchased
almost $900,000 in radio advertisements in six states scheduled 
to hold primaries in the next two weeks, according to a person
close to the committee who spoke on condition of anonymity.  A Feb. 23 poll by Rountree’s firm showed a 15 percent lead
for Gingrich on Feb. 23, that Romney was gaining ground in metro
Atlanta and that a Santorum surge in the rest of the state had
leveled.  Sideshow State  Black, the Emory professor, and Clay, the Republican
lawyer, said neither Romney nor Santorum appear to be trying all
that hard to wrest Georgia from Gingrich.  “I have not yet seen an overwhelming investment of Romney
dollars or Santorum time,” Clay said.  Black said Santorum and Romney are rightly concentrating on
 Ohio ’s Super Tuesday race, and may cede Georgia.  “On March 6, the headline is going to be Ohio,” he said.
“At this point Gingrich is a sideshow. If he wins Georgia, and
Tennessee and  Oklahoma  on March 6, then he might be back in the
game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta  at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  