-- GKN Is Said to Lead Bidding for Volvo Aero After MTU of Germany Pulls Out
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-03-02T08:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/gkn-said-to-lead-bidding-for-volvo-aero-unit-after-mtu-drops-out.html
GKN Plc (GKN) , a British maker of aircraft
components for Airbus SAS, is the frontrunner to purchase  Volvo
AB’s (VOLVB)  aircraft-engine unit after  MTU Aero Engines Holding AG (MTX) 
dropped out of the sale process, people with knowledge of the
situation said.  Other potential buyers, including buyout firms  Carlyle
Group LP (CG)  and  Nordic Capital , have scaled back their efforts
after submitting initial offers, said the people, who declined
to be identified because details of the sale are private. The
winning bidder for the unit, which may fetch about 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion), may be announced in the next few weeks,
one of the people said.  Volvo said in November it would sell the aero-engine unit
to focus on heavy trucks and construction equipment in the
Gothenburg, Sweden-based company’s biggest structural shift
since splitting off its car division a decade ago. The Volvo
Aero unit equips aircraft such as  Saab AB (SAABB) ’s Gripen fighter jet.  Some automotive manufacturers are turning to spinoffs and
asset sales to focus on narrower product ranges and streamline
investment requirements. Italian carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  last year
spun off Fiat Industrial, its truck and tractor business.  A spokesman for GKN declined to comment yesterday, as did
representatives of MTU, Carlyle, Volvo and Nordic Capital.  Volvo declined as much as 0.5 percent to 96.65 kronor and
was trading down 0.4 percent at 9:50 a.m. in  Stockholm . GKN fell
as much as 1.2 percent to 219.8 pence in  London .  GKN’s Forecast  For GKN, the asset is an opportunity to further broaden its
offering after a 2011 that Chief Executive Officer Nigel Stein
referred to as a “year of transition” for the aerospace
division, with an accelerating civil aviation market countering
lower military orders.  Stein said on a Feb. 28 conference call that he will remain
disciplined on what he would pay for acquisitions and that
Redditch, England-based GKN has looked “at a lot of things over
the years.”  GKN has  four divisions , of which aerospace is the second-
largest by revenue. The aerospace business increased sales 4
percent to 1.48 billion pounds ($2.36 billion) in 2011, lagging
underlying revenue growth at the other three divisions.  In addition to complete engines, Volvo’s aero-engine unit
makes components including compressor rotors, turbine structures
and fan cases. The division’s operating profit fell to 151
million kronor ($22 million) in the fourth quarter from 282
million kronor a year earlier. Sales increased 1 percent.  The Swedish truckmaker has been active in aviation systems
since the 1940s. The business traces its roots to a Swedish Air
Force order for 40  aircraft engines  placed with a locomotive
manufacturer in 1930, according to Volvo Aero’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  