-- GM-Peugeot Pact Makes Opel Workers Rivals for Survival at Two Plants: Cars
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-01T11:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/gm-peugeot-pact-makes-opel-workers-rivals-for-survival-at-two-plants-cars.html
Konrad Goretzka drops his son Leon
off for training at German soccer club VfL Bochum most mornings
before driving two miles to the  Opel car factory  where he has
worked as an electrician for more than three decades.  With Opel’s parent  General Motors Co. (GM)  yesterday announcing
a cost-saving pact with  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Goretzka says he’s
hoping the soccer sessions lead to a professional contract so
the 17-year-old won’t be left relying on the plant for a job.  “I would never advise him to start here,” said Goretzka,
51, who began at Opel as a trainee in 1978.  The GM-Peugeot accord will entail job cuts at the two
carmakers, a person familiar with the deal said Feb. 28, raising
doubts about the future of the Bochum plant and one in Ellesmere
Port,  England , operated by Opel’s sister brand Vauxhall. Both
factories have been in limbo in recent years amid speculation
that they would be closed. Now they may be rivals for survival.  While workers wait and worry, for the two automakers, job
cuts will be one way to turn around a long string of bad
results. Peugeot’s automotive division lost 92 million euros
($123 million) in 2011. GM’s  Europe  operations have lost $15.6
billion since 1999. That has been a drain on good news elsewhere
as GM last year regained the title of the world’s No. 1 carmaker
and reported a record annual profit of $9.2 billion.  Shares Drop  With European auto demand forecast to drop again in 2012
for the fifth straight year because of the sovereign debt
crisis, the companies decided they had to move now. Peugeot,
whose credit rating was today cut to junk by Moody’s Investor
Services, plans a 1 billion-euro share sale to raise cash as
part of the GM deal after net debt doubled in the second half.  Peugeot  fell  as much as 7.2 percent today and was trading
6.2 percent lower at 14.11 euros as of 12:17 p.m. in Paris
trading. The shares have gained 17 percent this year, valuing
the carmaker at 3.31 billion euros. GM fell 12 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $26.02 as of the close in  New York  yesterday.  The tension at the plants in Germany and the U.K. shows the
increasingly global and competitive nature of labor as corporate
and national boundaries break down. In what may be a sign of
things to come, Vauxhall said today it would cut some jobs as it
seeks to avoid a buildup of unsold cars. About 150 posts may go.  “It makes the lives of workers and their families more
difficult,” works council chief Wolfgang Schaefer-Klug said in
an interview at Opel’s base in Ruesselsheim, Germany. “It hurts
when people think they might not have a job in a few years.”  Vulnerable Sites  While Opel has a total of 40,000 workers spread across 11
European plants, Bochum and Ellesmere Port are the oldest and
therefore in theory the least efficient and most likely to be
closed, said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for
Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen.  In Ellesmere Port, 82-year-old Harvey Young, who worked at
the plant between 1963 and 1987, said closure fears are pitting
U.K. workers against their German counterparts as GM’s European
sites vie for a viable slice of shrinking production. Vauxhall
may be vulnerable because its last home-grown design, the Viva
sedan, was produced in 1979, with subsequent models based on
rebadged Opels originating in Germany.  “They’ve got the plants competing against each other,”
Young said. “All the factories are at each other’s throats.
It’s a bad thing. When I first started at Vauxhall, it was all
self-contained. Then they started shifting things around.”  Political Input  Political interference and strong unions have hampered both
companies from shutting factories and laying off workers to rein
in costs. French Labor Minister Xavier Bertrand warned Peugeot
Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin last week against cutting
jobs as a result of the GM deal. President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
who’s running for re-election this year, summoned Varin in
November to ask him to reconsider plans to cut as many as 6,800
posts, including temporary staff employed by partners.  Moody’s said today that its downgrade of Peugeot debt to
Ba1 from Baa3 reflects full-year results that missed estimates,
adding of the GM accord that past alliances in the automotive
industry have often not resulted in anticipated improvements.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has also shielded German
factories, brokering the sale of Opel to protect jobs before the
deal ultimately fell apart when GM backed out in November 2009
after exiting bankruptcy. A restructuring agreement stemming
from then prohibits plant closures until 2014.  Vauxhall sold almost 235,000 cars in Britain last year,
making it the second-biggest brand after  Ford Motor Co. (F) , with a
12 percent market share, spurred by models including the Astra
compact, made in Ellesmere Port.  Pay Freezes  While German sales were higher at 285,000, that amounted to
only 9 percent of the market, with Opel in fourth place behind
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) .  GM bought Vauxhall in 1925, four years before it acquired
Opel. The U.K. business built its first car in  London ’s Vauxhall
district in 1903 before moving to Luton, north of the capital,
two years later. That site remains its base and makes only vans.  In Bochum, situated between Essen and Dortmund in the Ruhr
valley,  Germany ’s industrial heartland for two centuries,
workers have accepted pay freezes and sacrificed bonuses in
recent years to help safeguard the future of the factory.  Bochum, which produced its first Opel vehicle in 1962, the
same year that construction of the Ellesmere Port factory began,
has 3,100  employees , versus a peak of more than 20,100 in 1979,
according to company figures. The Vauxhall site has 2,100,
having had a workforce of more than 14,000 until the 1980s.  In addition to Bochum, Ruesselsheim, Ellesmere Port and
Luton, Opel has two more  plants  in Germany, two in  Poland  and
one each in Austria and  Hungary . The largest, in Zaragoza,
 Spain , was established in 1982 and employs 6,500 people.  Combining Operations  Further cuts would be pricey and unnecessary, said labor
chief Schaefer-Klug, who cited $1.1 billion spent mainly on
closing a plant in Antwerp,  Belgium , and reckons productivity
would improve if GM implemented measures commonplace elsewhere.  Engineering, manufacturing and purchasing could be combined
across GM brands, as they are at the VW, Skoda and Audi units of
Wolfsburg-based  Volkswagen (VOW) , Europe’s No. 1 carmaker, he said,
while regional markets should be served by plants in the same
areas. Chevrolets currently made for Europe in  South Korea  will
probably be built locally within two or three years, lifting
capacity utilization beyond its current 80 percent, he said.  Buying Stake  The alliance between Detroit-based GM and  France ’s Peugeot,
which will involve building small and mid-size vehicles
together, will heighten rivalry between plants, said Christian
Lafaye, an official at the Paris-based FO Metaux union who
represents workers at Europe’s second-largest carmaker.  “It will generate twice the amount of internal
competition,” Lafaye said. “It will certainly engender fear,
particularly at the European sites.”  Under the accord, GM will take a 7 percent Peugeot stake,
becoming its  second-largest shareholder . In a joint statement
the pair said the alliance “enhances but does not replace”
independent efforts to lift margins at European operations.  Opel’s works council said it sees “opportunities and risks”
from the Peugeot tie-up, with more scope for joint purchasing
and powertrain and engine developments, and a danger of cost
escalation from increased engineering complexity. Opel/Vauxhall
should be given “freedom” to help shape the alliance, it said.  “They have to reduce capacity and that may mean closing
plants or reducing headcount,” said Dudenhoeffer, the analyst.
“They need to find a solution because there’s a big problem
with capacity utilization and they’re generating big losses.”  Cutting Spending  About 40,000 jobs at local suppliers are dependent on the
Bochum factory, according to a study by Aachen Technical
University’s Institute for Cars, while local businesses say the
pinch is already being felt as autoworkers rein in spending.  “A lot of our regulars work at Opel and we’re noticing it
already,” said Inge Schmidt, who runs the Altenbochumer Hof pub
a half-mile from the plant. “They don’t spend as much. They know
they have money this month, but they don’t know what’s going to
happen with the factory, so they may not have it next month.’  In Ellesmere Port, Mal Buckley, who has run the Starlight
Electronics market stall for 10 years, said closing the plant
would be a blow for a town short on other industry.  “There’s nothing else to support people,” said Buckley,
whose stand is within yards of two of the eight pawnbrokers in
the town. “There’s not a lot of money, so it’s very difficult.
People are buying the essentials and that’s about it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in  Frankfurt  at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  