-- Goldman Criticized by Judge on Kinder Morgan Deal Conflicts
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-03-02T20:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/goldman-sachs-criticized-by-judge-on-kinder-morgan-conflicts.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was rebuked
by Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine for “incomplete and
inadequate” handling of a conflict of interest, less than 14
months after the bank finished examining its business practices.  Strine, in a Feb. 29 ruling, cited “the disturbing nature
of some of the behavior” leading to the terms of pipeline
operator  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI) ’s $21.1 billion purchase of  El Paso
Corp. (EP) , Goldman Sachs’s biggest takeover assignment last year.
The bank, which stands to get a $20 million fee from El Paso,
has a $4 billion stake in Kinder Morgan and two employees on its
board, both of whom recused themselves from negotiations.  The ruling contrasts with efforts by Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, to portray the firm as adept at
managing conflicts that arise from its roles as an investor,
financier and adviser. Last year’s  business standards report ,
published by the bank after it paid a record sum to settle a
fraud accusation by the Securities and Exchange Commission,
contained a 10-page section on managing conflicts of interest.  “I would hope there’s a lesson learned,” said Charles M. Elson, director of the Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance 
at the  University of Delaware . “It’s probably not advisable for
a bank to be on both sides of a transaction anymore.”  David Wells , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
said the firm respects the judge’s opinion and is pleased that
shareholders will get to vote on the merger.  ‘Keenly Aware’  “To serve our clients effectively, we offer a full range
of services,” he said. “In doing so, we seek to identify and
manage any potential conflicts appropriately and we’re keenly
aware of the importance of that responsibility.”  Strine “reluctantly” denied the plaintiffs’ motion for a
preliminary injunction.  “El Paso stockholders should not be deprived of the chance
to decide for themselves about the merger,” he wrote, adding
that a future monetary damages claim by the defendants could
have “some value as a remedial instrument.”  Mark Lebovitch , a lawyer at Bernstein Litowitz Berger &
Grossmann LLP who advised some of the plaintiffs, said it was
significant that Strine didn’t rule out the possibility that
Goldman Sachs and the other defendants, who included El Paso CEO
Douglas Foshee, could still face monetary damage claims.  “Had the judge let Goldman off the hook here without
monetary damages, then the message would be that they can do
whatever they like and the worst that happens is they get a
‘shame on you’ from a court,” Lebovitch said last night in a
telephone interview. “That’s not what happened.”  ‘Exert Influence’  Goldman Sachs, initially retained by El Paso to advise on
the spinoff of an asset, continued to advise the Houston-based
firm even after  Kinder Morgan  bid for the whole company. Some El
Paso shareholders sued to block the deal, saying that Goldman
Sachs had a financial incentive to advise El Paso management to
accept a lower price than it could have negotiated.  Strine, in his ruling, said Goldman Sachs was able to
“exert influence” on the sale to Kinder Morgan because the
investment bank continued to advise on the spinoff. Goldman
Sachs’s conflict was “real and potent, not merely potential,”
the judge wrote.  “The record suggests that there were questionable aspects
to Goldman’s valuation of the spinoff and its continued revision
downward that could be seen as suspicious in light of Goldman’s
huge financial interest in Kinder Morgan,” Strine wrote.  Morgan Stanley  “Heightening these suspicions is the fact that Goldman’s
lead banker failed to disclose his own personal ownership of
approximately $340,000 in Kinder Morgan stock,” the judge
wrote, referring to Stephen D. Daniel, a Goldman Sachs partner
who is co-head of global energy investment banking in Houston.  While Morgan Stanley was hired to provide independent
advice to El Paso, Goldman Sachs “tainted the cleansing
effect” of this move by insisting that Morgan Stanley should
receive no fee unless El Paso agreed to the takeover by Kinder
Morgan, Strine wrote. Goldman Sachs, while saying it didn’t
provide advice on the sale to Kinder Morgan, still arranged to
get a $20 million fee for the deal, he wrote.  “Goldman should have been foreclosed from getting fees for
working on the merger when it supposedly was walled off from
advising on that deal,” Strine wrote. “But Goldman’s
affectionate clients, more wed to Goldman than to logical
consistency, quickly assented to this demand.”  Takeover Fee  That Goldman Sachs would go to such lengths to obtain a
takeover fee undermines its argument that it wasn’t swayed by
its $4 billion investment in Kinder Morgan, Strine wrote.  “I cannot readily accept the notion that Goldman would not
seek to maximize the value of its multibillion dollar investment
in Kinder Morgan at the expense of El Paso, but, at the same
time, be so keen on obtaining an investment banking fee in the
tens of millions,” he wrote.  Goldman Sachs’s Wells said the firm “stood by our client
through this process,” and encouraged El Paso to get
“independent views from another adviser.”  “We were also transparent with El Paso about our
relationship with Kinder Morgan and the related issues,” he
said.  The case is In re El Paso Corp. Shareholder Litigation,
Consolidated 6949-CS,  Delaware  Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 