-- Swaps Committee Rules No Greece Credit Event on ECB Debt Swap Agreement
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-03-01T15:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/greek-default-insurance-doesn-t-need-to-pay-out-after-bailout-isda-says.html
Default insurance on Greek debt
won’t be paid out, the  International Swaps & Derivatives
Association  said after it was asked to rule whether part of the
nation’s $170 billion bailout was a credit event.  The group said the  European Central Bank ’s exchange of
Greek bonds for new securities exempt from losses being imposed
on private investors hasn’t triggered $3.25 billion of
outstanding credit-default swaps. ISDA’s determinations
committee, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Pacific Investment
Management Co., said the switch didn’t constitute subordination,
one of the criteria for a payout under a restructuring event.  “The situation in the Hellenic Republic is still
evolving” and today’s decisions “do not affect the right or
ability to submit further questions,” ISDA said in a statement.
The decision is not an expression of the committee’s “view as
to whether a credit event could occur at a later date,” the
association said.  A swaps payout may still happen if  Greece  uses collective
action clauses on private investors who refuse to take so-called
haircuts on their debt holdings, according to ISDA’s rules.
Officials including former ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
have opposed triggering swaps because they’re concerned traders
would be encouraged to bet against failing nations and worsen
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  ‘Big Issue’  “There’s value to getting some clarity even if the
ruling’s no,” said Peter Tchir, founder of New York-based hedge
fund TF Market Advisors. “It’s a pretty big issue for what
they’re trying to do in other countries.”  It costs $7.3 million in advance and $100,000 annually to
insure $10 million of Greek debt for five years, signaling a 95
percent probability of default within that time. Greek 10-year
bonds slumped to a record 19.14 cents on the euro after the
ruling.  Political determination to avoid the stigma of a  credit
event  has been waning as Greece struggles to meet the conditions
of its latest 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) bailout.  Standard
& Poor’s  downgraded the nation to “selective default” on Feb.
27 because of the government’s decision to retroactively insert
CACs into bond terms.  While Greece is negotiating the biggest ever debt
restructuring, the volume of credit-default swaps on the line
has tumbled. The net amount of debt protected is no more than
for some companies and represents less than one percent of the
nation’s bonds and loans outstanding.  Credit-default swaps  on Greece now cover $3.25 billion of
debt, down from about $6 billion last year, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That compares with a swaps
settlement of $5.2 billion on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008.  Counterparty Concern  Despite concerns at that time about a daisy chain of losses
if counterparties failed to meet their commitments, the Lehman
settlement and those of swaps guaranteeing debt of  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac  were “orderly” and caused no major disruptions
for the market, according to regulators.  A settlement on Greek swaps may bolster confidence in the
$258 billion sovereign insurance market and also help boost the
government bond market, Tchir said. Efforts to circumvent a
trigger risk undermining credit markets.  “The relevance of sovereign CDS has been called into
question, but they still have value,” said Georg Grodzki, head
of credit research at Legal & General Plc in  London .  Insurance payouts may still happen if Greece uses the
collective action clauses its parliament introduced or if it
fails to make a payment in future. If an event is declared,
auctions will be held to set a recovery value on the bonds, and
swaps sellers will pay buyers the difference between that and
the face value of the debt.  Failure to Pay  Swaps on western European governments can pay out on a
credit event triggered by failure to pay, restructuring or a
moratorium on payments. Restructuring events are the most
subjective and have been removed as a trigger event for U.S.
companies.  A restructuring event can be caused by a reduction in
principal or interest, postponement or deferral of payments or a
change in the ranking or currency of obligations, according to
ISDA rules. Any of these changes must result from deterioration
in creditworthiness, apply to multiple investors and be binding
on all holders.  The determinations committee that decides whether to
trigger swaps consists of representatives from 15 dealers and
investors. The group rules whether a credit event should be
declared after a request is made by a market participant. The
question on Greece was posed anonymously.  ‘Pain to Come’  “Technically the issue of the ECB subordinating other
investors hasn’t yet inflicted pain -- just the threat of pain
to come,” said  Bill Blain , a strategist at Newedge Group in
London.  A request on Irish swaps was rejected last year when ISDA’s
determinations committee ruled the International Monetary Fund’s
preferential creditor status in that nation’s rescue didn’t
constitute subordination.  “Restructuring almost always causes confusion,” Tchir
said. “The fact that it is a restructuring does leave it lot
more subjective than it would be otherwise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  