-- Greece Parliament Approves Pension, Health Cuts in Race for Second Bailout
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-03-01T02:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/greece-parliament-approves-pension-health-cuts-in-race-for-second-bailout.html
Greece ’s parliament approved cuts in
pensions and health care a day after ratifying a 3.2 billion
euro ($4.3 billion) package of spending reductions to move
closer to a rescue package to avert financial collapse.  Lawmakers voted 213-58 in favor of the law, Acting
Parliament Speaker Grigoris Niotis said early today in remarks
on state-run Vouli TV.  Approval in parliament allows Prime Minister Lucas
Papademos to meet with euro-area partners this week having met
most of the conditions demanded by the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  for Greece to get a lifeline of 130
billion euros. Finance ministers from the region will discuss
the second Greek rescue program in Brussels today.  “This government will do its utmost to implement fully and
effectively both the program and the complementary actions,”
Papademos said in the Belgian capital yesterday. There is an
“urgent need” for the reforms to be twinned with concrete
measures, he said.  European governments moved toward a second rescue of Greece
on Feb. 21, calculating that the cost of a fresh bailout, which
includes a writedown of about 100 billion euros of Greek debt,
is a price worth paying to prevent a financial collapse that
could shatter the euro area.  Spur the Economy  Pension and wage cuts are reducing state spending and
changes to labor rules are liberalizing the jobs market. The
measures are also driving the economy deeper into a recession
and fanning discontent among Greeks as unemployment has jumped
to 21 percent. The economy shrank 6.8 percent last year and is
set to contract for a fifth year in 2012.  Protests shut down government services and tourist sites
like the Acropolis yesterday as unions held a three-hour walkout
as part of a European-wide campaign against austerity measures.
Greek lawmakers passed budget cuts on Feb. 13 as rioters set
fire to almost 50 buildings.  The reforms approved this week will cut 12 percent off the
amount exceeding 1,300 euros for those receiving pensions from
the state, trim wages for all state employees and cut the
minimum wage by 22 percent. Public transit workers in the
capital of Athens will strike today, grounding subway and tram
services.  ‘Ambitious Program’  “Greece has approved a very ambitious program,” European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  said after meeting with
Papademos in Brussels yesterday. “There is no other
alternative, and I think that when there is no other alternative
people understand much better the urgency of the tasks at
hand.”  Standard & Poor’s (SPY)  cut Greece’s credit ratings to
“selective default” on Feb. 27 after the country began the
biggest sovereign debt restructuring in history, a key element
to the second bailout.  S&P dropped Greece’s rating from CC, two levels above
default, after the government added clauses to its debt designed
to coerce investors unwilling to take part in the exchange, the
New York-based company said. The downgrade follows a reduction
last week by  Fitch Ratings  to C.  Moody’s Investors Service has said it will cut the nation
to its lowest rating.  The debt exchange aims to reduce national debt to 120.5
percent of gross domestic product by 2020, from 160 percent last
year, and to meet the terms of the 130 billion-euro
international bailout. The agreed-upon swap, known as private-
sector involvement, will slice about 100 billion euros off more
than 200 billion euros of privately held debt if all investors
participate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  