-- Greece’s Venizelos Says Today’s Aid Assessment Very Positive
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-03-01T19:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/greece-s-venizelos-says-today-s-aid-assessment-very-positive-1-.html
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos called the assessment of the country’s eligibility for
a second aid package “very positive” and said the spotlight is
now on the planned debt swap with private creditors.  “It’s been a while since the Greek people heard good
words,” Venizelos told reporters today in Brussels after a
meeting with euro-area counterparts. “Today they heard a good
word.”  The progress toward a rescue slated to include 130 billion
euros ($173 billion) in new public funds and a 70 percent loss
for private holders of Greek debt justifies  Greece ’s effort to
meet budget-austerity conditions for receiving the aid,
according to Venizelos.  He also said today’s success for Greece, which has missed
fiscal targets tied to an initial rescue of 110 billion euros in
May 2010 and faced the prospect of having to exit the euro area,
shows the country’s future must be with the European single
currency.  “Any other proposal creates insecurity, uncertainty and
can lead to tragic situations,” Venizelos said. “Today is an
important day. But it’s not a day that should lead us to think
wrongly that the effort has ended. The effort must go on.”  Debt Burden  He said euro-area finance ministers plan to hold a
conference call on March 9 to assess progress on the voluntary
bond swap, which is meant to help cut Greece’s debt burden to
around 120 percent of gross domestic product in 2020 from 160
percent of GDP last year.  “We need to have the biggest possible participation,”
Venizelos said. “We need to have, if possible, universal
participation.”  Private creditors have strong reasons to take part in the
debt swap, he said, citing incentives including a cash
sweetener.  “The offer that Greece has made with the approval of the
eurogroup is very enticing,” Venizelos said. “This is the best
offer that can exist.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  