-- Greece May Default in 2012, Kirkegaard Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-02T21:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/greece-may-default-on-governments-this-year-kirkegaard-says-tom-keene.html
(Corrects last paragraph to show that  Peter Peterson  is not
the founder of Peterson Institute for International Economics.)  Greece  will probably default this
year on European governments’ holdings of its sovereign debt,
according to  Jacob Kirkegaard  of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics.  The country published the formal offer last week for its
agreement to exchange bonds for new securities, with private-
sector investors taking a loss of 53.5 percent. While the
 European Central Bank  won’t take direct losses from the swap
agreement, the writedown may make it more politically feasible
for governments to lose money on Greek debt, Kirkegaard said.  “The key thing about this is it’s a political issue, and
therefore sequencing matters tremendously,” Kirkegaard, a
research fellow at the Peterson Institute in  Washington , said
today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene . “It’s going to be essentially one
government defaulting against the taxpayers of another.”  Default insurance on Greek debt won’t be paid out even
after the nation negotiated the biggest sovereign-debt
restructuring in history, the International Swaps & Derivatives
Association ruled today.  The ECB’s exchange of Greek bonds for new securities that
are exempt from losses being imposed on private investors hasn’t
triggered $3.25 billion of outstanding credit-default swaps.
ISDA’s determinations committee said the switch didn’t
constitute subordination, one of the criteria for a payout under
a restructuring credit event.  The ISDA decision may undermine investors’ willingness to
use the derivatives, Kirkegaard said.  ‘Begin to Doubt’  “If I were a buyer of industrialized sovereign credit-
default swaps, I would strongly begin to doubt that I would ever
get a payout,” he said.  Euro-area finance ministers cleared the issuance of bonds
for the Greek debt swap as they reviewed the nation’s progress
on meeting the conditions for the aid.  The officials, gathering in Brussels today before a summit
of leaders from the 27-nation European Union, approved the 130
billion-euro ($173 billion) package last week and are
maintaining pressure on officials in  Athens  before releasing
cash. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said the
payment would be made before a March 20 bond redemption.  The ministers authorized the European Financial Stability
Facility to issue bonds for the debt swap, Juncker said today in
a statement.  Pension Cuts  Greek lawmakers approved cuts in pensions and health care a
day after ratifying 3.2 billion euros of spending reductions,
trying to meet conditions for the bailout.  Forcing Greece to leave the monetary union isn’t “really a
viable strategy,” Kirkegaard said.  “If you sent the signal that a country could be summarily
pushed out of a monetary union, I think that would be the de-
facto reintroduction of foreign-exchange risk into the euro
area,” he said. “If you were to initiate such a process, would
you keep your deposits in a Portuguese bank? I’m not sure you
would, and that’s the issue.”  Peter G. Peterson , co-founder of Blackstone Group LP, is
chairman of the board of directors for the Peterson Institute,
which was established in 1981 as the Institute for International
Economics. It adopted its current name in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  