-- Gross: Pimco’s Active ETF For Small Investors
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-03-01T18:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/gross-says-pimco-s-etf-designed-to-meet-needs-of-mom-and-pop-investors.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
opened an exchange-traded version of its Pimco Total Return
Fund, betting that star manager Bill Gross can kick-start
investor demand for actively run ETFs.  Gross’s Pimco  Total Return  ETF started trading today under
the ticker symbol TRXT, with a net asset value of $100,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco is aware of the
obstacles to winning wide acceptance from investors who have put
more than $1 trillion into passive ETFs.  “We’ve had two to three years of internal discussions,”
Gross said in a telephone interview yesterday from his office in
Newport Beach, California. “The challenge is obvious. We could
fall flat on our face or we could roar like a lion in a year or
two or three and become the largest ETF.”  Gross’s new vehicle, designed to blend the trading
flexibility and accessibility of ETFs with the stock- or bond-
picking ability of active management, is a test case for
investor interest in a segment that has attracted less than 0.5
percent of the $1.13 trillion in U.S.-registered ETF assets. The
potential for growth has spurred Pimco, along with at least two
dozen other money managers including  BlackRock Inc.  and  Legg
Mason Inc. , to vie for a slice of the active ETF business, which
would compete with the $9.41 trillion mutual fund industry.  ’Mom and Pop’  “Pimco’s entry was the most important development in the
industry over the past couple of years,”  Loren Fox , senior
research analyst at New York-based research firm Strategic
Insight, said in a telephone interview. The ETF will attract
“price-conscious small investors,” according to Fox.  Gross, in the interview, said it still bothers him that
high brokerage-firm minimums stopped his mother from buying
shares of  Pimco Total Return Fund , which became the world’s
largest mutual fund in 2009. The new ETF aims to get smaller
investors into the strategy, Gross said.  “Small investors don’t always have access to active
management with a higher yield and a higher total return,” said
Gross, who is co-chief investment officer at Pimco. “We are
hoping ‘mom and pop’ can do a little bit better than the bond
market at a time of historically low yields.”  ETFs typically hold baskets of securities while trading
throughout the day like stocks, instead of being priced once a
day like most mutual funds.  Combining Attributes  Active versions seek to combine the skill of fund managers
in selecting securities with the lower fees, market trading and
tax advantages of ETFs. Passive products, which track broad
market benchmarks such as the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index,
dominate the business.  Investors may be able to get returns of 3.5 percent with
TRXT compared with ETFs that passively track the investment-
grade bond market, which is yielding about 2 percent, Gross said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with Tom Keene.  Total ETF assets have surged more than 10-fold since 2001,
according to the Washington-based  Investment Company Institute ,
making them the fastest-growing product in the money-management
industry.  Bear Stearns Cos., the now defunct investment bank that was
acquired by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , was the first firm to open an
actively managed ETF in March 2008. The fund was liquidated that
year after the firm was sold.  Money managers including  Janus Capital Group Inc. ,  State
Street Corp. ,  T. Rowe Price Group Inc.  and JPMorgan Chase have
since sought permission from the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to open their own actively run ETFs. Active ETFs have
gathered about $5.1 billion in assets in four years, according
to data compiled by the ICI.  ‘Seminal Moment’  One reason active ETFs haven’t grown as quickly as index
products is that brokers don’t have the same financial incentive
to sell them as they often do with mutual funds on their own
platforms,  Matt Hougan , president of ETF Analytics at
IndexUniverse.com, said in an interview.  Strategic Insight’s Fox said fund companies are still
trying to understand the target audience, given that a big
portion of investors in the market are institutions and hedge
funds who frequently trade in and out of ETFs.  The  Pimco Total Return ETF  is opening at a “seminal
moment” for the fund industry, said  Scott Burns , managing
director of ETF Research at Morningstar Inc. in Chicago.
Investors have been pulling money out of active mutual funds and
moving into ETFs, in part because of the lower fees. Last year,
a net $118 billion of ETF shares were issued, compared with
redemptions of $130 billion from U.S.-registered equity mutual
funds and deposits of $125 billion into bond mutual funds,
according to the ICI.  No Overnight Success  “The industry is looking for ways to reverse that trend,
and one of the ways is by lowering the fees and lowering the
hurdle rate,” Burns said.  Pimco’s new ETF may not attract sizable assets immediately
because “most advisers will take a wait-and-see approach to see
if, in fact, the active-management component of this fund
provides alpha and outperforms the benchmark,” said Tom Lydon,
editor of ETF Trends in Irvine, California.  Gross, 67, was born in 1944 in Middletown, a steel-company
town in Ohio. His father, Sewell “Dutch” Gross, worked at
Armco as a sales executive; his mother, Shirley, was a
homemaker.  Pimco already oversees the industry’s biggest active ETF,
the $1.4 billion  Pimco Enhanced Short Maturity Strategy , which
began in November 2009.  The Pimco Total Return ETF will be similar in strategy to
Gross’s $250 billion Total Return Fund. Pimco, led by Chief
Executive Officer  Mohamed El-Erian , in 2009 began a push into
ETFs as part of the firm’s move to diversify its products.  Use of Derivatives  Unlike the Total Return mutual fund, which uses a
combination of options, futures and swap agreements, Gross’s ETF
can’t invest in such derivatives. The SEC said in March 2010 it
wouldn’t approve new ETFs that make significant use of
derivatives, pending a review of the practice that is
continuing. Should the SEC lift the freeze, the Total Return ETF
would invest in derivatives, Pimco said in its filing last year.  Gross said the inability to invest in futures and swaps is
less of a handicap as they’ve become more expensive to buy and
the spreads have shrunk since he started the total return
strategy in 1987.  Secular Positioning  “Our performance has been due to secular positioning in
terms of duration and risk spreads rather than the use of
derivatives over the past few years,” he said.  The institutional share class of the Total Return mutual
fund, which requires a minimum investment of $1 million outside
of retirement accounts that make it available, has an expense
ratio of 0.46 percent, or $46 a year for each $10,000 invested.
The fund’s most widely used retail share classes charge fees
ranging from 0.75 percent to 0.85 percent. The Total Return ETF
will charge fees of 0.55 percent, Pimco said in a July filing
with the SEC.  The Total Return Fund has advanced at an annual rate of 8.4
percent in the past five years, beating 97 percent of rivals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last year, the fund
trailed 69 percent of rivals after Gross missed a rally in
Treasuries. The fund has since rebounded, rising 2.8 percent
this year to beat 95 percent of the competition.  Investors should embrace a  defensive strategy  that includes
emphasizing income, de-emphasizing derivative structures that
are fully valued and being willing to accept returns lower than
historical averages, Gross said in a commentary posted on
Pimco’s website this week.  ‘Could Get Tricky’  Pimco may appeal to investors now because bond management
“could get tricky” and returns could decline as interest rates
rise from historic lows, IndexUniverse.com’s Hougan said.
“You’re entrusting Gross to navigate what could be a reversal
of a 30-year decline in rates,” he said.  One reason equity managers haven’t opened more active
products is that ETFs reveal their holdings daily because
institutional investors need to know a fund’s composition to
create new blocks of shares. That process also keeps an ETF’s
share price aligned with the value of its assets. The
requirement has discouraged companies from opening stock-picking
ETFs because it would allow other investors to copy their
trades.  So far, Pimco’s actively managed ETFs have focused on
highly liquid markets, including Treasuries, where other
investors mimicking the trades are less likely to affect prices.
Fixed-income investments are also more difficult to copy because
transactions don’t occur on an open exchange.  BlackRock, the largest provider of ETFs, has a filing
pending with the SEC to offer 13 actively managed equity ETFs
that don’t have to disclose their holdings daily. The firm
received initial SEC approval a year ago to offer actively
managed ETFs that disclose their holdings each day. Christine
Hudacko, a spokeswoman for New York-based BlackRock declined to
comment on the filings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  