-- Gross Says ISDA Yet to Make Final Call on Greek Default-Swaps
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-01T18:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/gross-says-isda-yet-to-make-final-call-on-greek-default-swaps.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , whose firm is a member of the committee that decides
whether default insurance on Greek debt will pay out, said the
group will probably make one more decision on the issue.  The International Swaps & Derivatives Association said
today that credit-default swaps tied to Greek debt won’t be paid
out after it was asked to rule whether part of the nation’s $170
billion bailout was a  credit event . The group said the  European
Central Bank ’s exchange of Greek bonds for new securities exempt
from losses being imposed on private investors hasn’t triggered
$3.25 billion of outstanding credit-default swaps.  “It’s not a slam dunk,” Gross, manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, said today in a Bloomberg television
interview on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “We expect
the next few days, perhaps next few weeks, to ultimately send
the ISDA committee back for one final vote.”  ISDA’s determinations committee, which also includes
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said the switch didn’t constitute
subordination, one of the criteria for a payout under a
restructuring event. Pimco, which oversees more than $1 trillion
in assets, doesn’t own any debt of  Greece , Gross said.  A swaps payout may still happen if Greece uses collective
action clauses on private investors who refuse to take losses on
their debt holdings, according to ISDA’s rules. Officials
including former ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  have opposed
triggering swaps because they’re concerned traders would be
encouraged to bet against failing nations and worsen  Europe ’s
debt crisis.  Aggrieved Parties  “We don’t see anything wrong with it,” Gross said of an
ISDA ruling that would trigger default swaps to pay out. “These
technical legal problems would really denigrate the entire
market and ultimately will affect the market for CDS if one side
is aggrieved as opposed to the other.”  It costs $7.3 million in advance and $100,000 annually to
insure $10 million of Greek debt for five years, signaling a 95
percent probability of default within that time. Greek 10-year
bonds slumped to a record 19.14 cents on the euro after the
ruling.  Credit-default swaps on Greece now cover $3.25 billion of
debt, down from about $6 billion last year, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That compares with a swaps
settlement of $5.2 billion on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008.  “It seems to us that there has to be a final result in
terms of the exchange,” Gross said from Pimco’s headquarters in
 Newport Beach ,  California . “At that point things will happen
from the standpoint of the EU and things will happen from the
standpoint of Greece that are not known yet. At that point, I
would expect the committee to go back and to make one final
judgment based upon those ultimate results.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  