-- Growth of Manufacturing Measure in February Eases Concern About Recession
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-01T09:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/growth-of-manufacturing-measure-in-february-eases-concern-about-recession.html
U.K.  manufacturing  expanded for a
second month in February, adding to signs the economy hasn’t
slipped back into recession after a fourth-quarter contraction.  The factory gauge, based on a survey by  Markit Economics 
and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply , declined
to 51.2 from 52.0 in January, Markit said in a report on its
website today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. The
figure was below the median forecast of 52 in a Bloomberg News
survey of 26 economists.  “U.K. manufacturers continued to raise production and
employment in February, building on the solid foundation seen so
far at the start of 2012,” Rob Dobson, senior economist at
Markit, said in the statement. Still, the report points to
“headwinds faced by manufacturers” amid “reports of weak
demand from the eurozone offsetting new business wins in the
U.S. and  Asia .”  The report follows data published today showing  China ’s
factory output quickened last month while India’s continued to
grow. Bank of England policy maker  Martin Weale  said yesterday
signs of growth and inflation risks suggest the U.K. economy
won’t need more stimulus once the current round of bond
purchases ends.  The U.K.  economy  shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter
as companies cut investment. Manufacturing contracted 0.8
percent in the period. However, the CIPS’s January surveys for
manufacturing and services showed expansion, and government data
published Feb. 24 showed  consumer spending  rose 0.5 percent in
the final three months of 2011 in the first increase for 1 1/2
years.  ‘Downside’ Risks  “Given the headline index remains above the break-even 50
level the report offers hope that the U.K. can avoid a
technical recession,”  James Knightley , an economist at ING
Bank NV in London, said in an e-mailed note. “However, it is
going to be a bumpy ride. Risks to growth remain skewed to the
downside.”  Factory output, which accounts for about 10 percent of U.K.
gross domestic product, is benefitting from the pound’s drop of
about 25 percent on a trade-weighted basis since the start of
2007. Exports gained 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter and net
trade contributed 0.6 percentage point to gross domestic
product.  Glasgow, Scotland-based  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , the world’s biggest
maker of pumps for the  mining industry , said yesterday it had a
“strong order book” for 2012. Chief Executive Officer Keith Cochrane said the company expects “a year of further good
progress.”  Caution Urged  Still,  Bank of England  Deputy Governor Charles Bean
yesterday cautioned lawmakers against putting too much weight on
positive signs in the economy. Policy makers’ latest quarterly
economic forecasts show the government’s fiscal squeeze and
the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  will weigh on the recovery.
A report today showed  manufacturing  continued to shrink in the
euro-area.  “There have been a few positive signs, but I think it’s
important not to read too much into one or two indicators rising
to the upside,” he said in testimony in Parliament yesterday.
“It’ll take a lot more swallows to make a summer.”  The Bank of England increased its  bond-purchase program  by
50 billion pounds ($80 billion) last month to 325 billion
pounds, and said it will complete the new round of asset
purchases by May.  Consumption “appears to be growing again” and
“indicators of the state of the economy this year have been
more positive,” Weale said late yesterday. “I do not think
there is likely to be a further case once our current program is
complete.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  