-- Extract Accepts Guangdong Nuclear’s A$2.2 Billion Offer
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-03-01T08:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/guangdong-nuclear-s-a-2-2-billion-offer-accepted-by-extract.html
China  Guangdong Nuclear Power Group
Co.’s A$2.2 billion ($2.4 billion) offer for  Extract Resources
Ltd. (EXT) , owner of the world’s fourth-largest uranium deposit, was
endorsed by the board of the Perth-based explorer.  The directors recommended that shareholders accept the
A$8.65-a-share cash offer from Taurus Mineral Ltd., a venture of
the state-owned Chinese company and the China-Africa Development
Fund, Extract said today in a statement.  The approach was triggered by Guangdong Nuclear’s bid for
 Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH) , which owns 43 percent of Extract. China’s
second-largest reactor builder, seeking new supplies of uranium
to feed demand for nuclear power, offered 632 million pounds ($1
billion) for the London-based company in December.  “You can be sure that all the serious players we’ve
engaged with,” Extract Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Leslie
said by phone today from  London . “The appetite wasn’t there to
trump the Guangdong bid, even though very strong interest has
been shown” in its Husab project in  Namibia .  Rio Tinto  Group, owner of the world’s third-biggest uranium
mine at Rossing, 7 kilometers (4.4 miles) from Extract’s
deposit, said last month it has held talks with Guangdong
Nuclear on jointly developing the two sites. London-based Rio
Tinto owns 14.2 percent of Extract and in January accepted
Guangdong Nuclear’s offer for its stake in Kalahari.  Rio Talks  “Because of the proximity, there are synergies there”
with Rio Tinto, Leslie said. “It’s obvious to look at that.”  Australian regulators ruled Guangdong Nuclear must offer
A$8.65 a share should the bid for Kalahari succeed. The Chinese
company said yesterday its offer closed after receiving about 98
percent of valid acceptances from Kalahari shareholders.  Extract closed unchanged today at A$8.60 in Sydney trading.  Uranium prices slumped 17 percent last year to about $52 a
pound after the March 2011 disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power station in  Japan  prompted a global review of nuclear
power. Prices of about $80 are needed to make new projects
attractive to developers, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “No doubt Fukushima has had a very bad effect in the near
term,” Leslie said. “A lot of projects are not going to make
it, at least on the old time-frame. The medium-term outlook
though remains pretty good for uranium projects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 