-- Liberty Holdings Profit Rises 8% as South African Insurer Retains Clients
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-03-01T07:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/liberty-holdings-of-south-africa-full-year-earnings-before-tems-rises-2-6-.html
Liberty Holdings Ltd. (LBH) , the insurer
controlled by  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , said full-year profit
rose 8 percent on increased premiums in South Africa as it
retained more clients.  Net income climbed to 2.6 billion rand ($321 million) from
2.4 billion a year earlier, the Johannesburg-based company said
today in a statement. Earnings a share excluding one-time items
and accounting adjustments increased to 9.31 rand, beating the
9.22 rand median  estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The insurer has focused on distribution, introducing new
products, training and working with advisers, all of which led
to a growth in sales, particularly in retail, Steven Braudo,
head of Liberty’s retail unit, said on a conference call. Retail
earnings in  South Africa  gained 46 percent to 1.31 billion rand
last year.  Liberty, along with parent company  Standard Bank , has been
targeting African expansion for the past six years as growth in
its domestic market slowed. The insurer bought control of
Kenya’s  CFC Insurance Holding Ltd. (CFCI)  last year to give it a
foothold in  East Africa . No further African acquisitions have
been identified for 2012, according to the company.  “We are now in 14 African countries and along with our
bancassurance model with Standard Bank, we have got a
footprint,” Chief Executive Officer Bruce Hemphill said on the
conference call. “Now we need to grow those operations and we
can do that quite quickly.”  Liberty, the fourth-largest insurer on Johannesburg’s stock
exchange by market value, has risen 13 percent this year,
beating the 11 percent average increase of the five-member
 FTSE/JSE Africa Life Assurance Index (JLFEA) .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  