-- Middle-Class Welfare State Is Invisible by Design: Ezra Klein
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-03-01T00:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/middle-class-welfare-state-invisible-by-design-commentary-by-ezra-klein.html
What is a government program? And
are you on one right now? Those are the questions Cornell
University political scientist Suzanne Mettler has been posing.  For her book “ The Submerged State ,” she asked a
scientifically selected sample of 1,400 Americans whether they
had ever used a government social program. Only 43 percent
copped to having done so. Then she read off 21 social programs,
such as  Medicare (FFSOMED)  and the home-mortgage interest deduction, and
asked the same question again: Have you ever used a government
social program? This time, 96 percent said yes, in fact, they
had.  According to Mettler’s survey, 60 percent of those who
benefit from the home-mortgage interest deduction didn’t think
they had ever used a government social program. Fifty-three
percent of those with  student loans  didn’t think they had used
one. Among Social Security beneficiaries, 44 percent thought
themselves unsullied by the touch of government, and among
Medicare beneficiaries, 39 percent said the same. Twenty-seven
percent of those in public housing answered in the negative, as
did 25 percent of those on  food stamps .  The implication seemed to be that Americans are hypocrites,
or at least woefully uninformed. But in forthcoming research,
Mettler and co-author Julianna Koch dig deeper, and find the
reality is more complicated.  Their new paper argues that “policy design” is an important
determinant of whether people recognize they’re using a
government program or not. Some programs, like food stamps and
 Medicaid (USBOMDCA) , force recipients to go to a government office and
apply for them. Those are the programs that beneficiaries are
most likely to recognize as government social programs.  Other programs, like Medicare, are provided by the
government, but eligibility is mostly automatic, and recipients
have paid into them. Beneficiaries of such programs are somewhat
less likely to realize they’re on a government dole than
beneficiaries of means-tested programs.  Submerged State  Then there’s what Mettler calls “the submerged state.”
These policies are mostly, though not exclusively, tax breaks.
They include the much-beloved home-mortgage interest deduction
and the tax exclusion for employer-provided health care.
Recipients of these policies -- and there are tens of millions
of them -- are rarely cognizant that they’re benefiting from a
government program.  But they are. “Indirect social policies offer benefits that
are comparable to direct social benefits both in their purposes
and in their costs,” Mettler and Koch write. “Both are targeted
to specific groups of people, aimed to reward some kind of
activity or some class of persons whom policymakers deem worthy
of public support. From an accounting perspective, as well, both
types have the same effect: They impose costs on the federal
budget, whether incurred through fiscal obligations or lost
revenues.”  The costs are significant. Huge, in fact. Tax expenditures
now cost the federal government $1 trillion annually -- more
than Medicare and Medicaid combined. And they’re regressive.  There is also a pattern to these programs: The more a
government social program benefits wealthier Americans, the less
obtrusive it is. We design policies for the poor in ways that
make it hard to escape the knowledge that the government is
providing help. But richer Americans rely on programs that are
“submerged.” The  Tax Policy Center  estimates that eliminating
all individual-income tax expenditures would raise levies on the
bottom 20 percent by $931. For the top 1 percent, the tax
increase would be almost $280,000. (Notably, both President
 Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney  have talked about cutting back on
tax expenditures for the wealthy, but neither has provided
details.) Even so, many middle class and wealthy beneficiaries
have no idea that they’re receiving any government assistance at
all.  Political Stratification  Not surprisingly, this influences Americans’ attitudes
toward government. Mettler and Koch find that the more likely
you are to know you have used a government program, the more
likely you are to have a positive opinion of them. “These
results point to an important but previously overlooked form of
stratification in American politics,” they write, “in which some
citizens are made cognizant of governments’ role, but others --
although they too benefit from it -- are not.”  Other factors influence whether people think they’ve used a
government social program. All else being equal, a 75-year-old
is 28 percent more likely than a 30-year-old to say he has never
used a government program; a conservative is 50 percent more
likely than a liberal to say the same.  Mettler hypothesizes that such differences could play a
role in the nation’s growing political divide. “I think one of
the drivers of the kind of polarization we have today is policy
design and delivery, because we have these policies where people
can benefit a lot from the government but become more anti-
government because they’re paying higher taxes and don’t think
they’re getting benefits.”  I’m more worried about the role submerged policies play in
the budget and in good policy. We’re funneling an enormous
amount of money to people who, in many cases, don’t need it and
don’t even know they’re receiving it. We’re designing programs
to be hidden in the annual budget -- tax expenditures don’t show
up as spending, even though that’s what they are -- and
invisible to taxpayers. That’s economically inefficient and
politically problematic.  If Americans who either rent or own their homes outright
were asked to accept a tax increase of $150 billion in order to
subsidize the mortgage payments of their indebted friends, it
seems unlikely they would find that appealing. The same goes for
asking Americans who don’t get health insurance through their
work to spend $100 billion or so annually subsidizing the
benefits for those who do. Of course, that’s exactly what’s
happening right now, but it’s hidden in the  tax code , so most
Americans don’t know it and can’t protest it.  It is in part because these policies aren’t visible that
they’re so difficult to change. That’s the thing about
submerging a large part of your welfare state. Sink it deep
enough, and it becomes almost impossible to dredge up.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  