-- Mideast Crude Rises as Brent Trades at 11-Week High Over Dubai
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-03-01T10:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/mideast-crude-rises-as-brent-trades-at-11-week-high-over-dubai.html
Brent crude  rose to an 11-week high
compared with Dubai oil, even as the Mideast benchmark gained.  Dubai crude’s backwardation, when the price for prompt
delivery is  greater  than for later shipment, rose by 22 cents.
Swaps for March were $2.01 cents a barrel more than May, the
highest since Dec. 15, according to data from PVM Oil Associates
Ltd., a London-based broker. A wider backwardation implies
stronger refiner demand for immediate oil.  The April  Brent-Dubai (PVMMDBSP)  exchange for swaps, which measures
the European benchmark contract against the Middle East grade,
rose 5 cents to $4.30 a barrel, the highest since Nov. 28 and
the third day of increases, according to PVM data. The May
contract was also up 5 cents, to $4.10.  Abu Dhabi’s  Murban (PGCPMURB)  and  Lower Zakum (PGCPLWZK)  crude premiums rose to
the highest levels in more than three months ahead of the
announcement of official selling prices by  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s largest oil exporter.  Murban increased 2 cents to 12 cents more than its official
price, while Upper Lower Zakum rose 2 cents to a 7 cent premium.
Both were the highest since Nov. 29, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg News.  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., which exports both grades, is
set to release official selling prices for February cargoes. It
typically announces them in the first five days of the new month.
Saudi Arabia will post its official differentials by March 5,
setting the tone for fellow Middle East exporters Iraq, Iran and
 Kuwait .  PV Oil Co.,  Vietnam ’s state-owned oil marketing company,
offered to sell 200,000 barrels of Rong Doi condensate for April
21 to April 27 loading, according to three traders who
participate in the market. Bids are due March 7.  No Dubai partial cargoes were sold today, according to a
survey of traders who monitor the Platts pricing window.  Oman futures for April fell on the Dubai Mercantile
Exchange settled at $120.53 at 12:30 p.m. in Dubai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  