-- Love’s Hole-in-One Helps Grab Honda Classic Lead as Woods Seeks U.S. Win
-- B y   M i k e   B u t e a u
-- 2012-03-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/tiger-woods-seeks-to-extend-u-s-pga-tour-winning-streak-at-honda-classic.html
Davis Love III ’s hole-in-one
highlighted a course record-tying 6-under-par 64, giving him a
two-shot lead entering today’s second round of the U.S.  PGA
Tour ’s Honda Classic. Tiger Woods is seven shots back.  Love, an American, aced the 195-yard, par-3 fifth hole with
a 5-iron for his fifth hole-in-one on the circuit, the tour said
on its  website . He made five birdies, a bogey and had 26 putts
over 18 holes on PGA National Resort and Spa’s Champion Course
in  Palm Beach Gardens (13440MF) ,  Florida .  “I was just trying to hit it toward the flag,” Love said
in a PGA Tour radio interview. “I haven’t made a whole lot of
them, but I’ve made three in the last two years.”  Rory McIlroy of  Northern Ireland  is among eight players two
shots back. McIlroy finished his 4-under opening round with five
birdies and a bogey. He’s tied with England’s Justin Rose,  South
Korea ’s Seung-Yul Noh and Americans Dicky Pride,  Ryan Palmer ,
Martin Flores, Kevin Stadler and Harris English.  Woods, making his first professional appearance at the
tournament, finished the round at 1 over. Woods, whose estate on
Jupiter Island is commuting distance from the course, is winless
on the PGA Tour since September 2009.  American golfers have captured the first nine events on the
U.S. tour this season, the longest such streak since 1991. The
tournament, featuring a field that includes two of the top three
players in the world -- McIlroy and Englishman  Lee Westwood  --
has been won by players from outside the U.S. six of the past
seven years.  Tiger Woods’s Round  Woods, who tied for 15th place in his U.S. debut last month
at the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am and lost in the second round
of the World Match Play Championship last week, played alongside
Westwood and Miguel Angel Carballo of  Argentina . Carballo, No.
299 in the  Official World Golf Ranking , replaced Ian Poulter of
England, who withdrew because of illness.  Woods, 36, had three birdies and four bogeys in his round
of 71. He is tied for 68th place of the 144 players entering the
second round.  “I hit the ball a lot better than I scored, and I
certainly putted well,” Woods told reporters. “A round I
should have been probably 2- or 3-under par quickly turned into
1 over.”  McIlroy, who won the 2011 U.S. Open, entered the tournament
as the favorite, with 8-1 odds, while Woods and Westwood were
listed at 10-1, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s sportsbook.
McIlroy could surpass  Luke Donald  of  England  as the No. 1 player
in the world with a win this week.  Woods’s only previous appearance in the Honda Classic came
as an amateur in 1993, when he missed the cut for weekend play
after rounds of 72 and 78. He’s claimed 12 of his 71 career PGA
Tour titles in Florida.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  