-- IMF Says Global Economy Is Still Facing Major Risk From Europe
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-03-01T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/imf-says-global-economy-still-facing-major-risk-from-european-debt-crisis.html
The global economy faces “major
downside risks” as its recovery continues to be threatened by
stresses in the euro area, the  International Monetary Fund  said
in a report prepared for the Group of 20 nations.  The world economic expansion will slow to 3.3 percent this
year from 3.8 percent in 2011, according to the surveillance
report prepared for the meeting of G-20 finance ministers and
central bank governors in Mexico City Feb 25-26. The euro
economy is forecast to contract 0.5 percent this year, compared
with growth of 1.6 percent in 2011.  “The overarching risk remains an intensified global
‘paradox of thrift’ as households, firms, and governments around
the world reduce demand,” the Washington-based IMF said in the
report. “This risk is further exacerbated by fragile financial
systems, high public deficits and debt and already-low  interest
rates .”  “Advanced economies are experiencing weak and bumpy
growth, reflecting both the legacies from the crisis and
spillovers from  Europe ,” according to the report.  European finance ministers are set to support a second
rescue for  Greece  today to avoid what Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  has described as a potential “brutal outcome” for
the  Greek economy . The gathering in Brussels today, before a
summit of leaders from the 27-nation European Union, will review
Greece’s progress on meeting the conditions of the 130 billion-
euro ($173 billion) aid package, which they approved last week.  Stick to Efforts  “Euro area members benefiting from financial assistance
programs should stick to the agreed consolidation efforts,” the
report said. “Developments in the euro area have shown that
market confidence can be quickly lost, with damaging
consequences for growth and financial stability.”  In the U.S., policy makers have failed to make progress
toward a credible medium-term fiscal adjustment plan, according
to the report. The IMF also urged  Japan  to support its recovery
by passing legislation on tax and social security reform.  Growth in emerging and developing economies will slow to
5.4 percent in 2012 from 6.2 percent last year, according to the
report. A rapid expansion of credit has left many emerging
economies more vulnerable to a sudden reversal of asset prices,
the report said, with weakness in advanced economies also cited
as a risk.  Separately, the report warned that the oil supply shock in
the  Middle East  could be “large” if it is not offset by supply
increases elsewhere. A sustained blockade of the  Strait of
Hormuz , a transit route for a fifth of the world’s oil, “would
lead to a much stronger and unprecedented disruption of global
oil supply,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  