-- Indian Manufacturing Expands at Close to the Fastest Pace in Eight Months
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-03-01T08:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/indian-manufacturing-expands-at-close-to-the-fastest-pace-in-eight-months.html
India ’s manufacturing grew at close
to the fastest pace in eight months, adding to signs global
economic prospects may improve after a Chinese gauge climbed.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 56.6 in February from
57.5 in January, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in
an e-mailed statement today. A number above 50 indicates growth.  Recent reports have shown gains in capital spending by
Japanese companies, South Korea’s largest climb in exports in
six months and an increase in a Chinese purchasing managers’
 index  for a third straight month. India’s central bank is due to
assess the nation’s economic outlook, including slowing
inflation, when it sets  interest rates  on March 15.  “Activity in the manufacturing sector continued to expand
in February, although at a slightly slower pace,” said Leif Eskesen, an economist at HSBC in  Singapore . Rate cuts by the
 Reserve Bank of India , which are expected to begin in April to
June, will “have to be gradual,” he said.  The rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 49.2013 per dollar at 1
p.m. local time. It has rebounded 7.9 percent so far in 2012
after sliding 16 percent last year. The  BSE India Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  declined 1.2 percent. The yield on the 8.79 percent note
due November 2021 rose two basis point, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 8.22 percent.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao reviews borrowing costs the day
before Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee unveils the budget for
the next fiscal year.  Easing Inflation  Indian  inflation  eased to a 26-month low of 6.55 percent in
January, after exceeding 9 percent for most of 2011. The economy
expanded 6.1 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the
slowest pace in more than two years.  The  Reserve Bank  raised rates by a record 3.75 percentage
points from March 2010 to October last year, to 8.5 percent, in
an attempt to restrain price rises. Costlier credit and slower
exports as  Europe ’s debt crisis hurt demand contributed to the
slowdown in  Asia ’s third-largest economy in 2011.  The Reserve Bank on Jan. 24 cut the amount of deposits
lenders need to set aside as reserves for the first time since
2009, seeking to ease a cash squeeze.  It said inflationary threats, such as the fiscal deficit
and energy prices, made it “premature” to start reducing
borrowing costs, while reinforcing guidance that future rate
actions will be towards lowering them.  Fiscal Deficit  The pace of price increases in India is the fastest in the
so-called BRIC group that also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  In China, the  purchasing managers ’ index rose to 51.0 in
February from 50.5 in January, the statistics bureau and
logistics federation said.  Indian inflation remains an area of concern in the current
financial year, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime
Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said in the southern
Indian union territory of Puducherry today.  The budget  shortfall  may surge to 6.1 percent of gross
domestic product in the year to March, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., exceeding
Mukherjee’s goal of 4.6 percent.  Indian companies have struggled as economic expansion eased.
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., India’s biggest carmaker, posted a 64
percent drop in third-quarter net income after a strike by
workers and lower demand damped sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  