-- Indonesia’s Inflation Slows in February Before Planned Fuel-Price Increase
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2012-03-01T10:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/indonesia-s-inflation-slows-in-february-before-planned-fuel-price-increase.html
Indonesia ’s inflation slowed for a
sixth straight month in February, supporting the central bank’s
decision to ease monetary policy even as a government plan to
raise fuel prices threatens to revive cost pressures.  Consumer prices  rose 3.56 percent last month from a year
earlier, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said in Jakarta today.
That compares with a 3.65 percent pace reported earlier for
January. The median forecast of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 3.8 percent increase.  Bank Indonesia , which cut  interest rates  in its last
meeting, said today it will respond to a surge in costs if
needed, even as the inflation rate has fallen faster than
expected. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s administration
has said it is proposing to raise prices of subsidized fuel.  “This low rate is unlikely to be sustained for long, as
rising oil prices have prompted the authorities to consider a
subsidized fuel-price increase, coupled with a 10 percent
electricity tariff hike,” Eugene Leow, an economist at DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore , said before the report.  Indonesia’s inflation may exceed the central bank’s target
this year if the government raises prices of subsidized fuel by
1,000 rupiah ($0.11) per liter or more, Governor Darmin Nasution
said in February.  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy proposes to
increase prices by 500 rupiah to 1,500 rupiah per liter, Energy
and Mineral Minister Jero Wacik said last month.  Faster Than Anticipated  Consumer prices climbed 0.05 percent in February from the
previous month, today’s report showed.  Core inflation 
accelerated to 4.31 percent, compared with a previously reported
4.29 percent pace in January.  “Inflation has been declining faster than anticipated,”
Halim Alamsyah, Bank Indonesia’s deputy governor, said in
Singapore today. “We are looking at this phenomenon carefully -
-is it permanent or temporary,” he said, adding that the
central bank has been “too cautious” in its monetary policy
easing. It will respond to a surge in prices if needed, he said.  The country faces higher inflation expectations, Alamsyah
said, adding that consumer prices will revert to trend in 2013
after the planned increase in fuel costs spurs gains.  The government will propose revisions to the 2012 budget
including raising the inflation target to 6 percent to 7 percent
from the current 5.3 percent, and boosting the crude-price
assumption to $105 a barrel from $90 a barrel, Coordinating
Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said today in Jakarta.
Lawmakers will discuss budget revisions this month.  Exports rose 6.1 percent in January from a year earlier,
the statistics department said, after gaining 2.2 percent in
December. Imports climbed 16 percent, and the nation’s trade
balance showed a surplus of $923 million in January.  Indonesia expects exports to ease, Alamsyah said. Still,
the country won’t be significantly hurt by the global turmoil.  The rupiah was down 0.1 percent as of 4:38 p.m., according
to prices compiled by local banks. The Jakarta Composite index
declined 0.6 percent to 3,962.28 as of the close in Jakarta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  