-- Infosys Sees More European Companies for Sale in Hunt for Takeover Deals
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-03-01T10:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/infosys-sees-more-european-companies-for-sale-in-hunt-for-takeover-deals.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , which has the most
cash among  India ’s computer-services providers, said the number
of European companies with “broken” economic models has risen,
increasing opportunities for acquiring them.  India’s second-biggest software exporter is looking to buy
companies that own intellectual property as well as niche
consulting firms and corporations that will boost its
interaction with clients in  France  and Germany, Chief Financial
Officer V. Balakrishnan said in an interview yesterday in
Bangalore, where the company is based.  Any deal  in Europe would
be small, he said without elaborating.  Infosys had a  war chest  of $4 billion as of Dec. 31, double
that of larger rival  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  Indian
software companies, after a decade of growth fueled mostly by
the outsourcing of jobs from  the U.S. , are turning to
acquisitions as a strategy to expand into  Europe , currently the
second-largest source of their  revenues .  “Valuations of possible target companies in Europe were as
low in 2008,” said Pralay Kumar Das, an analyst at Elara
Securities India Pvt. in  Mumbai . “Their economic models have
been broken for a good three years now, and Infosys hasn’t been
able to make a meaningfully large acquisition. The problem with
Infosys is that they haven’t been aggressive enough with
acquisitions, because of their focus on margins.”  ‘Broken Model’  The company  declined 0.9 percent to 2,856.65 rupees at the
close of trading in Mumbai, trimming the year-to-date gain to
3.2 percent. Tata Consultancy fell 0.2 percent and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) ,
India’s third-largest software exporter, slumped 1.7 percent.
India’s benchmark  Sensex Index (SENSEX)  dropped 0.9 percent.  Companies and governments in France and Germany spent a
combined $178 billion on information-technology goods and
services last year, according to Forrester Research Inc.
Together, that made them the world’s third-largest technology
market.  “Today we get more  M&A opportunities  from Europe than in
the past,” Balakrishnan said. “That means the local companies
are in trouble -- their cost model is broken. It is not tuned
for the environment.”  Infosys’s “comfort” is in dealing with smaller companies
than large corporations, because it’s easier to integrate them,
Balakrishnan said.  “If at all any big acquisitions happen, it will be in the
U.S.,” he said. Also, reorganizing businesses after the
takeover is easier in the U.S. than in Europe, he said.  Offshore  While Forrester forecasts that western and central Europe
will have the world’s slowest growth in technology spending in
2012, Infosys believes Indian outsourcing companies could
benefit as businesses in Europe look to cut costs, Balakrishnan
said.  “With all the problems in Europe, there’s greater focus on
offshoring,” or the movement of some technology processes to
lower-cost locations, he said. Indian outsourcing companies can
provide IT services at prices that are 30 percent to 40 percent
lower than U.S. and European service vendors, he said.  Infosys Co-Chairman S. Gopalakrishnan said in November the
company would spend $700 million acquiring firms, and its
mergers-and-acquisitions team looks at three to four targets at
a time. Tata Consultancy is also seeking acquisitions and is
willing to spend $500 million, Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said last year.  North America  Infosys’s cash and near-cash of $4 billion compares with $2
billion in cash each for Mumbai-based Tata Consultancy and
Bangalore-based Wipro, according to the companies and data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our focus is on getting some good front-end in  Germany  or
France because those markets are opening up,” Balakrishnan
said. “Today, if you look at European revenues, they’re mostly
coming from the U.K., but France and Germany are two large IT
spenders within Europe. If you really want to grow bigger there,
you need a very good front end.”  In the year ended in March, about 65 percent of Infosys’s
revenue came from customers based in  North America , while about
22 percent came from customers based in Europe, according to the
company’s annual report.  In 2008, Infosys walked away from a plan to acquire U.K.-
based Axon Group Plc after its 407.1 million-pound ($645
million) bid was trumped by New Delhi-based  HCL Technologies
Ltd. (HCLT)  In 2006, Infosys spent $115 million to buy Citigroup Inc.’s
stake in Progeon Ltd., a back-office service provider controlled
by Infosys.  Infosys, which builds software programs and provides back-
office support to clients including BT Group Plc, was founded by
seven engineers in 1981 with $250 they borrowed from their
wives. In 1999, Infosys became the first Indian company to sell
 American Depositary receipts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  