-- ING Rescue Terms to Be Reviewed in First EU Court Ruling on Bank Bailouts
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-03-01T11:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/ing-rescue-terms-to-be-reviewed-in-first-eu-court-ruling-on-bank-bailouts.html
The terms of  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s bailout
by the Dutch government may be questioned by a European Union
court tomorrow in the first case challenging EU conditions on
more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of bank rescues
throughout the region.  ING was ordered by the European Commission to sell units to
shrink its balance sheet by 45 percent by the end of 2013 and
avoid undercutting rivals on prices for some banking products
for three years or until it repaid the aid. The EU must approve
large state subsidies and can impose conditions on the aid.  The EU’s general court will rule tomorrow on challenges by
ING and the Dutch government to the terms of the EU’s approval,
which the bank says punished it too harshly for state help in
2008 and 2009. ING said the regulator miscalculated the amount
of aid and imposed excessive restructuring demands.  ING is “one of the few banks that challenged the
commission’s decision on commitments,” said Ulrich Soltesz, a
lawyer for Gleiss Lutz Hootz Hirsch in Brussels. “It is a
general feeling that once you got your aid out of the state and
the commission has approved it, you have a certain degree of
stability.”  EU governments spent 1.6 trillion euros to shore up banks
from 2008 to 2010 following the financial crisis, according to
the European Commission, most of that in loan guarantees and
fresh capital. ING got a 10-billion euro capital injection from
the Dutch government in 2008 and transferred the risk on 21.6
billion euros of U.S. mortgage assets to the Dutch government in
2009.  “It is up to the court,” Raymond Vermeulen, an
Amsterdam-based spokesman for the bank said by telephone. “We
will carefully study the ruling they’ll publish tomorrow.”  Bank Challenges  ABN Amro Group NV last year  challenge d the EU ban on it
acquiring businesses. WestLB AG shareholders also sought to
suspend a deadline that would have stopped the lender’s real
estate unit WestImmo from accepting new business. WestLB agreed
last year to be wound down and broken up.  EU deadlines to divest business units are an important
issue for banks such as WestLB that received EU approval for
state aid, Soltesz said. WestLB agreed to transfer WestImmo to a
bad bank if it isn’t sold by the middle of this year. It missed
a previous EU deadline to sell the unit by the end of 2010.  “It is really something which the commission has to
address in the next one or two years,” Soltesz said. “There
are not enough purchasers out there to buy all this stuff.”  Challenge Commitments  Tomorrow’s ruling may clarify how far banks can challenge
EU decisions on commitments made in return for state aid
approval, said Christoph Arhold, a lawyer at White & Case LLP in
Berlin.  “Can ING challenge these commitments individually” or
must it challenge the entire EU decision, which would mean that
“the whole approval decision would probably have to be annulled
and the commission would have to reopen the formal
investigation,” Arhold said.  A favorable ruling may give ING “more time to complete
their restructuring program,” said Cor Kluis, an Utrecht-based
analyst at Rabobank International in a telephone interview. “It
would be a relief to investors if they got more time to divest
the U.S. and European insurance operations and for alternatives
to the sale of WestlandUtrecht Bank.”  Repayment Terms  ING returned 5 billion euros of aid in 2009 after agreeing
with the Netherlands on revised repayment terms. The EU
regulator determined that change amounted to additional aid of
about 2 billion euros, a decision challenged by ING and the
Dutch government.  By omitting insurance operations from the figures, the
commission miscalculated the aid relative to risk-weighted
assets, ING argued. Had the EU taken this into account, the aid
would have been 3.3 percent of risk-weighted assets instead of
the 5 percent the commission used to set restructuring demands.  The EU did measure the insurance operations of bailed out
firms including SNS Reaal NV and KBC Groep NV. ING’s 45 percent-
balance sheet reduction compares to a 10 percent reduction
imposed on Aegon NV, 17 percent on KBC Groep and 20 percent on
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ., ING told the court in July.  ING was ordered to sell its entire insurance operations,
its U.S. online-banking division and Dutch mortgage lender
WestlandUtrecht Bank before a 2013 deadline.  Pending the court ruling, Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen pushed ahead with the forced restructuring. Earlier this
month ING completed the sale of its U.S. online bank to Capital
One for $9 billion. The firm also disposed of its Latin American
insurance operations for about 2.7 billion euros last year. The
divestment program encountered a glitch as the European debt
crisis roiled the region, scaring off potential buyers and
making initial public offerings impossible.  The Dutch central bank is critical of the way EU rules on
state aid for banks and joined the case on ING’s behalf. Klaas Knot, the central bank’s president, said last year that
financial services supervisors should be able to sign off on the
terms the EU imposes.  The cases are T-33/10, ING Groep v. Commission and T-29/10,
Netherlands v. Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 