-- Instinet Extends Average-Price Trade System to Europe, Hong Kong
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-03-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/instinet-extends-average-price-trade-system-to-europe-hong-kong.html
Instinet Inc., a broker that owns
more than a dozen alternative venues, will expand a platform
using so-called  volume-weighted average price , in which orders
are matched from buyers and sellers who are willing to wait for
the market to generate a price over time.  The New York-based company owned by  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  in
 Tokyo  is introducing its VWAP Cross to equity securities in
 Europe  and  Hong Kong , according to Jonathan Kellner, Instinet’s
president for U.S. business. The matching system, used in the
U.S. in its current form since 2003, pairs buy and sell orders
at the average price over a specified period.  Traders use VWAP crosses to try to ensure that some of
their buy or sell orders sent before the market opens will be
filled at the day’s average price. Those transactions don’t
affect the stock during the day, unlike orders sent to exchanges
that others can see or that move  prices . A drawback is that a
trader gives up the possibility of beating the VWAP by buying a
lot of shares at lower prices as the market starts to rise.  “A product like this is helped by the expansion of
algorithmic trading and that’s been happening in those parts of
the world in recent years,” Justin Schack, managing director
for market structure analysis at New York-based Rosenblatt
Securities Inc., said in a phone interview. “This trend should
continue over the next several years.”  Morgan Stanley, ITG  Systems that match orders at the volume-weighted average
price, including those run by Morgan Stanley and Investment
Technology Group Inc. in  New York , are a way for asset managers
to limit the effect of volatility on the prices they get. A
broker selling at an average level over time avoids second-to-
second swings. While the VWAP gauge, used since the late 1980s
as a way for institutions to assess brokers’ trading
performance, has been supplemented by newer measures, it remains
popular among pensions and mutual funds.  Brokers that provide clients with algorithms or computer-
driven strategies that chop larger orders into smaller pieces
that are sent to exchanges or alternative venues based on a
stock’s volume and trading characteristics usually have VWAP
tactics. About 15 percent of Instinet’s volume passes through
algorithms that seek to achieve a stock’s VWAP, Kellner said.  “When we find there’s going to be meaningful liquidity, we
launch the cross” in a new region, Kellner said. “There seems
to be a fair amount of interest. There’s a desire for that kind
of ability to lay off risk and guarantee VWAP.”  Even if traders don’t use VWAP as their primary execution
benchmark, they may use algorithms that seek to meet the gauge
for more-liquid stocks so they can concentrate on equities that
are harder to buy or sell because they’re less liquid or more
volatile, Schack said.  Closing Price  Other benchmarks include the previous day’s closing price
and what’s called implementation shortfall, or the price of a
company’s shares when the trader receives the order. The
shortfall refers to the difference between that level and the
average price received for a transaction when it’s completed.  “VWAP’s primary virtue is everybody can understand it,”
Wayne Wagner, former founder of Plexus Group Inc., a transaction
cost analysis firm that JPMorgan Chase & Co. bought in 2002 and
sold to ITG in 2006, said in a telephone interview. “For
evaluation purposes, anyone doing the trading is probably using
more of an implementation shortfall approach. Plan sponsors like
VWAP because it communicates to them and managers can explain it
to their clients.”  Instinet’s U.S. VWAP system runs three sessions before the
market opens, matching orders for the VWAP over the trading day.
Another session focuses on the average price from 11 a.m. until
4 p.m. New York time. The  European VWAP  session is set for 7:45
a.m. London time and matches orders based on the full-day
average prices. The  Hong Kong cross  will occur at 8:50 a.m.
local time.  Japan, Korea  Instinet also runs similar matches based on companies’ VWAP
gauge in  Japan ,  Korea  and  Canada . Its initial system for
matching customers’ orders based on the VWAP for the trading
day, called MarketMatch, was introduced in the early 1990s,
according to James Ross, chief operating officer at  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based AX Trading Group LLC, which operates an
alternative venue. He previously worked at Instinet.  The introduction of the matching systems comes as investors
in Europe and  Asia  seek trades away from the main exchange or
through venues that allow them to buy or sell without moving the
stock price in the public market. European dark pools, or
private venues that pair orders without showing them in advance,
totaled 4.6 percent of equities value traded in January, up from
2.9 percent a year earlier, Rosenblatt said in a Feb. 27 report.  Dark Pools  Most dark pools match orders within the spread created by
the best available bid and offer or at the midpoint of those
levels. VWAP is a moving price that incorporates the effect of
trading in the market and is typically easier to achieve than
buying shares at the offer price when the trader gets the order
or selling at the best available bid.  “The biggest hurdle is people have to get around the fact
that they can’t cancel their orders during the day,” Kellner
said. “But VWAP is a concept everybody gets.”  Instinet’s CBX dark pool in the U.S. averaged 30.8 million
shares daily in January while the VWAP Cross traded 4.5 million
a day, according to a Feb. 28 report from Rosenblatt Securities.
The largest dark pool in the U.S. is Credit Suisse Group AG’s
Crossfinder, which averaged 132.5 million shares a day in
January, or 1.9 percent of the average daily equities volume.  Transactions in Instinet’s U.S. VWAP Cross averaged 1,092
shares in January, behind only Liquidnet Holdings Inc.’s main
dark pool and ITG’s Posit system. Among the dark markets
Rosenblatt tracks, Crossfinder has the smallest average trade
size of 178 shares. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Sigma X pool
averaged 241 per trade in January and Bids Trading LP’s system
had an average of 304 shares.  “There’s a challenge to find liquidity,” Kellner said.
“People are definitely looking at their execution costs. The
certainty of execution also helps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 