-- Ireland Says It’s Unhappy Over Bailout Document Leak in Berlin
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-03-01T16:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/ireland-says-it-s-unhappy-over-bailout-document-leak-in-berlin.html
Ireland criticized what it described
as the leaking of a European Commission report on the Irish
bailout and has raised the issue with Germany’s  Finance Ministry 
and the commission, Foreign Minister  Eamon Gilmore  said today.  The commission said Ireland may “require additional fiscal
tightening later in the year” if the macroeconomic situation
worsens, according to the document obtained by Bloomberg News,
which was supplied to lawmakers by Germany’s Finance Ministry.
Gilmore said the government wouldn’t need to introduce a
supplementary budget later in the year seeking further savings.  “I am unhappy at the way in which this document was
handled and the way in which it was leaked,” Gilmore told
lawmakers, who complained that they hadn’t seen the document
before their German counterparts. “I intend to discuss it with
our ambassador in Berlin and to ensure that the way in which
this document was handled is not repeated.”  In November, the government drew criticism from opposition
lawmakers after a plan to raise the sales-tax rate was provided
to German lawmakers before being presented in the Irish
parliament. The European Commission is scheduled to publish the
report today, according to Gilmore.  “How is it that parliamentarians in  Germany  see it before
any member of this house and debate it?” Mary Lou McDonald,
deputy leader of Ireland’s opposition Sinn Fein party, asked
Gilmore during leader’s questions in Dublin today.  ‘Deeply Concerned’  The commission said in a statement today it is “deeply
concerned about the apparent leaking” of its report on
Ireland’s progress under the financial assistance program.  The Irish government said Feb. 28 it will hold a referendum
to ratify the European fiscal compact. Eamon O’Cuiv, the deputy
leader of the Fianna Fail, Ireland’s largest opposition party,
resigned yesterday, because of support of his party’s leader for
the accord without concessions on Irish bank debts.  The leak is a “considerable embarrassment” to the
government following its referendum announcement, Juliet Tennent, an economist with  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin, said
in a note today.  “Fears that further austerity may be necessary make the
treaty more difficult to sell to the Irish public,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  