-- Irish Treaty Rejection Risks Funding Difficulty, Minister Says
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-03-01T09:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/irish-treaty-rejection-risks-funding-difficulty-minister-says.html
Irish Deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore  said the nation may face future funding difficulties
should voters reject the European fiscal compact in an upcoming
referendum, as opposition political leaders split over the vote.  While Ireland’s 67.5 billion-euro ($89.9 billion)
international bailout in 2010 means the state is fully funded
through 2013, a rejection of the treaty may deprive the Dublin-
based government of future aid once a permanent rescue fund goes
into operation.  “We are confident of coming out of the program and not
requiring access to the European Stability Mechanism,” Gilmore,
who is also foreign minister, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “If a set of circumstances developed where we
didn’t, where we weren’t seen to have access to the ESM if we
were to need it, that could create difficulties for us.”  Irish voters are almost evenly divided on the treaty,
according to the most recent opinion poll. The campaign claimed
its first victim yesterday, as Eamon O’Cuiv stepped down as
deputy leader of the country’s biggest opposition party
yesterday because the organization is backing the treaty without
the government winning bank debt concessions from  Europe .  “This is the unique opportunity that we get on this issue
to put our case to Brussels,” O’Cuiv said in an interview with
Dublin-based radio station Today FM yesterday.  Before Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  announced the referendum
on Feb. 28, the yield on Ireland’s 2020 bond, its benchmark, had
dropped to about 6.81 percent from a euro-era high of 13.8
percent on July 18. The yield has since risen to 7.01 percent.  Some 53 percent of those who expressed a preference said
they would back the treaty, according to a poll by research
company Red C. The poll of 1,008 adults was carried out for the
Sunday Business Post newspaper between Jan. 23 and Jan. 25.  Control  The compact requires nations to virtually eliminate
structural deficits, creates an “automatic correction mechanism”
and enshrines the new measures in national law.  The treaty also provides for tighter control of tax and
spending by governments that overstep the bloc’s deficit limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  While the vote has no direct implications for the nation’s
membership of the euro-region, some government ministers say the
campaign is an opportunity for Ireland to reaffirm its
determination to back the euro.  “Irish people understand the importance of the euro,”
Gilmore said. “Irish people understand that as a small very
open economy dependent on trade and foreign direct investment,
the issue of confidence in the country and confidence in the
currency that we hold is hugely important.”  The government hasn’t yet set a date for the vote. The
timing of the referendum may be known within a “couple of
weeks,” Gilmore said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  