-- Israel’s Barak Says Panetta Meeting Was ‘Important, Useful’
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-03-01T00:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/israel-s-barak-says-panetta-meeting-was-important-useful-1-.html
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
said his meeting with U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  today
to discuss Iran, Syria and changes across the Middle East was
“important and useful.”  Barak left Washington and boarded a flight back to Israel
after meeting with Panetta, Vice President  Joe Biden  and
National Security Adviser Tom Donilon during a two-day visit to
the U.S., his office said in an e-mailed statement from Tel
Aviv. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is scheduled to
meet President Barack Obama at the White House March 5.  Barak described the meeting with Panetta as “long,”
indicating “the close security ties between the U.S. and
Israel.” He called the talks, which were also attended by
General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
“important and useful.”  Tensions have increased between the U.S. and  Israel  over
how to deal with Iran, as one U.S. official after another has
called for additional time to let new, more severe sanctions
have an impact. Israeli leaders have warned publicly that time
is running out for a military strike that could stop Iran from
developing nuclear weapons.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today that
pressuring Iran with sanctions is preferable to military action.
Clinton responded to a question about the possibility that
Israel might launch a military strike against Iran.  Focus on Sanctions  “Let’s focus on economic sanctions that we have the world
behind right now,” Clinton said during a House Appropriations
subcommittee hearing on the State Department’s budget. “We
believe we’re making progress on the sanctions front.”  “There is certainly a lot more we can do,” Clinton said.  The meeting with Barak was Panetta’s fourth since he took
the Cabinet post in July, Pentagon Press Secretary  George Little 
said in an e-mailed statement. The frequent encounters have
enabled Panetta “to coordinate very closely with the Israelis
on security issues, and we will continue to do so,” he said.  While the U.S., Israel and allies have said Iran may be
laying the groundwork to build a nuclear weapon, Iran says its
nuclear program is for civilian purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  