-- Italian Inflation Rate Holds at Six-Month Low in February
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-03-01T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/italian-inflation-rate-holds-at-six-month-low-in-february.html
Italy’s inflation rate held last
month at a six-month low as extended post-holiday sales more
than offset the rising cost of energy products.  The  inflation  rate based on European Union measurements was
3.4 percent and unchanged from the previous month, Rome-based
national statistics office Istat said in a preliminary report
today. That matched the median forecast rate by 14 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. February  prices  rose 0.2 percent from
the previous month.  Inflation had slowed in January for the first time in three
months as Italian shops started offering post-Christmas sales.
That more than offset tax increases in Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s 20 billion-euro ($26.7 billion) austerity package passed
in December which also raised gasoline prices by almost 10 cents
a liter.  The cost of heating oil in February rose 1.1 percent from
January and the price of gasoline gained 2.1 percent, today’s
report said.  Inflation had slowed also in the  Euro-area (ECCPEMUY)  in January as
the economy showed signs of contraction and governments cut
spending across the 17-nation currency region. The  inflation
rate  in the euro area rose to 2.7 percent in February from 2.6
percent in the previous month, the European Union’s  statistics
office  in Luxembourg said today.  Based on  Italian methodology , prices in February gained 0.4
percent from the previous month and 3.3 percent  from a year
earlier , Istat said today.  Italian  household confidence  increased more than economists
forecast last month as an easing of  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis buoyed consumer sentiment. The extra yield that investors
demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds over German counterparts
narrowed today to 323 basis points after hitting a euro-era
record of 576 basis points on Nov. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net 
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at  