-- Italy’s Iplom to Load Iranian Crude Four Months Before Ban
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2012-03-01T14:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/italy-s-iplom-to-load-iranian-crude-four-months-before-ban-1-.html
Italian refiner Iplom SpA booked a
tanker to load Iranian oil this week, four months before a
European Union embargo on the  Persian Gulf  nation, data from
three shipbrokers including Poten & Partners Inc. showed.  The private company chartered the Album to carry 80,000
metric tons to  Italy  from Kharg Island, according to the
shipping reports. The Panama-flagged vessel is now under way in
the Persian Gulf, transmissions captured by AISLive on Bloomberg
show. It is insured by the Luxembourg-based West of England Ship
Owners Mutual Insurance Association, a member of the
International Group of P&I Clubs, located in  London .  Iran , the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, faces an EU embargo on the
purchase, transportation, financing and insurance of its crude
as of July 1 because of the country’s nuclear program. The ban
affects 95 percent of the world’s tankers because they are
insured by the  International Group ’s 13 members, according to
Andrew Bardot, the organization’s executive officer.  Carrying Iranian oil invalidates ships’ coverage against
risks including spills and collisions, Bardot said Jan. 26.
Jerry Westmore, a director of West of England in London,
declined to comment.  Delivery Site  Iplom takes delivery of oil at the port of Genoa-Multedo,
according to the company’s  website . The refiner didn’t respond
to a telephone call and e-mail to its office in Genoa outside
business hours.  Italy imported the biggest volume of Iranian crude outside
 Asia  in the first half of 2011, taking 7 percent of its exports,
the latest available figures from the U.S.  Energy Department 
show. The government in Tehran said Feb. 19 it halted shipments
to customers in  France  and the U.K., preempting the ban.  China ,
 Japan ,  India  and  South Korea  were the largest buyers, purchasing
a combined 59 percent.  The following table shows tankers scheduled to load crude
and refined products from Iran since February, according to
shipbroker reports and data compiled by Bloomberg. Volumes are
in thousands of tons. Some bookings are provisional and subject
to changes or cancellation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  