-- Romney Names Oklahoma Oil Billionaire Hamm as Energy Adviser
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-03-01T17:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/mitt-romney-names-oklahoma-oil-billionaire-harold-hamm-as-energy-adviser.html
Mitt Romney , the front-runner for
the  Republican Party ’s presidential nomination, appointed
Oklahoma oil billionaire Harold Hamm as energy adviser to his
campaign.  Hamm, the 66-year-old founder, chairman and chief executive
officer of  Continental Resources Inc. (CLR) , will be chairman of
Romney’s Energy Policy Advisory Group, the candidate’s campaign
office said in a statement today.  Hamm ranked 36th on Forbes magazine’s list last year of the
400 wealthiest Americans. His 68 percent stake in Enid,
Oklahoma-based Continental, the largest leaseholder in the
Bakken oil formation, had a value of $11.2 billion as of
yesterday’s close.  Romney has attacked President Barack Obama for policies he
says increased energy prices.  Gasoline prices  averaged $3.56 a
gallon last month in the U.S., the highest ever for this time of
year.  “Mitt’s goal of cheap, plentiful energy for the American
economy offers the American people a stark alternative to
President Obama’s goal of driving prices higher,” Hamm said in
the statement.  With nine months to go before U.S. voters choose a
president, Romney has won an estimated 151 of the 1,144
delegates needed to get his party’s nomination to oppose
incumbent President  Barack Obama , more than all three of his
opponents combined.  ‘Streamlined’ Regulation  Romney’s energy plan calls for establishing fixed
timetables for federal decisions on oil, natural-gas and nuclear
projects, and a “streamlined approach” to regulation, his
campaign said in the statement. He also would urge Congress to
amend the  Clean Air Act  to exclude carbon dioxide from the list
of regulated pollutants.  The U.S. should abandon Obama’s “course of restricting
supply, increasing regulation, and hoping for miraculous new
technologies to save the day,” Romney said in the statement.  Continental is the largest leaseholder in the Bakken shale,
a geologic formation beneath the northern Great Plains that
holds more crude than any other deposit in the contiguous U.S.  Hamm began exploring the Bakken almost two decades ago and
now controls more than 350 wells. Using intensive drilling and
rock-fracturing techniques, Hamm pioneered the oil boom that
last year pushed  North Dakota ’s output to a record, exceeding
production of  Ecuador , an Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries member.  The Bakken shale and two nearby formations known as the
Three Forks and Sanish have the potential to become some of the
largest oil-producing zones in the next 30 years, said Christian O’Neill, an analyst with Bloomberg Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  