-- J.C. Flowers Said to Mull Offers for ING, RBS Divisions
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-03-01T14:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/j-c-flowers-said-to-mull-offers-for-ing-rbs-divisions.html
J.C. Flowers & Co. LLC, the
investment firm founded by financier J. Christopher Flowers, is
considering a bid for Asian insurance assets being sold by Dutch
financial company  ING Groep NV (INGA) , two people with direct knowledge
of the talks said.  The New York-based private equity firm is interested in
some Asian markets such as  Japan  where ING assets are to be
sold, as the whole unit would be too large, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. It may
also bid for  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s Direct Line
Group insurance business when it’s for sale, they said.  Leveraged-buyout firms including J.C. Flowers and
Washington-based  Carlyle Group  have raised funds targeting
banking and insurance businesses as European banks cut assets to
meet tougher core capital requirements.  ING, the biggest Dutch financial company, is seeking to
sell its Asian insurance business before a European Union
deadline at the end of 2013, to help raise 3 billion euros ($4
billion) it still owes the Dutch state. Analysts previously
estimated ING’s Asian life insurance businesses -- with
operations in  South Korea ,  China ,  India ,  Malaysia ,  Thailand  and
Japan -- to be valued between 5 billion euros and 6 billion
euros.  “We are exploring options for our Asian insurance and
investment management businesses,” Ingeborg Klunder, a
spokeswoman for the Amsterdam-based firm, said by e-mail,
declining to comment further on possible sales.  State Aid Rules  RBS, based in Edinburgh, has to sell its insurance division
by 2013 to comply with a EU state aid rules after the lender
received a government bailout. The Direct Line unit may be
valued at about 4.7 billion pounds ($7.5 billion), according to
Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool.  A spokesman at RBS’s insurance unit wasn’t immediately
available to comment. A J.C. Flowers spokesman declined to
comment.  ING Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen may consider selling
bank assets to help raise the 3 billion euros still owed to the
Dutch state. The firm said in January it may be more difficult
to meet its goal of completing repayment this year.  AIA Group Ltd., the Hong Kong-based financial group, is
considering a bid for ING’s Asian units, people with knowledge
of the matter said in January. Axa SA,  Europe ’s second-largest
insurer, doesn’t rule out bidding for the operations, the Sunday
Telegraph said on Feb. 19, citing Chief Executive Officer Henri
de Castries. Korea Life Insurance Co., Samsung Life Insurance
Co. and KB Financial Group Inc. may also be interested in part
of the operations, according to Korean press reports last month.  Early Stage  The sale process is at an early stage and ING may reach out
to global insurers, including Prudential Financial Inc., MetLife
Inc., Ping An Insurance Group Co. and Samsung Life Insurance
Co., a person with knowledge of the matter said in January.  J.C. Flowers’s most recent fund closed in 2009 after
raising $2.3 billion, according to data from the London-based
research firm Preqin. In October, the firm agreed to buy the
insurance broker Fidea NV from KBC Groep NV, the recipient of 7
billion euros in Belgian rescue funds, for 243.6 million euros.
The firm also invested in the U.K.’s  Kent Reliance Building
Society . Last year, it submitted a joint bid with Apollo Global
Management LLC for Irish Life & Permanent Plc’s life assurance
unit. The sale was suspended after bids were too low, the seller
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  