-- Japan Says in Talks to Start Importing LNG From Continental U.S.
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-03-01T05:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/japan-may-start-lng-imports-from-continental-u-s-after-nuclear-shutdown.html
Japan , the world’s biggest importer
of liquefied natural gas, is in talks to start shipping the fuel
from the continental U.S. after the Fukushima disaster last year
shut most of the country’s nuclear power plants.  Japan is seeking to buy part of the combined 30 million
metric tons a year of LNG to be shipped from Cameron in
 Louisiana , Cove Point in Maryland and Freeport in  Texas ,
Hisayoshi Ando, director general of natural resources and fuel
at the trade ministry, said in an interview.  LNG imports have risen as only two of Japan’s 54 reactors
are operating after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
triggered the worst atomic disaster since Chernobyl. Increased
U.S. gas output from shale formations drove prices to a 10-year
low and led owners of LNG import terminals to consider exports.  “Japan is facing an unprecedented crisis,” Ando said,
referring to the possibility of all of the nation’s nuclear
reactors being closed by May for safety checks. “We are asking
the U.S. to consider our circumstances,” and allow Japan to
import from terminals from the U.S. mainland.  Japan’s senior vice minister of trade and industry, Seishu
Makino, asked U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu in September to
increase LNG exports, Akinobu Yoshikawa, deputy manager for the
ministry’s petroleum and natural gas Division said Sept. 14.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , GAIL India Ltd. and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  won
contracts to buy LNG from Cheniere Energy Inc.’s Sabine Pass
terminal in Louisiana, set to be the first LNG exporter in the
continental U.S. Japanese utilities lost out to them, Ando said.  Exports from the Freeport project may start as early as
2016, Freeport LNG Development LP said in December.  Cheaper Gas  Japan imports LNG mostly from  Southeast Asia , Australia and
Qatar, according to data from the  Ministry of Finance . Cargoes
directed to Japan from the U.S. were about 310,000 tons last
year, or 0.4 percent of incoming shipments.  Tokyo Electric Corp. and Tokyo Gas Co. had a joint deal to
buy LNG from a plant in  Alaska  owned by ConocoPhillips and
Marathon Oil Corp. The contract, signed in 1969, expired in
March 2011, Tokyo Electric’s spokesman Ryo Shimizu and Tokyo Gas
spokesman Takeshi Ujiie said Sept. 14, declining to say whether
the companies still buy spot cargoes from the project.  “The impact will be big” if Japan gets approval to import
LNG from the continental U.S., Tetsuya Tomita, deputy general
manager of environmental resources and energy at Mizuho Research
Institute, said Feb. 28 by telephone. Costs would be about half
of current levels, including freight, he said.  Gas futures in  New York  were at $2.616 per million British
thermal units at the close of floor trading Feb. 29. That
compares with Japan’s LNG import price of $16.66 per million BTU
as of Dec. 31, inclusive of freight costs, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Importing LNG from the U.S. will be cheaper than the
current prices paid by Japan, according to Ando.  Metals, Rare Earths  Japan’s LNG imports surged 20 percent in 2011 and will
likely rise 7.1 percent this year to 89 million tons, according
to an estimate by the Institute of Energy Economics, Japan.  LNG is gas chilled to liquid form by cooling it to minus
260 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 162 Celsius) for shipment by
tanker to destinations not serviced by pipelines.  Under a five-year plan to acquire global resources
including LNG and metals, Japan is urging carmakers and other
manufacturers to invest in overseas projects to secure supplies
of raw materials, Ando said.  The government will identify natural resources that Japan
particularly needs as well as supplying countries under the
acquisition plan to be drafted in the spring of 2012, the
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry  said  Dec. 20.  Japanese producers of cars, consumer electronics and steel
rely on trading companies, such as  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Mitsui &
Co., to source metals and other natural resources through supply
contracts.  China ’s tightening of export controls on rare earths, vital
to the making of electric cars and smartphones, has also fueled
concerns over foreign supplies and highlighted global dependence
on Chinese shipments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 