-- Japan May Increase GDP Estimate After Jump in Capital Spending
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-03-01T07:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/japan-may-increase-gdp-estimate-after-jump-in-capital-spending.html
Japan ’s economy probably contracted
less than the government initially estimated in the fourth
quarter, analysts said after a report showed a jump in
companies’  capital spending .  Gross domestic product contracted 0.7 percent on an
annualized basis in the three months to Dec. 31, compared with a
preliminary report of a 2.3 percent drop, according to the
median forecast of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The revised figure is due March 8.  Capital spending excluding software rose 4.9 percent from 
a year earlier, the biggest gain in almost five years, a
 Finance Ministry  report showed today. A weakening yen, gains
in  industrial production  and retail sales, and increased 
government spending for reconstruction may help the world’s 
third-biggest economy return to growth this quarter.  “Reconstruction demand was probably the biggest support
for the increase in  capital spending ,” said Akiyoshi Takumori,
chief economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. “The
upward trend in business investment is likely to continue as
companies become more optimistic as rebuilding demand
materializes more and the yen weakens.”  The increase in capital spending in today’s report was the
first gain in three quarters. This compares with a  median
estimate  of a 7.4 percent decline in a Bloomberg News survey of
six economists.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average closed 0.2 percent lower after
the yen gained.  Gaining Momentum  “Today’s data underlines our forecast that Japan’s capital
spending will pick up momentum on the back of demand for quake
reconstruction and its increase will accelerate in the second
quarter of this year,” said Yuichiro Nagai, a Tokyo-based
economist at  Barclays Capital .　“Given today’s very strong
capital investment data, there is no doubt that the fourth-
quarter GDP growth will be revised upward.” 　  The yen traded at 81.15 per dollar as of 4:29 p.m. in
 Tokyo , compared with a postwar high of 75.35 on Oct. 31. The
currency’s decline since the  Bank of Japan  announced extra
monetary stimulus and set an inflation goal on Feb. 14 has aided
exporters.  Some of the boost to spending came from chemical and
transport equipment companies rebuilding factories damaged in
last year’s disaster, the  finance ministry  said. It also cited
the construction of supermarkets and convenience stores,
including some in quake-affected areas.  The government has allocated about 21 trillion yen ($259
billion) in stimulus since the March 11 disaster. The  Bank of
Japan (8301)  has also expanded monetary stimulus to 65 trillion yen to
support growth and drive down the value of the yen.  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the world’s biggest tiremaker by market
value, said on Feb. 16 that it will spend about 4.7 billion yen
to boost output capacity at its plants in Fukuoka and Saga,
western Japan.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s largest carmaker, said
on Feb. 7 that the company raised its profit forecast 11 percent
for the year ending March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  