-- Japan Meltdown Moves From Reactors to Rice Bowls: Paul Blustein
-- B y   P a u l   B l u s t e i n
-- 2012-03-01T00:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/japan-meltdown-moves-from-reactors-to-rice-commentary-by-paul-blustein.html
Our family has feasted on two
Gambaru Pakku (“Hang in there!” packs) -- boxes of fruit,
vegetables and miso from Fukushima Prefecture -- and my wife has
just ordered a third. We have bought several cartons of crisp
Fukushima apples, too, and almost all of the rice we have
consumed since the earthquake last March has also come from the
part of  Japan  known worldwide for its crippled nuclear reactors.  Since we are convinced it’s safe, shifting our consumption
to Fukushima food is our small way of helping people from a
devastated area, whose products suffer from an unjust taint.  Lately, though, this sort of gesture is starting to feel
futile. After an initial groundswell of sympathy and support for
the stricken northeast coast, a vocal segment of the public
obsessed with avoiding even insignificant levels of
radioactivity seems to be turning its back on the region.  A few weeks ago, for instance, residents of Kanagawa
Prefecture on Tokyo’s southwest border belligerently confronted
the governor over his proposal to allow burial of some of the
debris left by the tsunami for fear that radiation might be
lurking within. Among the opponents shown on television news was
one woman who huffed that the governor couldn’t offer 100
percent assurance about the safety of the garbage -- as if a
smidgen less would be unacceptable.  Refusing Their Share  Similar scenes have played out around the country; as a
result of such citizen pressure, few local governments --  Tokyo 
is a big exception -- have agreed to take a share of the 22
million tons of smashed buildings, vehicles and other refuse
that must be cleared before reconstruction can begin. Even
though the junk comes from Miyagi and Iwate prefectures, which
are well to the north of the nuclear facilities, and even though
officials have vowed to test it and incinerate it using special
radiation-capturing filters, compassion has lost out to a
Japanese version of “not in my backyard.”  The news has also been full of stories about people (mostly
mothers of young children in the Tokyo area) searching for food
produced far from the northeast. As for tourism, even Nikko, a
city whose historic shrines and spectacular scenery rank among
the most popular destinations in Japan, is coming under
bombardment from parents fearful about school outings there --
because  Fukushima  Dai-ichi is about 90 miles (140 kilometers)
away.  So a  mea culpa  is in order. In an article last March, I
contrasted the “relative calm” of the Japanese with the
“hysterical” behavior of foreigners, who were fleeing the
country and canceling visits. My chief explanation for the
Japanese reaction was the way in which public television was
carrying almost nightly interviews with nuclear and medical
experts -- the general message being that, for people living
some distance from the plants, the threat was minuscule. That
jibed with what I was finding on the Internet in articles by
science writers and information posted by reputable scientists.  Well, I was wrong -- about the Japanese, that is. A people
who had impressed me as literate, sensible and above all public-
spirited are proving that a substantial number of them can act
just like “fly-jin,” the term derisively applied to the
foreigners, or gaijin, who abandoned jobs and other
responsibilities in their rush to the airports.  Let me explain why my wife and I have no reservations about
eating Fukushima food and feeding it to our sons, who are 8 and
10. (We’re hardly reckless parents, by the way; we won’t even
let our boys ride their bikes around our town, although their
friends do, because the streets are narrow and clogged with
traffic and pedestrians.)  True Risks  The amounts of radiation that would endanger one’s health,
we’ve come to realize, are way above the levels that anyone
living a normal life in the Tokyo area could plausibly encounter
from Fukushima-related causes. About a third of Japanese die of
some form of cancer -- roughly the same as in other advanced
countries -- and the chances increase by 0.5 percent for people
exposed to an annual cumulative total of 100 millisieverts,
according to widely accepted calculations by scientists.  That calculation is based on studies of groups such as
nuclear-plant workers and the survivors of the atomic bombings
of Hiroshima and Nagasaki -- whose cancer rates, we were
surprised to learn, haven’t been that much higher than those of
the general population. (Small  exposures  occur in all kinds of
unexpected ways; a round-trip flight between Tokyo and  New York 
typically exposes you to 0.2 millisievert.)  A half-percentage point of extra risk isn’t terrifying; nor
is it trivial. The main point is, to get anywhere close to 100
millisieverts of exposure, a person would have to eat
ridiculously large amounts of food contaminated with radiation
above government standards over a prolonged period, or stay for
months in one of the hot spots that have been detected in
gutters and other isolated patches around Tokyo. At exposures
below 100 millisieverts, some increased cancer risk may occur,
but it is so small that scientists can’t detect it amid the
welter of other possible causes, such as smoking or poor diet.  It’s distressing that visceral fear is trumping rational
thought, especially since such attitudes could dash hopes for
recovery among the hundreds of thousands of disaster victims.
Saddest of all are signs that people in the northeast may be
cracking under the strain.  An education official in Fukushima recently told my wife
that teachers there are swamped with demands from parents to
keep their kids away from playgrounds, or allow their kids to
forgo school lunches in favor of home-prepared meals with no
local ingredients. That sounds like the kind of behavior that,
after the 1986  Chernobyl  disaster, generated an increase in
depression, stress, alcoholism and other mental-health problems
among people living in that part of Ukraine; studies showed that
the greatest damage to public health was in the psychological
realm rather than the physiological.  Reclaiming Power  Some see Japan’s growing anti-nuclear sentiment as a
heartening sign that a quiescent public is starting to take
power back from political and corporate elites. Maybe that is a
silver lining in the Fukushima cloud. No doubt, the government
and Tokyo Electric Power Co. deserve much of the opprobrium that
has been heaped on them.  I just wish the most effective civic activism here wasn’t a
classic manifestation of  Know-nothingism . I wish, too, that the
millions of Japanese who see the radiation issue more or less as
my wife and I do -- the majority here, I suspect -- would begin
organizing themselves. They could start by beseeching their
local governments to take some of that debris. That would be a
healthy step toward rekindling the spirit of concerted action
for which the Japanese are justly famous.  (Paul Blustein, a former Tokyo correspondent for the
Washington Post, is an author and researcher affiliated with the
 Brookings Institution  and the Centre for International
Governance Innovation. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Paul Blustein in Kamakura, Japan, at  pblustein@brookings.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  