-- JPMorgan, UBS Offer to Unwind Milan Swap, Pay City’s Profit as Settlement
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-03-01T14:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/jpmorgan-joins-ubs-to-offer-to-unwind-milan-swap-to-limit-damages-at-trial.html
Four banks charged with defrauding
Milan with derivatives offered to unwind the swap at a discount
and pay the city its profit from the transaction under a
proposed settlement with the municipality.  According to a draft agreement drawn up by the city
administration,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
and Depfa Bank Plc will reverse the deal for 63 million euros
($84 million). The banks will cut that fee to 23 million euros
and pay Milan its 476 million-euro mark-to-market gain on the
swap, according to the papers seen by Bloomberg News.  In return, Milan will drop its claims for damages from the
banks a prosecutor accuses of tricking the city into buying the
swaps by hiding the fees they reaped from the trade. The banks
won’t admit any responsibility as part of the settlement on the
30-year swaps, and will ask a court to return funds seized
during the criminal proceedings, the document shows. The
agreement is pending final approval by both sides.  “A transaction of this kind eliminates the financial
damages that the banks might have to pay if they were convicted,
and it may lessen the sanctions that could include being barred
from doing business with certain clients,” said Alessio Lanzi,
a criminal lawyer in Milan, who is not involved in the case.  The government is “satisfied” with the reduction in
costs, according to the document. Officials for the city
declined to comment, as did spokeswomen for UBS, Deutsche Bank,
JPMorgan and a spokesman for Depfa.  Hidden Fees  The lenders charged 101 million euros in fees for arranging
the derivatives that adjusted payments on the city’s 1.7
billion-euro bond offering in 2005 and from subsequent
restructurings, according to city prosecutor Alfredo Robledo.
That the fees weren’t disclosed makes them fraudulent, he said
as he secured charges against the banks in March 2010.  The banks said in court that firms don’t typically disclose
what they’re charging municipalities to arrange swaps, tailored
trades that lack comparable market prices.  “Every time I sold a derivative to a public
administration, even before getting to the details, the first
question was always, ‘How does the bank make money?’” Antonia Creanza, a JPMorgan Chase banker, told the court in September
under questioning by her lawyer. “I would explain that we would
retain a margin. Never has a legal adviser told me, ‘Look you
need to detail the gross margin,’” she said.  Under the agreement, the city will commit to not describe
the deal as the reimbursement of the alleged “implicit costs”
of the original transactions, and the banks will drop a suit at
the  High Court  in  London .  ‘Reasonable Rate’  The firms say raising the cash to fund the payment to Milan
will cost about 53 million euros, according to the document. The
other costs are linked to hedging the swaps. UBS expects to
charge the least, at 8.9 million euros, and Deutsche Bank, at
24.5 million euros, the most.  “The costs reflect a funding gap for which the banks
appear to be charging at a reasonable rate,” said Jacopo Ceccatelli, founder of JC & Associati SIM, a Milan-based
financial advisory firm.  Milan plans to place about 138 million euros of the cash it
will receive from the banks in U.K. deposit accounts with the
four firms on which it will earn interest equal to 3-month
Euribor, the filing shows.  The city will also invest about 275 million euros in
Italian  government bonds  which it will be free to buy through
other intermediaries, according to a person with knowledge of
the settlement proposal who declined to be identified because
the agreement isn’t final.  The cash and bonds will be pledged as guarantees for swaps
that the municipality still retains with the banks. Milan sold
the banks a credit-default swap on  Italy , a transaction on which
the city is losing about 206 million euros, the filing shows.  The municipality, which claimed that it had relied on the
banks’ advice in arranging the swaps in 2005, says it’s now
acting independently based on its own assessment of the risks,
according to the term sheet. The city will seek prior approval
from the Treasury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  