-- Juniper ‘Very Cautious’ About 2012 on Europe Debt Crisis
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-03-01T21:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/juniper-chief-johnson-very-cautious-about-2012-on-european-debt-crisis.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  Chief
Executive Officer  Kevin Johnson  said Europe’s debt crisis may
hamper expansion in  Internet traffic , posing a “challenge” to
the networking-equipment industry.  “We are approaching 2012 in a very cautious way,” Johnson
said in an interview today at the Mobile World Congress in
Barcelona, Spain. “The ongoing growth of Internet traffic
continues to create demand, but there are clearly some
macroeconomic factors that will create a challenge.”  Juniper  fell  2.1 percent to $22.29 at the close in New
York. The stock has gained 9.2 percent this year.  The sovereign-debt crisis is showing “there’s a bit of
recessionary caution in Europe,” the CEO said.  Juniper, the second-largest maker of networking equipment,
forecast first-quarter sales and profit in January that missed
analyst estimates, a sign that Internet providers are limiting
spending amid sluggish economic growth. Revenue gains this year
will come from Asia, which accounts for about 20 percent of
Sunnyvale, California-based Juniper’s sales, Johnson said today.  Verizon, Deutsche Telekom  Juniper ranks second to  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  in the
networking-equipment industry, and its customers include  AT&T
Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  Even
as consumers flock to mobile devices like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
and tablet computers, network upgrades may lag behind because
they can take years to plan and cost billions of dollars.  Juniper, which gets 64 percent of revenue from service
providers and 36 percent from enterprise customers, needs to see
“how the year plays out” in terms of orders, Johnson said.  “Emerging markets have a potential to grow faster,” as
telecommunications and Internet providers in those countries
expand third-generation and even faster networks based on the
so-called long-term evolution standard, Johnson said. “China,
India and  Africa  will grow faster than more developed markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  