-- Kenneth Cole Lowballing Kenneth Cole Means Sale Value Climbs 20%: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-03-01T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/kenneth-cole-lowballing-kenneth-cole-means-sale-value-climbs-20-real-m-a.html
Merger arbitragers are convinced
 Kenneth Cole Productions Inc. (KCP)  isn’t as cheap as its namesake
founder contends.  The shoe and clothing retailer has traded above a $15-a-
share offer every day since the 57-year-old chairman announced
the management-led buyout last week. After the New York-based
company lost almost half its market value in the past five
years, the proposal valued Kenneth Cole at 3.7 times its
 estimated earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A deal at that price would be the U.S. apparel industry’s
cheapest takeover as analysts project a rebound in profitability
from an all-time low. Cole, who owns  47 percent  of the company
and needs majority approval from its remaining shareholders,
will probably raise his bid to win enough votes, WallachBeth
Capital LLC said.  Kenneth Cole  is worth almost 20 percent more
using historical premiums, a price that still lets Cole take the
retailer private at a discount to the median Ebitda multiple.  “The market is saying, ‘Kenneth, you have to sweeten this
deal in order for us to go along,’” Steven Marotta, an analyst
at CL King & Associates in  Albany , New York, said in a telephone
interview. “Based on what their projections are for the back
half of this year, is it possible they are getting a crazy,
unbelievable valuation for the company at $15? Yes.”  Lisa Hellman, a spokeswoman for Kenneth Cole, said that
Cole declined to comment beyond the Feb. 24 statement when asked
whether he intends to increase his offer.  40-Foot Trailer  Shares of Kenneth Cole, which today reported fourth-quarter
 earnings  that exceeded analysts’ estimates, advanced 1.3 percent
to a 16-month high of $15.90 in New York.  Cole started his  business  in midtown Manhattan three
decades ago, in a 40-foot trailer he had borrowed from a friend,
according to the company’s website.  The designer, who couldn’t afford to rent space for a
showroom, obtained a parking permit for his mobile shoe store by
adding the word “productions” to the company’s name and posing
as a film crew shooting a movie called “ The Birth of a Shoe
Company ,” using models as actresses. Today, Kenneth Cole sells
everything from men’s cologne, watches and messenger bags to
women’s high heels and  swimwear  in its own outlets and in
 department stores  including Macy’s Inc. and Nordstrom Inc.  Shares of Kenneth Cole, which climbed to a record of almost
$50 each in 2000, had sagged  45 percent  in the past five years
as rising costs and the worst recession since the Great
Depression left the retailer mired in its deepest  earnings slump 
since going public almost two decades ago.  Arbitrage Bet  The company earned less than a penny for each dollar of
sales in 2010 after generating an operating profit margin of 15
percent at its peak, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  During the financial crisis, Kenneth Cole incurred losses
on every dollar of revenue.  On Feb. 24, Kenneth Cole said that it received a takeover
proposal from Cole, who is also the  chief creative officer ,
which valued the entire company at $274 million. The bid was 18
percent higher than Kenneth Cole’s stock price in the 20 days
prior to the announcement, the data show.  Shares of the company surged past the deal offer to $15.49
on the day it was announced and ended at $15.69 yesterday, or
4.6 percent above the value of Cole’s proposal. That indicates
traders who profit from acquisitions are betting a higher offer
will emerge, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “To buy it here, you’ve got to believe he’s going to raise
it,” said Eric Sacks, a special situations analyst at Oscar
Gruss & Son Inc. in  New York . “Often the initial bid is not the
final bid. There usually is some further negotiation.”  ‘Very Powerful’  Cole’s current bid values Kenneth Cole at 3.7 times the
$30.6 million in Ebitda that analysts project the company will
 generate  this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s less than half the median multiple of 8 times for
U.S. apparel takeovers based on reported earnings.  CL King’s Marotta says the retailer can command a higher
price as its  operating margin  recovers. Analysts estimate the
company’s margin increased to 2 percent in 2011 and will double
to 4.3 percent this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In
2013, it will exceed 5 percent.  “When you look at it from a trailing standpoint, you’re
looking at highly depressed earnings,” he said. “As business
improves, particularly from low operating margins to moderate
operating margins, that’s very powerful on the bottom line.”  Cole’s  ownership stake  gives him a disproportionate
influence on the process, which limits the ability of minority
shareholders to seek competing offers, according to Sam Poser,
an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in New York.  Controlling Interest  The founder owns Class B stock, which entitles him to 10
votes for every share held, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That means he controls 89 percent of Kenneth Cole’s votes,
according to a Feb. 24  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  “No other company can step in and make him do anything,”
Poser said. “Kenneth has controlling interest, so he’s going to
make this deal happen the way he wants to.”  Apparel takeovers in the U.S. have historically been
announced at an average premium of about 38 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That implies an offer price of
almost $18 a share for Kenneth Cole and an Ebitda multiple of
4.6 times this year’s estimates, which is still 43 percent less
than the industry median, the data show.  “Of course he has room to bump it,” Yemi Oshodi, New
York-based managing director of M&A and special situations
trading at WallachBeth, said in a telephone interview. “The way
most arbs are trading this and looking at it is that he’s
probably going to bump it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 