-- Kenya Shilling Weakens for Fifth Day on Lower Inflation Bets
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-03-01T12:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/kenya-shilling-weakens-for-fifth-day-on-lower-inflation-read.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened for a
fifth day, the longest losing streak in more than five months,
on speculation slowing inflation will enable the central bank to
reduce interest rates.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
0.3 percent to 83.28 per dollar by 2:56 p.m. in Nairobi, the
capital, for the longest run of declines since September.  Inflation (KNPRIYY)  slowed for a third straight month in February,
offering the central bank flexibility to lower its key lending
rate from a record high. The inflation rate declined to 16.7
percent in February from 18.3 percent in January, the Kenya
National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday. The bank raised
interest rates six times last year to curb price increases and
support the currency.  “Given that the deceleration of inflation was sharper than
expected, we now think the central bank will start its cutting
cycle sooner than our initial expectation of second quarter
2012,” Yvonne Mhango, an economist at  Renaissance Capital  in
Johannesburg, wrote in a report today.  The Ugandan shilling weakened for a second day, sliding 0.5
percent to 2,392 per dollar, after the central bank cut its
benchmark  interest rate  for a second consecutive month.  The policy rate was lowered to 21 percent, Governor
Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile told reporters today in the capital,
Kampala. The central bank raised the rate by 10 percentage
points between July and November.  “ Uganda  is likely to see further monetary policy easing in
the upcoming months,” Absa Capital strategists led by
Johannesburg-based Ridle Markus wrote in a note to clients.  Tanzania’s shilling strengthened 0.3 percent to 1,595 per
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  