-- Keystone Oil Pipeline Seen Raising Gas Prices in Midwest: Energy
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-03-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/keystone-oil-pipeline-seen-raising-gas-prices-in-midwest-energy.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL oil
pipeline, a project backers including Republican Presidential
candidate  Rick Santorum  say will create cheaper U.S. gasoline,
instead risks raising prices as much as 20 cents a gallon in the
Midwest, Great Plains and Rocky Mountains.  The line would create a new way to carry Canadian imports
outside the Midwest and reduce an oil surplus that’s depressing
prices in the central U.S. Spot gasoline was 55 cents cheaper in
Chicago than in  New York  on June 1, the second-highest ever.
Nationwide, retail gasoline set its highest  February average  at
$3.55 a gallon, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The purpose of the $7.6 billion Keystone is to move 830,000
barrels of oil a day from landlocked Alberta to the Texas Gulf
Coast, obtaining new customers and a higher price for heavy
Canadian crude, Canadian regulators said in a 2010 report. The
oil sold for $23.38 less per barrel in 2011 compared with  heavy
grades  of Mexican crude, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The Canadian plan was to use their market power to raise
prices in the  United States (UNG)  and get more money from consumers,”
 Philip Verleger , founder of Colorado-based energy consulting
firm PK Verleger LLC, said in an interview. Prices may gain 10
to 20 cents in central states, he said.  Producers including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) 
and  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  may reap as much as $4 billion more in
annual revenue if prices rise as expected following the
construction of the 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) Keystone XL
conduit, the 2010 report says.  Such a change would erase the cost advantage for refiners
such as  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  and  HollyFrontier Corp. (HFC) , whose
Midwest plants profited on cheaper oil supply.  Political Touchstones  The Keystone pipeline has generated a political debate
before the U.S. November presidential election.  Republicans including presidential candidates Santorum,
Mitt Romney and  Newt Gingrich  have criticized President Barack Obama’s Jan. 18 rejection of Keystone XL after Nebraskans raised
concerns about the pipeline polluting their groundwater.  The three candidates and U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner 
have said that approving Keystone, eliminating environmental
regulations of hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, and
opening up new areas for drilling would lower the cost of
gasoline for American consumers.  Clinton Backs Pipeline  Former President  Bill Clinton  backed construction of
Keystone yesterday in comments at a Washington-area energy
conference. As long as the pipeline avoids environmentally
sensitive land, “the extra cost of running it is infinitesimal
compared to the revenues” the pipeline could produce, he said.  Oil supply concerns have grown as the U.S. and  Europe 
tightened sanctions on Iran, pushing U.S. crude prices for
future delivery to $109.77 on Feb. 24, the highest in 9 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  TransCanada said Feb. 27 it would reapply for a permit to
build Keystone and proceed separately with a $2.3 billion
segment of the pipeline that will carry crude from the storage
hub at Cushing, Oklahoma, to the Texas coast.  Oil flowing through the Oklahoma-to-Texas segment of the
Keystone pipeline would help remove excess supply in the Midwest
and bring cheaper crude to refiners on the  Gulf Coast ,
TransCanada Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  said in a
telephone interview after the announcement.  “It will help to reduce pressure on gasoline prices,” he
said.  Declines Offset Increases  As more crude flows to markets such as the Gulf Coast,
prices should decline there and balance out increases seen in
other places,  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group
industry consultants in Villanova, Pennsylvania, said in a
telephone interview.  “Bringing these barrels to the Gulf would certainly have a
dampening impact,” Schork said. “Getting more high quality,
cheap oil to the market is the direction we need to go to see
lower gasoline prices.”  Keystone XL might lower the average cost of gasoline across
the U.S. by up to 4 cents a gallon, Ray Perryman, a consultant
hired by TransCanada to assess the economic impact of the
project, said in an e-mail.  The net impact of Keystone XL on gasoline prices would be
minimal, said Perryman, whose research has been cited by
TransCanada to back up claims on potential job growth and market
impacts from the pipeline.  Consumers in Colorado and  Wyoming  currently pay less for
gasoline than anywhere in the nation because of the supply glut
in the Rocky Mountains caused by stranded Canadian imports and
growing  oil production  from onshore fields. Denver’s average
price of $3.13 a gallon today was 43 cents lower, or 12 percent,
than Houston’s $3.56 average, according to AAA.  Charging More  Canadian producers will be able to charge more for their
oil after Keystone XL is built, boosting revenues by $2 billion
to $3.9 billion,  Canada ’s  National Energy (TAQA)  Board said in the 2010
report approving of TransCanada’s pipeline plan.  The discount on Canadian crude “should be avoided in the
future” if the pipeline were built, according to the report.  Completion of the entire pipeline would raise prices at the
pump in the Midwest and Rocky Mountains 10 to 20 cents a gallon,
Verleger, the Colorado consultant, said in an e-mail message.  The higher crude prices also would erase the discount
enjoyed by cities including Chicago, Cheyenne and Denver,
Verleger said.  Gasoline Prices  Retail gasoline in Chicago today averaged $3.91 a gallon,
13 cents lower than the $4.04 New York price and more than
double the 6-cent difference between the two cities a year ago,
according to AAA. The average gasoline price of $2.99 a gallon
in Cheyenne, Wyoming is the same as a year ago and the price in
 Minneapolis  is $3.65, according to AAA data.  Canada exported 66 percent of its total crude production in
2010, almost all of which went to U.S. markets, according to the
C.D. Howe Institute, an Ottowa-based think tank. The biggest
pipeline systems moving crude southward include  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s
mainline system and TransCanada’s first Keystone line, both of
which transport oil to refineries in the Midwest, including in
Wisconsin and Illinois.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  