-- Killer, Security Guard Enliven Whitney Biennial: Lance Esplund
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/killer-security-guard-jung-add-fun-to-whitney-biennial-lance-esplund.html
The “ Whitney Biennial 2012 ” is
certainly not great or even very good overall (it may prove to
be a disaster), but that doesn’t much matter.  Until the curtain drops, it’s an ongoing event.  This time, an unusually large portion is devoted to
temporal works such as performance art, dance, theater, music,
film and artists’ residencies.  “2012” marks the first time the Whitney’s fourth-floor
galleries have been turned into a 6,000-square-foot performance
space, which currently includes bleachers and a fenced-in,
raised wooden platform, just off the elevators.  At the press preview, I spent a few minutes attending Sarah
Michelson’s performance, a Balanchine-inspired rodeo ballet with
loud music and a woman scrubbing the floor, while a person in a
horse costume ambled about.  Sometimes, with so many boundaries being blurred, art and
life, understandably, intermix.  For me, the memorable point of Michelson’s performance was
when, as I took my seat in the bleachers, someone scolded me to
“Keep off the stage!”  I asked if he was part of the performance.  “No,” he replied, “I’m just a security guard.”  Surprise!  My confusion followed me down to the second floor. In Nick
Mauss’s installation “Concern, Crush, Desire” (2011), visitors
are unwittingly part of the act.  Facing the elevators are two unmarked doors. I won’t spoil
the surprise (go through them). But before you get admonished
(as I did by another security guard), make sure to “Close the
door!” behind you.  Comprising work by only 51 artists, “2012” is relatively
small, scattered and incoherent -- almost scrappy.  It has a range of sensibilities, from the minimalist
sculptures of Cameron Crawford and minimalist photographs by Liz
Deschenes to the cluttered yet intriguing installation of mixed-
media props, sets and animal puppets used by performance artist
Tom Thayer.  In Matt Hoyt’s tiny, synthetic sculptures, which resemble
stones, shells, nuts and bones, the show is intimate, inward --
fit for your pocket.  Filmmaker Werner Herzog’s four-channel digital projection
pairs etchings by 17th-century Dutch artist Hercules Segers with
the music of contemporary Dutch musician Ernst Reijseger. Here,
the show approaches the soulful.  Especially good is Kelly Reichardt’s spare and affecting
feature film “Meek’s Cutoff” (2010), a parable in which
pioneers brave the Oregon plains.  Jungian Visionary  Best-in-show, however, goes to Robert Gober’s installation
devoted to  Forrest Bess  (1911-77), a Jungian visionary and
abstract painter who showed at the Betty Parsons Gallery.  Posthumously, Bess’s dream of an exhibit combining his
paintings with his advanced thoughts on art, sex and creativity
has finally been realized.  This Biennial, as usual, attempts to be hip, diverse,
multicultural and multidimensional. Most of the art is bad --
especially those works nodding to “tradition.”  For instance, we get a false sense of rigor in the hard-
edged though formally flaccid abstract paintings of Andrew
Masullo, and in Nicole Eisenman’s flippant figurative monotypes.  And this Biennial is so performance-based (Eisenman, among
other “2012” artists, will conduct a workshop inside the
museum) that it feels like process is being elevated above the
finished product.  Adam Weinberg  In the catalog interview, Whitney director Adam Weinberg
acknowledges that “among the general public, which is looking
for objects more often than not, there will be more frustration
and some confusion.”  He adds that the emphasis on time-based media reflects the
fluidity of the moment (like “sampling” and “surfing the
web”). He feels that “people need to make several visits to
get a flavor of what it’s really about.”  Of course, the “about” part seems to confuse some of the
artists themselves.  If you want to see museum as theater -- or, more correctly,
circus or zoo -- check out Dawn Kasper’s assemblage/performance
“THIS COULD BE SOMETHING IF I LET IT,” an exhibitionist junk-
pile-become-working-studio. According to Kasper, who will be
making her art on site in the Whitney, “Everything I own is in
this room.”  Killer Pictures  Another “2012” artist is also working in cramped quarters
-- albeit offsite.  U.S. Prison inmate #89637-132, A.K.A. Leonard Peltier, is
represented in an installation by Joanna Malinowska.  Peltier is a Native American imprisoned since 1977 for the
first-degree murder of two  FBI  special agents during a 1975
dispute on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation,  South Dakota .  Malinowska included Peltier’s paintings -- depicting
charging buffaloes and grazing horses -- (think Thomas Kinkade),
because, she says, “I haven’t investigated this matter, but I
think probably the presence of indigenous Americans in the
Whitney Museum is very marginal … [I’m] sort of symbolically
smuggling him out.”  I didn’t bat an eye when I saw Peltier’s bad, kitschy
paintings at the Whitney.  Although they represent some of the worst work in “2012,”
his pictures feel right at home as part of the zeitgeist.
Peltier may be a cold-blooded killer, but at least he’s got
sincerity going for him.  If he were let out of prison tomorrow (I’m sure  Larry Gagosian  could flex some muscle), Peltier could be a star.  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in New York at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 