-- Netherlands Wins Euro 2012 Tuneup Game Against England as U.S. Beats Italy
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-01T01:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/netherlands-france-win-euro-2012-tuneups-as-u-s-beats-italy-for-1st-time.html
Arjen Robben’s injury-time goal gave
the Netherlands a 3-2 win against  England  in a tuneup for
soccer’s European Championship, and France beat Germany 2-1 in
another exhibition between Euro 2012 qualifiers.  Robben and Klaas Jan Huntelaar scored two minutes apart to
put the Netherlands 2-0 up at Wembley Stadium in  London  last
night beforeGary Cahill and  Ashley Young  tied it. Robben then
thwarted England’s comeback by curling a shot into the net.  “We probably showed a little bit of naivety and a slight
lack of belief,” England caretaker manager Stuart Pearce told
ITV. “That’s something we’ve got to get into the squad going
forward. Once we got ourselves back into the game, we’re
disappointed to have been beaten.”  All 16 teams participating in the June 8-July 1 continental
championships in  Poland  and Ukraine were in action yesterday as
the tournament marked its 100-day countdown.  Roberto Soldado scored three goals as defending European
champion  Spain  routed Venezuela 5-0, Italy was upset 1-0 by the
U.S., Russia defeated Denmark 2-0, Sweden beat Croatia 3-1 and
Ukraine topped Israel 3-2.  In the first game at the Warsaw stadium that will host the
Euro 2012 opener, Poland and Portugal played to a scoreless
draw.  Greece , which faces Poland in the opening match, tied 1-1
with Belgium and the Republic of Ireland extended its unbeaten
run to 12 games with a 1-1 home draw against the  Czech Republic .  England, playing for the first time since Fabio Capello
quit as manager following the Football Association’s decision to
strip John Terry of the captaincy, slipped to its first defeat
since a 2-1 loss against  France  in November 2010.  Robben Run  The Netherlands went 2-0 up just before the hour mark as
Robben finished off a run from his own half with a low shot and
Huntelaar then headed past England goalkeeper Joe Hart.  Cahill pulled a goal back in the 85th minute and Young’s
chip five minutes later made it 2-2. Robben curled his shot
beyond Hart in the second minute of stoppage time as the
Netherlands, the runner-up to Spain at the 2010 World Cup,
rebounded from a 3-0 loss to Germany in its previous game.  “It was not all good, but basically it was a deserved
victory,” Netherlands coach  Bert van Marwijk  said in comments
on UEFA’s website. “To win here at Wembley is not bad.”  Goals by Olivier Giroud and Florent Malouda gave France the
victory in Bremen, extending Les Blues’ unbeaten run to 18
matches. Brazil-born striker Cacau scored a late consolation
goal for record three-time European champion  Germany .  Substitutes Score  In Malaga,  Andres Iniesta  and David Silva put world and
European champion Spain 2-0 up against Venezuela before
substitute Soldado scored his hat trick after halftime.  Sebastian Larsson came off the bench to score twice in
Sweden’s win against fellow Euro 2012 qualifier Croatia in
Zagreb, while Andrey Arshavin got one goal and set up the other
in Russia’s win against Denmark in Copenhagen.  Clint Dempsey’s second-half goal sent Italy to its first
defeat in 11 meetings against the U.S., which is coached by
Jurgen Klinsmann, who captained Germany to its last European
Championship title in 1996.  “With 100 days to go before the European Championship, I
am not worried,” said  Italy  coach Cesare Prandelli. “I liked
the way the team played and the defeat was undeserved.”  In exhibitions featuring teams not going to the tournament,
Lionel Messi scored his first international hat trick in
Argentina’s 3-1 win against Switzerland, while Wales lost 1-0 to
Costa Rica in a memorial match for former manager Gary Speed,
who died in November at age 42.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  