-- New Jersey Voters’ Gay-Marriage Support Reaches High After Christie Veto
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-03-01T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/new-jersey-gay-marriage-support-reaches-high-after-christie-veto.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  voters’ support for same-
sex marriage reached a record high in the days after Republican
Governor  Chris Christie  vetoed legislation to legalize the
unions, a  Quinnipiac University (78104MF)  poll shows.  Registered voters favor gay marriage 57 percent to 37
percent, according to the survey released today. They also
approve, 67 percent to 28 percent, Christie’s proposal to put
the matter on the November ballot, a plan rejected by Senate
President Steve Sweeney and Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver,
leaders in the Democratic-controlled Legislature.  “What’s left, for now anyway, is a political issue,”
 Maurice Carroll , director of the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute in Hamden,  Connecticut , said in a statement.  Seven U.S. states permit gay and lesbian partners the right
to wed. In  Maryland , Governor Martin O’Malley is set to sign a
bill as soon as today that would make his state the eighth,
alongside  Washington ,  New York ,  Massachusetts , Connecticut,
Iowa, New Hampshire and Vermont, plus the  District of Columbia .  The New Hampshire legislature is considering a repeal of
that state’s two-year-old law.  New Jersey lawmakers approved legalizing marriage for same-
sex couples Feb. 16. Christie issued a conditional veto the next
day.  Referendum Option  Christie, 49, who’s midway in his first term, has said he
believes marriage should be limited to one man and one woman.
When he suggested that voters decide the issue and said he would
abide by the results, Sweeney rejected the option, saying civil-
rights matters shouldn’t be left to popular opinion.  Voters around the U.S. have rejected gay marriage in all 31
referendums involving the question.  Pollsters surveyed 1,396 registered voters by telephone
from Feb. 21-27. The results have a margin of error of plus or
minus 2.6 percentage points.  The findings showed the highest support for gay marriage in
 New Jersey  among the six Quinnipiac polls on the issue since
November 2006. The latest previous poll, in January, found 52
percent in support and 42 percent opposed.  Sentiment has shifted since the first poll in 2006, when 41
percent were in favor of legalizing gay marriage, with 50
percent against.  Then-Governor Jon Corzine, a Democrat, signed the civil-
union bill in December 2006, giving certain rights to same-sex
couples.  A bill to give such partners full marriage rights failed in
the Legislature in January 2010. Sweeney, who was among three
senators who declined to cast votes at the time, has become one
of the issue’s most visible advocates.  Poll participants split on whether Christie was right to
veto the legislation, 48 percent to 47 percent.  Given three options for gay and lesbian couples, 47 percent
support marriage; 34 percent, civil union; and 13 percent, no
legal recognition, the poll showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  