-- New York City Convention Center May Need Public Improvements, Genting Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-01T18:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/new-york-city-convention-center-may-need-public-improvements-genting-says.html
New York (STONY1)  state taxpayers might end
up paying for infrastructure and transportation improvements to
support a proposed privately financed convention center and
casino in Queens, a representative of the developer said.  Christian Goode, senior vice president of  Genting Americas (GENM) ,
a division of Kuala Lumpur-based Genting Bhd., said his
company’s development of a $4 billion, 3.8 million square-foot
convention center and casino near  John F. Kennedy International
Airport  would be “one more reason” to invest in improved roads
and mass transit to serve the area. Goode didn’t say how much
the improvements might cost.  “How the finances work out, it’s too early to tell,”
Goode said today during a breakfast forum sponsored by Crain’s
 New York  magazine.  Genting, which operates  Asia ’s second-biggest gaming
company by market value, would finance some of the cost of
express rail service to shorten what is now about a one-hour
subway ride linking Manhattan with the site adjacent to Aqueduct
racetrack, Goode said.  The proposal also calls for demolishing the Jacob Javits
Convention Center and using its far west Manhattan site for
housing and office buildings. Governor  Andrew Cuomo , who has
made the Queens convention center a cornerstone of his economic-
development plan, has said taxpayer funds won’t be needed.  “There is no cost to the state,” Cuomo said during a Jan.
9 interview on WGDJ-AM in  Albany , after proposing it in his
State of the State address. “It’s a private-sector company that
says it can create tens of thousands of jobs.”  Legislation Needed  The governor has said legislation will be needed to allow
Genting to expand the number of electronic slot-machines at its
so-called  racino  at Aqueduct. Cuomo also is pushing for a
constitutional amendment that would allow Las Vegas-style casino
gambling in the third-most populous state, though he has said
Genting’s expansion plans aren’t hinging on it.  For Genting to invest as much as $3 billion in the project,
it would need government assurances that would protect it from
competitors and allow the company to repay as much as $1 billion
in bank debt, Goode said.  The convention center would be built during a period of
decline in the trade-show industry, said Steven Malanga, an
author and research fellow of the  Manhattan Institute , a non-
profit policy group that favors lower taxes and reduced
 government spending . Convention-center attendance in New York
dwindled to about 700,000 last year, about half of what it was
in the late 1990s, Malanga said.  ‘Historic Decline’  “That’s because of a historic decline in the industry
itself, not because of a lack of space in our facility,”
Malanga said, noting that New York City drew a record number of
visitors last year without having a convention center of the
size Cuomo proposed.  Cuomo’s plan won support from Robert Yaro, president of the
 Regional Plan Association , which for decades has conducted
research on  land use  and transportation policies.  Yaro’s group has called for the project to include a
complementary  smaller facility  for trade shows and conferences
on  Manhattan ’s west side in what is now the James Farley Post
Office building, a Corinthian-columned landmark built in 1912
and designed by McKim, Mead & White. Plans have been in the
works for several years to use the building as a rail passenger
terminal named for former U.S. Senator Daniel Moynihan.  “It has the potential to unleash the economic potential of
Manhattan’s west side,” Yaro said. “In this case they’re
proposing to pay for it, and I think that’s a pretty good deal
with the taxpayers.”  Of the potential infrastructure costs, Yaro said there are
“much-needed improvements in Queens that would serve Aqueduct
and residents of Queens and provide access to the airport. They
shouldn’t be paid for by Genting.”  The project could remain economically viable without such
work, Yaro said, “but they would benefit from these
improvements.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York City  Hall, at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  