-- NYC Pension Funds to Invest With D.E. Shaw
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-03-01T20:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/new-york-city-pensions-expand-hedge-fund-investments-liu-spokesman-says.html
D.E. Shaw & Co. and  Brevan Howard 
Asset Management LLP each will get $350 million from New York
City’s police, fire and civil-employee pensions as the
 retirement plans  expand into hedge funds.  The pensions, with about $70 billion in assets as of Nov.
30, will also invest $200 million with Brigade Capital
Management LLP, Michael Loughran, a spokesman for city
Comptroller  John Liu , said in an e-mail. With the agreements,
New York’s hedge-fund investments will reach $1.35 billion,
almost half the $3 billion target, Loughran said.  “We have put together a hedge-fund program that will help
further diversify our portfolio and guard against volatility in
the market,” Loughran said.  Public pensions, seeking to boost returns after the longest
recession since the 1930s and to reduce instability in their
portfolios, are increasing assets allocated to alternative
investments such as  hedge funds  and private equity, said Julia Bonafede, president of Wilshire Consulting, which advises
retirement funds. Governments have increased pension payments to
make up for market losses.  “They’re under such great pressure to catch up,” Bonafede
said in an interview yesterday.  Tiny Slice  While pensions are putting more money into hedge funds,
they represent a small portion of investments. Public retirement
plans with more than $1 billion in assets allocated an average
2.2 percent to hedge funds, according to Wilshire’s Trust
Universe Comparison Service.  The 10-year median return for public pension funds with
more than $1 billion in assets, before fees, was 5.6 percent as
of Dec. 31, according to the service. That’s less than the 7.5
percent to 8 percent returns that the retirement systems count
on to meet payments to retirees.  Ten-year returns for  New York  City’s police, fire and
civil-employee pensions ranged from 5.53 percent to 5.78 percent
as of June 30, according to documents on the comptroller’s
website.  The city’s contributions to the funds have increased to
about $8 billion this year from $1.2 billion in 2002, when Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  took office. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo
has proposed offering a 401(k)-type alternative to new public
employees and, for most, raising the  retirement age  to 65 from
62 to hold down future costs.  Seeking Out Opportunity  Last year, the city’s police, fire and civil-employee
pensions hired Permal Group Ltd. to invest in hedge funds.  The city’s teachers’ and educational administrators’
pensions, with $43.6 billion in assets, haven’t allocated money
to hedge funds, Loughran said.  David Shaw , a former Columbia University computer science
professor, founded D.E. Shaw in 1988. The New York-based firm,
which manages $23 billion, specializes in using computer models
to identify money-making opportunities, according to its
website. More recently, it has expanded into private equity,
 venture capital  and distressed debt.  Brevan Howard, based in  London , was co-founded in 2003 by
former Credit Suisse AG trader  Alan Howard . Since its founding,
its clients have made $15.7 billion, according to research by
LCH Investments NV. Brevan Howard’s Master Fund gained $3.2
billion last year.  While hedge funds may offer better returns than stocks and
bonds, pensions pay higher fees to gain access to these loosely
regulated investment pools. Most charge 2 percent of assets as a
management fee and 20 percent of the profits.  New York City ’s five pensions paid $395.7 million in
investment fees in the fiscal year ending June 30, according to
the city’s  annual financial report .  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  