-- NFL’s Vikings Agree to $975 Million Stadium Project to Replace Metrodome
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-03-01T17:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/nfl-s-vikings-agree-to-975-million-stadium-project-to-replace-metrodome.html
The  Minnesota Vikings  and state and
local government officials announced a legislative proposal to
build a $975 million stadium for the National Football League
team with taxpayers contributing about $736.7 million to
construct and run the facility.  The club would pay about $754.1 million for its share of
construction and operations at the publicly owned, fixed-roof
building, which would replace the Metrodome in  Minneapolis  at
the same site. Governor  Mark Dayton  urged the state legislature
and Minneapolis City Council to approve the plan.  “Now the real work begins,” Dayton said in a news
conference announcing the deal.  Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak and City Council President
Barbara Johnson both support the plan, along with state Senator
Julie Rosen and state Representative Morrie Lanning, both
Republicans. Rybak said he is “cautiously optimistic” that the
deal can be approved.  The Vikings agreed to pay $427 million for the construction
costs and about $13 million a year for operating and capital
expenses. Zygmunt Wilf, the team’s owner, said he was pleased
with the plan and the support of city and state leaders.  The Vikings have sought a replacement for the Metrodome
since Wilf bought the franchise from Red McCombs for $600
million in 2005.  “We believe this proposal offers significant benefits for
the city, the state, our fans and the team, and we look forward
to working with the City of Minneapolis and the state
legislature to pass a stadium bill this year,” Wilf said in the
release from the team.  New Jobs  Dayton said the project would create as many as 8,000
construction jobs and an additional 5,000 positions among
suppliers during its three years of building and keep the
Vikings in  Minnesota  for the next 30 years, without using money
from the state’s general fund.  The state would pay $398 million for construction costs
using gambling money, and provide property- and sales-tax
exemptions for stadium building materials, according to a news
release from the Vikings. The city would redirect $150 million
from existing convention-center and tourism taxes to build the
stadium and $188.7 million, or about $7.5 million a year, to run
it.  The Metrodome’s inflatable roof -- 10 acres of Teflon-
coated Fiberglas -- collapsed in 2010 under the weight of 17
inches of snow, and the Vikings hosted games at  Detroit  and
outdoors in 23-degree Fahrenheit (minus-4 Celsius) temperatures
at the University of Minnesota’s TCF Bank stadium.  Suburban Alternative  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  met with Dayton after the
roof collapse and said there was “recognition that we need to
find a long-term solution for the Vikings here and get a stadium
built.” The Vikings also considered alternative sites,
including one in suburban Arden Hills.  The Republicans, who control the Minnesota legislature,
published a platform two years ago that opposes using tax money
for “programs, such as public broadcasting, sports stadiums,
and the arts.” It said such projects should be paid for by the
users and voluntary donors.  Legislative opposition to the stadium has mounted in recent
months from Tea Party Republicans and Democrats unhappy with
budget cuts to education and other services. Lanning, the bill’s
chief sponsor, said approval will “not happen without
bipartisan support.”  “Keeping the Vikings in Minnesota is in the best interests
of the state,” Rosen said in the release. “This will be done
without using any General Fund dollars that could go to our
schools or nursing homes.”  Keep Team  Dayton, a Democrat, has led the state’s efforts on behalf
of the new stadium, saying in his State of the State speech last
month that there is an “urgency” to create thousands of
construction jobs and keep the team.  The new stadium will be owned and operated by an authority
comprised of three members appointed by the governor and two
appointed by the city. The so-called Downtown East site includes
the Metrodome’s current land and the addition of a game-day
plaza on the stadium’s west side.  “Let’s put thousands of Minnesotans to work building our
‘People’s Stadium,” Dayton said in the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in  Chicago  at   tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 