-- North Korea’s Kim Game for 'Let’s Make a Deal': William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-03-01T18:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/north-korea-is-game-for-let-s-make-a-deal-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
The deadliest words in economics are
“This time things are different.” They are even more perilous
when applied to a nuclear power run by a paranoid, repressive
regime. In other words,  North Korea .  We have every reason to roll our eyes and scoff at Kim Jong Un’s first foray into diplomacy. In his debut, he pledges to
halt nuclear tests and long-range missile launches. You can see
by the muted reactions in Seoul and Tokyo that  Asia  is deeply
skeptical, and it has every reason to be.  The 28-ish Kim Jong Un appears to be reading from the same,
faded playbook of his dad, Kim Jong Il, who died in December,
and grandfather Kim Il Sung, who died in 1994. Or is he? Assume
that this isn’t manipulation as usual. Instead, let’s consider
that events in Myanmar are influencing the young leader of a
devastated nation to try a different tack.  For North Koreans, next month marks a monumentally
important event: the 100th anniversary of  Kim Il Sung ’s birth.
The founder of North Korea is a god like no other in the nation
of 23 million people. Some Pyongyang watchers speculate that Kim
Jong Un went under a plastic surgeon’s knife to more closely
resemble the “Great Leader,” whose cult of personality always
eclipsed his “Dear Leader” son.  But in reality, this April 15 is a reminder that North
Korea doesn’t have much to celebrate: It is deadly poor, fast
running out of friends and looking at a bleak future.  South
Korea , meanwhile, is prosperous, democratic and basking in the
spread of its companies and cultural soft power around the
world.  Sanctions’ Effect  Sanctions have been as much of a help as a hindrance to the
 Kim Dynasty . They were a perfect way to convince North Koreans
that evil foreigners were holding them down. In his 2010 book,
“ The Cleanest Race ,” B.R. Myers pointed out that Pyongyang
doesn’t bother scrubbing “From U.S.A.” off sacks of donated
rice; it’s spun as war tribute from a defeated, apologetic
state.  North Korea’s new leader remains a wild card. We know
little about him other than that he was educated in Bern,
 Switzerland , in the 1990s and has a passion for basketball great
 Michael Jordan . Yet as he looks round the world, he must be
aware that the economic ways of his father are a dead end.  Using provocations, missile launches and nuclear tests to
blackmail the world for food and oil worked until now. So did
piracy, currency counterfeiting and weapons sales. In the age of
GPS technology and military drones, though, such clandestine
shipments are getting harder. The net has steadily tightened on
North Korea’s ability to trade nuclear technology with Pakistan
and  Iran . All this has led to a severe cash crunch that is
dangerous for the Kims.  Here, a creative step the U.S. took in 2006 is worth
considering. The Kims long bought the loyalty of generals and
potential rivals with  luxury goods : Cadillacs, Harley-Davidsons,
Rolexs, Hennessy cognac, plasma-screen televisions, iPods, fur
coats, you name it. Washington even went after  Kim Jong Il ’s
creature comforts: French wine, Italian cheese, Japanese fatty
tuna and Iranian caviar. It was wise to deprive Kim of the
currency he needed to maintain power.  Now that the most reliable sources of business are drying
up, too, Kim Jong Un may see diplomacy as his only choice.
 China , long Pyongyang’s sugar daddy, has grown tired and
embarrassed of the Kim Dynasty’s antics. Russia has enough to
worry about as protesters turn on  Vladimir Putin .  Arab Spring Fears  The Arab Spring movement, according to Pyongyang watchers,
really spooked the Kims. They were close to  Muammar Qaddafi  when
his regime crumbled, and even  banned  North Korean construction
workers, doctors and nurses working in  Libya  from returning home
for fear they might spread word of what happened there.  Perhaps Kim Jong Un is viewing events in Myanmar as a road
map of sorts. Myanmar’s diplomatic U-turn in late 2011 is paying
big dividends. A few short months after President Thein Sein
opened up to the world and released some political prisoners, he
won talk of loosened sanctions, a visit from U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  and nibbles from companies like  General
Electric Co. (GE)  There’s still reason to remain skeptical that
Myanmar is becoming a good global citizen, but so far so good.  Kim may be watching this dynamic and preparing to follow
suit, within reason. Granted, North Korea’s sincerity is even
more open to doubt. Clinton and European leaders are right to
call this a modest first step in the right direction, but also
to urge caution.  This is very much a trust-but-verify moment. If Kim’s
father were taking this step, the world would be right to
dismiss it. That it’s coming from a leader who belongs to a
generation more steeped in the Internet and Google Inc. than the
Cold War and Morse code adds to the intrigue. This time, things
may indeed be different.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 