-- NTR to Reduce Stake in Ethanol Maker Green Plains to 3.5 Percent
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-03-01T00:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/ntr-to-reduce-stake-in-ethanol-maker-green-plains-to-3-5-percent.html
NTR Plc, an Irish developer of power
and waste projects, plans to reduce its stake in U.S. ethanol
producer  Green Plains Renewable Energy Inc. (GPRE)  to 3.5 percent from
23 percent.  NTR, the largest  shareholder  in Green Plains, will sell 3.7
million shares back to the company at an undisclosed price,
according to a statement today from the ethanol producer. The
buyback is contingent on completion of a public offering by
underwriter Jefferies & Co. Inc. of an additional 3 million of
NTR’s Green Plains shares.  Green Plains, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , fell 3.5 percent
today to close at $11.35 in  New York .  NTR would own 1 million Green Plains shares following the
deal, if Jefferies also exercises its 30-day option to buy as
many as 450,000 additional shares, reducing its stake to about
3.5 percent, according to the statement.  The deal follows a similar one in April, whereby NTR agreed
to sell a third of its stake in Green Plains back to the company
for $28 million, or $8 a share.  NTR in August wrote off its investments in solar thermal
energy, incurring a 42.4 million euro ($56.5 million) charge for
manufacturer Stirling Energy Systems and U.S.-based development
arm Tessera Solar. It revived last month a plan to sell its
Greenstar Ireland waste unit for as much as 150 million euros.  Green Plains will purchase 1 million of the shares from NTR
with cash and issue a one-year, 5 percent note for the remaining
2.7 million shares, it said today in a filing. The buyback is
expected to close three days after completion of the offering.  Upon completion of the deal, NTR Chief Executive Officer
Michael McNicholas will resign from Green Plains’ board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  