-- Obama Tells Wall Street Donors He Backs Super PACS Out of Need
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-03-02T05:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/obama-seeks-wall-street-campaign-money.html
President  Barack Obama  told a
gathering of Wall Street donors that Democrats can’t
unilaterally stop accepting money from big-dollar political-
action committees, according to two people at the event.  Obama told about 80 donors at a fundraising dinner in New
York yesterday that he didn’t want to run for re-election at a
disadvantage to Republicans, according to the people, who
described the president’s comments on condition of anonymity
because the event was private.  Obama was holding his first fundraiser targeting the
financial services industry since he asked Congress in his 2013
budget to increase taxes on the wealthy and impose $61 billion
in new fees on banks. He told attendees at the $35,800-a-plate
fundraiser that he is aware his administration has lost some of
its popularity among bankers and hedge fund managers.  “So many people in this room were active in 2008,” the
president said before reporters were ushered out of the event.
“So many of you have had to defend me from your co-workers over
the last three years.” The remark drew laughter from the
audience.  Obama’s remarks on political funding follow his campaign’s
decision last month to reverse course and encourage top donors
to contribute to the independent political-action committees,
known as super-PACs, backing his re-election.  Supreme Court Ruling  Obama reiterated his objections to a Supreme Court ruling
that allows unlimited contributions from individuals,
corporations and unions. His comments came in response to a
question from one of the donors about the Supreme Court case,
 Citizens United  v. Federal Election Commission, and he took the
opportunity to clarify his new position, said the people.  The event included many of Obama’s top Wall Street donors,
such as Blair W. Effron, partner and co-founder of Centerview
Partners LLP; Marc Lasry, managing partner and founder of Avenue
Capital Group; Mark Gallogly, a managing principal of
Centerbridge Partners; James Rubin, managing director of  BC
Partners ;  Robert Wolf , UBS AG’s chairman for the Americas; and
Antonio Weiss, global head of  investment banking  at Lazard Ltd.  The president’s hosts also included Ralph Schlosstein,
chief executive officer at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , and his wife,
Jane Hartley, co-founder of the economic and political advisory
firm Observatory Group LLC, who were assured last month by  Jim Messina , Obama’s campaign manager, that the president won’t
demonize Wall Street in his pursuit of another four-year term.  ‘Three Tough Years’  Americans have been through “three tough years and so this
is going to be a close election,” Obama said. “Nobody is under
any illusion that this isn’t going to be a tight race for us.”  The event was one of four Obama held in New York in a $5
million fundraising drive for his re-election campaign and the
 Democratic National Committee . Obama brought in $140 million for
his campaign through the end of January,  Federal Election
Commission  reports show.  His first fundraiser last night was a reception at the home
of lawyer Victor Kovner and his wife, Sarah, according to a
campaign official who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter
publicly. About 100 people were participating, with tickets
starting at $5,000, the official said.  After the dinner, Obama headed to a fundraising gala hosted
by Deepak Chopra, Paulette Cole,  Russell Simmons , Jean-Georges Vongerichten, Reshma Saujani and Phil Suarez, with approximately
900 people, the official said. The Roots,  Ben Folds  and Ingrid Michaelson were the performers, and Aziz Ansari emceed the
event. Tickets for the gathering started at $1,000.  White House Decorator  The evening was capped by a fundraiser at the Manhattan
apartment of interior designer  Michael Smith , who was chosen by
first lady  Michelle Obama  in 2009 to be the White House
decorator. About 40 guests agreed to pay $10,000.  Smith also was the designer who worked on a $1.2 million
redecoration of the downtown Manhattan office of former Merrill
Lynch & Co. Chief Executive Officer  John Thain . The remodeling
was done in 2008 as the company was firing employees amid $56
billion in losses. It became a symbol of  Wall Street  excess and
drew criticism from Obama. Thain later said he reimbursed the
company.  Obama’s previous fundraiser with the financial services
industry was on Sept. 19. So far this election cycle, he hasn’t
been able to match the success he had four years ago in getting
money from Wall Street.  $1.4 Million in Revenue  In Obama’s fiscal 2013 budget, he called for $1.4 trillion
in new revenue over 10 years from Americans at the top of the
income scale, proposing higher taxes on wages and investments
and limiting itemized deductions. He would tax long-term  capital
gains  at 20 percent, up from 15 percent now, for individuals
making more than $200,000 and families making more than
$250,000.  His budget also calls for big financial institutions to pay
$61 billion over 10 years in a “Financial Crisis Responsibility
Fee” to help fund the bank bailout program and a home-mortgage
refinance initiative.  At a gala event last night where tickets cost $1,000, Obama
was interrupted by an audience member urging him not to start a
war in  Iran . “Nobody has announced a war yet, young lady,” he
said. “You’re jumping the gun a little bit there.”  He said his administration has kept many of its promises,
including ending the war in  Iraq  and the military’s “Don’t Ask
Don’t Tell” policy that barred gays and lesbians from serving
openly.  He also touted the death of the leader of al-Qaeda. “ Osama Bin Laden  will never again walk the face of the earth,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in  New York  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  