-- Obama Hospital Cuts Seen Worsening Primary Care Shortage
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-03-01T16:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/obama-s-hospital-funding-cuts-seen-worsening-primary-care-doctor-shortage.html
A plan to reduce federal funding for
teaching hospitals in President Barack Obama’s fiscal 2013
budget proposal will curb training for primary care doctors,
undermining a top priority of the 2010 health-care law he fought
to enact, a Bloomberg Government study shows.  The law would expand medical coverage to as many as 32
million uninsured people, flooding the system with new patients
and driving up demand for family physicians. To narrow the
deficit, the president plans to save $9.7 billion over nine
years by reducing what  Medicare (USBOMDCR)  pays to train new doctors.  The proposed cuts, if enacted, will cause hospitals to
adjust the mix of residency slots to focus on specialty
positions that are the most profitable, according to the study
by Bloomberg Government health-care analyst Brian Rye. That will
steer medical students to specialties that can pay twice as much
as primary care, according to medical school executives.  “You can tell people primary care is great all you want,
but unless you show you value it through the payment system,
people are always going to go for the economic incentives,”
said  Atul Grover , chief public policy officer for the
 Association of American Medical Colleges , in a telephone
interview.  Medicare, the U.S. health program for the elderly and
disabled, provided about $9.5 billion to hospitals in 2010 to
offset the cost of sponsoring residency programs in which
graduate medical students train before working independently.
Grover’s group estimates the training cuts will contribute to a
shortage of 60,000 physicians in the U.S. by 2015.  Priorities Questioned  The Medicare reimbursement goes directly to hospitals and
it’s unclear how the money is used, Rye said in the report. That
leads to concerns the hospitals may not be spending on the
programs that are needed most, said  Frederick Chen , a family
physician and associate professor at the  University of
Washington  School of Medicine in  Seattle .  “We have a situation where the majority of trainees, the
majority of physicians that are trained using public funds are
not meeting the needs of the country,” said Chen, who trains 24
family medicine residents in a program of 1,000 future doctors
at the university’s medical center.  Thirty percent of doctors work in family medicine today,
compared with 50 percent in 1961, according to the study. Rye
estimates the proposed cuts won’t reduce the number of residents
because hospitals depend on them to control costs.  Salary Ranges  The annual salary of a family physician ranges from about
$175,000 to $220,196, according to the AAMC. Orthopedists earn
from $397,879 to $600,000 while a neurosurgeon can make $287,000
to $637,000, according to the group’s website.  Doctors with specialties will make $2.7 million more in
lifetime pay, according to a  study  by researchers at  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina .  “Our system’s upside down,” said  Glen Stream , president
of the  American Academy  of Family Physicians, in a telephone
interview. “We don’t have enough family doctors to help people
plan their wellness treatment.”  The 10 percent reduction Obama proposed may save $9.7
billion in nine years starting in 2013, according to White House
estimates.  The health-care law will trim $157 billion in U.S. payments
to hospitals through 2019, according to  estimates  by the
 Congressional Budget Office . Herbert Pardes, formerly the chief
executive officer of the New York Presbyterian Hospital, was one
of the industry leaders who agreed to the cuts and said further
reductions will jeopardize patient care.  “If a hospital agrees to cuts and then you say, now we
want to cut further, they’re making it impossible to have the
resources to train the doctors,” said Pardes, who is now the
hospital’s executive vice chairman. “There are already patients
who can’t find doctors on Medicare, and what are we supposed to
do?”  Hospitals faced further reductions as Congress tackled the
growing national debt. In 2013, Medicare hospital payments will
be trimmed an additional 2 percent.  “On the one hand you have predictions of a physician
shortage,” Rye said in a telephone interview. “That’s in
contrast with the other goal, which is reducing Medicare
spending because of national debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  