-- Obama: Rivals ‘Licking Their Chops’ on Energy
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-03-01T23:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/obama-says-opponents-licking-chops-at-prospect-of-higher-gasoline-prices.html
President  Barack Obama  said his
Republican critics are “licking their chops” at the prospect
of rising gasoline prices as higher energy costs threaten to
crimp the economic recovery.  For the third time in a week, Obama discussed energy policy
as he’s come under increasing criticism from Republicans in
Congress and on the presidential campaign trail.  “Higher gas prices are like a tax straight out of your
paychecks,” Obama said at Nashua Community College in Nashua,
New Hampshire, an electoral swing state that his campaign has
targeted for the November election. “I know this is hard to
believe, but some politicians are seeing higher gas prices as a
political opportunity.”  Obama has been riding a wave of positive economic news as
data from homebuilding to  car sales  to jobless claims have beat
forecasts, indicating the recovery is gaining traction. The one
sour note has been the rise in gasoline prices, signs of which
confront voters daily.  Gasoline prices have climbed 13 percent since the start of
the year to $3.73 a gallon for regular at the pump as of Feb.
29, according to the American Automobile Association. A year ago
the average price was $3.38, the group said. Prices may go
higher as the U.S. summer driving season gets under way.  While the increase is driven in part by increased tensions
over  Iran’s nuclear program  and higher demand as the U.S.
recovery strengthens, gasoline prices have given Republicans a
target.  Republican Criticism  Republican presidential candidates and congressional
leaders say Obama has thwarted domestic energy exploration,
imposed tougher regulations and blocked approval of  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline to bring crude from  Canada ’s oils
sands to U.S. refineries on the  Gulf of Mexico  coast.  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor who is the
leading contender for the Republican nomination, said while
campaigning in Fargo,  North Dakota , today that Obama is trying
to take credit for boosting U.S. energy development when he
“has tried to slow the growth of oil and gas production in this
country, and coal production in this country.”  Romney said the president has cut lease rates and slashed
drilling permits by a third and is now trying to get the
Environmental Protection Agency among others to regulate
hydraulic fracturing to extract fossil fuels from shale.  “So, far from taking credit, he should be hanging his head
and taking a little bit of the blame for what’s going on
today,” Romney said.  Gas Price Poll  The U.S. public spreads the blame for higher gasoline
prices, citing Obama,  oil companies  and unrest in the  Middle
East , according to a poll by the Pew Research Center in
Washington. Eighteen percent fault the administration, 14
percent say oil companies are to blame and 11 percent cite the
situation with  Iran  and in the Middle East, Pew said. The poll
was conducted Feb. 23-26 among 1,005 adults. The error margin is
plus or minus 4 percentage points.  The administration has highlighted data that show domestic
crude oil production is at the highest level in eight years.
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  handed out a chart to
reporters on Air Force One that shows a decline in net imports
as a share of oil consumption.  In his speech, Obama credited actions taken by his
administration and that of his predecessor, George W. Bush,
saying energy price and supply issues “won’t be solved by one
party or administration.” He also said increased domestic
production won’t set the price of gasoline on its own.  New York Fundraisers  Crude oil for April delivery rose $1.77, or 1.7 percent, to
settle at $108.84 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
as U.S. officials escalated warnings to Iran over its nuclear
program. Prices have advanced 8.8 percent in the past year.  Obama again called on Congress to take up his proposal to
eliminate credits and deductions for the oil and natural gas
industries. As he did after introducing his jobs plan in
September, he urged voters to “let your member of Congress know
where you stand.”  From Nashua, Obama went to  New York City  for a quartet of
fundraisers, capped by an event at the home of the designer
Michael Smith, who was chosen in 2009 by first lady  Michelle Obama  to be the White House decorator.  Obama expects to raise $5 million for his campaign at the
four events, including a $35,800-per-person dinner for
investment bankers and hedge fund managers, according to a
campaign official who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter
publicly.  Obama has raised $140 million for his re-election campaign
through the end of January, Federal Election Commission reports
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  