-- Obama Says He Knew of Jeremy Lin Early On
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-01T14:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/obama-says-he-knew-about-knicks-jeremy-lin-early-on-praise-by-arne-duncan.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he
knew about Jeremy Lin’s basketball abilities long before the
guard graduated from  Harvard University  and went from National
Basketball Association bench-warmer to sudden fame with the  New
York Knicks .  Obama said in a podcast  interview  with ESPN affiliated
sports website Grantland.com that Secretary of Education  Arne Duncan , who was once captain of Harvard’s basketball team, told
him about Lin “way back when.”  “What’s interesting is the fact that somehow folks were
missing it in practice,” Obama said. “It is a terrific story.
He seems like a wonderful young man. And, look, it elevates this
great sport all around the world.”  Obama, who received a law degree from Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Harvard in 1991, said he watches the NBA via
the League Pass program on his iPad, which provides live video
of every game. He said he pays for the subscription himself.  Lin, a second-year player who had been a reserve for the
Knicks after twice being cut by other franchises, has led  New
York  to a 10-3 record since taking over at point guard on Feb.
4, helping the team rebound from a 8-15 start. Ticket prices and
television ratings have skyrocketed during his run.  Last night, Lin scored 19 points and had 13 assists in a
120-103 win over the  Cleveland Cavaliers  at Madison Square
Garden.  Obama, a Chicago native and avowed Bulls’ fan, said he
expects to someday welcome his hometown team to the White House
as NBA champions.  “It hasn’t happened yet, but it will happen,” he said.  When asked if he was guaranteeing a title, Obama, who will
be up for re-election in November, replied, “Well, I’ve got
another five years here,” and then laughed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 