-- Obama Labor Board Recess Appointments Challenged in New York Lockout Trial
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-01T22:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/obama-labor-board-recess-appointments-challenged-in-new-york-lockout-trial.html
A court petition seeking to halt a
lockout of 70 workers at a  Brooklyn , New York, apartment complex
should be thrown out, a lawyer told the judge in the case, which
may test whether President Barack Obama’s January appointments
to the  National Labor Relations Board  are legal.  The petition isn’t valid because the board that voted to
file it lacked a quorum, the landlord’s lawyer, Paul D. Clement,
told U.S. District Judge Brian M. Cogan at the hearing today in
Brooklyn.  Obama appointed three members to the board on Jan. 4,
bypassing the Senate by asserting lawmakers were in recess and
unable to act on nominations. A president is permitted to make
appointments without Senate confirmation during a recess, though
Republicans dispute that was the case at the time.  “We’ve never had an attempted recess appointment like
this,” said Clement, who was solicitor general and acting
attorney general under President  George W. Bush .  Other defendants have invoked the quorum argument since the
Brooklyn case was filed.  On Feb. 13, the argument was cited in a motion to dismiss a
petition in which the NLRB accuses a New York supermarket of
firing five workers for seeking to unionize. On Feb. 23, an
Illinois lighting-equipment maker raised the argument in its
response to a petition in which the labor board accuses it of
moving work from the U.S. to  Mexico  because its employees went
on strike.  Trade Groups  Trade groups including the National Association of
Manufacturers have also said the appointments were invalid in
litigation seeking to block a rule mandating that companies
notify workers of their rights to form a union.  Obama has since sent the Senate the nominations of the
three candidates.  Cogan, who ended the hearing without ruling, said at least
three times that the appointments were made to avoid the
Senate’s role in consenting to nominations.  The recess-appointment method was “invoked for the express
purpose of circumventing the approval process,” he said.  On Jan. 6, the U.S.  Justice Department  issued a memo that
“the convening of periodic pro forma sessions in which no
business is to be conducted” doesn’t preclude the president
from making recess appointments.  The landlord’s constitutional challenge must fail because
the Senate was in recess when Obama made the appointments, said
Ian H. Gershengorn, a Justice Department lawyer arguing for the
labor board. During the recess, the Senate had lone members
“gavel in and out” of the chamber with no business conducted,
Gershengorn said.  ‘Cessation of Work’  “There’s no way you can look at what the Senate was
actually doing and say that was not a cessation of work,” he
said.  The labor board started this year with two members, which
isn’t enough to make decisions such as whether to file the
Brooklyn case. Obama then appointed Sharon Block,  Richard
Griffin  and  Terence Flynn .  Brooklyn-based Renaissance Equity Holdings LLC, which owns
Flatbush Gardens, a 59-building, 2,500-unit complex in the
Flatbush neighborhood, said the Senate never adjourned and that
the president can’t make recess appointments when the
legislative body holds “pro forma” sessions, which it said it
did.  “The problem with this case is that the board only has two
duly appointed members, although it incorrectly purports to have
five,” Renaissance wrote in court papers.  General Counsel  Apart from whether the three board members were properly
appointed, the NLRB said the lawsuit was validly filed because
last year it gave Lafe Solomon, its acting general counsel,
authority to approve such court actions.  “It’s something the board can delegate if it chooses to
delegate,” Laura T. Vazquez, an NLRB lawyer, told Cogan. “The
court does not need to reach the constitutional issue and should
not.”  Renaissance argued that power ended when the board lost its
quorum.  The Flatbush porters and handymen, many of whom filled the
courtroom gallery today, were frozen out of their jobs in
November 2010 after they refused to accept an at least 30
percent pay cut. The Service Employees International Union Local
32BJ is seeking to have them returned to work at the higher
wages they were making while the dispute is resolved.  The labor board filed the court case on Jan. 25 saying
there was “reasonable cause to believe” that Renaissance
engaged in unfair labor practices and the lockout should end.  The union said in court papers that Renaissance is trying
to eliminate organized workers from the complex.  The case is Paulsen v. Renaissance Equity Holdings LLC, 12-
cv-350, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of  New York 
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 