-- Obama Tops in Primary Spending Even Without Democratic Opponent
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-03-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/obama-tops-in-primary-spending-even-without-democratic-opponent.html
During 2012’s primary campaign, one
presidential candidate has bought more advertising, hired more
people and spent more on a grassroots organization than any
other White House hopeful.  If money is ammunition in politics, President  Barack Obama 
so far is outgunning all the Republicans vying to challenge him,
building a national network of staff and volunteers even while
he’s unopposed for the Democratic nomination.  Through Jan. 31, the Obama campaign’s payroll spending was
more than twice the total for the four remaining Republican
candidates combined. With the general election still more than
eight months away, Obama’s re-election committee has spent $66
million overall, almost 20 percent more than the $56 million
outlay by the best-financed Republican, former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney.  “In a word, ‘infantry,’” said Steffen W. Schmidt, a
political science professor at  Iowa  State University in Ames.
“They are putting in place ground troops in key swing states
and ramping up the small-donor and Internet fundraising.”  The Obama campaign is “building the largest grassroots
campaign in history,” said  Ben LaBolt , a spokesman. “The
Republicans have made a decision not to invest in a ground-up,
grassroots organization like the president has, and we believe
that our supporters reaching out to their networks will provide
us with a decisive edge in November.”  ‘Strategic Sense’  Since the president announced he would seek re-election
last April, the Obama campaign spent $14.4 million on
advertising through Jan. 31, including $9.3 million online and
$2 million for television commercials. Obama devoted $17.1
million to payroll, almost four times the $4.6 million that
Romney spent through Jan. 31.  “It makes strategic sense for the Obama campaign to rev-up
to full speed and hone its operation now before the sturm-und-
drang of the general election starts,” said  Tobe Berkovitz , a
communication professor at Boston University. “The Democratic
team will have had months working together when the general
election begins.”  Spending on presidential and congressional races this year
may break $6 billion, at least $700 million more than the record
expenditures of 2008, according to an estimate by Sheila Krumholz, executive director of the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington research group that tracks political
spending  A wild card in the 2012 campaign is the presence of so-
called super-PACs, the political action committees that can take
corporate and union contributions and spend unlimited amounts on
advertising.  Ground Operations  Obama has been investing much of his campaign committee’s
money in on-the-ground political operations.  In  New Hampshire , a swing state in November’s balloting,
Obama had set up seven offices in January while Romney, who won
the Republican primary, had one. Though he was unopposed for the
Democratic nomination, the Obama campaign had thousands of
volunteers in the state and approximately 20 paid staff members,
including a digital director and a field director. Obama won the
state over Republican nominee John McCain in 2008.  Campaign Advertising  In six other states, Obama began running ads in January.
The spots ran 6,190 times combined in Iowa,  Michigan ,  North
Carolina ,  Ohio ,  Virginia  and Wisconsin -- according to New York-
based Kantar Media/CMAG, a company that tracks advertising. They
cost the campaign $2 million.  “Advertisements can serve many purposes, including
encouraging supporters to join the campaign’s organization,”
LaBolt said.  The ads are continuing to air. One commercial in Michigan,
which ran as Republicans were campaigning for Feb. 28’s primary,
praised Obama for providing  government aid  to automakers  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  “Every Republican candidate turned their back, even said
let  Detroit  go bankrupt,” the narrator said. “Not him.”  The early spending is also designed to help Obama overcome
dissension in the ranks as his campaign begins reaching out long
before Election Day to voters upset with the president’s
actions, said  Linda Fowler , a professor of government at
Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire.  Disgruntled Base  The campaign is “dealing with disgruntlement in the base,
people who are angry that Guantanamo hasn’t been closed, people
who had probably unrealistic expectations about what a president
can accomplish in this highly polarized environment,” she said.  Obama’s eventual Republican opponent still may get an
advertising edge from outside groups. A pro-Romney political
action committee, Restore Our Future, raised $6.6 million in
January. American Crossroads, the PAC advised by  Karl Rove , who
was chief political adviser to President  George W. Bush , raised
$5.1 million. Republican consultant Carl Forti is political
director of American Crossroads and a board member of Restore
Our Future.  Their combined total of $11.7 million is almost 200 times
more than the pro-Obama super-PAC, Priorities USA Action, which
raised $58,816 in the same period. Last month, Obama campaign
manager Jim Messina said administration officials would start
helping to raise money for the PAC.  The official campaign organizations for Obama and Romney
have each spent about $12 million to pay for their campaigns’
fundraising efforts, including direct mail and telemarketing.
For Obama, those expenditures have helped bring in $140 million
for his campaign; Romney has raised almost $64 million.  “That is what incumbents can do,” said  Julian Zelizer , a
professor of history and public affairs at  Princeton University 
in  New Jersey .  “They can raise the kind of cash that opponents struggle
to pull together,” he said. “With that money, they can try to
define the candidates and the issues while the opposition is
still figuring out who will run. By the time the Republican
convention takes place, the president will have already helped
shape public perceptions about who will challenge him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  