-- Occupy Vigilantes Write New Volcker Rule Script: Susan Antilla
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2012-03-01T00:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/occupy-the-sec-writes-new-volcker-rule-script-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
It isn’t every day that a reporter
gets to sit in on a high-stakes policy meeting in New York’s
financial district, but that’s exactly what I did on a balmy
evening in late February at 60  Wall Street , the U.S.
headquarters of Deutsche Bank AG.  No, the bank didn’t lose its institutional marbles and give
me clearance to scribble notes while its cognoscenti mapped out
corporate strategy. The confab I dropped in on was taking place
under potted palm trees in the bank’s ground-floor public
atrium, and the participants were 13 members of Occupy the SEC,
a spinoff group of the Occupy Wall Street movement. I can’t help
but conclude that their plans for petitions, marches, op-eds and
sit-down meetings with banking regulators will be inflicting
Wall Street with a long, nasty attack of agita.  Occupy Wall Street and its working groups, including Occupy
the SEC, were supposed to be dead, in case you missed the
 obituaries . Now the protesters are messing with detractors’
heads with the emergence of a media-savvy collection of legal,
banking and activist members who come off as sane and
authoritative. This is not the way the Occupy bashers’
“welfare-bum hippies” propaganda script was supposed to play
out.  On Feb. 13, seven writers who described themselves as
“concerned citizens, activists and financial professionals”
filed a 325-page comment  letter  to financial regulators,
outlining their concerns about loopholes in the “Let’s Try to
Avoid the Next Financial Crisis” proposal known as the Volcker
rule.  Most Detailed  It was among the longest and most detailed of 16,000
letters sent to the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Federal Reserve Board, the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency during the
public-comment period.  We may call it a “public” comment period, but in the real
world it is deep-pocketed business interests, not Mom and Pop,
who usually have the juice to persuade officials to amend
financial regulations. It’s no surprise that Wall Street has
been working furiously to dilute the rule’s restrictions on how
banks trade and what investments they can own, and the industry
has a heap of comment  letters  on the Volcker rule to show for
it.  This time, though, there is a noisy voice plugging for the
little guy, and it carries weight that these rabble-rousers
understand the banking industry from the inside.  Or, as Occupy the SEC member Alexis Goldstein -- who has
worked at Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch and Deutsche Bank --
explained the group’s line-by-line analysis of the Volcker Rule
to me: “We’d say ‘OK, I’m a bank, so how am I gonna get around
this rule?’”  Even veteran activists who advocate regularly for the
public were wowed. “They understood the nonsense in the
proposed rule,” said Bartlett Naylor, financial policy counsel
at  Public Citizen ’s Congress Watch. Public Citizen, which also
wrote a Volcker comment letter, was “humbled” by the Occupy
effort, Naylor said.  Along with Goldstein, 31, who quit her job as a business
analyst in Deutsche Bank’s technology department in 2010, the
founding members of Occupy the SEC include  Akshat Tewary , a
former Kaye Scholer LLP lawyer who today specializes in
immigration law; Caitlin Kline, a former credit derivatives
trader; and a mysterious guy who calls himself “George Bailey”
and claims to have spent 30 years working at compliance and
accounting jobs at financial firms.  Bailey was a no-show at the Feb. 21 meeting I attended, but
the other six authors of the letter were seated around three
silver cafe tables strewn with half-eaten deli dinners and a
jumbo bag of Reese’s Pieces. Seven other Occupy the SEC
participants were there, too, including a  New York  University
professor,  Michael Ralph , who had come to the meeting because he
had been impressed by Goldstein’s performance in a recent
interview on  MSNBC .  ‘Finance Dorks’  The group, which Goldstein calls “the finance dorks of
Occupy Wall Street,” divvied up the tasks related to a
regulatory comment letter they will be sending to the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, then made their way down a
typed agenda list to this item: “March on Sifma.”  “What is Sifma?” a new member asked, referring to the
abbreviation for the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, a financial-industry trade group. Tewary, who was
running the meeting, put it in language that a newcomer could
understand: “If we are the rebels,” said Tewary, “they are
Darth Vader.”  Sifma  has predicted something close to financial Armageddon
-- I guess they mean the sequel -- if the Volcker rule, as
written, becomes law. And the trade group seems to be going out
of its way to ignore the protesters, which says a lot about how
official Wall Street feels about the Occupy movement: When the
action in New York’s Zuccotti Park was headline news in
November, Sifma held its annual conference in midtown Manhattan
and devoted not a single item on its program to the public
outcry against its members. Asked last week if Sifma would like
to comment on Occupy the SEC or its letter about the Volcker
rule, spokeswoman Katrina Cavalli declined.  That stance doesn’t surprise public-relations pros who say
that engaging with anyone in the Occupy movement would recognize
it as legitimate, which is the last thing Wall Street wants.
“Financial institutions, as well as other big businesses, have
been quite successful in recent years in solving their
regulatory problems without engaging in an open dialogue with
the public,” says Alexander V. Laskin, an assistant professor
of public relations at  Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,
 Connecticut . “Instead of public relations, they rely on private
relations,” such as lobbying, he says.  Protest March  Keeping the public out of the dialogue may get harder for
Wall Street as Occupy the SEC steps up its game. At their recent
meeting, members volunteered to set up in-person meetings with
financial regulators (they have already had a one-hour
 conference  call with 11 SEC officials); launch a Facebook page;
post a  petition  on change.org to support their Volcker letter;
and figure out the logistics of a protest march in  Washington .
The June 6 anniversary of the SEC’s founding is a possible date
for the march.  They have left voicemail messages with luminaries including
 Paul Volcker , the former Federal Reserve chairman after whom the
rule is named, and  Charles Ferguson , director of the documentary
“Inside Job,” hoping to get them acquainted with Occupy the
SEC’s work. The members exploit every opportunity to schmooze:
One wound up chatting with  Eliot Spitzer  (yes, that Eliot
Spitzer) recently after noticing the former New York governor
biding his time waiting to be called in a  Manhattan  jury pool.
On March 20, the group has appointments to meet with SEC and
FDIC officials.  Once Occupy the SEC’s Volcker rule lobbying is done in May,
members will pick a topic for what they call “the next big
step.”  The group has brains, energy and flattering media coverage.
But of all the things Occupy the SEC has going for it, its
biggest edge may come from something that isn’t of its own
doing: the financial industry’s cluelessness about the level of
public disgust with its flouting of rules and kingly pay.  Jamie Dimon , the chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co., told
 Fox News  on Jan. 24 that the bashing of all bankers as bad guys
is “a form of discrimination that should be stopped.” New York
magazine  interviewed  a Wall Street executive in its Jan. 16
issue who bellyached that Main Street doesn’t understand Wall
Street’s problems: “Even getting cut from $1 million to
$500,000, they still think you’re earning too much,” the banker
said.  Proprietary Trading  And then there is T.  Timothy Ryan , Jr., CEO of Sifma, who
in an  interview  with Bloomberg Radio on Feb. 15 was asked this
question: Might the economy be better off if trading and
commercial banking were separated, “given what banks did to the
country during the bubble?” Ryan’s answer came dripping with
condescension: “Your comments are, I would say, relatively
over-the-top as to what happened here,” he told Bloomberg’s
 Michael McKee . Proprietary trading didn’t cause the 2008 crisis,
Ryan said. “Actually, most of the problems were created by
consumer loans, which were retail residential mortgages.”  If only we could do something about those out-of-control
residential borrowers who are imperiling the world economy.  Wall Street could get lucky. A prolonged  bull market  is
always a trigger for faded memories and public complacency. The
best thing that could happen for the bankers who today are under
attack would be a revival of ailing investment portfolios strong
enough to inspire the public to start ringing their real-estate
brokers again.  Short of that, people like Ryan and Dimon should pay
attention to this: “We want to get the message out that anyone
can do what we did,” says Goldstein, who wants ordinary
Americans to be comfortable playing a part in rule-making. The
more success Goldstein and her pals have in getting the word out
on this democracy thing, the more Wall Street ought to worry
about the finance dorks who munch on peanut-butter cups in the
60 Wall Street atrium.  ( Susan Antilla , who has written about Wall Street and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  