-- Oceans Acidifying Fastest in 300 Million Years Due to Emissions
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-03-02T11:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/oceans-acidifying-fastest-in-300-million-years-due-to-emissions.html
The Earth’s oceans may be acidifying
faster than at any point during the last 300 million years due
to industrial emissions, endangering marine life from oysters
and reefs to sea-going salmon, researchers said.  The scientists found surging levels of carbon dioxide in
the atmosphere forced down the pH of the ocean by 0.1 unit in
the last century, 10 times faster than the closest historical
comparison from 56 million years ago,  New York ’s  Columbia
University , which led the research, said yesterday in a
statement. The seas absorb CO2 from the atmosphere, forming
carbonic acid. The lower the pH level in the seas, the more
acidic they are.  Past instances of ocean acidification have been linked with
mass extinctions of marine creatures so the current one could
also threaten important species, according to Baerbel Hoenisch,
the paleoceanographer at Columbia who was lead author of the
paper that appeared in the journal  Science .  “If industrial  carbon emissions  continue at the current
pace, we may lose organisms we care about -- coral reefs,
oysters, salmon,” Hoenisch said.  The UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change  has said
ocean pH may fall another 0.3 units this century, according to
Columbia. The closest change to the current pace occurred during
the so-called Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum about 56 million
years ago, when a doubling of the atmospheric concentration of
carbon dioxide may have pushed pH levels down by 0.45 units over
20,000 years, according to the researchers.  Fossil Records  Then, fossil records indicate as many as half of all
species of seabed-dwelling single-celled creatures called
benthic foraminifers went extinct, suggesting species higher up
the food chain may also have died out, they said.  The scientists used fossil records including the
preservation of calcium carbonate in ocean sediments and the
concentrations of various elements to reconstruct past ocean
conditions. Two other mass extinctions about 200 million years
and 252 million years ago may also be linked to acidification,
though there’s less fossil evidence, according to the study.  “Although similarities exist, no past event perfectly
parallels future projections in terms of disrupting the balance
of ocean carbonate chemistry -- a consequence of the
unprecedented rapidity of CO2 release currently taking place,”
the researchers wrote.  Researchers based in the U.S., U.K.,  Netherlands ,  Germany 
and  Spain  contributed to the study, which was funded by the U.S.
National Science Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 