-- Oil Advances Above $110 on Report of Saudi Pipeline Explosion
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-03-01T22:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/oil-advances-a-second-day-on-rising-iran-risk-declining-jobless-claims.html
Oil climbed over $110 a barrel for
the first time since May after an Iranian state-run news channel
reported an explosion on a pipeline in Saudi Arabia. A Saudi
official said no oil facilities were sabotaged.  Futures reached $110.55 at 3:17 p.m. in New York after
 Iran ’s  Press TV  reported on its English-language website that
“an explosion has hit oil pipelines in the flashpoint Saudi
Arabian city of Awwamiya,” then fell back below $109. Major
General Mansour Al-Turki, a spokesman for the Saudi Interior
Ministry, said no oil facility in the region has been sabotaged
after reports of a fire near the Ras Tanura refinery.  “It looks like it’s a rumor but it shows you how sensitive
the oil market is to any kind of supply constraint,” said Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO Futures.  Crude oil for April delivery rose $1.77 to settle at
$108.84 a barrel on the Nymex before the Press TV report. The
price was $108.73 at 5:11 p.m. Futures settled at a nine-month
high of $109.77 on Feb. 24.  Brent oil for April settlement climbed $3.54, or 2.9
percent, to a 10-month high of $126.20 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent rose as high as $128.40
after the settlement and dropped back to $126.15.  Clashes between Saudi police and armed Shiite protesters in
Awwamiya and al-Qatif, both cities in the oil-producing eastern
region, have intensified since October when 11 police were
injured in an attack. Saudi authorities accuse Iran of stirring
up the unrest. The protesters have cultural and family ties with
Shiite-led Iran. Saudi Arabia’s royal family is Sunni.  Regular Trading  Futures in New York rose 1.7 percent in regular trading as
U.S. officials escalated warnings that the nation may join
 Israel  in attacking Iran to stop the development of nuclear
weapons and on economic reports signaling growth. The number of
Americans filing first-time claims for jobless benefits fell and
the  Federal Reserve  said yesterday that the housing market has
shown improvement.  “The next few days could be very important as far as Iran
is concerned,” said Matthew Dougherty, a managing director at
Advisory Research Inc. in  Chicago , which oversees $6 billion.
“The labor market is improving and we’re starting to see some
sparkles of hope in the housing market. These two sectors have
been weighing on the economy for the last several years.”  Brent’s  premium  to New York-traded West Texas intermediate
oil widened to $17.36 based on settlements. The premium has
climbed with Iranian tensions and supplies in the U.S.
Stockpiles at  Cushing, Oklahoma (DOESCROK) , the delivery point for WTI,
rose 1.65 million barrels to 33.8 million last week, the most
since August, the Energy Department said yesterday.  Iranian Source  “Brent is stronger because that’s where any disruption in
supply is going to be felt,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market
strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis .
“The news came from an Iranian source, which is problematic.”  While Iran has said its atomic program is for civilian
purposes, the U.S. and its allies say the country is trying to
develop the capacity to produce nuclear weapons.  General Norton Schwartz, the Air Force chief of staff, said
yesterday that the Joint Chiefs of Staff have prepared military
options to strike Iranian nuclear sites in the event of a
conflict.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is scheduled to
address the American Israel Public Affairs Committee in
Washington on March 5, a day after President  Barack Obama  speaks
to the group, the main pro-Israel lobby in the U.S.  “We’re waiting to hear what Obama says to Aipac Sunday and
to Netanyahu on Monday,” Dougherty said. “It wouldn’t take
much to spook the market.”  Supply, Demand  Excluding Iran from the crude market would add to the
shortfall between global supply and demand, according to U.S.
Energy Department calculations using February estimates. Fuel
use averaged 3 million barrels a day more than output when Iran
is excluded, and 500,000 more when it is included, the
department said in a report yesterday.  Saudi Arabia  is deploying the most oil rigs in four years
as it prepares for possible shortages caused by tension with
Iran. The number of rigs used more than doubled in January from
a year earlier, the biggest annual increase on record, data from
Houston-based  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  showed.  Applications for  unemployment insurance  decreased 2,000 in
the week ended Feb. 25 to 351,000, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists forecast 355,000 claims, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The jobs numbers were good, which is a great boost for
the energy market,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“Employment data is a good predictor of demand.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 804,930
contracts as of 5:11 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 691,115
contracts yesterday, 13 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.54 million contracts, the highest level
since Aug. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  