-- London’s Poorest Borough Waits for Olympic Windfall as Home Prices Decline
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-03-01T18:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/london-s-poorest-borough-waits-for-olympics-to-lift-home-prices.html
The east London borough hosting the
2012  Olympic Games  had the city’s biggest decline in home prices
even after the government spent billions of pounds on projects
aimed at revitalizing the capital’s poorest area.  Prices in Newham, where the opening ceremony will be held
on July 27, fell 2.5 percent last year compared with a 2.8
percent gain in London overall,  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) 
estimates. Property values in the three other areas benefiting
most from Olympic investment all rose, according to the Chicago-
based broker.  “There’s still a lot more infrastructure that needs to be
built in Newham before you see significant rises in  house
prices ,” said Nick Verdi, a real-estate broker who works for
 Keatons  about a mile (1.6 kilometers) from the Olympic Park.
“It’s been a very flat market.”  Newham, with about 270,000 residents, had the lowest
average income among  London  boroughs and the eighth lowest in
 England  in 2010, according to a survey by the Department of
Communities and Local Government. While areas closest to the
Olympic Park will benefit from improved rail services, sports
venues and new businesses, much of the borough lacks
infrastructure and amenities such as schools and restaurants
that attract homebuyers, according to residents and real-estate
professionals.  Lottery Funds  The Olympics will cost about 9.3 billion pounds ($15
billion), an expense borne by the U.K. government, lottery
revenue and local authorities. About 75 pence of every pound
spent by the Olympic Delivery Authority goes to the rejuvenation
of east London, according to the website for the Games.  Investment linked to the Olympics has boosted the supply of
homes in the area without increasing demand to match, said
Yolande Barnes, residential research director at property broker
 Savills Plc. (SVS)  That may keep housing prices depressed.  “A demand shift will be needed,” she said in an
interview. “In today’s market, you’re not going to see house-
price inflation unless you see a flow of equity into the area.”  Stratford, where  Westfield Group (WDC)  opened  Europe ’s largest
urban shopping mall last year, needs to become as attractive to
buyers as the west London neighborhood of Fulham, Barnes said.
Prices in the borough of Hammersmith and Fulham rose 5 percent
last year.  Newham spreads from Stratford, where the Olympic Park is
based, past the home of the West Ham United soccer team to East
Ham on the region’s border with Barking & Dagenham. Few signs of
revitalization are visible in the neighborhood of Plaistow about
two miles southeast of the Olympic Stadium.  Liquor Stores, Betting Shops  Blocks of public housing projects, known as council
estates, are bisected by business streets lined with discount
liquor stores, betting shops and fast-food outlets. Residents
say improvements in Stratford are making it worse for the other
parts of Newham by drawing people away.  “There’s too many people here and too much crime,” said
Jahangir Alom, 36, a shopkeeper at Bengal Supermarket on the
corner of London Road and Upper Road in Plaistow. “The
population is moving to Stratford because of that.”  Georgina Baker, 15, and a friend sit on a carousel in Star
Park with the  Canary Wharf  business district in the background.
They are skipping school.  “You can see the difference as you go from Canning Town to
Stratford. It goes from poor to really new,” she said. “It’s
not fair to the area.”  Rail Links  Renewal projects linked to the Olympics include upgraded
rail links that can transport passengers between Stratford to
London’s Kings Cross in seven minutes, the construction of more
than 2,800 homes, one of the U.K.’s largest tree planting
projects and the cleaning of almost two million tons of
contaminated soil.  “London 2012 truly will be remembered as the regeneration
games, due to the scale of change that is being delivered,”
Olympic Delivery Authority Chairman John Armitt told a
conference of business leaders in 2008.  Overseas investors or buyers able to make large cash down
payments are more likely to look for homes in central London
than the city’s eastern neighborhoods, said Jon Neale, a London-
based residential research director for Jones Lang.  U.K.  home prices  rose in February as first-time buyers
tried to make purchases before a tax exemption expires this
month,  Nationwide Building Society  said today in a statement.  City Boost Doubtful  Recent Olympic Games have done little to lift overall
property values in some of the host cities, according to a study
by  New York University . Researchers studied the change in
residential real estate prices in six Olympic host cities over
16 years and contrasted them with similar metropolitan areas.
Only two of the hosts had a bigger rise in home prices, said the
study’s author, Constantine Kontokosta.  “It’s unlikely that Olympics will give a significant,
long-term economic boost to London,” he said by e-mail. “This
possible outcome stems from the fact that Olympic-related
investments tend to have a low return and high opportunity cost
in relation to other potential investments to improve livability
and economic strength of a city.”  Values in  Los Angeles  rose slower than in the California
cities of  San Francisco , San Diego and  Sacramento  after the 1984
Games, said Kontokosta, who spent six years researching the
Olympics. Atlanta’s home-price inflation was lower than Miami,
Memphis,  Tennessee , New Orleans,  Charlotte ,  North Carolina  and
Charleston, South Carolina and Nashville, Tennessee, after the
1996 Games.  Polarized Market  Home prices vary greatly in Newham, said Keatons broker
Verdi. For 255,000 pounds, a buyer can get either a newly
refurbished three-bedroom house in the Plaistow neighborhood or
a one-bedroom apartment in Stratford, less than two miles away.  “The Olympics may have had an effect on the western side
of Newham, but it’s a large borough with very different
characteristics in its central and eastern areas,” said Jon
Neale, a residential research director for  Jones Lang .  Unemployment in Newham was 14.7 percent in the year through
June 2011, according to the  Office for National Statistics . That
compares with 9.1 percent for London as a whole. A study
published in 2008 by Communities and Local Government found that
Newham was the sixth-most deprived area in the England.  “As the biggest host borough for the 2012 Olympic and
Paralympic Games, the eyes of the world will be on Newham,”
said Robin Wales, the borough’s mayor, by e-mail. “Over the
next two decades more jobs are likely to be created here than
anywhere else in London.”  West Ham United  “Not much has changed in West Ham except the football
club’s manager,” said Dennis Fisher, 56, who sells clothes from
a market stall in Stratford. “You won’t have a knock on effect.
The sphere of influence is around 200 meters from the park.”  Even the West Ham United soccer team tried to move out of
the neighborhood whose name it bears and into the Olympic
stadium in Stratford. West Ham was awarded the right to play its
home games in the stadium by the Olympic Park Legacy Company
last year, only to see the deal collapse following legal
challenges from the Leyton Orient and Tottenham Hotspur teams.  About 15 percent of the homes in the borough were unfit for
habitation, compared with 6 percent for London as a whole,
according to a 2010 report by the U.K.’s National Health Service
and the local authority. The population in the area is projected
to rise to 375,500 by 2031, the report said. Around 362 homes
owned by Newham council were awaiting demolition as of April 1,
2011, according to information obtained by Bloomberg through a
Freedom of Information Act request. The local authority owns
18,191 dwellings.  “Things do move down there, but you have to make them
pretty good value for money,” said Verdi, manager of Keatons’
Stratford office. “West Ham and Plaistow haven’t been affected
by the Olympics. There’s some quite big housing estates,
transport links aren’t quite as good as they are in Stratford.”  Other Boroughs Gain  By contrast, prices rose 3.8 percent in the London Borough
of Hackney, northwest of the 246-hectare (608-acre) Olympic
Park, the most of all the east London areas revived for the
Games, Neale said. Values in Tower Hamlets to the west gained
1.6 percent, while Waltham Forest north of the park rose 0.7
percent.  “Newham, Barking & Dagenham and Havering have seen prices
fall over the past year, by the largest amount in the capital,”
Neale said by e-mail. “This can be attributed to low levels of
equity and limited investor demand.”  Values are climbing in areas like  Hackney  and Tower Hamlets
because a shortage of properties is helping lift prices and the
gentrification of the areas is attracting financial industry
workers who commute to Canary Wharf and the City of London, said
Russell Stone of property broker  W.J. Meade .  For prices to increase across Newham, more schools need to
be built, and bars and restaurants, which are concentrated in
Stratford, need to be spread across the area.  ‘Lack of Confidence’  “Things like that still aren’t available in Newham and
that’s one real difference you see between places like Hackney
and Tower Hamlets,” Verdi said. “The lack of confidence in the
economy and the fact that first-time buyers can’t get on the
ladder have made prices stagnant at the moment.”  Signs of improvement are most evident close to the Olympic
venues. Manhattan Loft Corp., which turned an abandoned ticket
office at London’s St. Pancras International railroad station
into an opulent residence and hotel, won permission to develop a
42-story luxury tower that overlooks the Olympic Park, said
Chief Executive Officer Harry Handelsman.  Manhattan Loft’s 39,000 square-meter (423,000 square-foot)
tower, which features gardens on its upper floors, will have 248
apartments and a 150-bedroom hotel, according to the developer’s
 website . The project will be completed in 2016.  “When I said I would do this, people said ‘Harry, you’re
completely insane,’” Handelsman said in an interview. “It’s
the most exciting place to be at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 