-- Hong Kong’s Tsang Seeks to Restore Public Trust Hurt by Corruption Probe
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-03-02T03:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/hong-kong-leader-tsang-apologizes-for-undermining-confidence.html
Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  sought to restore trust in his leadership and stem a
growing outcry over collusion between politics and business, as
he pledged to cooperate with a probe into his ties with tycoons.  Tsang, 67, apologized to the public yesterday after the
city’s anti-corruption bureau started an investigation into his
overseas trips on yachts and jets of businessmen, four months
before he retires.  The corruption investigation, the first ever into a chief
executive of Hong Kong, threatens to tarnish Tsang’s six-year
tenure and is shaking public confidence in government. His
apology comes just days after  Henry Tang , front-runner to
replace Tsang in a March 25 election, was embroiled in a scandal
about a basement built without government permission.  “This whole thing has raised doubts about the core values
of  Hong Kong ’s system,” said Cheung Chor-yung, a senior
teaching fellow in public administration at the  City University 
of Hong Kong. “It has aggravated public resentment on what they
see is collusion between government and big businesses. It will
also make the job of the next chief executive very difficult.”  Tang, formerly Tsang’s deputy, has refused public calls to
quit the leadership contest after securing nominations from the
city’s richest men to run. In a poll last month, two-thirds of
the people surveyed said Tang should quit the race as
respondents questioned his integrity. The Tsang revelations have
further fueled public resentment, as surging  property prices  and
an influx of money from  China  widen the city’s income gap.  Tsang’s Defense  Since the British handover to China in 1997, the city of
7.1 million has picked its leader through an election committee
comprising of executives, professional delegates, lawmakers and
representatives to China’s political bodies. China has pledged
to allow Hong Kong to move toward universal suffrage by 2017.  “The chain of events has created worries among the media
and public, civil servants and lawmakers and also shaken the
public’s belief in Hong Kong’s system,” Tsang told lawmakers
yesterday. “For this I sincerely apologize to the public.”  Tsang, who announced the formation of an independent
committee led by a former chief justice to review rules
governing civil servants, said yesterday he will cooperate with
the investigation by the Independent Commission Against
Corruption.  The chief executive reiterated yesterday that he has paid
for his overseas trips and followed existing rules. He will also
terminate an agreement to rent a 630 square meter apartment in
Shenzhen, China, for 800,000 yuan ($127,000) a year after being
questioned about it.  ‘Rule Of Law’  The apartment was built by a company controlled by Wong
Cho-bau, the Standard newspaper reported Feb. 29. Wong is also
an investor in Digital Broadcasting Corp., which was recently
granted a broadcasting license in Hong Kong, the newspaper said.  “One of the things that has always been to Hong Kong’s
business advantage is the rule of law,” said Michael DeGolyer,
a professor of government and international studies at Hong Kong
Baptist University. “Now it’s a question of fairness, and do
the rules apply to everyone equally?”  Lawmaker Paul Tse Wai-chun is trying to win support for a
motion to charge Tsang with dereliction of duty for failing to
declare the plan to rent the Shenzhen apartment. At least 15
lawmakers are needed to submit the motion, according to the
city’s laws.  Tse said today in a phone interview that he had the support
of five lawmakers, including himself. Passing the motion is the
 first step  in a process that could ultimately lead to
impeachment proceedings against the chief executive.  ‘Not Really Sincere’  “I think the apology is not really sincere enough,” Tse
said. “Donald is simply blaming it on the system.”  Tsang said yesterday he had “done everything according to
the rules. I haven’t tried to hide anything.”  Tsang paid HK$500 ($65) for a ride on a yacht, Charles Ho,
chairman of  Sing Tao News Corp. (1105) , told reporters on Feb. 27.  “It’s like giving a lift to someone,” Ho said. “What’s
wrong with that?”  Ta Kung Pao, a pro-Beijing newspaper in Hong Kong, wrote in
an editorial today that residents of the city should accept
Tsang’s apology.  Without Permits  Public scrutiny of government officials increased after
Tang, a former chief secretary, blamed his wife for building a
basement without permits. Newspapers, including  Apple Daily  and
the  South China Morning Post , reported that the basement
contained a wine cellar, movie theater and gym, prompting an
investigation.  Tang has secured 390 nominations from executives including
 Li Ka-shing , Hong Kong’s richest man, on the 1,200-member
election committee.  Tang is facing off against Leung Chun-ying, a policeman’s
son and former government adviser, and lawmaker Albert Ho in the
election. Leung, the preferred candidate in public opinion poll,
trails Tang with 305 nominations.  Tang was nominated by businessmen on the committee,
including  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  Chairman Li,  Henderson Land
Development Co. (12)  Chairman Lee Shau Kee, and  Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. (16)  Co-Chairman  Thomas Kwok .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  