-- ONGC in Talks to Spend at Least $1 Billion on U.S. Shale
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-03-02T10:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/ongc-in-talks-to-spend-at-least-1-billion-on-u-s-shale-deal.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) ,  India ’s
biggest energy explorer, is close to an agreement to buy its
first shale gas asset in the U.S. and plans to spend at least $1
billion on purchases.  “A deal could be done very soon,” D.K. Sarraf, managing
director of its ONGC Videsh Ltd. overseas unit, said in an
interview at his office in New Delhi yesterday. “We’re in
various stages of discussions for a number of properties. Shale
gas production in the U.S. has been a revolution.”  Sarraf, 54, took office in September and is leading ONGC’s
quest to acquire assets from  Mozambique  to  Russia  to secure
energy supplies for the world’s second-fastest growing major
economy. The state-run explorer’s entry into U.S. shale would
follow investments by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , BP Plc and Reliance
Industries Ltd., which have driven up valuations.  “A new ONGC management is in place and we’re hoping things
move forward quickly now,” said Rina Sanghavi, a Kolkata-based
research analyst at SPA Securities Ltd. “They need to be more
proactive than they have been and shale gas is a great place to
start. There’s rising demand for gas around the world and
especially in India.”  ONGC is working with various banks, Sarraf said, without
identifying them. The company may buy stakes in more than one
shale gas asset, he said. Shale is a sedimentary rock that can
hold gas and oil.  The  shares  fell 2.4 percent to 281.40 rupees, the biggest
decline since Dec. 8. The stock has climbed 10 percent this
year, compared with a 14 percent increase in the benchmark
 Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Auction Sale  The government raised at least 122 billion rupees ($2.5
billion) in an ONGC share auction yesterday, with 95 percent of
the bids placed in the final 10 minutes, according to stock
exchange data. The target was to raise 124 billion rupees and a
delay in disclosing the final results spurred speculation the
sale had failed after the issue was priced at a premium.  Companies that have invested in U.S. shale include  Marubeni
Corp. (8002) , which said Jan. 6 it agreed to buy a 35 percent stake in
an acreage from Hunt Oil Co. in a $1.3 billion deal that
includes future drilling costs. The deal values the fields at
about $25,000 an acre.  Total SA’s $2.32 billion acquisition on Jan. 3 of a stake
in the Utica region in  New York  from Chesapeake Energy Corp. was
for about $15,000 an acre, according to Bloomberg calculations.
Reliance’s purchase of Eagle Ford acreages from Pioneer Natural
Resources Co. in June 2010 valued the deal at $11,100 an acre,
according to Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  High Imports  India imports more than 80 percent of its oil and 25
percent of its natural gas requirements. ONGC would look to
bring gas to India from the U.S. after the shale acquisition,
Sarraf said.  “It would still work out cheaper to transport the gas from
the U.S. because prices are cheaper there and LNG in  Asia  is
much more expensive,” he said.  The U.S. produced 96 billion cubic meters of gas in 2009,
overtaking Russia as the world’s biggest producer. Output surged
to 142 billion cubic meters in 2010, causing prices to slump.
 Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  and Freeport LNG Development LP are among
companies that plan to liquefy and export U.S. gas.  Natural  gas prices  in New York trading have fallen 15
percent this year following a 32 percent slump last year and a
21 percent drop in 2010.  “If gas prices are cheap now, it means the assets will
also be cheap,” Sarraf said. “We can buy now and wait for
prices to go up in the future. We are looking at pure gas, and
gas and liquids assets.”  Production Cut  The decline has forced explorers including Chesapeake, the
second-largest U.S. gas producer, to cut production. Chesapeake
and BHP Billiton Ltd. are turning their focus to oil.  “I don’t think ONGC will find a cheap shale gas asset in
the U.S. very easily,” said Walter Rossini, a Milan-based  fund
manager  who oversees about 300 million euros ($397 million) in
Indian and Russian equities at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA. “ONGC
is one of the few companies which isn’t there already. All the
interest from around the world has driven up price of assets.”  ONGC and  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , India’s biggest distributor of
natural gas, are participating in the sale process of Cove
Energy Plc and haven’t decided whether to make an offer, the two
companies said in a Feb. 28 regulatory filing.  Cove Asset  The companies are unlikely to counter a 1.1 billion pound
($1.7 billion) bid by  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  for Cove,
three people familiar with the matter said that day.  Sarraf declined to comment on Cove, which has a stake in a
deposit in Mozambique that may hold enough gas to justify
exports to  China  and India.  ONGC Videsh produced a record 9.4 million metric tons of
oil and equivalent gas in the year ended March 31 and plans to
raise it to 20 million tons in the year ending March 2018 and 35
million tons by 2030, Sarraf said in a  message to employees ,
posted on the company’s website.  Gas trapped in shale rock wasn’t considered worth tapping
before Houston billionaire George P. Mitchell pioneered new
extraction techniques in the 1990s. The rock is broken up by
injecting a mix of high-pressure water and chemicals in a
process called hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to release the
gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  