-- Monster Worldwide Advances After CEO’s ‘Strategic’ Comment: New York Mover
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-03-01T21:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/monster-worldwide-advances-after-ceo-s-strategic-comment-new-york-mover.html
Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW) , the online
recruiting service, gained the most in six months after Chief
Executive Officer Salvatore Iannuzzi said he’s considering
“strategic alternatives” to boost investor value.  “Our shareholders deserve a better return,” Iannuzzi said
at a Robert W. Baird & Co. conference in  Boston .  Monster advanced 15 percent to $8.01 today at the close in
 New York , the biggest one-day jump since August. The shares have
tumbled 52 percent in the past 12 months.  Iannuzzi has already identified cost cuts, an effort to
cope with the slow economic recovery and competition from sites
such as  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  that offer cheaper ways to recruit
employees. Monster said earlier this year that it would
eliminate about 400 jobs, or 7 percent of its workforce, after
the European crisis saw users visit the job-search website less.  Aside from the economic challenges, New York-based Monster
appears to be performing worse than LinkedIn and  CareerBuilder
Inc. (CBDR) ,  Mark Mahaney , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in San
Francisco, said in a note to investors last month. “We see this
competitive risk increasing,” said Mahaney, who downgraded to
stock to a “sell” rating at the time.  Iannuzzi said in January that first-quarter profit would be
4 cents a share at most, missing the 9-cent average analyst
estimate. Sales in the fourth quarter fell 2 percent to $250
million from $255.1 million a year earlier.  By contrast, LinkedIn’s fourth-quarter sales more than
doubled to $167.7 million from the year earlier.  Possible Takeover Target  Strategic alternatives could include a takeover, Tobey Sommer, an analyst with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. in
Nashville,  Tennessee . A buyer could cut marketing expenses,
which accounted for 21 percent of Monster’s revenue last year
and would benefit from the deal if the U.S. starts adding more
lower-paying jobs, such as those in construction, that tend to
use the service more, he said.  “If we start to create mid-level and low-level jobs in a
more substantial fashion, a lot of those market-share
competitive issues will not be a focus,” he said in a telephone
interview.  A buyer could pay $11 to $12 a share, though that could
increase in a leveraged buyout, he said. Sommer has a $16 price
target on the company for 2012.  Others that could benefit from a takeover include “large
media companies,” Sommer said. He estimates such an acquirer
could reduce Monster’s  operating expenses  -- $963.6 million last
year -- by about $100 million.  Amy Rosenberg, a spokeswoman for Monster, declined to
comment on Iannuzzi’s remarks and takeover speculation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  