-- Montenegro Set to Take Over KAP, Deripaska’s En+ Fights Back
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-03-01T11:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/montenegrin-lawmakers-back-plan-to-take-kap-from-deripaska-s-en-.html
Montenegro’s Parliament urged the
government to repossess aluminum producer  Kombinat Aluminijuma
Podgorica AD (KAPG)  from Oleg Deripaska’s En+ Group, a move the Russian
billionaire vowed to contest in courts.  Prime Minister Igor Luksic won lawmakers’ support to
service a 22 million-euro ($29.3 million) loan that unprofitable
 KAP  took from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in 2009 with government
guarantees, in order to preempt a default on state-backed loans
that total 132 million euros, Parliament  announced  after a vote
last night. En+ reiterated its offer that all KAP loans be
converted into equity, and threatened legal action against any
unilateral attempt to wrest away its 29.3 percent stake.  En+ would “turn to international courts with lawsuits
against the government” in case of any “illegal attempts to
eliminate us from the shareholding structure in KAP,” board
Chairman Alexey Kuznetsov said in e-mailed comments.  The parliament backed the government’s plan to find an
“efficient way to end cooperation with  CEAC ,” the En+ Group
subsidiary that manages KAP, as it seeks ways to maintain the
operation that last year produced 92,800 metric tons of primary
aluminum, according to the motion approved by parliament. KAP is
the biggest industrial plant in the nation.  En+ Group Ltd. asked Montenegro on Feb. 17 to convert the
debt, including 86 million euros to En+. Deputy Premier Vujica
Lazovic said at the time the state would prefer to regain
control of KAP rather than continue providing it with subsidized
electricity, the biggest single production cost.  Deripaska acquired a majority stake in KAP in 2005 for 48.5
million euros and later accused Montenegro of misrepresenting
the value of the asset. Under a settlement in 2010, EN+ gave
Montenegro half of its 58.6 percent stake in exchange for
government loan guarantees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ; 