-- More Evacuations as Floods Hit New South Wales, Dam to Spill
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-03-02T02:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/more-evacuations-as-floods-hit-new-south-wales-dam-may-spill.html
More than 1,000 people are preparing
to leave their homes in New South Wales as floods threaten at
least half of  Australia ’s most populous state and as a dam that
supplies Sydney’s water threatens to spill.  About 1,500 residents have been told to prepare to
evacuate, State Emergency Service Commissioner Murray Kear said
at a press conference broadcast on  Sky News  today. Warragamba
Dam, about 65 kilometers (40 miles) west of the nation’s biggest
city Sydney, is 98 percent  full  after heavy rain this week, the
Sydney Catchment Authority said on its website.  About 1,560 people have already been evacuated from the
towns of Cowra, Cooma and Goulburn, in the state’s southeast,
due to flooding, the SES said. Parts of Bega, a town of about
4,500 people 400 kilometers south of Sydney, were  evacuated  last
night, it said. Floodwaters in northern New South Wales last
month damaged homes, ruined cotton crops and caused cattle sales
to be canceled, one year after natural disasters cost the
Australian economy A$9 billion ($9.7 billion).  “We’re expecting major  flooding  on a number of rivers as
we go into the weekend,” Julie Evans, a meteorologist at the
Bureau of Meteorology, said by telephone today. While rain may
ease in the state’s southern districts today, they may be
affected by heavy falls in the next two days, she said.  Warragamba Dam is expected to spill tonight, according to
the weather bureau. The dam’s catchment area may receive another
50 millimeters (2 inches) of  rain  in the next three days, Evans
said from Sydney.  Winter Crops  “There is ample time for the water logging to ease before
winter crop planting commences in April, and we believe the
boost to soil moisture will buoy crop and livestock production
in 2012,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA) , said in an e-mailed note today.  Newcrest Mining Ltd.’s (NCM)  mines in New South Wales state’s
Cadia Valley weren’t affected by the most recent rain,
spokeswoman Kerrina Watson said yesterday. The company cut its
full-year gold output estimate by 6 percent in December after a
landslide at Cadia Hill mine and heavy rain in  Papua New Guinea .
 BHP Billiton Ltd.’s (BHP)  operations “aren’t experiencing any
significant impact due to wet weather,” Kelly Quirke, a
Melbourne-based spokeswoman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Most of New South Wales may receive 25 millimeters to 100
millimeters of rain in the four days to March 5, according to a
 model  on the bureau’s website. Some areas in the state’s center
may get 150 millimeters to 300 millimeters, it shows.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  