-- Morgan Stanley, Hyposwiss, Stanford, Cantor in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-01T12:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/morgan-stanley-hyposwiss-stanford-apple-cantor-in-court-news.html
A U.S. investigation of possible
insider-trading by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  employees expanded
to include a managing director whose name emerged at the trial
of convicted hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , a person with
knowledge of the probe said.  David Loeb, who works on Asia equity sales in  New York  and
focuses on Taiwan, is a subject in the criminal investigation,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
matter isn’t public. Loeb is the second Goldman Sachs employee
said to be under federal scrutiny. Last month, Henry King, an
analyst covering Taiwan, was identified as under investigation
by the FBI, a person familiar with the case said.  Goldman Sachs said in a Feb. 28 regulatory filing that
“from time to time, the firm and its employees are the subject
of or otherwise involved in regulatory investigations relating
to insider trading, the potential misuse of material nonpublic
information and the effectiveness of the firm’s insider trading
controls and information barriers.”  The bank said in the filing that it was “fully
cooperating” with any such investigations.  Since 2009, insider-trading and securities fraud charges
have been filed against 64 people in the investigation, called
“ Perfect Hedge .” To date, 59 people have either pleaded guilty
or been convicted at trial. They include Galleon Group LLC co-
founder Rajaratnam, who is serving an 11-year prison term.  Loeb didn’t return calls or e-mails seeking comment
yesterday.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based
Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara said it is the office’s policy to neither confirm nor
deny if Loeb is the subject of any inquiry.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Kinder Morgan’s El Paso Buyout Deal Allowed by Judge to Proceed  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI)  was allowed to proceed with a $21.1
billion takeover of  El Paso Corp. (EP)  by a judge who rejected claims
that Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s conflict of interest in the deal
warranted blocking a shareholder vote.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine rejected calls by
some El Paso shareholders to block rival pipeline operator
Kinder Morgan’s $25.91-a-share offer. El Paso didn’t negotiate a
high enough price and Goldman Sachs, which owns 19 percent of
Kinder Morgan, wrongfully served as adviser to El Paso on the
deal and improperly influenced negotiations, they argued.  “I reluctantly deny the plaintiffs’ motion for a
preliminary injunction, concluding that the El Paso stockholders
should not be deprived of the chance to decide for themselves
about the merger, despite the disturbing nature of some of the
behavior leading to its terms,” Strine ruled yesterday.  El Paso shareholders are scheduled to vote on the offer
March 6.  The role of New York-based Goldman Sachs on both sides of
the deal was the focal point of the Wilmington case. Pension
funds from Louisiana, Florida and New York that invested in El
Paso argued Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest U.S. bank by
assets, has long-standing ties to Kinder Morgan and helped
 Richard Kinder , the firm’s chief executive officer, take the
pipeline operator private in 2006.  “We’re gratified that the judge denied the injunction and
that we can proceed with the vote of the shareholders,” Larry
Pierce, a spokesman for Kinder Morgan, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  El Paso officials are looking “forward to the close of the
transaction with Kinder Morgan,” company spokesman Richard
Wheatley said in a phone interview.  “We are pleased that shareholders will get to vote on the
merger,” David Wells, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, said in an e-mail. “We respect the judge’s opinion but
want to be clear that we stood by our client through this
process, encouraging them to get independent views from another
adviser. We were also transparent with El Paso about our
relationship with Kinder Morgan and the related issues.”  The pension funds contended in their suit that Goldman
Sachs had a financial incentive to advise El Paso’s managers to
accept a lower price than they might have negotiated. Kinder’s
cash-and-stock bid amounts to a 37 percent premium to El Paso
shareholders, according to the company.  “Goldman’s staggering conflict of interest was obvious
from the outset: With a stake in KMI worth over $4 billion,
every dollar shaved off the buyout price represented $150
million of savings for Goldman,” the funds argued.  The case is In re El Paso Corp. Shareholder Litigation,
Consolidated 6949-CS, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Sued for Breach of Contract  A  Morgan Stanley (MS)  unit was sued for breach of contract by a
securitization trust seeking to force the bank to buy back about
$300 million in mortgage loans.  Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital failed to comply with the
terms of agreements governing the sale of about 5,400 mortgage
loans with a total unpaid principal balance of about $300
million, trustee U.S. Bank NA said in a complaint filed
yesterday on the trust’s behalf in New York State  Supreme Court 
in Manhattan.  The loans began to default or become delinquent “at a
significant rate” shortly after they were sold to the trust,
which has suffered losses of $140.7 million as of Feb. 25,
according to court papers. The trust seeks $142 million in
damages.  “The plaintiff has been informed of numerous breaches of
representations and warranties made by MSMC that related to the
quality of the mortgage loans,” U.S. Bank said. “MSMC has
failed to cure these breaches or repurchase the loans.”  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Morgan Stanley, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Morgan Stanley Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-4SL and
Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2006-4SL v. Morgan
Stanley Mortgage Capital, 650579/2012, New York State Supreme
Court (Manhattan.)  Doctors Among 36 Charged in $275 Million Insurance Scheme  Thirty-six people, including 10 doctors and three lawyers,
were charged in a no-fault auto insurance scheme that made more
than $275 million.  The ring, which consisted mostly of Russian-born U.S.
residents, used “medical fraud mills,” phony clinics that
billed insurers for unnecessary treatments, according to the
indictment.  Lawyers connected to the scheme filed fraudulent personal
injury claims and suits to make additional money, the government
said in the indictment. Charges against participants in the
alleged scheme include racketeering conspiracy, health-care
fraud conspiracy, conspiracy to commit mail fraud and conspiracy
to launder money.  New York law requires vehicles registered in the state to
carry no-fault insurance providing as much as $50,000 per person
to cover injuries sustained in auto accidents, according to the
government.  The case is U.S. v. Zemlyansky, 12-CR-171, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Drilling Rig Manager Charged With Lying About Blowout Tests  Donald Hudson, who was a manager at  Helmerich & Payne Inc. (HP) ,
was charged with lying to a federal agent reviewing blowout
prevention testing and records of drilling rigs in the  Gulf of
Mexico .  Hudson, 49, lied to an investigator with the U.S.
Department of Interior’s inspector general office when he denied
directing others to falsify blowout prevention testing records,
U.S. Attorney Jim Letten in New Orleans said yesterday in a
statement.  Prosecutors said Hudson was employed by Helmerich & Payne
as a drilling rig manager aboard Rig 206 in May 2010, during a
period of heightened vigilance on oil rigs following the deadly
blowout that killed 11 crew members aboard the Deepwater Horizon
operated by  BP Plc (BP/)  -- an unrelated incident that triggered the
nation’s worst offshore oil spill.  In May 2011, the company said in a regulatory filing that
it suspended operations on an offshore rig after an employee
reported possible “testing irregularities.” The Tulsa,
Oklahoma-based company told stockholders that operations on the
rig were “promptly suspended,” federal authorities were
alerted, and “certain employees” were fired for violating
company policies and procedures.  The company said it was cooperating with a grand jury
investigation of the matter.  Hudson’s attorney, Steven Lemoine of New Orleans, declined
to comment on the charges.  Steven R. Mackey, vice president and general counsel of
Helmerich & Payne Inc., didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on the charges against Hudson.  Swiss Bank Employee Offered Stolen Hyposwiss Client Account Data  Swiss authorities arrested a man suspected of stealing data
from Hyposwiss Privatbank AG and offering it for sale, public
prosecutors said yesterday.  Prosecutors opened an investigation on Jan. 19 after they
were alerted by a law firm that was offered the data, Jeannette
Balmer, a prosecution spokeswoman said, in an e-mail. A former
“external” Hyposwiss employee was arrested on Feb. 16 and
remains in custody, she said, without providing the name.  The stolen data relate to a dispute between Russian
billionaires Oleg Deripaska and  Vladimir Potanin , according to a
report in Handelszeitung newspaper yesterday. Swiss prosecutors
have dismissed allegations by Deripaska that Potanin and Hans
Bodmer, a lawyer who resigned from Hyposwiss’s board in
November, used offshore accounts to move money from  MMC Norilsk
Nickel OJSC. (GMKN)   The requested price for the data was 2 million francs
($2.23 million), the Swiss newspaper said.  “We can confirm that a former employee of Hyposwiss has
been arrested,” said a St. Galler Kantonalbank spokesman, Simon
Netzle, adding that the bank remained in contact with
prosecutors. Hyposwiss is owned by St. Galler.  Neither the bank nor the prosecutors commented on whether
the arrest relates to the dispute between the Russians.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  CIFG, Syncora Can’t Bring New Claims Against Loan Originator  CIFG Assurance North America Inc. and Syncora Guarantee
Inc. can’t bring new claims against a loan originator over the
quality of $1.8 billion of home-equity loans they guaranteed, a
judge ruled.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Bernard J. Fried on
Feb. 24 denied a motion by the insurers to amend their complaint
against GreenPoint Mortgage Funding Inc., saying that the new
claims are based on documents that were already filed in the
case. Fried in March 2010 threw out the original 2009 lawsuit,
which accused the loan originator of violating its mortgage-
underwriting guidelines.  “Plaintiffs may not replead to strategically change their
approach to this action by reference to allegations and theories
of recovery which were available to them from the onset of this
litigation,” Fried wrote in his ruling, according to court
documents filed yesterday.  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  shut Novato, California-based
GreenPoint in August 2007, less than a year after acquiring its
parent company, Long Island’s North Fork Bancorp.  The case is U.S. Bank NA v. GreenPoint Mortgage Funding
Inc., 600352/09, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford Jurors Weigh U.S. Claim He Used Bank as Personal ATM  R. Allen Stanford “flushed” investor money away on
failing businesses, yachts and cricket tournaments, prosecutors
told jurors who began deliberations on whether the Texas
financier led a massive Ponzi scheme.  If Stanford’s customers knew what he was really doing with
their money, they wouldn’t have bought certificates of deposit
issued by his Antigua bank, Justice Department lawyer William
Stellmach said in Houston federal court yesterday at the close
of the financier’s five-week fraud trial.  “The truth is that he flushed it away,” Stellmach said.
“He told depositors he was using their money in one way and the
truth was completely different.”  Stanford, 61, is accused of leading a $7 billion scheme
funded through the sale of CDs issued by Stanford International
Bank Ltd. Some of the CDs were sold in the U.S. by the Houston-
based securities firm, Stanford Group Co. He faces 14 criminal
counts, including mail fraud and wire fraud, that each carry
maximum sentences of 20 years in prison.  His attorneys rested their case Feb. 27 without Stanford
taking the stand. In his closing argument, defense lawyer Ali
Fazel said “there was no deceit and this man is not guilty.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  Mattel Asks Appeals Court to Reverse $310 Million MGA Award  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  asked a federal appeals court to reverse the
$310 million in damages and fees that toymaker MGA Entertainment
Inc. won last year in a trial over ownership of the rights to
MGA’s Bratz dolls.  Mattel said in a brief filed Feb. 27 with the U.S. Court of
Appeals in  San Francisco  that “after two trials and eight years
of litigation,” it isn’t contesting the jury’s finding that MGA
didn’t infringe Mattel’s copyright when it developed the dolls
from an idea and drawings by a former Mattel designer.  The El Segundo, California-based maker of the Barbie doll
said it wants the appeals court to throw out the $172.5 million
MGA won on its counterclaims that Mattel stole its trade
secrets. Those claims were time-barred and shouldn’t have been
brought to trial, Mattel said. Nor was there evidence that the
alleged trade secrets were actually secrets, it said.  “MGA failed to prove on a trade-secret-by-trade-secret
basis that the 26 products on which the jury found liability and
damages were trade secrets, adducing at best only vague and
general proof that MGA protected the secrecy of some of the
products it displayed at toy fairs for publicity purposes,”
Mattel said.  The company asked the court to reverse what it called the
unprecedented $105.6 million in attorneys’ fees and $31.6
million in costs U.S. District Judge David O. Carter in Santa
Ana,  California , awarded to MGA for having to defend against
Mattel’s copyright-infringement suit.  “I’m pleased that Mattel and its board of directors, after
wasting $400 million of shareholders’ money in a lawsuit they
should have never brought, have now abandoned that and the
ownership of the Bratz brand belongs to MGA,”  Isaac Larian ,
chief executive officer and founder of  Van Nuys , California-
based MGA, said in an e-mailed statement.  “As for the damages for their crimes against MGA, as well
as 40 other toy companies, and the legal fees, I am confident we
will prevail on appeal,” Larian said.  The case is Mattel v. MGA, 11-56357, U.S. Appeals Court for
the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco.)  Martin Marietta’s Nye Says Vulcan Takeover Would Mean Growth  Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)  Chief Executive Officer Ward
Nye told a judge his planned $4.7 billion hostile takeover of
rival gravel producer  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  would lead to long-
term growth.  Nye’s testimony came a day after Vulcan CEO Don James told
Delaware Chancery Court trial Judge Leo Strine Jr. that the
companies had been in friendly talks about a “merger of
equals” just two years ago. Martin Marietta made the
unsolicited offer in December, after negotiations stalled.  “I’ve always viewed it as a very attractive and
synergistic combination,” Nye told the judge in the second day
of trial in Wilmington. He said the merger, seriously
contemplated in talks in 2010, would produce “hundreds of
millions of dollars” in savings. “The operating efficiencies
would have been huge,” based on earlier studies, he said.  Vulcan has rejected the offer as inadequate and claims
Martin Marietta violated a confidentiality agreement not to
reveal the negotiations. Martin Marietta sued contending the
agreement lacked any clause prohibiting takeover solicitations.  The combination of Martin Marietta, based in Raleigh, North
Carolina, and Vulcan, of Birmingham, Alabama, would create the
world’s largest producer of sand, gravel and crushed stone.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v. Vulcan Materials,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Rules Are Illegal, Opponents Tell Court  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s limits on
industrial emissions of  greenhouse gases  including carbon
dioxide are illegal and must be thrown out, opponents told
federal judges in  Washington .  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals yesterday
considered challenges to the agency’s rules determining which
polluters are covered and when states and industries must comply
with regulations curtailing the use of greenhouse gases.  “The agency crossed the line from statutory interpretation
to statutory revision,” Peter Keisler, a lawyer for the
National Association of Manufacturers, told the judges. He said
the EPA violated the law when the agency raised emissions
thresholds far above what Congress called for.  Companies such as  Massey Energy Co. (MEE) , business groups
including the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and states led by Texas
and Virginia are seeking to stop the agency through more than 60
lawsuits. Some argue that the agency relied on biased data from
outside scientists, including some affiliated with the so-called
climategate scandal.  The arguments were split into three parts. The panel heard
arguments Feb. 29 on the agency’s finding that greenhouse gases
are pollutants that endanger human health. They also heard
arguments against a 2010 rule on motor vehicle emissions that
opponents said improperly sets greenhouse-gas standards for
stationary sources, such as steel mills and  power plants .  Yesterday, the court considered challenges to the EPA’s
“tailoring rule,” which limits the businesses covered by
carbon regulation and phases in controls.  The agency aims to phase in industrial polluters covered by
the carbon rules through 2016. The EPA argued in court filings
that the tailoring rule is acceptable under the Clean Air Act
and necessary to avoid states being overrun with permit
requests.  The case is Coalition for Responsible Regulation Inc. v.
Environmental Protection Agency, 09-1322, U.S. Court of Appeals,
District of Columbia (Washington).  Apple Says Giving Proview IPad Brand Would Harm Consumers  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , battling for ownership of the iPad trademark
for its tablet computer in  China , said allowing  Proview
International Holdings Ltd. (334)  to make products with that brand
would hurt consumers.  Lawyers for both companies presented arguments for almost
six hours at the Higher People’s Court of Guangdong in southern
China yesterday before being asked by the three judges if they
wished to settle the case. They said they would consult with
their clients and the hearing was adjourned without a new court
date or a time frame for a ruling.  Apple appealed a November ruling by a lower court that the
trademark belongs to the Shenzhen unit of Proview, a failed
display maker, and not the Taiwanese unit that signed a 2009
deal. Losing the appeal would open Apple to lawsuits seeking
damages and enable a nationwide ban on iPad sales in the
company’s biggest  market  outside the U.S.  “Consumers in China have come to associate this trademark
with Apple’s tablet computer,” Shi Yusheng, one of the lawyers
representing Apple, said during the hearing. “Allowing Proview
to use the brand to make their own products would cause
confusion and harm consumer interests.”  The dispute centers on whether Proview’s Taiwan unit, which
Apple paid 35,000 British pounds ($55,000) to use the iPad name
in mainland China, had the right to sell it or whether that
rested with the Shenzhen unit and its creditors, including  Bank
of China Ltd. (601988)  and  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988)   For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Cigarette Makers Can’t Be Forced to Use Graphic Warnings  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration was blocked by a
federal judge from requiring tobacco companies to put graphic
health warnings on cigarette packaging.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in Washington said the
government’s rule violates the tobacco companies’ rights to free
speech.  “These mandatory graphic images violate the First
Amendment by unconstitutionally compelling speech,” Leon wrote
in yesterday’s decision.  Under direction from Congress, which wanted tobacco
companies to use color graphics depicting the negative health
consequences of smoking, the FDA selected nine images, including
ones of a corpse and cancerous lungs. The FDA wanted to require
tobacco companies beginning Sept. 22 to put one of the labels on
each pack of cigarettes, pairing the images with text such as
“Smoking can kill you.”  The graphics were supposed to cover the top half of the
front and back of cigarette packages and 20 percent of print
advertisements. The FDA estimated the visual warnings would help
lower the smoking rate by about 0.212 percentage points, Leon
wrote in his opinion.  Units of   Lorillard Inc. (LO)  and  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , along
with Commonwealth Brands Inc. and Liggett Group LLC, sued the
FDA in August, claiming the mandates for cigarette packages,
cartons and advertising would violate the First Amendment. The
companies said in court papers that it would cost them a
combined total of about $20 million to meet the 2012 deadline.  “The opinion is a straightforward and clear affirmation
that compelled speech by the government is not only rarely
constitutional but plainly unconstitutional in this case,”
Floyd Abrams, a lawyer for Lorillard, said in a phone interview.  Michelle Bolek, an FDA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that
the agency doesn’t comment on litigation as a matter of policy.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 11-cv-01482, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  Cantor Fails to Win Damages From Four Who Joined China Bank  Cantor Fitzgerald LP failed to win damages from four
managing directors in  Hong Kong  who left the New York-based
brokerage to join China-backed investment bank Reorient
Financial Markets Ltd.  “There is not a shred of evidence suggesting that, whether
individually or collectively, they had any intention to injure
Cantor Hong Kong,” High Court Judge A.T. Reyes said in a
judgment handed down yesterday.  Cantor’s  Europe  and Hong Kong units had sought HK$8.7
million ($1.1 million) in damages from former Hong Kong head
Jason Boyer and three others, accusing them of breaching their
employment contracts and causing a 29 percent drop in its
average monthly revenue in the Chinese city.  Victoria Ho, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Cantor at
Ogilvy, couldn’t immediately provide a comment from the
brokerage in response to yesterday’s court decision.  Boyer, Bradford Ainslie and Brett McGonegal of Cantor’s
Asian cash equities desk and Uwe Parpart, its former Asia chief
economist and strategist, left for a firm now known as Reorient
Financial on the same day last year. The startup is backed by an
asset manager under China’s State-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission and aims to become a global investment
bank, according to the defendants.  All four told the court in a trial in January that they
left Cantor independently.  He ordered the defendants to pay Cantor at least $1.3
million, mostly representing payments in lieu of notice. Cantor
was ordered to pay most of the defendants legal fees.  The case is Cantor Fitzgerald Europe, Cantor Fitzgerald
(Hong Kong) Capital Markets Ltd. and Jason Boyer, Bradford
Ainslie, Brett McGonegal, Uwe Henke von Parpart, HCA1160/2011 in
Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance.  Lehman Client-Money Appeal Is Rejected by U.K. Supreme Court  The U.K. Supreme Court ruled clients of  Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s British unit whose money wasn’t properly
separated from the bank’s own funds can access billions of
dollars held in customer accounts.  Courts should interpret future claims in a way “which
affords a high degree of protection for all clients,” Supreme
Court Judge John Dyson said in yesterday’s decision. “All
client money is subject to a trust that arises upon receipt of
the money.”  Customers of insolvent firms, including Lehman Brothers and
 MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , without properly separated cash had
faced uncertainty about whether they would be given access to a
protected pool of client money or treated as unsecured creditors
and suffer greater losses on their claims.  The ruling  is a
victory in a three-year battle for CRC Credit Fund Ltd. and two
Lehman affiliates that were told their claims would be treated
as unsecured.  “It’s a boost for investor protection and an important
stepping stone in terms of getting the administrators closer to
being in a position, at long last, to get client money back to
those entitled,” Robert Turner, a lawyer for CRC, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The Supreme Court said clients should be able to claim from
the protected pool even if they weren’t given the correct status
before the brokerages failed, and that client money mixed with a
firm’s own funds should be added to the pool. Under U.K. rules,
client funds are pooled together in the event of insolvency
before being distributed.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Reed Smith Hires Entertainment Lawyer Dossick From Katten Muchin  Reed Smith LLP (1157L) , a 1,694-attorney Pittsburgh-based law firm,
hired Harrison J. Dossick, a partner at  Katten Muchin Rosenman
LLP (1161L) , to help expand its entertainment industry practice.  Dossick, who has represented motion picture and television
studios, distribution companies and content owners in disputes,
currently represents  Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc. (CPEI)  and the
Weinstein Co., distributor of the Academy Award-winning film
“The Artist,”  Reed Smith  said in a statement.  Dossick is joining Reed Smith as a partner in its
commercial litigation group, practicing out of the firm’s
Century City office in  Los Angeles .  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  On the Docket  Ex-General Re Executives Face Fraud Retrial in January 2013  Four former executives at General Reinsurance Corp. and one
at  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  face a Jan. 22 retrial on
charges of defrauding AIG investors of as much as $597 million.  U.S. District Judge Vanessa Bryant will preside over the
trial in Hartford, Connecticut, according to an order made
public Feb. 29. On Aug. 1, the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York
ordered a new trial, reversing the executives’ convictions in
2008.  Federal jurors in Hartford convicted former  General Re (134618Q) 
Chief Executive Officer Ronald Ferguson, ex-Chief Financial
Officer Elizabeth Monrad, ex-Senior Vice President Christopher
Garand and ex-Assistant General Counsel Robert Graham. Former
AIG Vice President Christian Milton also was found guilty.  Prosecutors said the fraud involved a sham transaction in
2000 and 2001 to inflate AIG’s loss reserves by $500 million. It
preceded the financial crisis of New York-based AIG, which got a
bailout of $182.3 billion from U.S. taxpayers. The appeals court
said the trial judge at the time, Christopher Droney,
erroneously let prosecutors show jurors three charts with AIG
stock-price data. Droney has since joined the appeals court.  Droney also erred by improperly instructing the jury on
causation, according to the appeals court  opinion .  Bryant’s order set a schedule for prosecutors and defense
lawyers, including a pretrial conference on Dec. 3 and jury
selection on Jan. 3.  The case is U.S. v. Ferguson, 08-6211, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 