-- Orion 8% Yield Wins No Respect for Finnish Drugmaker Analysts Love to Hate
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-03-01T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/orion-s-8-yield-wins-finnish-drugmaker-no-respect-from-analysts.html
Orion Oyj (ORNBV) , one of the most rewarding
European drug stocks for investors over the past five years, is
the least loved by analysts. Chief Executive Officer Timo Lappalainen aims to prove them wrong.  Orion shares have returned 41 percent,  compared with  17
percent for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index, as the
Espoo, Finland-based company shoveled cash to shareholders via
 dividends . The returns are unsustainable because patents begin
to expire this year on the Parkinson’s disease drugs that make
up almost a third of sales, said Sami Sarkamies of Nordea Bank,
one of six analysts who  recommend  selling the stock.  Lappalainen says the company is adding new products and
expanding in generic medicines to replace the sales that will be
lost. The approach is starting to win converts -- three analysts
have recommended buying the stock in the past seven months, up
from zero previously.  “What’s poorly understood in this company historically is
that it’s a very long process of losing these patents; it’s not
one cliff,” said Lars Hevreng, an analyst at SEB Enskilda who
raised the stock to “buy” from “hold” on Feb. 8. “Companies
don’t lose 100 percent of the product when they lose the patent.
The visibility isn’t very good but what we see in terms of sales
growth is fairly strong.”  Orion rose 0.7 percent to 16.28 euros at the close of
trading yesterday in Helsinki, giving the company a market value
of 2.32 billion euros ($3.1 billion).  Among the 12 analysts covering Orion, three recommend
buying, three have “hold” ratings and six recommend selling.
That’s the least-bullish consensus of any drug stock in  Europe ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Generic Competition  Stalevo and two related Parkinson’s drugs, Comtess and
Comtan, had sales of 267 million euros last year. Cheap copies
will reach the U.S. market starting in April under accords with
 India ’s Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Wockhardt Ltd.
Patent protection on the medicines will expire in the U.S. and
Europe in October 2013.  “The floodgates will open in the U.S. starting in November
2013,” said Lappalainen, the CEO. “We’ve been planning for
several years. Pushing our proprietary pipeline, focusing on the
generic side, and we’ve been able to increase volumes and
created flexibility in our cost base.”  Patented drugs make up 45 percent of sales. Generic
medicines account for 35 percent, with the rest coming from
contract manufacturing, veterinary products, diagnostics and
other areas.  Asthma Drug  Orion is awaiting late-stage data on new formulations for
its Easyhaler inhaled drug for asthma and smoker’s cough,
potential competitors to GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Advair and
AstraZeneca Plc’s Symbicort. Advair and Symbicort brought in 7
billion pounds ($11.2 billion) in 2011. The company in July also
won approval in some European markets to sell its Dexdor
sedative, already sold outside Europe with partner Hospira Inc.
under the name Precedex.  In the meantime, the company has tried to keep shareholders
happy with cash. The 1.30 euro-a-share dividend that Orion will
pay April 4 is equal to 8 percent of the stock price, the
highest yield in Europe. The company also is returning 12 cents
a share in capital to investors.  The dividend attracts  shareholders  that include pension
funds and individual investors. About two-thirds are based in
 Finland  and some are second- or third-generation individual
holders, said Lappalainen. Those investors are focused on the
cash payout, meaning management must limit long-term investments
or acquisitions of drugs in early stages of development, he
said.  ‘Tight Leash’  “You need to steer this company with a very tight leash,
you have to earn that dividend so that’s how we’ve been driving
this,” he said. “We can’t broaden the early-stage pipeline
just so we have a nicer-looking slide. It has to make sense
right away financially.”  Shareholders may come to regret that strategy, because it
has deprived the company of money to spend on new products, said
Sarkamies. The dividend amounts to 87 percent of last year’s
earnings, more than twice the average payout ratio for
competitors.  “They have been chronically underinvesting in R&D and
acquisitions,” he said in an interview from Helsinki. “I think
of this as a generic player with this one blockbuster that’s at
the end of its life cycle. It’s just not sustainable. The
company is not even trying to make it sustainable.”  A year’s delay on the Easyhaler trial, combined with slower
than expected sales so far of Dexdor, makes it unlikely the
company can maintain that dividend, said James Vane-Tempest, an
analyst at Jefferies International in  London  with an
“underperform” rating on the shares.  Question on Dividend  “Much to their credit they haven’t wasted cash on someone
else’s goodwill -- others would go and buy an Alcon or a
Wyeth,” said Vane-Tempest, referring to megamergers by Novartis
AG and Pfizer Inc. “The flip to that is the longevity is
questioned. How long can they afford to pay that dividend with
these patent expiries coming?”  The arrival of generic competition for the Parkinson’s
drugs will push 2012 sales and operating profit to their levels
in 2011 and 2010, respectively, said Lappalainen. Still, he’s
used to being underestimated.  “If one looks at the investment case with a huge exciting
news flow to appreciate the stock, maybe this isn’t the
investment for you,” Lappalainen said. “We don’t make the big
headlines. We’ve been a steady-as-we-go type of stock. But it’s
good for investors. They’ve made money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  