-- Rates for 30-Year Fixed Mortgages Fall to 3.9%
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-03-01T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/mortgage-rates-for-30-year-fixed-u-s-loans-decline-to-3-9-.html
Mortgage rates in the U.S. declined
as more Americans sought financing for home purchases.  The average rate for a  30-year (NMCMFUS)  fixed loan fell to 3.9
percent in the week ended today from 3.95 percent,  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
said in a statement. The rate dropped to 3.87 percent earlier
last month, the lowest in  Freddie Mac  records dating to 1971.
The average  15-year (NMCM15US)  rate decreased to 3.17 percent from 3.19
percent, according to the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-
 finance company .  Mortgage applications for house  purchases  jumped 8.2
percent in the period ended Feb. 24, the most in six weeks,
according to a Mortgage Bankers Association index. The
Washington-based group’s  refinancing  gauge fell 2.2 percent.
While housing demand is improving, sales have been restrained by
tight credit and a jobless rate holding above 8 percent.  “Affordability has increased dramatically as a result of
the decline in  house prices  and historically low  interest rates 
on conventional mortgages,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday in  testimony  to the House Financial
Services Committee in  Washington . “Unfortunately, many
potential buyers lacked the down payment and credit history
required to qualify for loans. Others are reluctant to buy a
house now because of concerns about their income, employment
prospects and the future path of house prices.”  Sales (ETSLTOTL)  of previously owned homes rose 4.3 percent in January
from the previous month, the National Association of Realtors
reported Feb. 22. Foreclosures and other distressed properties,
which made up the largest share of all purchases since April,
have been depressing prices.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of home values in 20 cities fell
4 percent in December from a year earlier, after decreasing 3.9
percent in November, a report from the group showed Feb. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  