-- Most Senators Leaving Since ’96 May Hurt Chamber
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-03-01T16:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/most-senators-leaving-since-1996-may-mean-more-polarized-chamber.html
Retirement announcements by Senator
 Olympia Snowe  and other centrists are putting more U.S. Senate
seats at stake than at any time since 1996 -- and the result may
be an even more polarized environment next year.  Snowe, a three-term Maine Republican known for voting with
Democrats on some high-profile issues, said her decision was
driven by frustration over partisanship and lack of compromise
in the Senate. Other departing senators who seek consensus on
such issues as debt reduction say they share her view.  “It’s very difficult to get things accomplished,” said
Senator Ben Nelson, a Nebraska Democrat who said he will retire
after two six-year terms to spend more time with his family.
“People back home complain about gridlock, but they send people
here who engage in that very thing.”  Ten senators -- seven Democrats and three Republicans --say
they won’t face voters again in November, the largest number of
elected senators eschewing re-election since 13 decided to forgo
new terms in 1996.  “The Senate must not be any fun anymore,” said Rhode
Island Governor Lincoln Chafee, who served for seven years as a
Republican senator and was defeated in 2006.  “Each cycle weeds out more and more moderate
Republicans,” said Chafee, now a political independent and a
member of President Barack Obama’s re-election committee.  The Senate departures include centrists  Kent Conrad , a
North Dakota Democrat and chairman of the Budget Committee; Jeff Bingaman, a New Mexico Democrat; Jim Webb, a Virginia Democrat;
and Joe Lieberman of  Connecticut , an independent who caucuses
with Democrats.  Brown at Risk  Other centrists are at risk of losing re-election in
November, including Senator  Scott Brown , a Massachusetts
Republican who won his seat in a 2010 special election.  “We’re going to have a real competition for Senate seats
that promises to be very expensive and very hard fought,” said
 Gary Jacobson , a political science professor at the  University
of California  at  San Diego .  Democrats have controlled the Senate since 2006, with a
53-47 majority this year. Still, Republicans have one advantage:
They’re defending just 10 of 33 seats on the November ballot.  Since Republicans took control of the House in 2011, the
divided Congress has yielded few legislative accomplishments.
Partisan battles over spending brought the U.S. to the brink of
four government shutdowns and a deficit-reduction debate
collapsed in November. This year, Congress extended a payroll
tax cut through 2012, though lawmakers in both parties say
little else may get done besides bills funding federal agencies.  36 House Members  More of the retiring senators are known for their
willingness to work with the other party and to help shape
bipartisan accords on issues.  Nelson helped broker President  George W. Bush ’s income-tax
cuts in 2001 and 2003. Snowe supported the 2008 bank bailout and
Obama’s economic stimulus in 2009. Conrad, like Snowe,
participated in bipartisan talks that helped shape the health
care overhaul passed in 2010, and was part of the “Gang of
Six” senators who pushed unsuccessfully for a bipartisan deal
to curb the  U.S. debt  last year.  In the House, 36 members have announced  retirement plans ,
one fewer than in 2002, the last time states redrew
congressional districts following the U.S. Census. Among them
are 20 Democrats, making it tougher for the party to gain the 25
seats it would need for majority control, said  Nathan Gonzales ,
deputy editor of the non-partisan Rothenberg Political Report.  ‘Huge Factor’  Redistricting is a “huge factor” in this year’s House
retirements, Gonzales said. A prime example is David Dreier, a
California Republican and chairman of the Rules Committee, who
said yesterday he won’t seek a 17th term.  Dreier, 59, “didn’t have a district to run in” because
“his district was carved up so many ways he didn’t have any
options,” Gonzales said.  House Democrat Barney Frank of  Massachusetts , 70, cited his
“very substantially changed” district as the reason he isn’t
seeking another term.  House Democrats will lose some leaders of the centrist
“Blue Dog” coalition, including Representative Mike Ross of
 Arkansas  and Representative Heath Shuler of  North Carolina . The
retirement of another coalition member,  Dan Boren  of  Oklahoma ,
will be a “huge blow” to Democrats, who may lose his seat to
Republicans this fall, Gonzales said.  House Exodus  Senate retirements also spurred the exodus from the House.
So far, four House Democrats are giving up their seats to try to
replace retiring Democratic senators, and creating competitive
races for their House seats. Another two House Democrats are
challenging Republican senators seeking re-election.  In some cases, the retirements are creating a last-minute
crunch for candidates. Snowe dropped out about two weeks before
candidates in both parties must file to run. Yesterday, two
House Democrats from  Maine  -- Chellie Pingree and Michael Michaud -- began circulating petitions for possible Senate runs.  Also yesterday -- just one day before a filing deadline for
the Nebraska Senate seat being vacated by Nelson -- former
Democratic Nebraska Senator Bob Kerrey said he will seek his
party’s nomination and try to regain the post. Republicans have
been favored to win the seat.  ‘Fill That Role’  Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 Republican in
the chamber, said others will rise to replace the dealmakers who
are retiring from the chamber.  “There’s a lot of institutional knowledge and memory with
people like that, and these are people who have been involved in
some of the big debates and big fights, so it’s a loss,” he
said. “But it’s always the case that there are some very able
people out there who step in and fill that role.”  Still, the Senate has changed markedly in the past six
years, with about one-third of the 100 senators replaced in
successive elections, said John Ullyot, a one-time aide to
former Senator John Warner of  Virginia , a Republican.  Many of the newcomers are lawmakers “who have no real
connection to the Senate, who are replacing real
institutionalists” like Warner or former Senator Pete Domenici,
a New Mexico Republican, Ullyot said.  Former Senator Evan Bayh, a Democrat who represented
 Indiana  from 1999 to 2011, said lack of bipartisanship was the
main reason he decided to retire. Neither party has the 60 votes
needed to pass legislation in most cases in the Senate, and
that’s unlikely to change after this election, he said.  “The willingness to work with the other party was once
viewed as an act of statesmanship,” said Bayh, whose seat was
won by Republican Senator  Dan Coats . “Now it’s an act of
betrayal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  