-- Otkritie Can Seize U.K. Mansion in Fraud Case, Judge Rules
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-03-01T17:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/otkritie-can-seize-london-mansion-linked-to-fraud-judge-rules.html
Otkritie Financial Corp . can seize a
London property valued at about 20 million pounds ($32 million)
as part of a fraud lawsuit against George Urumov, one of its
former senior bankers.  Otkritie, a brokerage part-owned by  Russia ’s  VTB Group (VTBR) , is
suing Urumov, his wife and several affiliated companies in a
London court over an alleged $160 million fraud involving
Argentine warrants and theft of bonuses meant for colleagues.  The house was bought with “ill-gotten gains,” said Paul
McGrath, a lawyer for Otkritie. Urumov’s lawyers said he doesn’t
live in, or have a financial interest in, the St. John’s Wood-
area home.  Judge Julian Flaux ruled Otkritie could seize the property
because the company listed as its owner, Dunant International,
failed to respond to the lawsuit. Urumov’s lawyer said his
client gave away his shares in Dunant.  Urumov’s argument he has no “beneficial interest in Dunant
is a somewhat implausible one,” Flaux said. A statement sent by
Urumov’s firm Farrer & Co. said today’s decision did not affect
the case, and could be set aside if he won at trial.  “The judge expressly put on record that he was not
deciding whether or not there had been any fraud,” Farrer & Co.
said.  Urumov, the former global head of fixed-income at Otkritie,
was arrested by London police investigating the fraud in
October. He denies the allegations, according to his attorney
Robert Weekes.  ‘Good Step’  Otkritie spokesman Alex Karakhan said today’s judgment was
a “good step” in the process of reclaiming the money. “We are
very confident we will make a full recovery,” he said outside
court.  Judge Flaux approved a move by Otkritie to expand its
lawsuit against Urumov by adding new defendants. They include
former Otkritie employees Ruslan Pinaev, Sergey Kondratyuk, and
Vladimir Gersamia, a former portfolio manager at Threadneedle
Asset Management, a London-based unit of  Ameriprise Financial
Inc. (AMP)   Gersamia said in an e-mailed statement he hasn’t been
arrested or questioned by police, and will be ”vigorously
contesting” any claims brought against him. He denies any
wrongdoing. Contact details for Pinaev and Kondratyuk couldn’t
be located.  Threadneedle was asked by the U.K. Financial Services
Authority to review its compliance systems after it halted a
multimillion pound trading fraud was attempted in August 2011.
The firm isn’t being investigated by the regulator.  “The matter was immediately reported to the authorities and
the individual involved was subsequently dismissed,”
Threadneedle said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  