-- How Debt-Ridden Housing Holds Back U.S. Recovery: Mian and Sufi
-- B y   A t i f   M i a n   a n d   A m i r   S u f i
-- 2012-03-01T00:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/how-debt-ridden-housing-holds-back-recovery-commentary-by-mian-and-sufi.html
There is an emerging consensus that
housing is weighing down the  U.S. economy . The  Federal Reserve ’s
housing white paper in January declared that “ongoing problems
in the U.S. market continue to impede the economic recovery.”
The  2012 Economic Report of the President  argued that “declines
in housing wealth can have a far greater effect on the economy
than equivalent losses in other financial assets.”  Are these arguments sensible? Why should declines in house
prices affect the broader economy? And why should the drop in
housing wealth matter more than, say, a drop in stock-market
wealth?  The key to understanding these questions is a four-letter
word: debt.  In the absence of debt, economic theory tells us that
house-price declines should have a negligible impact on
aggregate output. To understand this argument, imagine a young
recently married couple who own a one-bedroom condominium. They
plan to start a family soon, and are looking to buy a bigger,
more expensive house in the same neighborhood in the next few
years.  Given their plan to upsize, a decline in  house prices  in
the neighborhood makes them unambiguously “richer.” In the
parlance of finance, the young couple are “short” housing
services, and are better off when the price of such services
declines.  Universal Need  The point is general: Housing is a service we must all
consume, whether we rent or own. A decline in the price of
housing services is a good thing for those of us who plan on
increasing our consumption. If my home value declines, I should
only feel poorer if I was planning to decrease my consumption of
housing services or moving to a less expensive area.  So from a macroeconomic perspective, in a world without
 mortgages , falling house prices would have negligible aggregate
effects. Some households would be richer and some would be
poorer. But there is no reason to believe that there would be a
large aggregate “housing-wealth effect.”  So why is housing holding back the economy? It is because
most homeowners use substantial amounts of debt to purchase
houses. Once we acknowledge that housing is a highly leveraged
sector, the conclusions of the theory are totally different. In
this case, there are a number of reasons why house-price
declines will affect household spending.  First, the collateral value of housing is extremely
important. Households can only  borrow  at a 3.9 percent, 30-year
fixed rate if they have home value to back the loan. A severe
decline in house prices takes away this channel.  Second, the debt associated with homes means a higher rate
of  defaulting households . This leads to lower credit scores and
more foreclosures, both of which have negative effects on
household spending.  And third, even for households that choose to continue
paying their mortgages, the decline in  home values  will lead to
deleveraging as homeowners struggle to improve their financial
position.  The evidence overwhelmingly supports the view that high
debt levels are the central reason that house-price declines
negatively affect household spending. For example,  our research 
shows that for a given drop in home value, a household cuts back
on auto purchases much more if it is highly leveraged. We also
find that the reductions in household spending in counties
experiencing large house-price declines are far too large to be
explained by a housing-wealth effect alone.  Dot-Com Bubble  Another useful tool is to compare the drop in wealth due to
housing post-2007 with the decline in stock-market wealth when
the dot-com bubble burst in the early 2000s. The housing
collapse has wiped out about $6 trillion in wealth. The dot-com
meltdown resulted in a comparable loss of $5.5 trillion in
wealth. Yet the bursting of the Internet bubble wasn’t as
disruptive for aggregate spending. Why? Because the loss of
value in the dot-com bust wasn’t associated with a highly
leveraged sector.  Prominent macroeconomists and journalists have argued that
house-price declines alone can explain weak  household spending ,
even in the absence of any issues related to debt or
deleveraging. This argument doesn’t make sense theoretically,
and we shouldn’t be surprised that the data don’t support it. In
the absence of debt, there is no way a decline in house prices
would explain the magnitude of the reduction in household
spending in some of the hardest-hit areas of the country.  And importantly, this distinction matters for policy. If
one mistakenly believes that housing-wealth effects have nothing
to do with debt levels, then the only policy solutions are those
that attempt to artificially boost  house-price growth . One such
policy was the homebuyers’ tax credit, which was extremely
costly and only temporarily prevented price declines.  In contrast, when one acknowledges the importance of debt,
policies aimed at reducing refinancing frictions and
restructuring “underwater” mortgages via principal reduction
make a lot more sense.  (Atif Mian is professor of economics, finance and real
estate at the Haas School of Business at the  University of
California , Berkeley. Amir Sufi is professor of finance at
the University of Chicago Booth School of Business and
a contributor to  Business Class . The opinions expressed
are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Atif Mian at  atif@haas.berkeley.edu ;
Amir Sufi at  amir.sufi@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  