-- Papademos Rejects Call for Special EU Commissioner for Greece
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2012-03-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/papademos-rejects-call-for-special-eu-official-to-oversee-greece-s-economy.html
Greek Prime MinisterLucas Papademos
rejected a call to appoint a special European Union official to
oversee Greece’s economy, hours before euro-area finance chiefs
are due to discuss the nation’s rescue package.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
finance ministers from the 17-nation region, called yesterday
for an EU commissioner to take charge of rebuilding the  Greek
economy . The priority is the success of the second bailout for
the indebted nation, he told the European Parliament in
Brussels.  “We welcome the support of the European Commission,”
Papademos said at a Brussels press briefing with the president
of the commission,  Jose Barroso . “This is sufficient -- our own
work with the coordination of the commission -- to ensure the
effective and full implementation of the program.”  Barroso said that the Greek crisis is a “priority for the
commission; not only for one commissioner.” The “crucial
part” of implementing reforms is in the hands of the Greek
authorities, he said.  “It is an illusion to think that someone outside  Greece  is
going to solve the problems of Greece,” Barroso said.  Euro-area finance ministers will discuss the second Greek
rescue program at a gathering led by Juncker today in Brussels.
That meeting, which will precede a summit of the 27 EU leaders,
probably will finalize the 130 billion-euro ($174 billion)
package, a European official said yesterday on condition of
anonymity.  Greece committed to 3.2 billion euros of extra austerity
measures and negotiated terms for the biggest debt restructuring
in history to secure the new financing.  Papademos said the program for Greece “would be
implemented by the Greek government and the Greek authorities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  