-- PBOC Says No Document Issued on Individuals’ Yuan Remittance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-01T09:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/pboc-says-no-document-issued-on-individuals-yuan-remittance.html
China ’s central bank said it hasn’t
issued any documents about cross-border yuan remittances for
individuals after a report that some lenders were approved to
offer the service.  The  People’s Bank of China’s  Shenzhen branch said in a
statement on its website yesterday that the report was “not in
line with fact.” Apart from saying no document had been issued,
the regulator’s two-line statement didn’t give any other details
on how the report was inaccurate.  The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter, that the central
bank’s Shenzhen branch issued a directive dated Feb. 14 allowing
individuals to transfer as much as 80,000 yuan ($12,700) a day
overseas through accounts with Chinese lenders’ branches in the
southern city bordering  Hong Kong .  The central bank has previously said it will explore cross-
border yuan transactions for individuals’ accounts. Allowing
people to remit yuan to accounts outside China would increase
the channels for overseas investment and help increase the
Chinese currency’s role internationally.  “Sooner or later China needs to relax the controls on
individuals’ yuan remittance,”  Li Wei , a Shanghai-based
economist with Standard Chartered Bank, said by telephone. “It
would begin with experimental steps. Whatever risks might be
there, trials need to be done.”  Individuals in China are currently allowed to buy with
their yuan no more than the equivalent of $50,000 in foreign
currencies a year for remittance overseas. They may not remit
yuan. Institutional investments from overseas into China require
regulatory approvals.  Offshore Yuan  To increase the amount of yuan circulating overseas, China
has already helped to establish an offshore yuan market in Hong
Kong and promoted settlement of  trade  with other countries in
the Chinese currency. The central bank has also reached
currency-swap agreements with countries including Turkey,
Malaysia and  Thailand .  China’s central bank said in its fourth-quarter monetary
policy report that it will “explore” cross-border yuan
transactions for individuals. Last month, its statistics
department said in a report that China has a “strategic
opportunity” now to relax restrictions on capital flows. The
government has yet to outline how it may ease controls on cross-
border capital flows.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  