-- Budget Airline Peach Launches in Japan
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-03-01T00:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/peach-begins-flights-in-japan-ahead-of-airasia-jetstar.html
Peach Aviation Ltd. , backed by  All
Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , began flights in  Japan  today, becoming the
first of three budget carriers to start operations in the
country this year.  The debut Peach service took off from Osaka’s Kansai
International Airport at 7:17 a.m. today, headed for Sapporo,
the company said in an e-mailed statement. The Osaka-based
airline is selling tickets for less than a third of the price
offered by full-service carriers ANA and Japan Airlines Co.  Peach intends to carry 6 million passengers annually within
five years by luring customers from trains and spurring  travel
demand  with cheaper tickets. It will have to contend with
Japan’s relatively higher landing fees and fuel taxes, as well
as competition from planned low-cost ventures backed by  AirAsia
Bhd. (AIRA)  and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s Jetstar.  “The spread of low-cost carriers in Japan is likely to
increase the customer base,” said Yoshihisa Akai, head of Japan
Aviation Management Research. “Still, I doubt they will be able
to slash prices as much as overseas carriers, however much they
try.”  Peach, which is owned by ANA and Hong Kong-based  First
Eastern Investment Group (FEIVGZ) , plans to lease 10 Airbus SAS A320
aircraft within its first five years. Its 6 million passenger
target is equal to 44 percent of the  13.5 million  travelers who
used Kansai last year, based on data from the airport, Japan’s
second-busiest for international travel.  Budget Fares  The carrier is offering one-way tickets to Sapporo for as
little as 4,780 yen ($59) including tax on April 1. JAL and ANA
tickets the same day for the almost two-hour trip cost from
16,000 yen.  Skymark Airlines Inc. (9204) , Japan’s largest budget
carrier, offers a limited number of tickets at 780 yen or
charges from 8,600 yen. The fares were all published on the
carriers’ websites yesterday.  ANA gained 0.8 percent to 251 yen as of 9:20 a.m. in  Tokyo 
trading. It has climbed 17 percent this year, compared with a 16
percent gain for the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  AirAsia Japan Co., a venture between ANA and AirAsia, is
due to start flights from Tokyo’s Narita airport in August. The
carrier has predicted 10 million passengers annually in five
years.  Jetstar Japan Co., which will begin flights from Narita in
July, is targeting 100 billion yen in annual sales within a few
years. The carrier, owned by Qantas, JAL and Mitsubishi Corp.,
plans to have a fleet of 100 planes by the end of the decade.  A total of  84 million  passengers flew domestically in Japan
in 2010, according to the latest figures available from the
transport ministry. The nation’s total air-travel market is
worth  $62.5 billion  annually, according to the  International Air
Transport Association .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at
   ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in
Tokyo at   kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  