-- Sandusky Loses Bid to Have Child Sex-Abuse Trial Put Back to July From May
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-03-01T00:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/penn-state-ex-coach-sandusky-loses-bid-for-delay-of-child-sex-abuse-trial.html
Jerry Sandusky, the former
Pennsylvania State University assistant football coach accused
of sexually abusing boys, lost a bid to delay his trial until
mid-July from May.  Joseph Amendola, a lawyer for Sandusky, argued earlier this
week the time required to locate and question witnesses and
issue subpoenas to collect records warranted a delay in the
trial. Amendola also said the prosecution didn’t oppose the
continuance.  “Postponement of a trial should be the last resort” and
only after all “attempts to remedy the impediments to the
conduct of a prompt trial have been exhausted,” state court
Judge John M. Cleland wrote in his decision today denying the
extension. “Delay has a way of begetting delay.”  Sandusky, 68, a former defensive coordinator for  Penn
State ’s football team, is charged with more than 50 counts
stemming from the alleged abuse of boys during a 15-year period.
Sandusky, who has denied the charges, is scheduled to go on
trial in May.  Sandusky won an extension to respond to the commonwealth’s
discovery requests, due to “the commonwealth’s inability to
process the defendant’s discovery requests,” Cleland ruled.  Prosecutors will have to supply Sandusky with the addresses
and phone numbers of witnesses identified in the Commonwealth’s
discovery materials within seven days.  The Sandusky case is  Commonwealth of Pennsylvania  v.
Sandusky, CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  