-- Peru Inflation Quickened to 0.32% Last Month on Food, Floods
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-03-01T16:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/peruvian-inflation-quickened-to-0-32-last-month-on-food-floods.html
Peruvian inflation accelerated for
the first time in three months in February as food prices rose
after flooding damaged crops and blocked roads.  Consumer prices  rose 0.32 percent after falling 0.1 percent
in January, the national statistics agency said in an e-mailed
report. The median estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg (PRCPMOM) 
News was for a 0.30 percent gain. Prices rose 4.2 percent from a
year ago.  Food prices rose 0.4 percent after rainfall in the Peruvian
Andes flooded farms and damaged roads and bridges used to
transport produce, the agency said. A quickening in inflation
will be temporary, allowing the central bank to keep its
 benchmark lending rate  unchanged while it assesses the impact of
slower global growth on the Peruvian economy, said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank Peru in Lima.  “Rates will probably stay unchanged all year,” Guerrero
said in a phone interview before the report’s release. “Demand
pressures on inflation haven’t been very significant. It’s
mainly pressure from supply.”  Peru’s economy expanded an annual 5.5 percent in the fourth
quarter, the slowest pace in two years, as weaker private
investment and a fall in government outlays offset rising
household demand.  Horizon  Inflation will accelerate again this month, and may match
the 0.7 percent rise registered in March 2011 on increases in
the cost of fuel, electricity and schooling, Guerrero said.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell for a seventh day,
declining one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.46
percent at 9:48 a.m. in  Lima , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Peruvian sol was little changed at 2.6730 per  U.S.
dollar , according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  Electricity prices rose 3.7 percent last month while
clothing advanced 0.5 percent, the agency said.  The government’s consumer price index is based on a survey
of establishments conducted in the Lima Metropolitan area. Food
and drink prices constitute 38 percent of the index.  In a separate report, the agency said cement demand rose
4.5 percent in January from a year earlier and electricity
output climbed 6.4 percent while fishing activity contracted 8.4
percent and mining shrank 1.5 percent. Exports jumped 31 percent
and imports rose 21 percent, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  