-- Peugeot Lowered to Junk by Moody’s Over Deteriorating Automaker’s Finances
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 2012-03-01T13:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/peugeot-lowered-to-junk-by-moody-s-over-deteriorating-automaker-s-finances.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-largest carmaker, had its  credit rating  cut to junk by
Moody’s Investor Services, which cited concern about the French
company’s deteriorating finances and a jump in net debt.  Peugeot’s long-term debt rating was lowered one grade to
Ba1 from Baa3, Moody’s said in a statement today. Shares of the
automaker, which yesterday announced a strategic alliance with
 General Motors Co. (GM) , plunged as much as 7.7 percent.  Peugeot’s fiscal year 2011 results were “well below Moody’s
expectations,” analyst Falk Frey said in the statement, adding
that the downgrade also “incorporates PSA’s challenges to
improve its financial metrics over the short-to-medium term
following a severe deterioration in 2011, and more important
turn around its loss-making core automotive business.”  The car-manufacturing unit, which builds the Peugeot 208
hatchback and Citroen C4 sedan, last month reported a recurring
operating loss of 92 million euros ($123 million), compared with
a profit of 621 million euros in 2010. Peugeot in February
announced plans to sell assets and delay investments as net debt
more than doubled in the second half to 3.4 billion euros.  The stock  dropped  as much as 1.17 euros to 13.88 euros and
was trading down 6.7 percent at 14.04 euros as of 2:48 p.m. in
Paris. The shares have gained 16 percent this year, valuing the
carmaker at 3.28 billion euros.  No GM Link  Peugeot spokesman Jean-Baptiste Mounier said the Moody’s
downgrade was linked to an evaluation of its earnings and had
nothing to do with yesterday’s agreement with General Motors.  “There was some uncertainty over our short-term
profitability,” Mounier said by telephone from Paris. “It’s
therefore clearly not related to the recent alliance. Agencies
take into account the difficulties in the European market.”  Peugeot said yesterday that GM, the world’s largest
automaker, will buy a 7 percent stake to become the second-
largest shareholder after the Peugeot family as part of a broad
strategic alliance. The French company will also sell new shares
in a 1 billion-euro rights offering.  “Though Moody’s recognizes that the announced management
initiatives, including the capital increase, will provide the
company some time to implement operational improvement measures
and reap some benefits, the negative outlook reflects the risks
of a more negative light vehicle demand in  Europe , and
especially in PSA’s core markets,” Frey said.  Automotive executives have forecast that European car sales
will decline in 2012 for the fifth straight year as consumers
hold back purchases amid concerns about the region’s sovereign
debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chad Thomas  in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Jasper at   cjasper@bloomberg.net  