-- Pfizer and Bristol-Myers’ Blood Thinner Delayed by FDA
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-03-01T21:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/pfizer-and-bristol-myers-new-blood-thinner-gets-delayed-by-fda.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co.’s new blood-thinning pill Eliquis has had its review by U.S.
regulators delayed by three months.  The delay is from additional data the two companies
submitted, Bristol-Myers said in a statement last night. The new
data is a “major amendment to the application and will require
additional time for review,” the drugmaker said.  The medicine will be sold by the two New York-based
companies to prevent stroke and embolisms in patients with
atrial fibrillation, or an irregular heartbeat. The drugmakers
will split sales from the pill, which  Tim Anderson , an analyst
with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York,  estimates  at $2.5
billion a year by 2015.  “A small delay in the approval of Eliquis would not be
terribly material to either  Bristol-Myers (BMY)  or Pfizer in our view,
and FDA delays with new drugs are certainly not an uncommon
occurrence,” Anderson wrote yesterday in a note to clients, in
which he predicted the delay. “However, this could cut into
analyst sales forecasts slightly.”  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  now aims to rule on
the drug by June 28, Bristol-Myers said in the statement, from a
late March deadline. If approved by the FDA, Eliquis will
compete with Xarelto, sold by  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and Johnson & Johnson,
and Pradaxa, sold by  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH (BING) .  There aren’t plans for the FDA to convene an advisory
committee to rule on the drug, according to the statement.  Bristol-Myers rose 1.5 percent to $32.64 at the close of  New
York  trading. Pfizer climbed 1.7 percent to $21.49.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  