-- Pilot-Fatigue Rules Unchanged at FedEx, UPS After U.S. Meeting
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-03-01T23:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/pilot-fatigue-rules-unchanged-at-fedex-ups.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  said U.S. regulators failed to persuade the two
cargo airlines to adopt pilot-fatigue rules imposed on passenger
carriers.  “The reality is that one size does not fit all when it
comes to maintaining pilot alertness,” Maury Donahue, a
spokeswoman for FedEx, said in an e-mail. “Flight scheduling at
a cargo airline is very different from passenger carriers.”  Representatives from  Memphis , Tennessee-based FedEx and UPS
were among cargo executives who met today in Washington with
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and Federal Aviation
Administration Acting Chief Michael Huerta. After announcing in
December that cargo operators would be exempt from new anti-
fatigue measures for passenger carriers, LaHood said he would
ask them to voluntarily adopt the new standards.  LaHood and Huerta “had a productive meeting today with our
cargo partners and look forward to working together to ensure
the safety of our national air transportation system,” Justin Nisly, a Transportation Department spokesman, said in a
statement.  Kara Gerhardt Ross, a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based UPS,
said the company currently operates under “a much higher
standard” for fatigue prevention and doesn’t need to adopt the
new rules. The airline is committed to working with the FAA to
achieve “the best practices for fatigue mitigation,” she said
in a phone interview. The company has opposed applying pilot-
fatigue rules to its operations.  Cargo airlines, which operate more flights at night than
passenger carriers, have argued that altering pilot schedules
would be too costly and are unnecessary.  Under the  rules , set to take effect in December 2013,
passenger pilots would get longer rest periods between shifts
and have their work hours curtailed during overnight flights or
after crossing multiple time zones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  