-- Pimco’s Total Return Fund Attracted $835 Million in February
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-03-02T00:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/pimco-total-return-lured-835-million-in-february-for-second-monthly-gain.html
Bill Gross’s  Pimco Total Return
Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s biggest mutual fund, attracted $835 million of
investor deposits in February as performance rebounded.  The new money marked a second month of assets going into
the fund, after three straight months of redemptions from Pimco
Total Return, according to data compiled by Chicago-based
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Investors pulled about $3 billion from the fund
in the three months ended Dec. 31, bringing withdrawals last
year to $5 billion, Morningstar said.  The $250 billion Pimco Total Return has advanced 2.8
percent this year, beating  95 percent  of similarly managed
funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund last
year rose 4.2 percent, lagging behind 69 percent of its peers,
after Gross missed a rally in U.S. Treasuries and put money into
riskier assets.  “Pimco Total Return’s rebound in flows isn’t surprising
given the fund’s recovery in performance and the fading memory
of  Bill Gross ’s missed call on Treasuries in 2011,” Sylvester Flood, product manager for asset flows and manager research at
Morningstar, said in an e-mail. “Perhaps a better explanatory
factor, however, is that loads of money is being plowed into
taxable bond funds.”  Investors put more than $24 billion in taxable bond funds
in January, and February may have had even higher deposits,
Flood said.  Gundlach’s Deposits  Gross, who eliminated Treasuries from the fund a year ago,
reversed his position and boosted the portion of assets in U.S.
government and Treasury debt to 38 percent as of the end of
January, according to data on Pimco’s website. An exchange-
traded version of Pimco Total Return opened today under the
ticker symbol TRXT.  Investors put a net $2.4 billion into  Jeffrey Gundlach ’s
 DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX)  in February, the most yet for
the fund that opened in April 2010, according to Morningstar.
Gundlach’s fund rose 9.5 percent in 2011 to beat all of its
rivals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  