-- Poland May Cut Shale Gas Estimates After Data From Wells
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-03-01T13:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/poland-may-cut-shale-gas-estimates-after-data-from-first-wells.html
Poland ’s estimated shale gas
reserves, believed to be the largest in  Europe , may be cut once
data is analyzed from the country’s first wells, the Polish
Geological Institute said.  “Core logs from Polish wells are being analyzed with the
help of U.S. technology,” Miroslaw Rutkowski, a spokesman for
the institute, said by phone. “As result, we’re expecting that
our estimates will be lower than those of the EIA,” he said, in
a reference to the Energy Information Administration.  Drilling horizontal wells and using so-called hydraulic
fracturing to open fissures in shale rock has made the U.S. the
world’s largest gas producer. While Poland was identified as the
European country with the best shale-gas potential, initial
results from drillers including  Exxon Mobil  Corp. and 3Legs
Resources Plc have disappointed.  The country, seeking to reduce its reliance on Russian gas,
may hold  5.2 trillion  cubic meters of gas, or enough fuel
trapped in shale to meet its needs for 300 years, the U.S.
Department of Energy said in April. The estimate was made by
applying recovery rates from shale areas producing in the U.S.  The Polish institute and the  U.S. Geological Survey  are
working to analyze drilling results and will publish an estimate
of technically recoverable resources of shale gas in Poland on
March 21. The revised estimate won’t be definitive as only about
a dozen exploration wells have been drilled in Poland so far,
Rutkowski said.  ‘Geologically Similar’  “The USGS approach is to assess undiscovered, technically
recoverable resources using data from the assessed area
augmented by data from producing basins that are geologically
similar to those we are assessing,” Alex Demas, public affairs
specialist at USGS’ Office of Communications, said in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  Producers including  Exxon  Mobil,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Polskie
Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA (PGN) , Poland’s dominant gas
distributor, and refiner PKN Orlen SA have more than 100
licenses to explore for shale gas in Poland.  On Jan. 31, Exxon Mobil said two exploration wells drilled
in Poland’s shale formations weren’t commercially viable because
of insufficient flow. In November, 3Legs fell the most in London
trading since listing in June after saying flow rates from its
second shale-gas well in Poland were low  Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski in January urged
state-controlled energy companies to boost drilling with the aim
of starting commercial exploration as soon as 2014 or 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  