-- Poland’s Fourth-Quarter Economic Growth Accelerates on Rising Investment
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-03-01T09:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/poland-s-fourth-quarter-economic-growth-accelerates-on-rising-investment.html
Poland’s economic growth accelerated
in the fourth quarter as investment rose and a weaker zloty
buoyed exports.  Gross domestic product  expanded 4.3 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a 4.2 percent increase in the previous
three months, the Warsaw-based  Central Statistics Office  said
today. The median estimate of 27 economists in a Bloomberg
 survey  was 4.1 percent. Output grew a seasonally adjusted 1.1
percent from the previous quarter.  The European Union’s largest eastern nation, the only
member of the 27-member bloc to dodge recession in 2009, has
remained resilient even as the region’s debt crisis threatens to
damp demand for its exports. EU funds improved infrastructure
and modernized production, while a weaker zloty kept exports
growing. Fixed investment jumped 10.3 from a year earlier in the
fourth quarter, while exports grew 8 percent, the statistical
office said.  “The Polish economy is very resilient,”  Mark Robinson ,
Carsten Hesse and Mateusz Zawada, analysts at Wood & Co., wrote
in a Feb. 29 report. “We are now more bullish on Polish GDP
growth.” Growth is “driven by higher investment growth,
exports and strong private consumption.”  Zloty Gains  The zloty strengthened after the data to 4.1183 against the
euro at 10:08 a.m. in Warsaw, up less than 0.1 percent on the
day. It has strengthened 8.4 percent against the euro this year,
the second-best performance among currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, behind the Hungarian forint.  Poland’s economy expanded 4.3 percent in 2011, the quickest
pace in three years, as companies boosted investment and a
weakening zloty buoyed exports, the statistics office said on
Jan. 27.  Growth will probably outpace all EU members this year,
driven by corporate investment, the European Commission said on
Feb. 23. The economy will probably grow 2.5 percent as spending
on road and rail upgrades for the Euro 2012 soccer championship
helps boost the pace of growth, it said.  “Investment-spending growth is expected to remain robust,
supported by accelerating private investment,” the commission
said. “The corporate sector is likely to continue to increase
capacity, financed by intensifying inflows of foreign capital,
retained earnings and growing corporate credit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  