-- Proview ‘Hopes’ Apple Makes Contact on IPad Settlement Talks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-01T06:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/proview-lawyer-hopes-apple-makes-contact-for-ipad-trademark-settlement.html
A lawyer representing  Proview
International Holdings Ltd. (334)  in its dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over
the iPad trademark in China said he “hopes” the U.S. company
makes contact to begin settlement talks.  Roger Xie said the two sides haven’t held any formal
negotiations on the issue of which company owns the right to use
the iPad brand in the world’s most populous nation. Lawyers
presented arguments for almost six hours yesterday at the Higher
People’s Court of Guangdong before being asked by the three-
judge panel if they wished to settle.  “Up to now, we didn’t have any formal negotiations with
Apple,” Xie said in a telephone interview today. “I hope they
will positively contact us and make an appointment with us about
formal negotiations out of court. It would be useful.”  Apple has appealed a November ruling by a lower court that
the trademark belongs to the Shenzhen unit of failed display
maker Proview. Apple claims its 2009 purchase of the rights from
Proview’s Taiwan unit covers the mainland.  Judges adjourned yesterday’s hearing without giving a new
court date or a timeframe for a ruling. Under Chinese law, the
time limit for ruling on an appeal is three months, although
that can be extended in exceptional circumstances, Xie said
today.  Consumer Confusion?  Apple’s Beijing-based spokeswoman, Carolyn Wu, didn’t
immediately return calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Consumers in  China  have come to associate the iPad
trademark with Apple and allowing Proview to use the brand would
cause confusion, the U.S. company’s lawyer, Shi Yusheng, told
the appeal hearing yesterday.  “Who created the value of the iPad trademark?” Shi asked
the judges. “I think everybody knows the answer.”  Losing the appeal would open Apple to lawsuits seeking
damages and enable a ban on iPad sales in the Cupertino,
California-based company’s biggest  market  outside the U.S.  The dispute centers on whether Proview’s Taiwan unit, which
Apple paid 35,000 British pounds ($55,000) to use the iPad name
in mainland China, had the right to sell it or whether that
rested with the Shenzhen unit and its creditors, including  Bank
of China Ltd. (601988)  and  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988)   Apple sued Proview Shenzhen in 2010, claiming ownership of
the trademark in China on the basis of a December 2009 contract
the U.S. company says gave it global rights to the name in 10
countries.  Apple Sales  The Shenzhen Intermediate People’s Court rejected Apple’s
claims on Nov. 17. The court said the purchase agreement was
signed in the name of Proview’s Taipei-based subsidiary, Proview
Electronics Co., which failed to demonstrate that the transfer
was approved by the Shenzhen unit that owned the mark.  Proview’s Shenzhen unit obtained the iPad trademark in
China in 2001 for a desktop terminal with a touch-screen display
called the Internet Personal Access Device, or iPAD, that the
company developed starting in 1998.  About 20,000 of the devices were sold over more than 10
years, according to Rowell Yang, chairman of the Shenzhen unit.  Sales of Apple’s iPads topped 32 million worldwide last
year, earning revenue of $20.4 billion. In less than two years,
the device has become the company’s second-best selling product
by revenue, behind the iPhone.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  