-- Putin VTB Buyback Plan Deemed Political Interference
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-03-01T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/putin-buyback-plan-for-vtb-denounced-as-political-interference.html
Institutional investors frozen out
of a share buyback by state-owned  VTB Group (VTBR)  decried the plan as
a ploy by Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to gain votes in
a March 4 election from the bank’s smaller shareholders.  Charlemagne Capital Ltd. and Van Eck Associates are among
funds calling Putin’s proposal to buy shares from people who
lost money in the lender’s 2007 initial public offering a
political maneuver that will dilute the value of their holdings.
The buyback is capped at 500,000 rubles ($17,100) per person, a
ceiling that would exclude most institutional investors.  “Whenever governments impose political will and use the
state-owned companies as a policy tool, in this case in the run-
up to the election, that’s a negative,” said  Ed Kuczma , who
helps manage $35 billion at New York-based Van Eck Associates
and its Market Vectors  Russia  ETF, which owns shares in VTB.
“This arrangement is unfavorable for institutional investors.”  Fund managers say political interference, poor corporate
governance and a weak judiciary are the reasons  Russian stocks 
trade at a 40 percent discount to  emerging-market peers , even
though  Urals crude , the country’s chief export blend and biggest
export earner, tops $120 a barrel.  The VTB buyback is the latest sign that Russia’s second-
largest lender, 75.5 percent owned by the government, is being
used for political ends. Russians, who lost billions of dollars
in bank collapses and stock-market frauds in the 1990s, rushed
to buy shares five years ago in what then-President Putin dubbed
a “people’s IPO” that raised $8 billion. Last year the bank
received a record 395 billion-ruble bailout to cover bad debts
at  Bank of Moscow  after buying the city’s 46.5 percent stake.  ‘Straightforward Populism’  The bank will spend no more than 16 billion rubles on the
buyback, which will take place this month and next, according to
VTB’s  website . The offer to buy shares at the IPO price of 13.6
kopeks applies only to investors who acquired them when the
company went public and still held them as of Feb. 1, Chief
Executive Officer  Andrei Kostin  said at a Feb. 9 press
conference. The purchase will be funded using the company’s
capital and won’t affect 2012 profit, he said.  VTB hasn’t traded above the offering price since August
2007 and tumbled as much as 86 percent to 1.9 kopeks in March
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock, which
has increased 24 percent since the beginning of the year, closed
at 7.29 kopeks in Moscow trading yesterday.  “The VTB buyback looks like straightforward populism
before the elections and could be ripe for abuse,” said Robert Procope, a London-based fund manager with Charlemagne Capital,
which oversees $3 billion including VTB shares.  ‘Step Backward’  Aivaras Abromavicius, who helps manage $5.5 billion of
Eastern European assets at Stockholm-based East Capital, called
the buyback a “step backward.” His fund, which held 5.4
million shares of VTB as of Sept. 30, according to filings, has
since sold its stake in the bank, Abromavicius said.  “It would be negative to the remaining VTB shareholders,
and negative overall because any kind of manual government
intervention in Russia or elsewhere in financial markets is not
something that is welcomed by market participants,” he said.  Herbert Moos , chief financial officer of the Moscow-based
bank, declined to comment about institutional investor
criticism, as did a spokeswoman for the bank. Moos said by e-
mail that the “100,000 plus shareholders that are covered by
the offer” should be contacted to get the full story.  Recouping Losses  One of those shareholders, Maria Skrebkova, an economics
lecturer who lives in Moscow, said she’s “delighted and
relieved” to be recouping her losses after investing 150,000
rubles in the IPO.  “I fell for all the hype about the people’s IPO, but the
investment turned out to be disaster,” Skrebkova, 52, said in a
phone interview. “It’s a very pleasant surprise that we are
being bailed out and not the fat cats for a change.”  George Iosifyan, a banker who invested in VTB’s global
depositary receipts after the IPO, said his loss amounted to
more than $100,000.  “I feel cheated by the management of the bank,” Iosifyan,
who works for billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg ’s Renova Group and
isn’t eligible for the buyback, wrote in an e-mail. “I am
totally appalled by the unprofessional conduct of the management
of the bank, as well as the board of directors, who acted
against the bank’s best interests by engaging into a loss-
generating transaction using the bank’s capital.”  Kostin’s Strategy  Putin’s call for a buyback indicates the government has
lost confidence in VTB’s “road to 15 kopeks”  strategy ,
according to Rinat Kirdan, a banking analyst at Aton Capital in
Moscow. Kostin, 55, unveiled a plan in May 2010 to more than
double the bank’s share price to 15 kopeks by 2013 by focusing
less on corporate loans and more on retail lending and
 investment banking .  “Over the years we have seen considerable evidence
supporting the view that VTB is more a state vehicle than a
profit-oriented or shareholder-oriented business, and the
government now seems to be acknowledging this,” Kirdan said in
a phone interview. “Fifteen out of 20 clients I have spoken to
are very upset by the buyback. Five of them said they will never
buy VTB again.”  Kirdan cited VTB’s acquisition of Bank of Moscow and its $7
million bailout last month of travel agency Lanta-Tur after it
left hundreds of Russian tourists stranded overseas.  ‘Special Mission’  VTB and the other state-run banks have a “special
mission” to provide financing for projects that private lenders
shun, Putin told Kostin in 2010, according to a transcript of a
conversation posted on a government website.  Investors already attach a  risk premium  to VTB compared
with  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , the largest bank in Russia and third-largest
in  Europe  by market value, according to Sergey Dergachev, who
helps oversee $8.5 billion in emerging-market funds including
VTB bonds at Union Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt .  “This is primarily due to its aggressive business risk,
political influence and politically motivated moves,” Dergachev
said in an e-mail.  Sberbank, 60 percent owned by the government and led by
 German Gref , a former Putin economy minister, has 26 “buy”
recommendations from analysts and only one “sell,” according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. VTB has three “buys,” seven
“holds” and three “sell” recommendations, the data show.  The discount of VTB to Sberbank has widened to about 25
percent on the basis of 2012 estimated earnings over book value,
according to Leonid Slipchenko, a banking analyst at UralSib
Capital in Moscow.  “We see that as fair given the higher political and
corporate governance risks that emerged after the announced
buyback for minorities at the IPO price,” Slipchenko wrote in a
report last month.  Still, Moscow-based investment fund Verno Capital is
“bullish” on the stock and is a long-term holder, according to
founder Dmitri Kryukov.  “Investors should be peeved as this is something that
shouldn’t happen, and it does smell badly for institutions,”
Kryukov said in a phone interview. “But investors have to take
an assessment of the risk, and there are bigger corporate-
governance problems in Russia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net . 