-- Putin Favored Spurring SocGen to Recommend Buying Calls: Russia Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-03-02T15:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/putin-favored-spurring-socgen-to-recommend-buying-calls-russia-overnight.html
Investors are too bearish on Russian
equities and should bet on a rally using options as  Vladimir Putin  will probably win the presidential election and implement
reforms to stay in power, according to  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA.  The  ratio  of outstanding put options to sell versus calls
to buy the  Market Vectors Russia exchange-traded fund , a U.S.-
traded fund that holds Russian shares, ended yesterday at 1.72-
to-1, near the 1.93 multiple reached on Feb. 17 that was the
highest level since Sept. 7, 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Prime Minister Putin will win on March 4 with 16 percentage
points more than is needed for victory in the first round,
according to a poll by the independent  Levada Center .  Russian
stocks (RSX)  will probably rally, so investors should be selling puts
and using the proceeds to buy calls, said Rebecca Cheong, a New
York-based equity derivatives strategist at Paris-based SocGen.
 Futures (VEA)  expiring in March on Moscow’s RTS index gained 0.9
percent to 173,920 in U.S. trading yesterday.  “It’s not a bet on whether he will win, it’s what will be
the market’s reaction to Putin winning,” Cheong said by phone
on Feb. 29. “He’s going to do a lot more reform-friendly
policies.”  The Market Vectors ETF and the  Bloomberg Russia-U.S. 14
Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian companies traded in  New York  had their biggest
drop in two months in December as protesters took to the streets
against results of a parliamentary election that saw Putin’s
party retain its majority amid allegations of vote fraud. The
former KGB officer gave up the presidency to Dmitry Medvedev in
2008 because of a constitutional limit on serving more than two
consecutive terms.  Gazprom Holdings  The ETF jumped 1.2 percent to $33.41 in New York yesterday
and has advanced 25 percent this year, after slipping 30 percent
in 2011. The fund’s  holdings  include American depositary
receipts of OAO Gazprom, Russia’s biggest company and the
world’s largest natural gas producer, top lender OAO Sberbank
and OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , the nation’s biggest producer of coking coal for
steelmakers.  Barring allegations of widespread fraud or violence, a
first-round victory by Putin will boost equities, said Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at Los Angeles-based TCW
Group Inc., which oversees about $120 billion in total assets.
Almost all of the demonstrations against Putin since the Dec. 4
Duma vote have been peaceful with few arrests. An opposition
rally is scheduled for March 10.  “Once this election hurdle is past, that alone will
increase the valuations of Russia relative to other European
countries,” Sri-Kumar said in a phone interview on Feb. 28.
“If the win is on the first round, I expect both the Micex and
the RTS indices to rise sharply when the markets open Monday in
Moscow.”  ‘Radical Reform’  The RTS Index added 0.2 percent to 1,726.78 in Moscow
yesterday.  The dollar-denominated gauge may climb to 2,500 by the end
of the year should the government under a Putin presidency
implement “radical reform” such as fresh Duma elections, the
removal of privileges for favored companies, and fiscal changes
that would allow the budget to balance below $100 a barrel,
 Kingsmill Bond , chief strategist at Citigroup Inc. in Moscow,
wrote in a Feb. 27 research note.  “Incremental reform” would push the RTS to 2,000, while a
crackdown on protesters and the media amid rising government
spending could drag the RTS down to 1,500, Bond said.  “We believe that the market is too phlegmatic about the
risks around the election as it continues to be lifted by rising
oil prices,” he wrote in the note.  Falling Volatility  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
rose 2.6 percent to HK$6.82 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:18
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.3 percent
today after U.S. jobless claims fell and European leaders agreed
to speed up providing a permanent bailout fund for the region’s
debt crisis.  The  Bloomberg Russia-U.S. 14 index  gained 1.2 percent to
114.29 yesterday, the biggest one-day advance this week. The  RTS
Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected swings in the index
futures, fell for the first time in five days, sliding 0.5
percent to 33.04.  Crude settled 1.7 percent higher at $108.84 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, after topping $110 for
the first time since May. An Iranian state-run news channel
reported an explosion at a pipeline in  Saudi Arabia . A Saudi
official said no oil facilities were sabotaged.  Cheapest Emerging Market  OAO Rostelecom (ROSYY) , Russia’s biggest fixed-line telephone
company, had the biggest drop on the Bloomberg Russia-U.S. 14
measure yesterday, widening the discount to its Moscow-listed
shares to 1.6 percent, the most since Feb. 13. The company’s
ADRs slid 1.7 percent to $29.65 after Rostelecom’s board
approved buying the stake in pay television operator National
Telecommunications that it didn’t already own.  Moscow’s ruble-denominated  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  trades at the lowest
valuation of the 21 emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg,
because of the “ risk premium ” investors associate with the
nation’s assets, according to Lewis Kaufman, a Santa Fe, New
Mexico-based money manager at Thornburg Investment Management,
who oversees the  Thornburg Developing World Fund (THDAX)  and helps
manage $79 billion.  The 30-stock Micex, which was little changed at 1598.83
yesterday, trades at 6.3 times analysts’ earnings estimates for
member companies. That’s cheaper than Hungary at 9.4 times,
 Turkey  at 9.6 and Egypt’s multiple of 8.4.  Gazprom (OGZPY)  ADRs trade at
3.6 times reported earnings, compared with 5.9 for London-based
BP Plc and 12.4 for PetroChina Co. Ltd, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Most Corrupt  “The lack of transparency in corporate governance, the
corruption, will look very much the same post-election as it did
pre-election,” said Kaufman, whose Developing World Fund is
made up of about 10 percent Russian stocks. “The risk premium
will remain elevated even in the event of a decisive Putin
victory.”  Russia is viewed as the world’s most corrupt major economy,
according to Transparency International’s  2011 Corruption
Perceptions Index , with higher levels of perceived graft than
Pakistan, Cameroon and Niger. Oil and natural gas sales
contributed almost 50 percent of Russian government revenue last
year, and make up about 17 percent of gross domestic product,
according to official estimates.  Putin, who has promised during campaigning to reverse
“repressive” state policies and protect private business,
needs to strengthen investor protection, lower taxes on the
energy sector and raise dividends at state-controlled companies
to make the nation’s stocks more attractive to foreign
investors, said Neil Wedlake, an eastern Europe equity
strategist at  Barclays Capital  in  London .  Lukoil Shelves Plans  “If Putin were to receive a strong majority vote, one
would expect less political or economic reform, whereas it’s
more likely we’d see a shift in policy if he were forced into a
second round,” Wedlake said in an interview on Feb. 29.  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY) , Russia’s biggest non-state oil producer, gained
0.9 percent to $64.30 in U.S. trading yesterday, reaching the
highest level since Aug. 2. The ADRs ended the day 0.5 percent
above Lukoil shares listed on the Micex. The company’s Moscow-
listed  stock  fell 0.3 percent to 1,870.50 rubles, or the
equivalent of $64.06. One ADR equals one ordinary share.  Lukoil shelved a plan to make a $1.8 billion shale
acquisition in the U.S. because of slumping natural-gas prices,
Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Leonid Fedun  said in an interview
in London yesterday. U.S. natural-gas prices slumped 55 percent
between June and January.  Oil Boost  Traders should sell May $26 put  options  and buy $36 calls
for the same month on the Market Vectors Russia ETF, according
to SocGen’s Cheong.  Implied volatility , the key gauge of options
prices, for three-month contracts closest to the fund’s price
has fallen 43 percent since an Oct. 4 high to 34.4 yesterday.  The 13 percent advance in the price of oil, Russia’s
biggest export earner, since the start of February may also
stoke gains in Russian stocks, Cheong said.  Urals crude ,
Russia’s chief export blend and biggest export earner, climbed
to a 3 1/2-year high of $125.26 a barrel yesterday.  Options are contracts that give the right, though not the
obligation, to buy or sell a security at a set price and date.
Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain amount, the
strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right to sell.
Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in the price
of securities they own, to speculate on share-price moves or to
bet that volatility, or stock swings, will rise or fall.  No Guarantee  A Putin victory is no guarantee of stability for Russia,
said Alexander Muromcew, who manages $500 million in emerging-
market stocks, including Russian investments, at TIAA-CREF. 
The protests following the Duma elections in December were the 
largest in Putin’s 12 years in power.  “It could be a risk that Putin wins and yet there’s still
dissatisfaction among the urban middle class,” Muromcew said by
phone on Feb. 29. “They could continue to protest when the
election is over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  