-- Putin Rides Out Russia’s Protest Wave on Europe-Beating Record on Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-03-02T09:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/putin-rides-out-russia-s-protest-wave.html
Vladimir Putin  may ride out a wave
of protests and return to the presidency on the back of an
economic track record that he says marks Russia out from the
turmoil sweeping parts of Europe.  Polls show Putin, 59, may win about 60 percent of the vote
in a March 4 election, enough to avoid a runoff. While that’s
down from the 71 percent he captured in 2004’s election and the
70 percent garnered by  Dmitry Medvedev  four years later, it
suggests that protests since a December parliamentary vote have
failed to undermine his authority.  As debt woes topple governments from  Portugal  to Greece and
 Romania , Putin is telling voters that he will use the country’s
oil revenue to increase spending, including on social programs
and the military. That’s boosted his poll ratings, fueling a 19
percent rally in  Russia ’s benchmark  Micex index  since Dec. 12,
when anti-Putin protests sent it to a two-month low.  “Unemployment and inflation are at outstanding levels
right now, the best in a long time,” said Valery Fedorov, the
head of the state-run pollster VTsIOM, in a telephone interview
in Moscow. “That creates an entirely auspicious background for
Putin’s re-election.”  Putin points to an economy that’s still growing just as the
euro region’s sovereign debt crisis threatens to tip one of
Russia’s biggest export markets into recession. Russia’s gross
domestic product per capita soared to $12,000 last year from
$2,400 in 2000 after Putin first became president, while the
average annual consumption per person in dollar terms rose to
$7,400 in 2011 from $2,000 eight years earlier, according to
Citigroup Inc.  ‘Fundamental Reasons’  The “fundamental reasons” behind  Europe ’s turmoil haven’t
yet been overcome and policy makers should have acted more
decisively in tackling the debt crisis, Putin  told  the chief
editors of foreign newspapers late yesterday.  “It’s hard to cross the abyss in two jumps -- you have to
jump once and then you may succeed,” Putin said. “Some
decisions were tardy.”  Russia succeeded in combating its own property bubble and
the slump in the  construction industry  by channeling state
resources into infrastructure projects and housing for the
military, Putin said.  Russia’s economy grew 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter
from the previous three months and expanded 4.9 percent on an
annual basis, the Economy Ministry  estimates . The GDP of the 17-
nation euro area contracted in the fourth quarter for the first
time in 2 1/2 years, shrinking 0.3 percent from the previous
three months.  Stability and Wellbeing  Putin has made safeguarding stability and the wellbeing of
Russians the cornerstones of his campaign, regaining voter
backing after the biggest protests in Moscow since the collapse
of the Soviet Union 20 years ago roiled the country’s markets.  His campaign pledges will raise  government spending  by 4.8
trillion rubles ($164 billion), or 5 percent of GDP, through
2018, according to an estimate from  Capital Economics , a London-
based research company.  “Everything we are doing is devoted to one goal --
improving the quality of life of Russian citizens,” Putin told
supporters and political analysts in Moscow on Feb. 29.  ‘Sobering Up’  The euro region and the U.S. are now “sobering up” after
relying on debt to fuel growth, Putin  said  at an investment
conference in Moscow on Feb. 2. Russia’s government debt was at
about 10 percent in 2011, the lowest debt-to-GDP ratio among all
investment-grade sovereigns, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
Feb. 29 report.  Putin built up his support from as low as 37 percent in a
Jan. 20-23 poll that included undecided voters, to 66 percent
among those who determined their choice for president, Lev Gudkov, director of the independent  Levada Center , told a Moscow
news conference Feb. 24.  “Russia is traditionally a social state, where people like
to be supported,” Mikhail Shamolin, chief executive officer of
 AFK Sistema (AFKS) , the holding company controlled by billionaire
Vladimir Evtushenkov, said in an interview. “Stability is now
better than change. That will allow the middle class to grow in
size, creating people capable of taking responsibility.”  Russian markets have stabilized since the aftermath of the
first protests, which were fueled by accusations of fraud in a
December parliamentary election that left Putin’s party with a
slim majority.  Fiscal Stimulus  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell four basis points
yesterday to 182, down from last year’s peak of 338 on Oct. 4,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The CDS climbed 75 basis points in a month as anti-Putin
elections gripped central Moscow, peaking at 290 basis points on
Jan. 5. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Putin’s government also deployed fiscal stimulus to sustain
growth after higher commodity prices pushed Russia’s budget into
surplus, while European counterparts sought to implement
austerity measures.  Urals crude , Russia’s main export oil blend,
averaged $109 a barrel last year, 40 percent more than in 2010,
and traded above $120 this week.  Putin’s critics say his spending plans may fall victim to
swings in the cost of oil. Military spending plans risk the
country’s economic stability, former Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said before he was dismissed by Medvedev in September.  ‘High and Unsustainable’  The cost of Urals crude has more than quadrupled since
Putin first became president in 2000. Russia’s reliance on
commodities exports to pay for “lavish spending” has led to an
“excessively high and unsustainable” break-even oil price, the
level needed to balance the budget,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  said in a
Feb. 14 report.  The country may need  oil prices  to average as much as $200
a barrel by 2018, compared with $125 this year, BNP said.  “I think a whole series of promises recently made are
irresponsible and openly populist,” said Sergei Guriev, rector
at the New Economic School in Moscow.  Polls are nevertheless showing that Putin will win the
presidential election in the first round, avoiding the first
runoff since 1996. Two-thirds of likely voters plan to back him
in the ballot, the independent pollster Levada Center said Feb.
24. The All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion ,
known as VTsIOM, and the Public Opinion Foundation project that
Putin would win 59.9 percent and 60.3 percent, respectively.  ‘Wow, Economic Stability’  Putin became Russian president 12 years ago, the year after
the country defaulted on $40 billion of domestic debt. Inflation
peaked at 127 percent in July 1999 and ended the year at 37
percent as Putin took over from  Boris Yeltsin  on New Year’s Eve.
In January, the inflation rate was at 4.2 percent, the slowest
pace on record.  “Everyone’s attitude is, oh, wow, economic stability, who
would have thought?” Stanislav Voskresensky, a deputy economy
minister, said in an interview. “Take a look at the streets of
 Athens  and you’ll remember immediately what it means to have
economic stability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  