-- Fed’s Raskin Says Economic Growth Likely to Remain ‘Modest’
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-03-01T16:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/raskin-says-expansion-is-likely-to-remain-modest-on-weakness-in-housing.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said the economic expansion has been strengthening, while
predicting its pace will remain “modest” in part due to
weakness in the housing market and fiscal tightening.  “Of late, we have had some relatively encouraging economic
news,” Raskin said today in the text of remarks given in
Westport,  Connecticut . Still, “the pace of expansion is likely
to remain modest over coming quarters.”  The U.S. economy’s headwinds “have been easing, at best,
only gradually,” and include a “very depressed” housing
market, government spending cuts and tight credit conditions,
she said. Raskin said in response to audience questions that in
developing a plan to reduce the  budget deficit , Congress needs
to “balance long-term austerity” with a “need to not hinder a
recovery” in the short term.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today in  Washington  that
elevated unemployment and subdued inflation mean interest rates
are likely to stay low, without offering any sign that the
economy needs an additional monetary boost. Bernanke, in
testimony to a Senate panel that is identical to his remarks
yesterday to the House, described “positive developments” in
the job market while saying it’s still “far from normal.”
Joblessness fell to 8.3 percent in January, the lowest since
February 2009.  “The pace of economic activity improved over the second
half of the year as the drag on spending and production from
high energy prices and temporary supply chain disruptions from
the disasters in  Japan  and  Thailand  waned,” Raskin said.  Gathering Strength  Reports yesterday added to evidence that the world’s
largest economy is gathering strength. Gross domestic product
grew at a 3 percent pace in the fourth quarter, up from an
initial estimate of 2.8 percent, the Commerce Department
reported. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said
its business barometer climbed to a 10-month high.  Even so, Bernanke repeated the Fed’s January statement that
economic conditions are likely to warrant low  interest rates  at
least through late 2014. That extended an earlier date of mid-
2013.  Raskin said that whether the increase in energy prices will
translate into a “persistent inflation problem,” will depend
on inflation expectations. “If, as I expect, inflation
expectations remain stable in response to the recent run-up in
gasoline prices, their influence on overall inflation should be
limited as well,” Raskin said.  She acknowledged the criticism that the Fed’s record
monetary stimulus “may limit the financial returns to saving
for a time,” while saying households still benefit from the
central bank’s efforts to spur growth. The Fed has kept its
benchmark rate near zero since December 2008.  “The highly accommodative monetary policy now in place is
intended to provide the support needed to strengthen the
economic expansion and, over time, return the economy to
sustainable rates of output growth, unemployment, and
inflation,” Raskin said. “Ultimately our goal is an economy
that is operating close to its potential and is producing jobs,
income, and opportunities for investment that will lead to
higher returns across a range of assets for savers and
investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  