-- Post-Fukushima U.S. Safety Rules Advance With NRC Majority Vote
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-03-01T21:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/reactor-safety-rule-tied-to-japan-backed-by-two-u-s-nrc-members.html
A majority of the five-member U.S.
 Nuclear Regulatory Commission  voted to issue rules on reactor
safety, moving the agency a step closer to enhancing safeguards
in response to  Japan ’s 2011 disaster.  NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  and member William Magwood
approved issuing the rules. William Ostendorff and George Apostolakis favored the orders, in part, and asked for revisions
before they take effect. Commissioner Kristine Svinicki didn’t
disclose her vote on the rules, which would cover companies
including  Southern Co. (SO)  and  Exelon Corp. (EXC)   “The rapidly approaching one-year anniversary of the
tragic earthquake, tsunami, and nuclear accident in Japan is a
poignant reminder of the importance of our work for nuclear
safety in the United States,” Jaczko said in his vote posted
today on the agency’s website.  A 9-magnitude earthquake and tsunami on March 11 crippled
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, causing
explosions, radiation leaks and meltdowns. The NRC and the
nuclear industry have been studying the disaster to bolster U.S.
plant protection from floods, quakes and power failures that
prevent the cooling of atomic waste.  The NRC’s rules would require that plant owners have
sufficient equipment on site to handle blackouts and adequate
instruments to monitor pools containing spent fuel during an
emergency. The agency also wants operators with older,  General
Electric Co (GE) .-designed reactors, similar to those that failed in
Japan, to have “hardened vents” to relieve gas pressure and
prevent explosions.  Agency Review  The NRC had set March 9 for action on the orders, developed
after an agency review of failures at the Fukushima plant, and
any revisions to the rules could delay the schedule.  Ostendorff asked the staff for a revision showing the rules
are necessary to ensure adequate public health and safety, and
be implemented without delay.  Jaczko wants owners of the 104 U.S. operating reactors,
such as  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  Dominion Resources Inc. (D) , to comply
with the rules by 2016.  The U.S. nuclear industry also has approved a plan to have
back-up generators and pumps at reactor sites to provide
protection against power failures.  The commissioners voted to approve a staff plan for
implementing the orders. The NRC staff has proposed preparing
the technical plans for the rules by August, giving reactor
owners until February 2013 to draft their compliance plans and
to take action no later than Dec. 31, 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  