-- Treasuries Decline as Jobless Claims Level Supports U.S. Economic Recovery
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-03-01T22:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/treasuries-decline-for-a-third-day-before-manufacturing-spending-reports.html
Treasuries fell as a report showed
weekly jobless claims matched a four-year low and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  for the second day failed to
indicate the central bank will boost economic stimulus.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose to the highest
level in a week after corporate bonds beat Treasuries in
February as the  U.S. economy  showed signs of improving. Bernanke
repeated testimony in the Senate that he delivered in the house
yesterday and described “positive developments” in the jobs
market. Spanish and French borrowing costs dropped.  “The jobs market is improving slightly,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in New
York, one of 21 firms that trade Treasuries with the Fed.
“Yields backed up a little bit. It’s a continuation of
yesterday’s selloff in Treasuries due to the fact that Bernanke
didn’t say enough to satisfy those who were expecting a more
dovish statement.”  The 10-year  yield  climbed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.03 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
maturing in February 2022 fell 1/2, or $5 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 3/4. The yield touched the highest since Feb. 22.
The yields have traded as low as 1.79 percent and as high as
2.09 percent this year.  Thirty-year bond yields rose six basis points to 3.15
percent, reaching the most since Feb. 22.  Bond Returns  “We’ve been at rich levels for a while,” said  Anthony Cronin , a trader at Societe Generale SA in New York, one of the
21 primary dealers that trade with the central bank. “It’s an
unwind of trades put on by people anticipating easing by the
Fed. The focus is starting to shift to next week’s payrolls.”  An index of U.S. sovereign securities returned 0.7 percent
since the end of November, versus 5.6 percent for investment-
grade and high-yield company debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show.  Volume in the Treasury market rose yesterday to $365
billion through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer
broker. Volume touched the highest level since Jan. 25, and was
above the one-year average of $273 billion.  Bernanke reiterated that inflation is likely to “remain
subdued” as the Fed continues to monitor energy markets. He
said the inflationary impact of higher gasoline prices is likely
to be temporary.  Oil Surge  Oil in New York rose higher than $110 for the first time
since May in electronic trading after the floor closed on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . Crude for April delivery climbed
as high as $110.55, up 3.3 percent from yesterday’s close and
the highest price since May 4.  Fed policy makers have a target of 2 percent for cost
increases in the economy, based on the personal consumption
expenditures index.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices during the life of the debt, was 2.28 percentage
points. The decade-long average is 2.14 percentage points.  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said he is
concerned that another round of asset purchases by the Fed would
fuel inflation while failing to spur lending.  Economic Pace  “I’m cautious about doing more involving expansion of the
Fed’s balance sheet,” Lockhart said today in a speech in
Atlanta. “Precisely because I see the transmission mechanism of
monetary policy through credit channels as constricted, I have
my doubts that the gains from such a policy action taken in the
near term would outweigh the longer-term potential costs,
including the risk to the Fed’s medium-term inflation outlook.”  Spain  and  France  sold 12.5 billion euros ($16.6 billion) of
bonds as yesterday’s European Central Bank loans to banks helped
spur demand for debt.  Spain’s two-year note yield declined today to 2.096
percent, the least since 2010. The yield on France’s 10-year
note dropped 11 basis points to 2.77 percent. The rate on
 Italy ’s two-year notes dropped below 2 percent for the first
time since October 2010.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , whose firm
is a member of the committee that decides whether default
insurance on Greek debt will pay out, said the group will
probably make one more decision on the issue.  Greek Debt  The International Swaps & Derivatives Association said
today that credit-default swaps tied to Greek debt won’t be paid
out after it was asked to rule whether part of the nation’s $170
billion bailout was a  credit event . The group said the  European
Central Bank ’s exchange of Greek bonds for new securities exempt
from losses being imposed on private investors hasn’t triggered
$3.25 billion of outstanding credit-default swaps.  U.S. debt briefly pared losses after a manufacturing index
unexpectedly declined in February. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index fell to 52.4 in February from 54.1 a
month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed
today. The median estimate of 78 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a rise to 54.5. Readings above 50 signal
growth.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased 2,000 in the
week ended Feb. 25 to 351,000, Labor Department figures showed
today. The number matches that in the Feb. 11 week, which was
the lowest since March 2008. Economists forecast 355,000 claims,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  A Labor Department report on March 9 may show nonfarm
payrolls grew by 206,000 in February, after 243,000 jobs created
the previous month, according to  Bloomberg News survey of
economists, The  unemployment rate  is forecast to remain at 8.3
percent.  “Fundamentally, it’s difficult to make the case that we
should be at 2 percent” on the 10-year yield, said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist in  New York  at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, another primary dealer. “The
data are telling us we remain in a modest growth backdrop.”  Treasuries posted a loss of 0.7 percent last month,
compared with a return of 0.5 percent for January, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  