-- Rising Crude Prices Tap Into a Barrel of Nonsense: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-03-01T00:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/rising-crude-prices-tap-into-a-barrel-of-nonsense-caroline-baum.html
There is nothing, and I mean
nothing, like rising crude- oil prices  to make sensible people go
all wobbly in the head. Economists fail to differentiate between
cause and effect. They confuse a supply shock with a shift in
demand and see the outcomes as interchangeable. And they can’t
see beyond the immediate negative impact on the consumer.  When rising oil prices coincide with an election year,
people start spouting utter nonsense. It never changes. In fact,
the script follows a predictable template:  Act I: Oil prices rise. Then they rise higher, surpassing
the $100-a-barrel mark, as the threat of a potential supply
disruption prompts real and speculative buying.  Gas prices  head
toward $4 a gallon or (alternate scenario) set a  record  for the
current month/season of the year.  Act II: Enter the politicians to blame whichever party
holds the White House at the time. The media report that
households are feeling the pinch, forced to choose between
feeding the family and filling the tank.  Act III: Economists warn of the negative impact of higher
oil prices on a fragile economy. They produce model-based
estimates of the effect of every $1 increase in the price of oil
on gross domestic product. Former Morgan Stanley economist
 Stephen Roach  reminds us that “oil shocks” -- he uses the term
loosely to describe any price spike, not an actual reduction in
supply, the correct usage -- have a perfect track record of
predicting recessions.  I counter Roach by pointing out that correlation is not
causation, that in each case the  Federal Reserve  was  braking 
hard to slow the economy.  Act IV: The president comes under pressure to “do
something.” In the short run, this means a cosmetic release of
oil from the  Strategic Petroleum Reserve , an emergency facility
that politicians view as a slush fund. A Senate committee
chairman holds a show trial for Big Oil executives to discuss
big profits and to offer his support for an excess-profits tax.
Environmentalists and economists who favor a tax on carbon-based
fuels go quiet.  Act V: The global threat to  supply  recedes, oil prices
settle back to normal, and everyone files the script away for
the next revival.  In the current reprise of “Crude Oil Rising,” Act IV is
just beginning. Last week, Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
acknowledged there was a “case” for releasing oil from the SPR
in certain circumstances, citing the potential for supply
disruptions from  Iran . Economists are warning about  new threats 
from rising oil prices.  Just once I’d like to read a story that mentions the
beneficiaries of rising oil prices -- oil producers -- and the
trickle-down effect on the economy. In case you haven’t noticed,
the oil and gas industry has been on a  hiring binge , adding
30,000 employees since December 2009, a 19.4 percent increase.
Mining, of which oil and gas are a component, increased hiring
by 27 percent in that time frame. The only category that came
close was  temporary-help services .  Newly hired workers receive paychecks -- and in many cases,
benefits. Oil-industry profits are paid out as dividends to
shareholders, consumers by another name. Higher prices, in turn,
provide an incentive to find new sources of energy.  Even the petrodollars sent overseas come back in some form:
purchases of goods and services, foreign direct investment or
securities purchases.  So rising oil prices aren’t a one-way street. Unfortunately
the pain and benefits aren’t contemporaneous.  Silent Underground  In some circles, including the current administration,
higher oil prices are a goal -- except not in an election year
and not when prices are high to begin with. Before he became
President Barack Obama’s energy secretary, Steven Chu was an
advocate of higher oil prices as a means of curbing the public’s
consumption of fossil fuels and increasing the viability of
alternative energy.  In a September 2008  interview , Chu told the Wall Street
Journal, “Somehow we have to figure out how to boost the price
of gasoline to the levels in  Europe .”  I suspect Chu will refrain from advocating European-style
gas prices -- two or three times U.S. prices, courtesy of a
hefty value-added tax -- until he returns to academia.  There’s another group that wants to make gas consumption
more expensive, but for a different reason: to correct for
negative externalities, or the adverse effects of an activity on
those who aren’t a party to the transaction. Coal-burning  power
plants , for example, don’t bear the entire cost of their
production; we do in the quality of the air we breathe.  Organized as  the Pigou Club  by Harvard’s Greg Mankiw, this
 group  includes such free-market notables as Gary Becker, a
University of Chicago Nobel laureate in economics;  George Shultz , a former secretary of state; and former Fed chief  Alan Greenspan , not to mention obvious supporters, such as the New
York Times’ Tom Friedman and  Paul Krugman .  This group goes underground during recurrent productions of
“Crude Oil Rising.” Even the tree-huggers lose their affection
for higher gas prices once they become a reality.  Besides, they don’t have much of a role in this drama,
where all the parts have been pre-cast. Once the final curtain
comes down -- once gas prices fall and the 2012 election is
history -- advocates for higher gas prices can go back to
peddling their ideas to a fresh audience.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View :  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 