-- Romney Forced to Clear Up Flap on Contraception Measure Stance
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-03-01T00:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/romney-forced-to-clear-up-flap-on-contraception-measure-stance.html
Mitt Romney  caused a stir while
campaigning in Ohio today when he said he opposes a Republican-
backed plan to let employers opt out of providing health
coverage for contraception -- and then quickly moved to stress
his support for the measure.  The proposal, scheduled for a U.S. Senate vote tomorrow,
would undo a health-care rule by President  Barack Obama 
requiring  insurers to cover contraception without charge for
insured employees, even at religiously affiliated institutions.
Conservatives have rallied around the proposed exemption,
sponsored by Senator  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican who backs
Romney in the party’s presidential race.  “I’m not for the bill,” Romney said in a television
interview taped this afternoon for  Ohio  News Network.  Keith Appell, a Republican strategist working with a
coalition of groups pressing for passage of the Blunt measure,
said Romney’s remarks would “infuriate” conservatives if it
were his true position.  In a later radio interview, Romney said he “didn’t
understand” the question, “and of course I support the Blunt
amendment.”  Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul said in a statement the
campaign quickly issued: “Regarding the Blunt bill, the way the
question was asked was confusing.  Governor Romney  supports the
Blunt bill because he believes in a conscience exemption in
health care for religious institutions and people of faith.”  Santorum’s Influence  Social issues such as insurance coverage for contraception
have emerged in the Republican presidential race due in part to
former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , who has used his
opposition to abortion rights and gay marriage to rally those
who view Romney as insufficiently committed to such causes.  The television interview was taped for the Ohio News
Network, which planned to air it later today. The interviewer,
Jim Heath, wrote on Twitter late in the afternoon that Romney
opposed Blunt’s measure, setting off immediate attacks from
conservative bloggers.  After Saul’s statement was reported,  David Axelrod , Obama’s
top campaign strategist, said in a Twitter message, “For a few
minutes, seemed Mitt had exercised some independence by opposing
the dismaying Blunt bill. Now his team has walked it back.”  In the television interview, posted on the Ohio News
Network’s website, Heath describes the Blunt amendment, co-
sponsored by Republican Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida , as
allowing employers to “ban”  birth control .  Question to Romney  Referring to Santorum, Heath says: “He’s brought
contraception into this campaign. The issue of birth control,
contraception, Blunt-Rubio is being debated, I believe, later
this week. It deals with banning or allowing employers to ban
providing female contraception. Have you taken a position on
it?”  Romney responds: “I’m not for the bill, but look, the idea
of presidential candidates getting into questions about
contraception within a relationship between a man and a women,
husband and wife, I’m not going there.”  Heath didn’t inquire further about Romney’s answer.  In Romney’s later interview with conservative radio talk
show host Howie Carr, Romney said of Heath’s question: “I
thought he was talking about some state law that prevented
people from getting contraception.”  He continued: “I simply misunderstood the question.”  Ohio offers the largest trove of delegates on Match 6 --
Super Tuesday -- when 11 contests are held in the Republican
race. A Quinnipiac poll of likely voters in the Ohio primary
taken Feb. 23-26 showed Santorum with a seven-percentage-point
lead over Romney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  