-- Romney Presses for Wins on Super Tuesday to Allay Doubts Among Republicans
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-02T19:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/romney-deals-with-confusion-on-contraception-issue-after-twin-primary-wins.html
Mitt Romney  is pressing to refocus
the Republican presidential race on jobs and the economy in the
sprint to Super Tuesday contests next week, looking to blunt
rival  Rick Santorum ’s bid to sow doubts about his record on
social issues.  Romney took his economic-focused pitch to a community
center today in Bellevue,  Washington , where he reminded voters
that their backing in the state’s caucuses tomorrow could
bolster or sap his momentum heading into Super Tuesday.  “There are going to be a bunch of states that are going to
make their mind up in the next couple of days, but you guys are
first,” Romney told about 800 people. Though “it won’t take a
long time” to participate in the caucuses, “it will just make
a big difference.”  Romney emphasized his plans to cut federal spending and
taxes and balance the budget, as well as proposals to target
 China  for currency manipulation and intellectual property theft
-- actions he said President  Barack Obama  has failed to prevent.  “When this president ran for office, he said he was
concerned about how China was not playing fair, not playing by
the rules, and he said he’d take them to the mat. Well, since
then, they’ve walked all over him,” Romney said.  ‘Currency Manipulator’  He pledged that as president, on his first day in office he
would “label China a currency manipulator, and apply tariffs
where they’re stealing jobs.”  Romney has been stressing economic themes after a flap he
caused earlier this week over a contraception-related issue gave
Santorum a chance to question the former Massachusetts
governor’s core beliefs and commitment to socially conservative
principles.  Both men were aiming for victories in the 11 contests to be
held March 6, which will award the largest delegate haul in the
campaign so far and could go a long way toward determining the
nominee in an unpredictable Republican race.  A poll released today by the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute in Hamden,  Connecticut , shows the primary race
tightening in  Ohio , a Super Tuesday state that is expected to be
a battleground in the general election. Santorum has a four-
point lead in the poll, 35 percent to Romney’s 31 percent, with
a margin of error of plus or minus 4.3 percentage points. The
telephone poll was conducted Feb. 29 and March 1 among 517
likely Republican primary voters.  The previous Quinnipiac poll in Ohio gave Santorum a seven-
point lead, 36 percent to 29 percent.  ‘Insurgent Campaign’  Santorum, seeking to rebound from losses to Romney in the
Arizona and Michigan Feb. 28 primaries, spoke today in
Chillicothe, Ohio, and said he was waging “a grassroots
insurgent campaign against the big boys.”  Addressing an audience at a local high school, he stressed
his goal of reducing “government control of your lives.”  Romney, campaigning yesterday in Fargo, North Dakota,
depicted himself as a defender of social conservatives’
priorities, telling a voter who asked him about gun laws that he
would “protect the right to bear arms.”  Blunt’s Proposal  He used the question as a chance to reiterate his support
for a Senate measure that would let employers deny health-
insurance coverage for contraception and other services that
violate their principles. The legislation, proposed by Senator
 Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican who backs Romney, was defeated
yesterday on a 51-48 vote in the Democrat-controlled chamber.  Romney created confusion Feb. 29 about his stance on the
legislation, telling an Ohio television interviewer he didn’t
support it, only to have his campaign quickly issue a statement
saying he did back the measure and had misunderstood the
question.  Though Romney himself later stressed his support for
Blunt’s proposal, the dust-up over the matter reflected doubts
many Republican rank-and-file voters have about his stance on
social issues.  Santorum, 53, the former Pennsylvania senator who has
emphasized his opposition to abortion rights, seized on the
episode yesterday, saying it gave voters insight into “what’s
in the gut of  Governor Romney .”  ‘Gut Reaction’  “If I was asked a question like that, my gut reaction”
would always be ‘you stand for the First Amendment. You stand
for freedom of religion,’” he told voters gathered in an
airport hangar in Atlanta,  Georgia . “You want someone who at
their core believes and is going to step up and fight, not put
them on the back burner.”  He urged his listeners to “stand with the conservative”
in the race.  Santorum later campaigned in Washington state, telling
voters at a church rally in Spokane that the “best chance”
Republicans have to defeat Obama “is not to go along with the
good old boys who always want to nominate a moderate.” he said.  At Romney’s stop yesterday in  North Dakota  -- a state with
caucuses on Super Tuesday -- he blamed Obama for slowing U.S.
energy development.  Obama “has tried to slow the growth of oil and gas
production in this country, and coal production,” Romney said
during an appearance in Fargo. “Far from taking credit, he
should be hanging his head and taking a little bit of the blame
for what’s going on today,” he told a few hundred people seated
on a warehouse floor at Wrigley Mechanical, a mechanical
contracting company in Fargo.  Romney’s promise to expand energy development came in a
state where an oil boom has fueled an 8.7 percent growth in
economic health during Obama’s presidency, according to the
 Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States  index that measures such
statistics as tax collections, personal income,  home prices  and
employment.  The Obama administration has emphasized data that show
domestic crude oil production at the highest level in eight
years. At the same time, U.S. warnings to  Iran  about its nuclear
program helped drive gasoline futures to a nine-month high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Idaho Falls at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Dalton, Georgia at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at  jcummings21@bloomberg.net  