-- Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Tops Estimates
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-03-01T21:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/royal-bank-of-canada-raises-dividend-after-profit-beats-analyst-estimates.html
Royal Bank of Canada  and Toronto-
Dominion Bank, the country’s two biggest banks, raised their
dividends after reporting profits that topped analysts’
estimates on record earnings from  consumer lending .  Royal Bank’s first-quarter earnings from continuing
operations fell 6 percent to C$1.88 billion ($1.91 billion), or
C$1.23 a share, the Toronto-based bank said today in a
statement. At Toronto-Dominion, net income for the period ended
Jan. 31 declined 5.3 percent to C$1.48 billion, or C$1.55 a
share, according to a statement.  Record earnings from consumer and business lending drove
profits higher than forecast at the Canadian banks. The economy
is expected to expand 2 percent this year after an estimated 2.4
percent in 2011, even as global weakness and the strong dollar
remain a challenge to exports, the Bank of  Canada  said last
month.  “The banks are back to their usual selves,” said  Barry Schwartz , portfolio manager with Baskin Financial Services Inc.
in Toronto, which oversees about C$450 million in assets. “All
things are rosy; we’re raising dividends again, personal banking
was strong and obviously the bond traders had a very, very good
quarter.”  Royal Bank rose 2 percent to C$56.80 at in Toronto trading,
the biggest gain since Dec. 22. Toronto-Dominion  climbed  1.2
percent to C$81.83.  Domestic Banking  Royal Bank, the country’s largest lender by assets, said
Canadian banking profit rose 6.5 percent to a record C$994
million as mortgages, personal loans and deposits grew and the
bank set aside less for bad loans. Royal Bank said it plans to
outpace growth in the Canadian banking industry by 25 percent.  “Across our Canadian businesses, the signs remain quite
reasonable,” Royal Bank Chief Executive Officer Gordon Nixon
told reporters at the bank’s annual meeting in Toronto. “We’re
starting to see a pickup in commercial loan demand, which is a
good thing. It’s a sign the companies are investing.”  Toronto-Dominion (TD)  said Canadian consumer-banking net income
climbed 11 percent to a record C$850 million because of
increases in commercial lending.  Domestic consumer banking “exceeded our expectations for
the quarter,” Toronto-Dominion Chief Financial Officer Colleen Johnston said in a telephone interview. “It really just shows
you the strength of our franchise and our business model.”  Royal Bank said it earned C$1.25 a share excluding some
items and the U.S. consumer bank it’s selling. The lender was
expected to have adjusted profit of C$1.14, based on the average
estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘Display of Strength’  “There is nothing to complain about in these results, and
we see them as an across-the-board display of strength from
Royal,” Sumit Malhotra, an analyst with Macquarie  Capital
Markets , said today in a note.  Excluding a litigation reserve and other one-time items,
Toronto-Dominion said it earned C$1.86 a share. That topped the
C$1.77 average  estimate  of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , the country’s fifth-biggest bank, also
beat analysts’ estimates when it reported Feb. 28.  Earnings growth prompted Toronto-Dominion and Royal Bank to
raise their quarterly dividends by about 6 percent.  Royal’s dividend increase “was a surprise and could
indicate that the board is comfortable assuming that higher run-
rate contributions from capital markets could continue,” said
 John Aiken , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in Toronto.  RBC Bank Sale  Royal Bank’s net income, which includes its RBC Bank
business in the U.S. that’s being sold, fell 4.8 percent to
C$1.86 billion, or C$1.21 a share, according to its statement.  Royal Bank agreed in June to sell its Raleigh, North
Carolina-based RBC Bank to  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
which agreed to pay $3.62 billion for the U.S. lender and credit
card assets in a deal expected to be completed tomorrow.  Royal Bank’s earnings were pared by a capital markets
slowdown and lower trading revenue from a year ago. Profit from
the RBC Capital Markets investment-banking business fell 30
percent to C$448 million from the year-earlier period.
Underwriting and advisory fees declined 40 percent to C$294
million.  Standard & Poor’s today lowered its recommendation on Royal
Bank to “hold” from “buy” because of the earnings
contribution from “volatile” trading and underwriting.  Trading revenue across the bank fell to C$784 million, down
22 percent from C$1 billion a year earlier, on a decline in
trading of stocks,  interest rate  and credit securities.  Insurance Surged  Wealth-management earnings decreased 12 percent to C$188
million, while insurance profit surged 40 percent to C$190
million from a year earlier.  International banking profit, including Caribbean banking
and its RBC Dexia partnership and excluding the U.S. RBC Bank,
was C$24 million, down from C$68 million a year earlier.  The bank set aside C$267 million for bad loans, compared
with C$264 million a year earlier.  Toronto-Dominion net income declined for the first time in
more than a year after it recorded litigation costs related to a
 Ponzi scheme  in  Florida .  Toronto-Dominion recorded costs of C$171 million for
litigation related to disbarred Florida attorney Scott Rothstein, who admitted running a $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme. The
bank lost a $67 million jury verdict in January over an investor
group’s claims the lender helped Rothstein.  Excluding one-time items, Toronto-Dominion’s profit climbed
9 percent to C$1.7 billion.  ‘Modest’ Growth  U.S.  consumer-banking  profit increased 8 percent to C$352
million. Toronto-Dominion expects “modest” growth for that
unit over the balance of the year.  “That’s a business where we felt it’s going to be a
challenge to grow the bottom line, given what’s happening on the
regulatory front,” Johnston said.  Toronto-Dominion has “strategic size” in the U.S. and
doesn’t need to make further acquisitions, CEO  Edmund Clark  said
in a conference call with investors.  “We continue to look at things, but we’re not in a hurry
to do deals,” Clark said in the call.  Wealth management and insurance profit rose 14 percent to
C$349 million in the first quarter for reporting those
businesses as a combined unit.  Profit from TD Securities investment bank declined 17
percent to C$194 million, as the bank had higher investment
portfolio gains a year earlier. Toronto-Dominion set aside C$404
million for soured loans, down from C$421 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  