-- Group of Ruling Party Lawmakers Call for BOJ Inflation Target Above 2%
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2012-03-01T08:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/ruling-party-group-calls-for-boj-inflation-target-above-2-1-.html
A group of ruling party lawmakers
called on the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to set an inflation target of above
2 percent and asked the government to name central bank board
members who favor the move when two seats open up in April.  “People determined to introduce inflation targets should
be appointed,”  Sumio Mabuchi , a leader of the Democratic Party
of Japan group, said in an interview today in  Tokyo  after
submitting its proposal to DPJ policy chief  Seiji Maehara . Yochi
Kaneko, another lawmaker, said the group plans to propose
candidates “in a week or so.”  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and board members on Feb. 14
set an inflation “goal” of 1 percent, after previously stating
that their understanding of  price stability  was gains of between
zero and 2 percent, centered on 1 percent. The bank also
unexpectedly increased its asset-purchase program by 10 trillion
yen ($123 billion) to 30 trillion yen.  Ruling and opposition lawmakers have criticized Shirakawa
for falling short in his efforts to reverse the yen’s rise to a
postwar high and end more than a decade of falling prices. Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  opposes calls to change laws governing
the BOJ to allow more political oversight, while calling for
more “bold” central bank action. The yen has fallen 3.2
percent against the dollar since Feb. 14.  Further Easing  The group of about 70 legislators called on the central
bank to introduce further monetary easing at its March 12-13
policy board meeting.  Such a move two months in a row would be “epoch-making,”
Mabuchi said, and give a clear signal the BOJ is committed to
inflation targets like central banks in other countries. The
bank should undertake more purchases of long-term  government
bonds  in March, when many companies close their books, the
group’s statement said.  Maehara told the group his aims “are exactly in the same
direction,” leader  Sakihito Ozawa  told reporters after the
meeting. Maehara in a June 2011 interview said the Bank of Japan
“can expand its balance sheet a little more” to aid the
recovery from last March’s earthquake and nuclear disaster.  The terms of two of the bank’s policy board members, Seiji
Nakamura and Hidetoshi Kamezaki, will expire on April 4.
Parliament must approve the government nominees.  Mabuchi, a former transport minister, said one new member
should be a former president of an exporting company who
understands the “pain” of the yen’s rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net 
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  