-- San Francisco Diesel Strengthens on Flaring at Chevron Richmond
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-03-01T23:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/san-francisco-diesel-strengthens-on-flaring-at-chevron-richmond.html
California-blend diesel in San
Francisco strengthened for the second day to the highest level
against futures in almost four months after  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  flared
gases at the Richmond refinery in Northern  California .  California-blend, low-sulfur diesel, known as CARB diesel,
in  San Francisco (DIEISCAD)  rose for a second day, by 3.5 cents to a
premium of 16.5 cents versus heating oil futures traded on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the largest premium for the fuel in San
Francisco since Nov. 4.  Chevron, based in  San Ramon , California, flared gases at
the 240,000-barrel-a-day  Richmond (CTRCCRUD)  refinery yesterday, according
to a notice filed with Contra Costa County regulators.  “We reported a Level 1 incident yesterday morning,”
Melissa Ritchie, a Chevron spokeswoman at the refinery, said in
an e-mail today. “Beyond that we do not comment on day-to-day
operations.”  The Richmond plant, the largest oil refinery in Northern
California, also flared gases Feb. 27 “due to low feed rates
and unstability of the plant,” according to a state regulatory
notice.  Sean Comey , a Chevron spokesman in San Ramon, declined
to comment on the filing and said the refinery “continues to
supply products to our customers without interruption.”  CARB diesel in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD)  gained 1.5 cents to a 15.5-cent
premium.  Distillate Supplies  Distillate stocks  in California dropped 7.6 percent to 3.77
million barrels last week, the lowest level in eight weeks, the
state Energy Commission said yesterday. London-based  BP Plc (BP/) 
started a hydrocracker at the 266,000-barrel-a-day  Carson (BPCRCRUD) 
refinery in  Southern California  earlier this week following
unplanned repairs, a person familiar with the work said Feb. 27.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  fell
for the fourth straight day, slipping 6.75 cents to a premium of
14.75 cents against Nymex gasoline futures, the lowest level in
three weeks.  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  Carbob fell 6.75 cents to 11.75 cents
above futures.  California gasoline supplies  rose for the first time in
three weeks, by 441,000 barrels to 7 million in the week ended
Feb. 24, the state Energy Commission said yesterday.  Jet fuel  in  Los Angeles  strengthened for the second day, by
0.5 cent to a premium of 12 cents.  Inventories (CALXREFP)  of the  aviation
fuel  fell dropped 7.9 percent to 3.5 million barrels last week,
an 11-week low, state data showed.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland (MOGHD87P) ,  Oregon ,
weakened for the fourth day, by 3 cents to a discount of 9.5
cents a gallon.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , based in  San Antonio , brought the catalytic
cracking and alkylation units at the 125,000-barrel-a-day
 Anacortes (TEANCRUD)  refinery in Washington state back to service following
repairs, two people familiar with the work said Feb. 28.  “Process units (unspecified) at Tesoro’s Anacortes
refinery have been restarted and operations are at planned
rates,” Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at the company’s
headquarters in San Antonio, said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  