-- Senegal’s Wade to Face Ex-Prime Minister in Second-Round Vote
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-03-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/senegal-s-wade-to-face-ex-prime-minister-in-second-round-vote.html
Senegalese President  Abdoulaye Wade 
will face his former prime minister in a runoff after he failed
to win a majority of votes needed to clinch a third term in
office in the West African nation.  Wade, 85, got 34.8 percent of ballots counted after the
Feb. 26 vote, Radio Futurs Medias reported, citing results from
the Court of Appeal today in Dakar, the capital. Macky Sall, the
50-year-old candidate who came second, got 26.5 percent. A
candidate needed at least 50 percent of votes to win in the
first round. The runoff will be held March 18.  The election was held a month after the country’s
 Constitutional Court  approved Wade’s bid to extend his 12 years
in office. Opposition groups including Mouvement 23 said his
candidacy violated a rule limiting presidential terms to two.
Wade said the rule didn’t apply to him because he was already in
office when it was enacted.  M23 was among the groups that organized days of protests
which turned violent amid clashes with police, leaving at least
nine dead, according to  Amnesty International .  “Macky Sall will need to go and see the other candidates
to get their blessing and become the chosen candidate of the M23
coalition,” said Abdou Fall, Senegal analyst with  Pretoria ,
South Africa-based Institute for Security Studies. “If he is
going to win, he will need their support,” he said by phone
from Dakar.  Appeal  Sall was prime minister from 2004 to 2008. He pledged to
boost growth in Senegal’s $13 billion economy by attracting
investors and cutting corruption in an interview Feb. 12. He
told reporters yesterday that he would lower presidential
mandates to five years from the current seven years if he wins.  Wade must earn the support of Senegalese who decided not to
vote, Fall said, putting the figure at around 40 percent. “If
he can appeal to these people, he has a chance.”  The yield on  Senegal ’s $500 million Eurobonds dropped for a
second day, falling 8 basis points to 8.607 percent late
yesterday in  London , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Voting was “held in acceptable conditions of freedom and
transparency,” said Koffi Sama, former prime minister of Togo
and head of the Economic Community of West African States’
observer mission. “No major incidents or irregularities” were
found, he said in a Feb. 27 statement.  The tension that led to weeks of protest has eased, said
Fall. “There is a sense of resignation and a feeling of
satisfaction that there is going to be a second round,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  