-- Serbia Wins European Union Candidate Status in Step Toward Entry Talks
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-03-01T21:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/serbia-wins-european-union-candidate-status-in-step-toward-entry-talks.html
Serbia  was declared a candidate to
join the European Union, taking a further step out of the
isolation it suffered after the Yugoslav wars of the 1990s.  The status, confirmed at an EU summit today in Brussels,
moves Serbia closer to starting EU entry talks, a multi-year
process that comes with no guarantee of admission and is clouded
by tensions with  Kosovo , a province that broke away from Serb
rule in 2008.  Serbia, the largest ex-Yugoslav republic, is counting on
the drive toward membership to strengthen its economy at a time
of 24.4 percent unemployment. Growth is set to shrink to 0.5
percent this year from 1.9 percent in 2011, as the euro area’s
fiscal crisis weighs on demand for Serbia’s exports and bites
into investor appetite for its bonds.  Serbia will also gain access to an additional 26 EU aid
programs, boosting its annual funding from the bloc from 200
million euros ($266 million), said Ognjen Miric, deputy head of
Serbia’s EU integration office.  “The candidacy is a message to investors that Serbia is
more ready for foreign investment,” Miric said in a Feb. 29
interview in Belgrade.  The national enmities that linger in the Balkans came close
to stopping Serbia from moving ahead. At a meeting of lower-
level ministers on Feb. 28, neighboring  Romania  raised last-
minute objections, pressing Serbia to first guarantee better
rights for its 30,000-strong Romanian minority. Romania also
demanded that it be let into the passport-free travel zone that
covers most EU countries.  Serbian Snub  Instead of delivering the candidacy status, all the
ministers could do was issue a recommendation for today’s
summit. The non-decision was a snub for Serb President  Boris Tadic , who had journeyed to Brussels to mark the occasion. Tadic
is banking on the EU signal to boost his party’s prospects in
parliamentary elections due in late April or early May.  In power since 2004, Tadic has sought to steer Serbia
toward  Europe  without alienating public opinion that is
overwhelmingly against concessions on Kosovo, recognized as an
independent state by most EU countries and the U.S.  While continuing to assert sovereignty over Kosovo, Serbia
last week agreed to let Kosovo government representatives take
part in international meetings.  Today’s EU declaration came without a date for the start of
entry talks. With Europe focused on resolving the debt crisis,
further expansion has taken a back seat.  Croatia , Serbia’s ex-
Yugoslav neighbor, took eight years to go from candidate status
to expected entry in mid-2013, and no timeline was set for
Serbia.  Serbia joins  Montenegro  and the Republic of Macedonia as
official Balkan EU candidates. Three others -- Albania, Bosnia-
Herzegovina and Kosovo -- are further back in the process.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  