-- Sheep Producers Won’t Know Schmallenberg Effect Until Month End
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-03-01T17:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/sheep-producers-won-t-know-schmallenberg-effect-until-month-end.html
European Union sheep farmers whose
profits are being cut by the Schmallenberg virus that causes
 birth defects  in lambs won’t know the extent of the disease
until later this month, said the U.K. National Farmers Union.  The virus has been identified on 83 farms in the U.K.,
including 78 sheep farms, though is “very unlikely” to
transfer to humans, according to the Department for Environment,
Food and Rural Affairs.  The virus has been found on 1,342 farms
in the EU, including 718 in Germany, the National Beef
Association said on Feb. 29.  Schmallenberg, which affects new-born lambs and calves, has
had a “limited impact on farms” and is being monitored, said
Nigel Gibbens, Defra’s chief veterinary officer, said today in
an e-mailed statement. The number of the U.K.’s 68,000 sheep
farms affected by the disease is quite small, said Peter
Garbutt, chief livestock adviser for the NFU. The country is the
fifth-biggest producer of sheep meat, United Nations data show.  “We need to keep the scope of the disease in proportion,”
Garbutt said by phone today. “March is when we’ll see whether
this problem grows or not. It’s a big deal for farmers affected
but when you put it into context, the number of farms affected
is very small. How that fits into consumer perception I don’t
know. We have to see how we get through lambing season.”  The Schmallenberg virus is named after the German city near
where it was first identified in November. It was probably
spread by biting midges last year, infecting pregnant sheep,
cows and goats, according to  Germany ’s Federal Research
Institute for  Animal Health , which discovered it.  Farmers’ Profits  The virus is hurting farmers’  profits , according to a
statement from  EBLEX , an English beef and sheep meat industry
group.  “It will take some time to see the true impact of the
spread of this disease, but it is having an effect on livestock
production business and profitability,” EBLEX said. “From a
supply point of view, it is important to understand that there
is no impact on human health as it is not transmissible to
humans through either meat or dairy products.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  