-- South Korean Exports Rise Most in 6 Months in February as Outlook Improves
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-03-01T02:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/south-korea-s-february-exports-rise-22-7-from-year-earlier.html
South  Korea ’s exports rose in
February by the most in six months, adding to signs that Asian
exporters are gaining momentum as the  U.S. economy  improves and
progress is made addressing  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Overseas shipments rose 22.7 percent last month from a year
earlier after falling a revised 7 percent in January, the
Ministry of Knowledge Economy said in a statement today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists was
for a 16.4 percent gain.  Japan  and South Korea reported larger-than-forecast
industrial production in January amid a strengthening U.S.
recovery and signs that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may be
contained. The Bank of Korea refrained from raising  interest
rates  for an eighth month on Feb. 9 to support growth amid signs
of easing inflation.  “Taking out the temporary factor of the Lunar New Year
holiday, exports are still far from strong, although the overall
external outlook seems to be improving,” Lee Sang Jae, a senior
economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul, said. The Lunar
holiday fell in January this year and in February last year.  Combining January and February, overseas shipments rose 6.8
percent from a year ago, today’s report showed. Daily average
exports increased to $2.05 billion in February from $1.88
billion in January.  Exports rose to $47.2 billion last month from $41.3 billion
in January. Imports climbed 23.6 percent from a year ago to $45
billion. The  trade surplus  was $2.2 billion.  Trade Partners Recovering  The won rose 0.5 percent to 1,118.96 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in Seoul yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark Kospi stock index gained 1.3 percent.
Domestic financial markets are closed for a holiday today.  Shipments to the European Union rose 30.4 percent from a
year earlier in the first 20 days of February, the ministry said
today. Shipments to  China , the biggest buyer of South Korean
goods, increased 14.5 percent. Exports to the U.S. rose 64.5
percent. Data for exports to individual countries are only
available for the first 20 days of the month.  “As easing by key trading partners begins to feed into the
real economy, demand for Korean goods will gradually pick up,”
Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, said
before the release. “This will afford the  Bank of Korea  space
to focus back on inflation, which faces significant upside risks
over the coming months, compounded by the recent rally in  oil
prices .”  South Korea’s stocks will rise to a record this year as
export growth to the U.S. and China allows the nation to
withstand higher oil prices, Jeon Jeong Woo, Seoul-based
managing director for equities at Samsung Asset Management Co.,
the country’s biggest money manager, said in a Feb. 27
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  