-- PMI in South Africa Increases to Highest in Two Years as Factories Expand
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-03-01T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/south-africa-s-pmi-increases-to-highest-in-two-years-as-factories-expand.html
South Africa ’s purchasing managers’
 index  rose to the highest in two years in February, a signal the
manufacturing industries in Africa’s biggest economy are
rebounding from last year’s slump, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index rose to 57.9 from 53.2 in
January, Johannesburg-based  Kagiso , the financial services
company that compiles the index, said in an e-mailed statement
today. The median estimate of 3 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was 52.3. A number above 50 indicates an expansion in factory
output.  “We have seen a pick-up in manufacturing volumes in steel
and petroleum products and these could have contributed to the
robust showing in activity levels and new sales orders,” said
Abdul Davids, head of research at Kagiso Asset Management.  Manufacturing and mining expanded in the last three months
of 2011 after contracting in the second and third quarters,
lifting economic growth from close to a two-year low. The
 Reserve Bank  has kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a more than
30-year low of 5.5 percent since November 2010 as it seeks to
cushion the economy from a slowdown in  Europe . The economy grew
at an annualized 3.2 percent in the fourth quarter  The index measuring new sales orders increased 7.5 points
to 64.8 last month and the business activity sub-index rose 11.6
points to 65.2, Kagiso said. The price sub-index fell 5.7 to
75.7, dropping below 80 for the first time since September.  Inflation accelerated to 6.3 percent in January, the third
month it has exceeded the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
target.  The Bureau for  Economic Research , based at the University
of Stellenbosch near  Cape Town , and the Institute of Purchasing
and Supply South Africa conduct the PMI survey on behalf of
Kagiso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  