-- Spain Foreclosures Stymied by Nun Make Debt Investors Skittish: Mortgages
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-03-02T10:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/spain-foreclosures-stymied-by-nun-make-debt-investors-skittish-mortgages.html
Sister Inmaculada Torano, a 47-year-
old Spanish nun, stepped in to negotiate when  Bankia (IBEX)  SA tried to
repossess the home of a student at the school where she works
over missed mortgage payments.  “The bank may have a right under the law to evict, but
there’s a difference between what’s legal and moral,” said
Torano, who teaches at a school run by the Sisters of Charity of
the  Sacred Heart of Jesus  in the working class Madrid suburb of
Villaverde. The intervention helped persuade Bankia, led by
former  International Monetary Fund  head  Rodrigo Rato , to delay
eviction until the student finishes the school year in June, she
said.  With Spain’s economy set to contract in 2012 for the third
year out of five and  unemployment  at 23 percent, banks are
increasingly easing terms for customers who are missing payments
on mortgages underwritten during the country’s decade-long
housing boom. Pressure to renegotiate debt and delays in
repossessions are raising doubts that  default rates  on  Spain ’s
613 billion euros ($817 billion) of mortgages have stabilized.  “It probably is going to be worse than people expect, even
though the banks say it’s not a problem,” said Daragh Quinn, an
analyst at Nomura International Plc in Madrid, on the outlook
for mortgage arrears. “The more they kick the can down the
road, the less visibility we have on what is really happening
with asset quality.”  Least Creditworthy  Investors view the 182 billion euros of bonds tied to
Spanish residential-mortgage backed securities as being among
the least creditworthy in Europe, trailing securities from the
U.K.,  Netherlands  and  Italy . The outlook for the collateral is
expected to worsen as mortgage arrears rise with increasing
unemployment and house prices continue to fall, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report last month.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish RMBS above
benchmarks has risen 170 basis points to 530 basis points in the
past year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data. That’s even
after spreads contracted 1.1 percentage points in 2012 amid
growing confidence that  Europe ’s leaders will contain the Greek
sovereign debt crisis. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Bankia, based in Valencia, has dropped 16 percent this
year, the fourth-worst performer in Spain’s IBEX 35 Index, which
is down 0.2 percent.  Spain’s government has taken steps to tackle the problem of
souring real estate piled up on the balance sheets of banks by
forcing them to recognize more losses. Lenders, which have about
175 billion euros of what the Bank of Spain terms “troubled”
property assets, will have to take about 50 billion euros in
provisioning costs or capital charges under plans announced by
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos on Feb. 2.  Impossible Improvement  The quality of  mortgage loans , whose volume more than
tripled over the past decade, may come under more stress as
Spain enters a  recession  that the International Monetary Fund
says could cause the economy to shrink 1.7 percent this year,
said Juan Villen, head of the mortgage advisory service at
Idealista.com, Spain’s biggest property website.  Data from the Spanish Mortgage Association show the default
rate for home loans was 2.63 percent in September, less than the
3 percent reached in 2009. “ Unemployment (SPUNEMPR)  is going to continue
to rise and this will mean that there will be more mortgage
arrears,” said Villen in an interview in Madrid.  Other analysts are skeptical of data showing the
improvement in mortgage arrears. “This is impossible, in our
opinion, given the current economic environment and the
evolution of unemployment,” said Santiago Lopez, an analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas in a Feb. 15 report. “Similar to what we have
already seen in the developer book, banks seem to be
restructuring retail clients’ loans quite aggressively.”  Construction Worker  Ronale de la Cruz, 48, an unemployed construction worker
from the  Dominican Republic , is head of the family that Sister
Inmaculada helped by negotiating more time for them to stay in
their home. De la Cruz, who has lived in Spain for 10 years,
started falling behind on payments in 2009 after his employer
first cut his working hours and then laid him off in 2010.  Caja  Madrid , one of the savings banks that later merged to
form Bankia, gave him a 100 percent mortgage in 2004 to buy an
80 square-meter (861 square feet) apartment in Villaverde for
218,000 euros, said de la Cruz, a father-of-four, in an
interview. After he’d missed two mortgage payments, the bank
agreed to extend his mortgage term by two years, he said. By
mid-2010, he’d defaulted on the loan after finally losing his
job.  ‘Dignity Taken Away’  “Having your home taken away is the equivalent of having
your human dignity taken away,” said de la Cruz, adding that
having a place to live was as “necessary as owning a pair of
shoes.” Banks were behind the “ building boom  and they need to
take some of the responsibility now in the bust.”  A spokesman for Bankia, who asked not to be identified by
name in line with company policy, declined to comment.  The drama of evictions is playing out in public as those
affected organize protests when mortgage debtors get removed
from their homes.  Plataforma de los Afectados por la Hipoteca, or PAH, a
group whose protest outside de la Cruz’s home near his
children’s school prompted Sister Inmaculada to discuss his
plight with Bankia, said there have been about 330,000
foreclosures since 2007. Joan Coscubiela, a Barcelona deputy who
has challenged the government over the issue in parliament, said
that’s resulted in 150,000 evictions in the same period.  ‘Human Drama’  Economy Minister de Guindos announced steps to tackle what
he termed the “human drama” of evictions by announcing Feb. 22
plans for a code of good conduct for banks aimed at helping low-
income families stay in their homes and clear their debts. His
proposals include allowing poorer Spaniards to stay in their
home for at least two years once an eviction has been ordered
and also making it possible to clear mortgage debts by handing
over their homes to the lending bank, which wouldn’t be able to
pursue them for more assets.  Banks including Bankia, CaixaBank SA and  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  said they’re easing mortgage terms for
people hit by the financial crisis who can’t pay their loans.
Bankia, Spain’s third-biggest lender, said Feb. 23 it
renegotiated credit conditions for 100,000 clients and that half
that amount involved mortgages. Juan Maria Nin, chief executive
officer of CaixaBank SA, said Feb. 8 that the fourth-biggest
bank had renegotiated 170,000 mortgages to avoid evictions.  “All the banks are extolling how many families they have
helped,” said Villen. “It’s clear everyone is kicking the can
down the road to avoid on the one hand these properties are on
their balance sheet and they have to make more provision and on
the other to help families stay in their homes, which I consider
very positive.”  Economy Worsens  Some analysts think banks can keep mortgage arrears under
control even as the economy worsens.  “Banks are trying to restructure mortgages, but that’s a
normal banking practice,” said  Antonio Ramirez , an analyst at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in  London . He said that the default rate
on the loans may rise to a “quite manageable” 3 percent by
year-end. Immigrants and young jobseekers whose numbers make a
big impact on the unemployment data were not the main targets of
mortgage sales by banks, he said.  The renegotiations, though, may contribute to investor
concern that the bad-loan problem in Spain is still growing,
even as the government takes steps to make banks recognize real-
estate losses, said Nomura’s Quinn. While mortgage defaults
represent a problem that will worsen for lenders, it’s not on a
comparable scale with lending to property developers because the
homes backing the loans have value, he said.  Patched Up Problem  “It’s dramatic on a human scale, but the losses may not be
that big compared to what we’ve seen with real estate
developers,” said Quinn. “A lot depends on the quality of the
underlying asset and we know banks can sell some of the
properties when they drop the price.”  The property boom that ended in 2008 left Spanish banks
with 303.5 billion euros in loans related to real estate in the
third quarter of 2011, according to the  Bank of Spain . That’s
after they were forced to take on properties and land in return
for canceling debt held by bankrupt developers.  What to the banks is a business problem is often a
catastrophe for people like de la Cruz, Sister Inmaculada said.  “We’ve just patched up a problem for Ronale without really
solving it,” she said. “A home to live in and food to eat
should be a basic right, so it’s so sad to see people in this
situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 