-- Spain, Argentina Form Group to Resolve YPF Differences After Tensions Rise
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-03-01T14:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/spain-argentina-form-committee-to-resolve-ypf-differences.html
Spain and Argentina formed a working
group to resolve their “differences” over  YPF SA (YPFD) , the
Argentine  oil company  majority-owned by Madrid-based  Repsol YPF
SA (REP) , Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said.  “Differences have arisen in recent weeks,” Soria told
reporters today in Madrid. “Whatever difference there is we can
deal with it through meetings.”  YPF plunged 15 percent in Buenos Aires trading yesterday on
reports the government is planning to take it over. The
government this month threatened to take “most vigorous
measures” against YPF if it fails to meet domestic fuel demand.  Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner is
scheduled to address the country’s congress today at 11 a.m.
local time.  YPF, which controls two-thirds of Argentina’s gasoline
stations, has struggled to import diesel amid difficulty
accessing the foreign-exchange market and asked the government
to take “urgent measures” to help it maintain supply, the
company said this month.  Since her landslide re-election in October, Fernandez’s
government has tightened controls on the foreign exchange
market, raised restrictions on imports and ordered some
companies to bring all their export revenue to the country after
capital outflows accelerated to a record high in the third
quarter and the  trade surplus  narrowed.  Repsol, headed by Chairman  Antonio Brufau , owns 57 percent
of YPF while Petersen Energia SA, controlled by YPF Chief
Executive Officer Sebastian Eskenazi’s family, owns 25 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  