-- Allen Stanford Jurors Weigh Claim He Used Bank as Personal Cash Machine
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-03-02T00:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/stanford-jurors-weigh-u-s-claim-he-used-bank-as-personal-atm.html
R. Allen Stanford “flushed”
investor money away on failing businesses, yachts and cricket
tournaments, prosecutors told jurors who are deliberating on
whether the Texas financier led a massive  Ponzi scheme .  If Stanford’s customers knew what he was really doing with
their money, they wouldn’t have bought certificates of deposit
issued by his Antigua bank, Justice Department lawyer William
Stellmach said in Houston federal court yesterday at the close
of the financier’s five-week fraud trial.  “The truth is that he flushed it away,” Stellmach said.
“He told depositors he was using their money in one way and the
truth was completely different.”  Stanford, 61, is accused of leading a $7 billion scheme
funded through the sale of CDs issued by Stanford International
Bank Ltd. Some of the CDs were sold in the U.S. by the Houston-
based securities firm, Stanford Group Co. He faces 14 criminal
counts, including mail fraud and  wire fraud , that each carry
maximum sentences of 20 years in prison.  The jury has deliberated 10 hours over two days and will
resume tomorrow. No verdict will be announced before March 5,
because the judge presiding over the trial is away.  ‘No Deceit’  Stanford’s attorneys rested their case Feb. 27 without
calling their client to the stand. In his closing argument,
defense lawyer Ali Fazel said “there was no deceit and this man
is not guilty.”  During closing statements, Stanford sat in a packed
courtroom dressed in a navy blue double-breasted suit, a light
blue shirt and, for the first time since the trial began, a
necktie. As Stellmach addressed the jury, Stanford took notes at
the defense table, occasionally shaking his head.  The prosecutor outlined for the jury what he called the
three big lies of the alleged scheme: Stanford was making safe,
liquid investments; clients’ money was protected by banking
regulators and auditors; and Stanford had sufficient assets to
repay investors.  “For him, the bank was his own personal ATM,” Stellmach
said. Before he was indicted, Stanford ranked among the world’s
richest people by taking depositors’ funds for his own use,
according to the government.  “He was never a rich person; he was a thief,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney Gregg Costa said. “He was living a billionaire’s
lifestyle on their money. Fraud is just theft wearing a business
suit.”  Accepted Standards  During the trial, Stanford’s defense lawyers argued that
his banking disclosures complied with internationally accepted
accounting standards. They also contended he had sufficient
assets in an array of private enterprises to repay all
investors. They said Stanford was consolidating these companies
onto the bank’s balance sheets when the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission sued him for fraud and seized his businesses
in February 2009.  The federal judge overseeing the SEC case in  Dallas 
appointed a receiver to marshal and liquidate his holdings to
repay investors.  “He sank billions to keep afloat his businesses in the
Caribbean,” Stellmach said, describing Stanford’s private
ventures as “money pits.”  By 2008, the bank owed investors $7 billion that didn’t
exist, Stellmach said.  ‘Digging That Hole’  “Stanford had been digging that hole for years with his
lavish lifestyles and loser companies,” he said.  Stanford secretly borrowed $2 billion from the bank, the
government said. Prosecutors told jurors that was enough money
to build Houston’s Reliant Stadium and buy the city’s  National
Football League  franchise, the Houston Texans, and still have
enough money to own the local National Basketball Association
team, the  Houston Rockets .  Fazel told the panel there are gaps in the “evidentiary
bridge” built by prosecutors and cautioned jurors not to leap
to the conclusion that Stanford is guilty.  “This case isn’t about Reliant Stadium, it’s not about
Rockets and it’s not about the Texans,” Fazel said. “It’s
about assumption, presumption, guesses and reasonable doubt.”  Robert Scardino, another of Stanford’s attorneys,
challenged the credibility of former Stanford Chief Financial
Officer James M. Davis, whom he described as the government’s
“key witness.”  Baylor Roommates  Davis, whose relationship with Stanford traces back to when
they were Baylor University roommates, pleaded guilty to fraud-
related charges in 2009 and agreed to cooperate with the
prosecution. He testified against Stanford for five days.  “The key witness in their case has got to be one of the
biggest liars you ever heard about or read about,” Scardino
said of Davis. He told the jury that to believe the government’s
case against Stanford, “you have to believe Davis.”  Scardino echoed Fazel’s theme that investors weren’t
deceived and had been told they were taking a risk.  “It’s the bank’s money, they can invest it however they
wish,” Scardino said. “It just wasn’t the depositors’ business
to know how it was invested.”  The defense asked jurors not to be distracted by
prosecutors’ repeated references to the financier’s yachts,
private jets and “domineering” personality.  “Sure, he’s a big rich guy, sometimes hard to like,
sometimes hard to get along with,” Scardino said. “But there’s
no law against that.”  Prosecutors asked jurors to focus on the evidence and not
on Stanford’s “lottery ticket defenses” that his dreams of
developing an island resort for billionaires or promoting
cricket as a global spectator sport would somehow “work out”
to recoup his investments.  “Don’t let him pull one last great con job,” Costa urged
jurors. “Hold him accountable for the lies he’s told for 20
years.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston federal court
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew M. Harris in Houston federal court
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 