-- Steinbrenner Says Yankees Target $189 Million Payroll to Avoid Luxury Tax
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-01T20:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/steinbrenner-says-yankees-target-189-million-payroll-to-avoid-luxury-tax.html
New York Yankees co-owner  Hal Steinbrenner  said he wants to lower the team’s player payroll to
$189 million over the next few years to avoid paying baseball’s
luxury tax.  Under  Major League Baseball ’s new collective bargaining
agreement, the tax threshold will be $189 million during the
2013 season. Teams that spend more on players have to pay an
escalating levy based on how far they are above the salary
limit.  “I’m looking at it as a goal, but my goals are normally
considered requirements,” Steinbrenner told reporters at the
Yankees’ spring training camp in Tampa,  Florida , according to
MLB.com. “Is it a requirement with baseball that we be at 189?
No, it’s not a requirement. But that is going to be the luxury-
tax threshold, and that’s where I want to be.”  Steinbrenner said the Yankees’ payroll this season is
projected to be about $210 million, the highest in the majors.
Their payroll was just more than $212 million last year, when
they paid a luxury tax of $13.9 million, the  Associated Press 
said.  “I’m a finance geek,” Steinbrenner said. “That’s my
background. Budgets matter, and balance sheets matter. If you do
well on the player-development side, and you have a good farm
system, you don’t need a $220 million payroll. You can field
every bit as good a team with young talent.”  The Yankees have had baseball’s highest player payroll for
the past 10 years. Their lone World Series title in that span
came in 2009.  “I’m just not convinced we need to be as high as we’ve
been in the past to field a championship-caliber team,”
Steinbrenner said.  The Yankees are scheduled to open the 2012 season on April
6 against the  Tampa Bay Rays .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  