-- Stockton Going Broke Shows Cop Pay Rising as Property Collapsed
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/stockton-going-broke-shows-cop-pay-rising-as-california-property-collapsed.html
The bankruptcy that  Stockton (3654MF) ,
 California , resisted for three years is now at its doorstep,
spurred by the weight of retiree costs, the housing bust and
accounting blunders that drained the city’s coffers.  Stockton, 80 miles (130 kilometers) east of San Francisco,
rode the boom-and-bust cycle of the 2000s with a surge in new-
home construction that attracted buyers seeking an affordable
alternative to Bay Area real estate. Then a crash came, as
homeowners faced a wave of foreclosures that sapped the city’s
tax-revenue gains.  The city born in the Gold Rush has struggled for decades,
relying on revenue from farming and shipping at its river port.
Meanwhile it granted employees some of the state’s most generous
benefits, and now has 94 retirees with pensions of at least
$100,000 a year -- more than twice as many as some comparably 
sized California cities. It has a history of ethnic tension and
the notoriety of a 1989 schoolyard shooting in which five
children were gunned down.  “We’re really struggling,” City Council member Dale
Fritchen, 51, said by telephone Feb. 28. “There were horrible
decisions made. City leaders spent money faster than it was
coming in, thinking that the gravy train would never go away.”  This week, Stockton moved closer to bankruptcy with a City
Council decision to preserve cash by defaulting on $2 million in
bond payments. It also voted to begin a mediation process
required under state law prior to seeking court protection. The
city said its goal is to avoid bankruptcy. If it files, it would
be the most populous U.S. city to do so.  Bankruptcy Code  From California to  Rhode Island , cities are using the
federal  bankruptcy code  to get out from under billions of
dollars in obligations they can’t afford.  Central Falls , Rhode
Island, filed for protection in August after failing to win
concessions from its unions. Jefferson County,  Alabama , turned
in the biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history last
November, with $4.2 billion in debt. Vallejo, California, sought
Chapter 9 reorganization in 2008.  Stockton’s  unemployment rate  soared to 17.3 percent in
2010, the country’s sixth-highest, from 7 percent in 2000,
according to the California Employment Development Department.
The foreclosure rate in the Stockton metropolitan area was the
second-highest in the U.S. last year, after  Las Vegas , according
to  Irvine , California-based RealtyTrac Inc. Violent crime in the
Stockton area was the eighth-highest rate in the nation in 2010,
according to FBI data.  Gold Rush  Stockton was founded in 1849 as a supply center for people
rushing to work in mining, a year after gold was discovered on
the American River east of  Sacramento . Early settlers flocked
from eastern states and from  Asia ,  Europe  and  Africa .  Later, shipbuilding became a major industry in Stockton,
with its deep-water port on the San Joaquin River. Agriculture
surged as the region supplied asparagus, cherries, tomatoes,
walnuts and almonds.  In the 1990s, city officials doled out generous retirement
health benefits without ensuring the city could afford the
payments over time, City Manager Bob Deis said at a Feb. 24 news
conference. A worker employed as little as a month could qualify
for city-paid retirement health care for the retiree and his or
her spouse for life, Deis said.  “It was not a Cadillac plan,” Vice Mayor Kathy Miller
said in a telephone interview. “It’s a Lamborghini plan. No one
in the private sector had anything like that.”  Among expenses the city can no longer afford is a $417
million unfunded retiree health-care liability.  ‘Nobody Asked’  “The problem is, nobody asked the question: ‘How do you
fund it?’ And consequently there was no money set aside to fund
those commitments,” Deis said. “It was an unsound decision and
it has similarities to a  Ponzi scheme .”  In the 2000s, as housing prices soared in  San Francisco  and
Silicon Valley, buyers from  San Jose  to Oakland seeking
affordable alternatives flocked to Stockton, where starter homes
cost around $400,000. Single-family home construction, which had
averaged 2,500 units a year from 1991 to 1997, tripled to 7,500
annually from 2003 to 2005, according to Robert Denk, senior
economist at the Washington-based  National Association of Home
Builders .  The city’s population grew 20 percent in a decade, to
291,707 in 2010 from 243,771 in 2000, driven by a surge in
Hispanics who identify themselves as Mexican, according to U.S.
Census Bureau data. That ethnic group jumped 56 percent in the
period, to 104,172 from 66,900, while the black population grew
30 percent and the Asian population rose 29 percent, Census
figures show.  ‘Boom Time’  “Money was just pouring into the city coffers for
development fees and permits,” Miller said. “Property taxes
were going through the roof. It was boom-time.”  Pay and benefit packages continued to swell. In 2005, the
city completed a new ballpark and arena on the waterfront using
bond funds.  “There was an unspoken policy that to keep the unions from
complaining about the amount of money being spent on projects,
the easiest way to do that was to continue sweetening their
compensation packages,” Miller said.  Among those measures were automatic salary increases
regardless of whether the city had the revenue to support them.
The contract with the fire union required the city to compare
its pay with that of 16 cities including  Huntington Beach ,
Anaheim and Torrance. Stockton firefighters’ salaries were
required to rank fifth-highest, according to the city’s May 2011
emergency declaration document.  $100,000 Pensions  Stockton  retirees also fared well. The 94 with pensions of
more than $100,000 compares with 38 in Bakersfield, which has
347,000 residents, and 35 in Chula Vista, with a population of
244,000, according to data compiled from state pension records
by the California Foundation for Fiscal Responsibility, a Citrus
Heights-based group that advocates pension reform.  An epidemic of foreclosures reached Stockton in 2007, as
the recession left thousands of homeowners unable to afford
their mortgages.  Home construction  collapsed and housing prices
plummeted.  Revenue dwindled to an estimated $161.8 million in fiscal
2012 from $203.1 million in fiscal 2009. The city fired 25
percent of its workforce.  In Stockton’s San Joaquin County, assessed property values
tumbled almost 11 percent in fiscal 2010, followed by 3.9
percent in 2011 and 4 percent in the current year, according to
the county’s website.  ‘Drastic Decisions’  “In the beginning, when this whole economic bubble burst,
everyone had the attitude, ‘We’ll just avoid making drastic
decisions and in a year or two things will be back to normal,’”
Miller said.  The base pay for a Stockton police officer can be as much
as $76,860, while a sergeant’s can reach $90,836, according to
data provided by the city. In 2010, 87 percent of police
officers got additional pay that added 8.7 percent for a canine
handler, 4.3 percent for SWAT and 5 percent in “longevity pay”
at six years of service. All are included in the calculation of
retirement benefits.  “We are now the fifth-lowest paid police organization in
the county where we handle the majority of the calls,” Kathryn
Nance, a Stockton Police Officers’ Association board member,
said in a telephone interview.  By 2009, city officials began considering bankruptcy.  Bankruptcy Protection  Fritchen, the council member, asked the city attorney’s
office to lay out the pros and cons of bankruptcy protection at
a budget committee meeting.  A year later, in May 2010, the city declared a fiscal
emergency to deal with a $23 million deficit. The declaration
allowed the city to make changes to existing labor contracts.  Crime escalated as the police force was reduced by about 27
percent to 324 sworn officers from 441, according to Pete Smith,
a police spokesman. There were a record 58 homicides last year,
most involving  gang violence , Smith said.  “We’re losing our grip on some of the more troubled
neighborhoods and don’t have the ability to police the city as
proactively as we did,” Smith said.  In the spring of 2011, Deis met with about 15 police
employees and budget officials to seek concessions from the
union.  ‘Breaking Our Contract’  “He said if we continue to fight on them breaking our
contract, then he is going to push the reset button and go
bankrupt and we will all lose,” Steve Leonesio, president of
the police union, said in a telephone interview. The union is
suing the city, challenging its authority to reduce benefits
under the emergency declaration.  Last year, city officials uncovered bookkeeping errors
requiring $15 million in budget cuts that “will have the effect
of stripping Stockton’s cupboards bare,” Deis said.  The mistakes included double-counting of $500,000 in
parking-ticket revenues and overstating the city’s available
balance by an estimated $2.8 million.  On Feb. 24, Deis walked into a news conference at  City Hall 
and announced that the errors and the recession represent “the
knockout blow” for the city’s finances. He recommended the city
invoke the state bankruptcy law.  “We see no viable alternative,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net . 