-- Suzlon’s Repower Unit Gets German Bank Loans Totalling $1 Billion
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-01T12:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/suzlon-s-repower-unit-gets-german-bank-loans-totalling-1-billion.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s biggest
wind-turbine maker, climbed as much as 15 percent after its
Repower unit got a 750 million euro ($999 million) loan, helping
erase investor concerns it can’t pay back bondholders.  Banks led by BayernLB Holdings AG,  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  agreed the syndicated loan with a 2.5 year
term,  Repower Systems SE (RPW)  said today in a statement sent by e-
mail. The loan will refinance the existing 600 million euro
credit facilities Repower agreed in May 2009, according to the
company, based in Hamburg,  Germany .  Suzlon had its biggest one-day jump in more than year,
rising 11.5 percent. It closed at a nine-day high of 29.7 rupees
in Mumbai.  “This is more than enough to cover any redemptions made by
bondholders,” of Suzlon’s foreign currency convertible notes
this year, Gaurav Oza, a Mumbai-based analyst for brokerage A.K.
Stockmart Pvt, said by phone today.  Suzlon may face $569 million in bond redemptions this year
if investors holding its foreign currency convertible notes
choose not to swap them for shares.  Suzlon’s bonds are set to miss their conversion into equity
following a 40 percent slide in the shares in the past year,
when the BSE  India  Sensitive Index lost 4.7 percent. Conversion
prices for the bonds range from 76.68 rupees to 97.26 rupees,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cash Flow  Suzlon said earlier it would be able to use internal cash
flows to pay off bondholders if necessary, according to Oza.
“But then orders slowed and last quarter it reported a loss. It
desperately needed cash and Repower has a good  credit rating  so
it used it as a vehicle to raise funds,” he said.  “The confidence that our banks and credit insurance
companies are showing in our strategy is an important sign for
all our stakeholders, especially given the current difficult
environment in our industry,” Derrick Noe, chief financial
officer at Repower, said in the statement.  In total 13 German and international banks and credit
insurance companies took part in the loan which comprised a 725
million euro letter of guarantee and a 25 million euro credit
facility, according to the statement.  “We have enough liquid funds, so there is not much need to
get cash from banks,” Thomas Schnorrenberg, head of  investor
relations  at Repower, said today by phone. “With increasing
business and amount of prepayments from customers we have to
hand out more guarantees to our customers for those
prepayments,” he said.  Repower expects “double-digit growth” for both sales and
earnings for this and the next financial year, Noe said. The
finance will help cover the increased guarantee needs of Repower
reflecting business opportunities in international onshore and
offshore wind markets, according to the statement.  About 20 percent to 30 percent of Repower’s order book for
the next one or two years comes from offshore wind with the
remainder from onshore wind orders, Schnorrenberg said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  