-- Syria’s Forces Pound Opposition Towns as UN Envoy Plans Mediation Effort
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-03-01T01:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/syria-s-forces-pound-opposition-towns-as-un-envoy-plans-mediation-effort.html
Syrian forces pounded towns where
opposition is concentrated as United Nations officials prepared
to discuss how to pressure  Syria  and its allies,  Russia  and
 China , to end almost a year of violence.  President Bashar al-Assad is under mounting international
pressure, coordinated by nations calling themselves the Friends
of Syria, to stop the killings. The U.S. is now drafting a new
resolution demanding that Syria allow humanitarian aid workers
into the country as part of the effort to squeeze Assad,
according to a Western diplomat not authorized to speak to the
media.  The resolution is also meant to pressure Russia and China,
which have protected Syria twice from UN censure. The Friends of
Syria believe focusing on the humanitarian situation may make it
harder for Syria’s allies to veto the measure, the diplomat
said.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and his predecessor  Kofi Annan , the new UN special envoy to Syria, met yesterday in  New
York  to discuss steps to end the violence. The UN estimates more
than 7,500 civilians have died since the uprising began in
March.  Annan said he plans to go to Syria “fairly soon,”
following talks at the Arab League in Cairo. Describing his
mediating task as a “tough challenge,” Annan told reporters at
the UN headquarters that his message to Assad is “the killing
and violence must stop.” He said he also will press to ease
humanitarian access and will work with Syrians for a peaceful
solution to the conflict over Assad’s continued rule.  ‘Too Little, Too Late’  In Syria, the army has shelled the central city of Homs
since for a month as well as launching attacks on other parts of
the country, including Idlib in the north and towns near Aleppo
by the Turkish border. Some soldiers have defected from Assad’s
forces as he seeks to reaffirm his mandate as Syria’s leader
following a Feb. 26 referendum on a new constitution.  The poll was “too little, too late,” Josh Landis,
director of the Center for Middle East Studies at the University
of  Oklahoma , said by e-mail. “The leaders of the Syrian
revolution are unwilling to accept any measures that will leave
President Assad in power and his security forces in charge of
Syria.”  The European Union dismissed the vote’s validity and said
Feb. 27 it would tighten sanctions on the Syrian government,
freezing the central bank’s assets, banning precious-metals
trading with the country and prohibiting cargo-only flights. The
measures build on an oil embargo approved in September.  Waiting for Russia  The new U.S. resolution probably won’t be unveiled until
after Russia’s elections on March 4 to better gauge its
position, the Western diplomat said. There is concern that
Russia could still create roadblocks for the resolution by
calling for a “balanced text” that places equal blame for the
violence on the government and the opposition.  The Friends of Syria demanded access for humanitarian
workers at their meeting in Tunis on Feb. 24 as Clinton pledged
$10 million in food, medicine and other supplies for Syrians
trapped in their cities. She urged patience in a hearing
yesterday before a House Appropriations subcommittee examining
the State Department’s budget.  “It took us more than a year for the transition in Yemen
to finally happen, but it did happen,” Clinton said, referring
to the departure of former President Ali Abdullah Saleh in
December. “Syria is one of the most militarized countries in
the world,” she said, complicating efforts to help the
opposition.  China’s Call  Syria’s army has intensified attacks since a resolution
supported by the  Arab League  aimed at installing a transitional
government, to be followed by elections, was vetoed at the UN
Security Council by Russia and China on Feb. 4. At least 60
people died in army assaults on Feb. 28 and 138 were killed the
previous day, Al Arabiya television reported.  “We have asked the Syrian government and relevant parties
to stop all violent actions to allow for the recovery of
stability as soon as possible,” Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said yesterday, calling on Assad to heed
demands for reform.  The Syrian president issued a decree yesterday, enacting
the new constitution backed by 89 percent of the voters, the
official Syrian Arab News Agency said. The charter promises
democratic elections while limiting presidents to two seven-year
terms. The opposition boycotted the referendum, in which 57.4
percent of eligible voters cast ballots.  Deteriorating Situation  Assad’s forces shelled the besieged town of Rastan, killing
and wounding an unspecified number of people, while also
targeting the Khalidiyeh neighborhood and Baba Amr district of
Homs, the U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said
yesterday. About 37 soldiers defected and crossed into  Turkey ,
Al Jazeera television reported, adding to the 60 people who ran
away from Assad’s forces on Feb. 28.  “My office has received disturbing reports of a rapidly
deteriorating human-rights and humanitarian situation,” UN High
Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay told the UN’s Human
Rights Council in Geneva on Feb. 28. “Syrian military and
security forces have launched massive campaigns of arrest,
arbitrarily detaining thousands of protesters, as well as
activists and others suspected of anti-government activities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  