-- U.K. Could Save $5.6 Billion by Linking Offshore Wind Farms
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-01T17:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/u-k-could-save-5-6-billion-by-linking-offshore-wind-farms.html
The U.K. could save as much as 3.5
billion pounds ($5.6 billion) by connecting offshore wind farms
to each other, cutting down on construction and operating costs.  As much as 15 percent could be knocked off the estimated 24
billion-pound bill for building wind infrastructure, according
to a  joint statement  today from the Department of Energy and
Climate Change and energy regulator Ofgem.  The U.K. is seeking to have about 18 gigawatts of turbines
at sea installed from 2 gigawatts at present to meet climate
change goals. A European “supergrid” linking Britain’s
electricity network to the continent could reduce the cost of
connecting offshore wind farms by a quarter, according to the
U.K. parliamentary Energy and Climate Change Committee.  “Linking up power cables between offshore wind farms could
make some serious savings, so we would be crazy not to encourage
it,” Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said in the statement. The
government is seeking to lower the cost of offshore wind to 100
pounds a megawatt-hour by 2020 from about 150 pounds.  It will cost 6 billion to 24 billion pounds to connect and
operate the new wind farms up until 2030, according to the
report. Linking the sites could save 500 million to 3.5 billion
pounds, it said.  “The idea of a more streamlined and integrated offshore
grid network has been around for some time,” Beverley Walker,
head of offshore renewables at global energy consultancy WSP
Future Energy, said in an e-mail. The idea of a “web” of
cables would help address issues including intermittency,
shortfalls in cable supply and the drive for cheaper
infrastructure costs, she said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  