-- U.S. February ISM Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-03-01T15:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/u-s-february-ism-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the  Institute for Supply
Management .  Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in
February for the 31st consecutive month, and the overall economy
grew for the 33rd consecutive month, say the nation’s supply
executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM,
CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The PMI registered 52.4 percent, a
decrease of 1.7 percentage points from January’s reading of 54.1
percent, indicating expansion in the manufacturing sector for
the 31st consecutive month. The New Orders Index registered 54.9
percent, a decrease of 2.7 percentage points from January’s
reading of 57.6 percent, reflecting the 34th consecutive month
of growth in new orders. Prices of raw materials increased for
the second consecutive month, with the Prices Index registering
61.5 percent. As was the case in January, new orders, production
and employment all grew in February -- although at somewhat
slower rates than in January. Comments from the panel continue
to reflect a generally positive outlook for the next few months.”  PERFORMANCE BY INDUSTRY  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 11 are reporting growth
in February, in the following order: Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Machinery; Primary Metals; Transportation Equipment;
Petroleum & Coal Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Paper
Products; Computer & Electronic Products; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Chemical
Products. The four industries reporting contraction in February
are: Furniture & Related Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Plastics & Rubber Products; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances
& Components.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “Business is holding steady. Concern over commodity prices
ongoing.” (Chemical Products) “Still somewhat cautious about
recovery. Expecting a good year, but not seeing orders yet.”
(Machinery) “Demand remains consistent to strong on all levels.”
(Paper Products) “Demand from auto makers is getting stronger.”
(Fabricated Metal Products) “Manufacturing is busy. Spending
money on new equipment to accommodate customer demands. Material
prices are staying in check.” (Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products) “There seems to be a much more positive outlook for
the economy. Customers are ordering material for stock rather
than just working hand-to-mouth.” (Fabricated Metal Products)
“Global GDP softening and beginning to impact the demand chain.”
(Computer & Electronic Products) “Production is busy -- several
new large projects.” (Primary Metals) “Customers [are] lowering
inventory levels, anticipating price decrease due to third-party
published reports on materials.” (Plastics & Metal Products) “We
are optimistic about the U.S. market this year, a little
hesitant about what may happen in  Europe  and unsure about  China .”
(Transportation Equipment) “Shipments are increasing over last
year. Waiting to see if the trend continues.” (Wood Products)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price  Aluminum Products; Caustic Soda (2); Copper Products;
Ethylene; Forgings; #2  Fuel Oil ; HDPE Products; Plastic Resins;
Polypropylene; Propylene; Stainless Steel (2); Steel (3); Steel
Bar; Steel -- Cold Rolled (2); Steel -- Hot Rolled; Scrap Metal;
and Titanium Dioxide (2).  Commodities Down in Price  Natural Gas  (7) is the only commodity reported down in
price.  Commodities in Short Supply  Hard Drives (3) is the only commodity reported in short
supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  FEBRUARY 2012 MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  PMI  Manufacturing continued its growth in February as the PMI
registered 52.4 percent, a decrease of 1.7 percentage points
when compared to January’s reading of 54.1 percent. A reading
above 50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is
generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is
generally contracting.  A PMI in excess of 42.6 percent, over a period of time,
generally indicates an expansion of the overall economy.
Therefore, the PMI indicates growth for the 33rd consecutive
month in the overall economy, as well as expansion in the
manufacturing sector for the 31st consecutive month. Holcomb
stated, “The past relationship between the PMI and the overall
economy indicates that the average PMI for January and February
(53.3 percent) corresponds to a 3.6 percent increase in real
gross domestic product (GDP). In addition, if the PMI for
February (52.4 percent) is annualized, it corresponds to a 3.3
percent increase in real GDP annually.”  New Orders  ISM’s New Orders Index registered 54.9 percent in February,
which is a decrease of 2.7 percentage points when compared to
the January reading of 57.6 percent. This represents a
continuation of growth for the 34th consecutive month. A New
Orders Index above 52.3 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with an increase in the Census Bureau’s series on
manufacturing orders (in constant 2000 dollars).  The 10 industries reporting growth in new orders in February --
listed in order -- are: Primary Metals; Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Petroleum & Coal Products; Machinery;
Fabricated Metal Products; Transportation Equipment; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; Chemical Products; Paper Products;
and Computer & Electronic Products. The four industries
reporting decreases in new orders in February are: Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Furniture & Related Products; Printing &
Related Support Activities; and Plastics & Rubber Products.  Production  ISM’s Production Index registered 55.3 percent in February,
which is a decrease of 0.4 percentage point when compared to the
55.7 percent reported in January. This indicates growth for the
33rd consecutive month. An index above 51.2 percent, over time,
is generally consistent with an increase in the Federal Reserve
Board’s Industrial Production figures.  The 10 industries reporting growth in production during the
month of February -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Petroleum & Coal Products; Transportation
Equipment; Machinery; Paper Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated
Metal Products; Chemical Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
and Computer & Electronic Products. The three industries
reporting a decrease in production in February are: Furniture &
Related Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; and Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products.  Employment  ISM’s Employment Index registered 53.2 percent in February,
which is 1.1 percentage points lower than the 54.3 percent
reported in January. This is the 29th consecutive month of
growth in the Employment Index. An Employment Index above 50.5
percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in
the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data on manufacturing
employment.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, nine reported growth in
employment in February in the following order: Apparel, Leather
& Allied Products; Paper Products; Primary Metals; Machinery;
Transportation Equipment; Petroleum & Coal Products;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Fabricated Metal Products; and
Computer & Electronic Products. The five industries reporting a
decrease in employment in February are: Plastics & Rubber
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Chemical Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and
Nonmetallic Mineral Products.  Supplier Deliveries  The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing
organizations was faster in February as the  Supplier Deliveries 
Index registered 49 percent, which is 4.6 percentage points
lower than the 53.6 percent reported in January. This is the
first month supplier deliveries have been faster than the
previous month, following 31 consecutive months in which
supplier deliveries slowed. A reading above 50 percent indicates
slower deliveries.  The four industries reporting slower supplier deliveries in
February are: Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Transportation Equipment; Fabricated Metal Products; and
Machinery. The six industries reporting faster deliveries in
February -- listed in order -- are: Primary Metals; Plastics &
Rubber Products; Petroleum & Coal Products; Chemical Products;
Paper Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing. Eight
industries reported no change in supplier deliveries in February
compared to January.  Inventories(b)  The Inventories Index registered 49.5 percent in February,
which is the same percentage reported for January. An
Inventories Index greater than 42.8 percent, over time, is
generally consistent with expansion in the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis ’ (BEA) figures on overall manufacturing inventories (in
chained 2000 dollars).  The eight industries reporting higher inventories in
February -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Primary Metals; Machinery;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; Transportation Equipment; and Computer & Electronic
Products. The six industries reporting decreases in inventories
in February -- listed in order -- are: Paper Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Furniture & Related Products; Fabricated Metal
Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing.  Customers’ Inventories(b)  The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 46 percent
in February, which is 1.5 percentage points lower than in
January when the index registered 47.5 percent. Customers’
inventories have registered at or below 50 percent for 35
consecutive months. A reading below 50 percent indicates
customers’ inventories are considered too low.  The five manufacturing industries reporting customers’
inventories as being too high during February are: Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products; Primary Metals; Chemical Products;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products. The seven industries reporting customers’ inventories
as too low during February -- listed in order -- are:
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Transportation Equipment; Paper Products; Computer & Electronic
Products; Fabricated Metal Products; and Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components.  Prices(b)  The ISM Prices Index registered 61.5 percent in February, 6
percentage points higher than the 55.5 percent reported in
January. This is the second consecutive month this index has
reflected an increase in the price of raw materials since
September 2011, when the index registered 56 percent. In
February, 31 percent of respondents reported paying higher
prices, 8 percent reported paying lower prices and 61 percent of
supply executives reported paying the same prices as in January.
A Prices Index above 49.4 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with an increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics
(BLS) Index of Manufacturers Prices.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 13 industries report
paying increased prices during the month of February in the
following order: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Fabricated Metal
Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Primary Metals; Machinery;
Chemical Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Printing &
Related Support Activities; Furniture & Related Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation
Equipment; Computer & Electronic Products; and Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products. The only industry reporting paying lower
prices on average during the month of February is Paper Products.  Backlog of Orders(b)  ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 52 percent in
February, which is 0.5 percentage point lower than the 52.5
percent reported in January. Of the 84 percent of respondents
who reported their backlog of orders, 25 percent reported
greater backlogs, 21 percent reported smaller backlogs, and 54
percent reported no change from January.  The eight industries reporting increased order backlogs in
February -- listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal Products;
Primary Metals; Paper Products; Printing & Related Support
Activities; Transportation Equipment; Fabricated Metal Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; and Chemical
Products. The six industries reporting decreases in order
backlogs during February -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Furniture &
Related Products; Computer & Electronic Products; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products.  New Export Orders(b)  ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 59.5 percent in
February, which is 4.5 percentage points higher than the 55
percent reported in January. The New Export Orders Index has
registered 50 percent or above for the past 32 consecutive
months.  The 12 industries reporting growth in new export orders in
February -- listed in order -- are: Primary Metals;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
Paper Products; Furniture & Related Products; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Chemical Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
Computer & Electronic Products; Transportation Equipment;
Machinery; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components.
The only industry reporting a decrease in new export orders
during February is Nonmetallic Mineral Products.  Imports(b)  ISM’s Imports Index registered 54 percent in February,
which is 1.5 percentage points higher than the 52.5 percent
reported in January. The Imports Index reflects three
consecutive months of growth after two months of contraction in
the past 30 months.  The seven industries reporting growth in imports during the
month of February -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Paper Products; Petroleum & Coal Products;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Transportation Equipment;
Fabricated Metal Products; and Computer & Electronic Products.
The four industries reporting a decrease in imports during
February are: Furniture & Related Products; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and
Machinery. Seven industries reported no change in imports in
February compared to January.  (b) The Inventories, Customers’ Inventories, Prices, Backlog of
Orders, New Export Orders and Imports Indexes do not meet the
accepted criteria for seasonal adjustments.  Buying Policy  Average commitment lead time for  Capital Expenditures 
increased by 4 days to 120 days. Average lead time for
Production Materials increased 1 day to 58 days. Average lead
time for Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies
decreased 1 day to 26 days.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS code
categories: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Textile Mills;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products; Paper
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Chemical Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
Furniture & Related Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing
(products such as medical equipment and supplies, jewelry,
sporting goods, toys and office supplies).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,
Imports, Production, Supplier Deliveries, Inventories, Customers’
Inventories, Employment and Prices), this report shows the
percentage reporting each response, the net difference between
the number of responses in the positive economic direction
(higher, better and slower for Supplier Deliveries) and the
negative economic direction (lower, worse and faster for
Supplier Deliveries), and the diffusion index. Responses are raw
data and are never changed. The diffusion index includes the
percent of positive responses plus one-half of those responding
the same (considered positive).  The resulting single index number for those meeting the
criteria for seasonal adjustments (PMI, New Orders, Production,
Employment and Supplier Deliveries) is then seasonally adjusted
to allow for the effects of repetitive intra-year variations
resulting primarily from normal differences in weather
conditions, various institutional arrangements, and differences
attributable to non-moveable holidays. All seasonal adjustment
factors are supplied by the U.S. Department of Commerce and are
subject annually to relatively minor changes when conditions
warrant them. The PMI is a composite index based on the
diffusion indexes of five of the indexes with equal weights: New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Production (seasonally adjusted),
Employment (seasonally adjusted), Supplier Deliveries
(seasonally adjusted), and Inventories.  Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators
and are convenient summary measures showing the prevailing
direction of change and the scope of change. A PMI reading above
50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally
expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is generally
declining. A PMI in excess of 42.6 percent, over a period of
time, indicates that the overall economy, or gross domestic
product (GDP), is generally expanding; below 42.6 percent, it is
generally declining. The distance from 50 percent or 42.6
percent is indicative of the strength of the expansion or
decline. With some of the indicators within this report, ISM has
indicated the departure point between expansion and decline of
comparable government series, as determined by regression
analysis.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are sent
out to Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the
first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report
on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for
release on the first business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly reports, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.  Responses to Buying Policy reflect the percent reporting
the current month’s lead time, the approximate weighted number
of days ahead for which commitments are made for Production
Materials; Capital Expenditures; and Maintenance, Repair and
Operating (MRO) Supplies, expressed as hand-to-mouth (five days),
30 days, 60 days, 90 days, six months (180 days), a year or more
(360 days), and the weighted average number of days. These
responses are raw data, never revised, and not seasonally
adjusted since there is no significant seasonal pattern.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the Institute for Supply Management. The Institute
for Supply Management, established in 1915, is the largest
supply management organization in the world as well as one of
the most respected. ISM’s mission is to lead the supply
management profession through its standards of excellence,
research, promotional activities and education. This report has
been issued by the association since 1931, except for a four-
year interruption during World War II.  The full text version of the Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the first
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
March 2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Monday,
April 2, 2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management
 http://www.ism.ws  