-- Manufacturing Unexpectedly Slows as Orders Cool: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-03-01T21:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/u-s-manufacturing-expands-at-a-slower-pace-as-ism-index-declines-to-52-4.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. grew less
than forecast in February as orders eased, slowing the industry
that has powered the two-year expansion.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  fell to
52.4 from 54.1 in January, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
today. Readings above 50 signal growth. Jobless claims fell to
an almost four-year low last week, and household purchases
adjusted for prices were little changed for a third straight
month in January, other reports showed.  “The economy is expanding, but the data are choppy and
somewhat inconsistent,” said  John Herrmann , president of
Herrmann Forecasting LLC in Summit,  New Jersey . For
manufacturing, “you probably have to look at the glass as a
little more than half full. Consumers have lingering concerns
about  job security  and the durability of the expansion and are
hesitant to grow their spending.”  Higher  fuel prices  may be discouraging Americans from
spending more on other goods and services even as improvement in
the labor market spurs wage gains. At the same time, faster auto
sales and increased exports are helping to underpin
manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
world’s largest economy.  Stocks rose, sending the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  to the
highest level since 2008, as financial shares rallied. The  S&P
500  advanced 0.6 percent to 1,374.09 at the close in New York.
Stocks briefly pared gains in the final hour of trading as oil
jumped after reports of a pipeline explosion in  Saudi Arabia .  Spending on Services  Personal spending after adjusting for inflation failed to
grow in the three months ended in January, the Commerce
Department said. The latest figure reflected a 0.1 percent drop
in spending on services such as utilities that may reflect
unseasonably warm winter weather. Purchases of durable goods
climbed 0.9 percent.  The labor market showed more signs of improvement. First-
time applications for jobless benefits fell 2,000 last week to
351,000, matching the lowest level since March 2008, the Labor
Department said.  Consumer confidence  held close to an almost four-year high
last week as pessimism about the performance of the economy
eased. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 38.8 in
the period ended Feb. 26 after reaching minus 38.4, the highest
level since April 2008, in the previous period. It marked the
third straight week above minus 40, the level associated with
recessions and their aftermath. The margin of error for the
headline reading is 3 percentage points.  The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a gain in the manufacturing index to 54.5.
Estimates of the 79 economists surveyed ranged from 52 to 56.  Regional Data  The ISM report was at odds with regional data for the month
showing the factory expansion accelerated. Manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region grew in February at the fastest rate in four
months. Factories in the  New York  area expanded the most since
June 2010, while the  Institute for Supply Management-Chicago 
said yesterday that its business activity gauge rose to the
highest level in 10 months.  Elsewhere, euro-area manufacturing shrank for a seventh
month. A factory gauge based on a survey of purchasing managers
in the 17-nation region increased to 49 in February from 48.8 a
month earlier, below the 50 line that divides expansion from
contraction, London-based Markit Economics said today.  The European manufacturing survey contrasts with reports in
 China ,  India  and the U.K. showing continued expansion in factory
output.  Data from China today showed that a purchasing managers’
index rose for a third month to 51 in February from 50.5 in
January. In India, a PMI released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit was close to an eight-month high.  Orders, Exports  The ISM’s U.S. figures showed the production index was
little changed. The group’s new orders measure eased to 54.9
from 57.6, while the gauge of export orders climbed.  Manufacturing, which sparked the early stages of the
expansion as growing overseas economies propelled exports, has
recovered after a lull brought on by  Japan ’s March 2011
earthquake.  “For many products, demand has been above our ability to
produce,”  Mike DeWalt , director of  investor relations  at
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , said on a Jan. 26 conference call with
analysts. “We have invested in Caterpillar factories in the
 United States  and around the world to increase production.”  Auto Sales  Vehicle demand is helping drive production. Cars and light
trucks sold at a 15.1 million annual rate in February, the
fastest in four years, according to Autodata Corp.  General Motors Co. reported a surprise U.S. sales gain, and
Ford Motor Co., Chrysler Group LLC and Nissan Motor Co. also
topped analysts’ estimates, figures today show.  “Our dealers tell us fuel prices weighed heavily on the
purchase decisions of our customers in February,”  Ken Czubay ,
Ford’s U.S. sales chief, said today in a conference call with
analysts and reporters.  The price of a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline climbed
to $3.74 as of Feb. 29, the highest since June of last year,
after reaching a 10-month low of $3.21 on Dec. 20, according to
AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  