-- U.S. January Personal Income and Spending (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-03-01T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/u-s-january-personal-income-and-spending-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
personal income report for Jan. from the Commerce Department.  PERSONAL INCOME AND OUTLAYS:
JANUARY 2012  Personal income increased $37.4 billion, or 0.3 percent, and
disposable personal income (DPI) increased $14.1 billion, or 0.1
percent, in January, according to the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis . Personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased $23.2
billion, or 0.2 percent.  In December, personal income increased
$60.2 billion, or 0.5 percent, DPI increased $48.3 billion, or
0.4 percent, and PCE increased $3.2 billion, or less than 0.1
percent, based on revised estimates.  Real disposable income decreased 0.1 percent in January, in
contrast to an increase of 0.3 percent in December. Real PCE
increased less than 0.1 percent, in contrast to a decrease of
less than 0.1 percent.  This news release presents revised estimates of wages and
salaries, personal taxes, and contributions for government social
insurance for July through September 2011 (third quarter).  These
estimates reflect the incorporation of newly available third-
quarter wage and salary tabulations from the quarterly census of
employment and wages from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  The January change in disposable personal income was affected by
several special factors. Personal income in January was boosted
by pay raises for federal military personnel and cost-of-living
adjustments to government social security benefits.  Personal
income in January was reduced by the expiration of refundable tax
credits within "other" government social benefits to persons, by
annual adjustments to personal contributions for government
social insurance (a subtraction in the calculation of personal
income), and by lump-sum social security benefit payments that
had boosted December personal income.  Personal current taxes,
which are a subtraction in the calculation of DPI, were boosted
in January by federal net nonwithheld income taxes.  Excluding
these special factors, which are discussed more fully below, DPI
increased $19.4 billion, or 0.2 percent, in January, following an
increase of $41.3 billion, or 0.4 percent, in December.  Wages and salaries  Private wage and salary disbursements increased $25.5 billion in
January, compared with an increase of $29.9 billion in December.
Goods-producing industries' payrolls increased $10.0 billion,
compared with an increase of $13.5 billion; manufacturing
payrolls increased $7.9 billion, compared with an increase of
$8.5 billion.  Services-producing industries' payrolls increased
$15.5 billion, compared with an increase of $16.5 billion.  Government wage and salary disbursements increased $1.5 billion,
in contrast to a decrease of $0.1 billion. Pay raises for
military personnel added $1.8 billion to government payrolls in
January.  Other personal income  Employer contributions for employee pension and insurance funds
increased $2.0 billion in January, compared with an increase of
$1.8 billion in December.  Employer contributions for government social insurance increased
$5.8 billion in January, compared with an increase of $1.8
billion in December.  The January increase reflected increases in
the social security taxable wage base (from $106,800 to $110,100)
and in the  tax rate  paid by employers to state unemployment
insurance; together, these changes added $4.1 billion to the
January increase.  (Changes in employer contributions for
government social insurance do not affect personal income,
because employer contributions for government social insurance
are also included in total contributions for government social
insurance, which is a subtraction in the calculation of personal
income.)  Proprietors' income increased $4.8 billion in January, compared
with an increase of $2.4 billion in December. Farm proprietors'
income increased $1.8 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $2.7
billion.  Nonfarm proprietors' income increased $3.0 billion,
compared with an increase of $5.1 billion.  Rental income of persons increased $4.1 billion in January,
compared with an increase of $7.1 billion in December. Personal
income receipts on assets (personal interest income plus personal
dividend income) increased $6.7 billion, compared with an
increase of $7.2 billion.  Personal current transfer receipts decreased $3.6 billion in
January, in contrast to an increase of $13.8 billion in December.
Within personal current transfer receipts, "other" government
social benefits to persons decreased $14.9 billion in January, in
contrast to an increase of $1.5 billion in December.  The January
change in "other" government social benefits to persons reflected
a decrease of $13.6 billion due to the expiration of the Making
Work Pay refundable tax credits.  Government social benefits for
Medicaid decreased $7.8 billion in January, in contrast to an
increase of $0.2 billion in December.  Government social benefits
for social security increased $20.3 billion in January, compared
to an increase of $9.6 billion in December.  The January change
reflected 3.6-percent cost-of-living adjustments (COLAs) to
social security benefits and to several other federal transfer
payment programs.  Together, these COLAs added $30.2 billion to
the January increase in government social benefits to persons.
Partly offsetting the effects of the COLAs on social security
benefits was a reduction in lump-sum payments, which had added
$7.1 billion to December benefit payments; the December benefit
payments resulted from a recalculation of the earnings base
underlying the benefits for recent retirees.  Contributions for government social insurance -- a subtraction in
calculating personal income -- increased $9.6 billion in January,
compared with an increase of $3.8 billion in December.  The
January increase reflected increases in both employer and
personal contributions for government social insurance.  As noted
above, employer contributions were boosted $4.1 billion in
January by increases in  unemployment-insurance  tax rates and in
the social security taxable wage base.  The January increase in
personal contributions for government social insurance reflected
increases in the monthly premiums paid by participants in the
supplementary medical insurance program (Medicare B) and in the
social security taxable wage base; together, these changes added
$1.6 billion to the January increase.  Personal current taxes and disposable personal income  Personal current taxes increased $23.2 billion in January,
compared with an increase of $11.8 billion in December. Federal
net nonwithheld income taxes (payments of estimated taxes plus
final settlements less refunds) boosted the January change $11.8
billion, based on the Office of Tax Analysis projections of
higher final settlements and higher refunds for 2012.  Disposable personal income (DPI) -- personal income less personal
current taxes -- increased $14.1 billion, or 0.1 percent, in
January, compared with an increase of $48.3 billion, or 0.4
percent in December.  Personal outlays and personal saving  Personal outlays -- PCE, personal interest payments, and personal
current transfer payments -- increased $25.7 billion in January,
in contrast to a decrease of $0.6 billion in December.  PCE
increased $23.2 billion, compared with an increase of $3.2
billion.  Personal saving -- DPI less personal outlays -- was $540.6
billion in January, compared with $552.1 billion in December.
The personal saving rate -- personal saving as a percentage of
disposable income -- was 4.6 percent in January, compared with
4.7 percent in December.  For a comparison of personal saving in
BEAÆs national income and product accounts with personal saving
in the Federal Reserve Board's flow of funds accounts and data on
changes in net worth, go to www.bea.gov/national/nipaweb/Nipa-
Frb.asp.  Real DPI, real PCE and price index  Real DPI -- DPI adjusted to remove price changes -- decreased 0.1
percent in January, in contrast to an increase of 0.3 percent in
December.  Real PCE -- PCE adjusted to remove price changes -- increased
less than 0.1 percent in January, in contrast to a decrease of
less than 0.1 percent in December.  Purchases of durable goods
increased 0.9 percent, compared with an increase of 0.7 percent.
Purchases of motor vehicles and parts accounted for most of the
increases in January and in December. Purchases of nondurable
goods increased less than 0.1 percent in January, in contrast to
a decrease of 0.5 percent in December.  Purchases of services
decreased 0.1 percent, in contrast to an increase of less than
0.1 percent.  PCE  price index  -- The price index for PCE increased 0.2 percent
in January, compared with an increase of 0.1 percent in December.
The PCE price index, excluding food and energy, increased 0.2
percent, compared with an increase of 0.1 percent.  2011 Personal Income and Outlays  Personal income increased 5.1 percent in 2011 (that is, from the
2010 annual level to the 2011 annual level), compared with an
increase of 3.7 percent in 2010.  DPI increased 3.8 percent,
compared with an increase of 3.6 percent.  PCE increased 4.7
percent, compared with an increase of 3.8 percent.  Real DPI increased 1.3 percent in 2011, compared with an increase
of 1.8 percent in 2010.  Real PCE increased 2.2 percent, compared
with an increase of 2.0 percent.  Revisions  Estimates of personal income and DPI have been revised for July
through December; estimates for PCE have been revised for October
through December.  Changes in personal income, current-dollar and
chained (2005) dollar DPI, and current-dollar and chained (2005)
dollar PCE for November and December -- revised and as published
in last month's release.  Estimates of wages and salaries were revised from July through
December.  The revision to third-quarter wages and salaries
reflected the incorporation of the most recently available BLS
tabulations of the third-quarter wages and salaries from the
quarterly census of employment and wages.  Revised estimates for
October, November, and December reflect extrapolations from the
revised third-quarter level of wages.  In addition, revisions to
November and December reflect revised BLS employment, hours, and
earnings data.  Next release üEMarch 30, 2012 at 8:30 A.M. EDT for Personal
Income and Outlays for February  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department.     http://www.bea.gov   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  