-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Feb. 28 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2012-03-01T13:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-feb-28-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Northeast: The Northeast saw some spotty, light precipitation
last week, but not enough to warrant any improvement to the
existing pockets of D0 as we head into March.  South Atlantic and Central Gulf Coast Regions: After a couple of
active weeks brought several pulses of moisture and improvement
to the region in early to mid-February, the past week was much
quieter, resulting in few changes to this week’s map. Some
continued improvement was noted in southern  Alabama  and parts of
the western  Florida Panhandle , which goes from D2 to D1.
Persistent rains in west central Florida led to a slight
trimming of the D2 and D1 there. Farther north, western  North
Carolina  continues to dry out a bit, leading to a slight
expansion of D0 in that region. Status quo is the word across
the rest of the Southeast this week.  The Southern Great Plains and  Louisiana : The tap turned off
across all of the southern Plains and Louisiana as well last
week, leading to few changes after several weeks of improvement.
The only change of note is a slight expansion of D4 in the Big
Bend region of west  Texas . Most of the region warmed up as well,
posting above-normal readings accompanied by much windier
weather of late.  The Northern Plains:  The past few storm systems have dumped
some wet snow across the region, leading to some minor
improvement from D1 to D0 in southeastern  North Dakota  this
week. The rest of the region remains unchanged.  West: The most active weather was mostly confined to the Pacific
Northwest this week with cooler temperatures prevailing except
for the Southwest, which saw above-normal temperatures. Some of
the better precipitation fell across parts of the continental
divide in north central  Colorado  and up into southern  Wyoming ,
leading to minor reduction of D0 and D1 there. Favorable Water
Year numbers also lead to readjustments and trimming of D2 on
the central border between  New Mexico  and Colorado.  Bigger changes occurred farther west this week with more
introduction and expansion of D2 across the Wasatch Range in
 Utah , more of northern  Nevada  and farther south across the
Sierra-Nevadas in  California . Water Year snow water equivalent
values are historically low with not much in the way of time to
make up the extreme deficits. Most of the region is still living
off the benefits of good snows and water from last winter, which
may help to mitigate impacts to some degree, but there are
already concerns about water allocation limits during the
upcoming growing season.  Hawaii : There are many notable changes across the state this
week, starting in the west with Kauai, where favorable rains led
to the removal of D0. Oahu also shared in the improvements with
a reduction of D1 to D0 there. The rains didn’t come to Molokai
this week; reservoir levels continue to drop and water
restrictions remain on agricultural activity, leading to an
introduction of D4 across the western half of the island. Maui
remains dry as well, especially on the leeward side where D3 has
encroached upon the Upcountry and Kaupo areas, leading to
rangeland/feed issues for livestock there. The Big Island saw a
bit of both worlds (wet and dry) last week as the windward side
received ample precipitation, which led to a reduction of the
D0. On the Kona side, D1 had been degraded to D2 and D3 has
expanded northward from the South Kohala region into the lower
leeward reaches of the Kohala Mountains.  Looking Ahead: During the next 5 days (March 1 - 5, 2012), the
forecast calls for a good chance of heavy rains across parts of
the Southeast, particularly northern Alabama, northern  Georgia 
and the Carolinas.  Florida  and other parts across the coastal
Gulf Coast regions can also expect more modest, normal-like
totals for this time of year. The Pacific Northwest remains in
its active pattern, which may also be shared across the Sierra-
Nevadas and the Wasatch Range in Utah as well. Temperatures are
expected to be below normal for most of the West over this time
period while most everyone else east of the Rockies can expect
above-normal readings except for the northern Great Lakes region
and into  Minnesota , where cooler temperatures should prevail.  The Climate Prediction Center (CPC) 6-10 day (March 6 - 10,
2012) outlook is favoring another wet period across the Pacific
Northwest. The Southwest and southern Plains don’t look as good
during this period, with below-normal precipitation being most
likely. Temperatures across most of the Intermountain West and
coastal Pacific states are expected to be below normal. The
eastern half of the country from Texas to the Northeast and
Southeast is looking at good chances for above-normal
temperatures.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  