-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for March 1 to May 2012 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2012-03-01T13:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-march-1-to-may-2012-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the  National Weather
Service  in Camp Springs, Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The drought outlook for March 1 -
May 31, 2012 is based on short-, medium-, and long-range
forecasts, climate anomalies associated with a weakening La
Nina, initial conditions, and climatology. Since the release of
the previous drought outlook on February 16, 2012, significant
precipitation has fallen across the Pacific Northwest, portions
of the Rockies, eastern  Texas , the western and central Gulf
Coast region, the Tennessee Valley, the mid-Atlantic region, and
the Dakotas/Upper Midwest region. The Climate Prediction Center
(CPC) predicts a tilt in the odds for above-normal temperatures
for areas east of the Continental Divide in March, and enhanced
odds for below-normal temperatures across the West Coast states
and all of  Alaska . This general pattern is also anticipated for
the March-May 2012 season, though with less coverage of below-
normal temperatures over the West and Alaska, and somewhat
reduced coverage of above-normal temperatures across the CONUS.
For precipitation, there is a tilt in the odds for wetter-than-
normal conditions across the Pacific Northwest and northern
Rockies, the Alaska Panhandle, and southwest Alaska in March,
and for a fairly large area encompassing the  Great Lakes , the
Ohio and Tennessee Valleys, and eastern portions of the upper
and middle Mississippi Valley. The March-May precipitation
outlook calls for a tilt in the odds for wetter-than-normal
conditions across western  Washington , the Great Lakes, and the
Ohio Valley. Prospects for drier-than-normal conditions for both
March 2012 and March-May 2012 are elevated over the Southwest,
the southern and central High Plains, the immediate  Gulf Coast ,
and Florida. In Hawaii, with the wet season and the current La
Nina beginning to wind down, some improvement in drought
conditions is deemed the best bet, with limited relief
anticipated.  SOURCE: National Weather Service  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  