-- U.S. Consumer Confidence Holds Near Four-Year High, Bloomberg Index Shows
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-03-01T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/u-s-consumer-confidence-holds-near-four-year-high-bloomberg-index-shows.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S. held
close to an almost four-year high last week as pessimism about
the performance of the economy eased.  The Bloomberg  Consumer Comfort (COMFCOMF)  Index was minus 38.8 in the
period ended Feb. 26 after reaching minus 38.4, the highest
level since April 2008, in the previous period. It marked the
third straight week above minus 40, which is the level
associated with recessions and their aftermath. The margin of
error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  For the fourth consecutive week, at least half the
respondents viewed their personal finances as positive, a run
that has been matched once since 2008. While job growth and
higher stock values are underpinning sentiment, higher fuel
costs pose a threat to further gains in confidence and may
discourage households from spending more.  “Right now it does appear that stabilization in the labor
market and rising share prices of equities are partially
offsetting rising gasoline prices,” said  Joe Brusuelas , a
senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “Should prices
continue to rise at the pump, the Bloomberg Consumer Confidence
Index, which has a strong inverse correlation with gasoline
prices, will likely deteriorate.”  The  price  of a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline climbed
to $3.73 as of Feb. 28 from a 10-month low of $3.21 in December,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association.
Last year, gasoline costs rose to $3.99 a gallon in early May,
from $3.10 at the end of January. At the same time, confidence
waned.  Jobs and Stocks  “So far this time consumer confidence has resisted the
impact of rising prices at the pump, reflecting the
counterbalancing effect of improvements in other measures, such
as declining  unemployment , a rising stock market and some signs
of life in the long-suffering housing market,”  Gary Langer ,
president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement.  Stocks climbed on signs of an improving economy. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent to 1,372.27 at 9:37
a.m. in New York.  First-time claims of  unemployment benefits  unexpectedly
fell last week to match a four-year low, pointing to improvement
in the labor market. Filings for jobless benefits dropped by
2,000 to 351,000, the Labor Department said.  Personal spending rose less than forecast in January after
little change the prior month, Commerce Department figures
showed. Purchases climbed 0.2 percent, compared with a median
forecast of 0.4 percent in a Bloomberg survey. Spending on
services such as utilities fell, which may have reflected warmer
winter weather.  Economy Views  Views of the national economy were less pessimistic, with
86 percent saying it’s in “not so good” or “poor” shape, the
fewest since the end of February 2011, the Bloomberg confidence
report showed. At least nine of 10 respondents rated the economy
negatively for a 33-week period ended Jan. 22.  The three components of the consumer comfort index were
little changed. An index of the  buying climate  was minus 43.4,
compared with minus 42.7 the previous week. The gauge of
personal finances was minus 0.5 after 1 a week earlier. The
measure of Americans’ views on the state of the economy improved
to minus 72.4 from minus 73.3.  The gauge reached its highest level in a year among
Republicans, at minus 30.5, compared with minus 44 for
Democrats, the largest partisan gap since September.  The comfort index also was its highest in a year for 18-to-
34-year olds and homeowners, “two groups that were
disproportionately hard-hit by the recession and its fallout,”
Langer said.  Worst in 2009  The weekly Bloomberg comfort index, which measures
sentiment back to December 1985, has averaged minus 42.8 this
year following last year’s minus 46.8 average. That compared
with minus 45.7 for 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the worst full-
year reading on record. The best was plus 28.9 in 2000.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  