-- U.S. Commercial Paper Falls to Lowest Level Since January 2011, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-03-01T15:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/u-s-commercial-paper-falls-to-lowest-level-since-january-2011-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through U.S.  commercial paper  declined to the lowest level in
more than a year as investors shunned short-term IOUs from
financial institutions on investor concern that  Europe ’s fiscal
strains will taint bank balance sheets globally.  The seasonally adjusted amount of commercial paper
outstanding fell $10.4 billion to $927.2 billion in the week
ended yesterday, the third consecutive decrease, the  Federal
Reserve  said today on its website. That’s the longest stretch of
declines since the period ended Jan. 4 and the lowest level
since the market touched $916.8 billion on Jan. 19, 2011,
according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand from U.S. money-market funds, among the biggest
investors in short-term financial obligations, has been capped
by concern that European debt stresses may push the price of
these securities lower, even after unprecedented financial aid
measures for the area’s banks. The  European Central Bank  lent a
total of 529.5 billion euros ($712.2 billion) in three-year
funds to banks yesterday, more than the 470 billion euros median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  While the ECB has helped ease strains in interbank lending
markets, demand among investors for  commercial paper  is
declining,  Howard Simons , strategist at Bianco Research LLC in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “There is no logic
anymore in holding a money market fund for most investors
because we have raised the spectrum once again,” of the risk of
the assets they contain, Simons said.  Bonds Instead  Another trend curbing issuance of short-term company IOUs
is that many borrowers are selling corporate bonds instead.  “You may as well lock in those funding needs in the
corporate  bond market  rather than risk those shorter-term rates
flying higher on you,” Simons said.  A fall in borrowing by financial firms led the market’s
contraction.  Commercial paper sold by non-U.S. financial
institutions  fell for a third week, sliding $2.4 billion to
$153.3 billion outstanding, while the  amount issued by U.S.-
based banks  declined for a fifth week, dropping $3 billion to
$270.3 billion outstanding, according to the Fed.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as paying
rent and salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in New York at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  