-- Uganda Cuts Key Lending Rate by 1 Point to Support Economy
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-03-01T10:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/uganda-cuts-key-lending-rate-by-1-point-to-support-economy-1-.html
Uganda’s central bank cut its
benchmark  interest rate  for a second consecutive month by 1
percentage point to support economic growth as inflation
moderates.  The policy rate was lowered to 21 percent, Governor
Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile told reporters today in the capital,
Kampala. The central bank raised the rate by 10 percentage
points between July and November.  Inflation, which was little changed at 25.4 percent in
February, may slow to below 10 percent by the end of the year,
giving the central bank room to reduce borrowing costs, the
governor said today. The Bank of Uganda is under pressure to
ease policy after shop owners in Kampala closed for several days
in January to protest soaring commercial bank rates that reached
as high as 35 percent.  “The inflation trend that we’ve seen in the last few
months will likely continue,” Tumusiime-Mutebile said.
“Looking ahead, the Bank of  Uganda  will continue to conduct
prudent monetary policy to bring inflation close to 5 percent
over the medium term and also ensure a firm anchoring of
inflation expectations.”  The shilling, which gained 18 percent in the past six
months as the central bank boosted interest rates, fell 0.5
percent to 2,392 per dollar as of 1:09 p.m. in Kampala.  While rising food prices and an increase in power costs
will keep the inflation rate elevated in the first six months of
the year, it will fall at a faster pace after that, the governor
said.  Growth in East  Africa ’s third-largest economy probably
slowed to between 4 percent and 5 percent in the year through
June 2012 from 6.7 percent in the previous 12 months, Adam
Mugume, head of research at the central bank, said on Feb. 27.  Uganda, Africa’s second-largest coffee producer, is
scheduled to become an oil producer with  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) 
exploring for crude and gas in the Lake Albert Basin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  