-- Hungary Banks’ Credit Capacity Drops to 2008 Level, MNB Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-03-01T15:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/hungarian-banks-lending-capacity-drops-to-2008-level-mnb-says.html
Hungarian banks’ lending capacity
fell in the fourth quarter to a level last seen in September
2008, when the financial crisis engulfed the country, because of
tighter and more expensive funding, the central bank said.  “The deterioration in lending capacity was last reported
by such a proportion of banks upon the outbreak of the September
2008 crisis,” the Budapest-based  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  said in a
report today. The drop in lending capacity is driven by
shrinking external funding and rising foreign-currency funding
costs, it said.  Eastern Europe’s recovery from the 2009 economic slump has
been obstructed by Europe’s debt crisis through trade and
banking links. Western European lenders, including  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) , Erste Group Bank AG and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , which control
about three-quarters of the region’s banking industry, are
selling assets and raising capital to meet more stringent
capital and liquidity requirements, curtailing credit to
households and businesses in the east.  Hungary’s banks turned unprofitable for the first time in
13 years in 2011 because of losses caused by the government
forcing lenders to swallow foreign-currency mortgage losses,
rising bad loan provisions and a special industry tax. Regional
competition is making it more difficult for the industry to
access external funding, the central bank said.  ‘Most Exposed’  “Hungary is among the most exposed of the economies in
emerging Europe to European bank deleveraging due to high
perceived policy risk,” Timothy Ash, a London-based economist
at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , wrote in an e-mail today.
Banks would consider a planned financing agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European  Union (CICAMOP)  a “policy
safety net around them with regard to ’off-piste’ policy
initiatives,” Ash said.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s government wants to restart
negotiations with the two international lenders on financial aid
after talks broke down last year over a central bank law that
the EU said threatened monetary-policy independence.  A net 70 percent of banks involved in the survey expect
funding conditions to worsen in the first half of 2012,
according to the study. Banks plan to tighten credit criteria
for corporate loans in the first half of 2012, it said.  ‘Much Lower Level’  “In 2012, credit demand will be at a much lower level --
in fact it already is,” said Radovan Jelasity, chief executive
officer at Erste Bank Hungary Zrt., the local unit of  Erste
Group Bank AG. (EBS)  The central bank’s 7 percent benchmark rate, the
highest in the EU, is suppressing prospective homebuyers’
willingness to borrow, he said.  Commercial banks had a combined loss of 92.6 billion forint
($428 million) last year, the financial supervisory authority,
or Pszaf, said on Feb. 23.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , the country’s largest
lender, competes with  Italy ’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and UniCredit
SpA, Austria’s Erste and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , and
 Germany ’s Bayerische Landesbank.  The IMF, the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, the  World Bank (NKWGRAS)  and the  European Investment Bank ,
which spent $42 billion after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc. (LEHMQ) , should “stand ready to provide external
assistance and financial support to banks,” the Vienna
Initiative group of regulators and policy makers said in a
statement after a meeting in the Austrian capital on Jan. 16.  ‘Disorderly Deleveraging’  The risk of “excessive and disorderly deleveraging as well
as a credit crunch” looms over the region, they said. The
lenders, which bankrolled eastern  Europe ’s boom before the 2008
credit crunch, are already squeezed by deteriorating loan
quality and slowing economic growth.  The most important providers of credit are Austrian banks,
which collectively lent $266 billion to eastern European
households, companies and governments, according to the  Bank for
International Settlements .  Their engagement prompted Austrian banks, together with
their  finance ministry  and central bank, to start a group dubbed
the “Vienna Initiative” in 2009.  The group, which consists of western banks active in the
region and the official bodies that are meeting in Vienna next
week, helped stabilize the region in 2009. That was achieved by
a collective commitment by the banks not to reduce their lending
in the region and by the international lenders to help with
funding.  Hungary’s foreign-owned banks, which pledged to maintain
lending as part of a 2008 bailout deal, recall being “tricked”
by a bank tax imposed two years later, Jelasity said. Erste
Hungary had a 158 billion-forint ($730 million) net loss last
year against a 109 million-forint profit in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  