-- Turkcell May Bid for Vivacom at $1.4 Billion Valuation
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-03-01T17:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/turkcell-may-bid-for-vivacom-at-1-4-billion-valuation.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) , the
biggest Turkish mobile-phone company, may make a bid for  Vivacom
AD (5BT) , valuing  Bulgaria ’s largest fixed-line company at as much as
$1.4 billion, people with knowledge of the process said.  The Turkcell board is expected to meet as soon as this week
to discuss bidding, said one person, who declined to be
identified because the process is private. While Turkcell’s
management is eying Vivacom, Bulgaria’s incumbent
telecommunications operator, a deal would need the approval
of its board, which has blocked proposed deals before.  Turkcell is evaluating potential investments abroad,
including a possible bid for Vivacom and there’s no board
decision on any bid, the company said in a statement to the
 Istanbul Stock Exchange  today.  VTB Capital, the investment banking unit of  Russia ’s
second-biggest state-run lender  VTB Bank OJSC (VTBR) , is considering
the acquisition of Vivacom together with Sofia-based  Corporate
Commercial Bank AD (6C9) , said Atanas Bostandjiev, chief executive
officer of VTB Capital Plc, in an interview in Sofia today.  Three binding bids have already been submitted for the
company, the Bulgarian newspaper Capital reported, without
specifying the amounts of the offers. The other bidders include
Icelandic billionaire Thor Bjorgolfsson, who controlled Vivacom
between 2005 and 2007 and has bid with Panos Germanos, who
founded the Greek phone-services retailer Germanos SA. The third
bidder to meet the Feb. 27 offer deadline is Pamplona Capital
Management LLP, a London-based private equity firm, according to
the newspaper.  Vivacom Offerings  Vivacom is a so-called quadruple play phone operator,
offering fixed-line, broadband, television and mobile services
in one bill. Such companies are valued at about five or six
times their earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, said the people familiar.  The Sofia-based company had an Ebitda of 343 million
Bulgarian leva ($244 million) last year, and net income of 8.65
million leva, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Vivacom
has about 2.5 million subscribers, one of the people familiar
said. Its sales fell to 886 million Bulgarian leva in 2011 from
896 million leva a year ago, according to the company’s  website .  A Vivacom spokesman declined to comment on the bids.  Li Investment  The Bulgarian company is majority owned by PineBridge
Investments LLC, the investment-management firm owned by Hong
Kong businessman  Richard Li . Vivacom breached terms on 1.6
billion euros ($2.1 billion) of loans a year ago, which led to
it being put up for sale. The financing for Vivacom’s 2007
buyout had been arranged by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , along with  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Bloomberg data show.  Morgan Stanley is advising Vivacom’s creditors to help sell
the company, the people familiar said. A spokesman for the bank
declined to comment.  Turkcell Chief Executive Sureyya Ciliv said in an interview
on Feb. 23. that the Turkish company was assessing whether to
bid for Vivacom.  Turkcell fell 0.6 percent to 9.54 liras at the close of
trading in Istanbul, paring two days of gains. That valued the
company at 21 billion liras ($12 billion.) Turkcell had net
income of 331.7 million liras in the fourth quarter, falling 9.9
percent from the same period of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  