-- Luxembourg, Spain Clash on Easing EU Budget Deficit Rules
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r ,   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-03-01T17:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/luxembourg-s-frieden-rejects-easing-deficit-rules-for-spain-1-.html
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said the European Union won’t relax budget deficit rules
to give  Spain  breathing room even as the nation’s economy
minister said its target for 2012 is outdated.  “The rules are the same for everyone,” Frieden told
reporters in Brussels today before euro-area finance chiefs met
in Brussels. “Rules don’t get relaxed.”  The region’s ministers “understand perfectly that the
circumstances that led us to the 4.4 percent are no longer in
place at the moment,” Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
told reporters separately after the meeting.  Spain is pushing the EU to review stability programs to
take into account recession forecasts after it missed last
year’s budget goal. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has said the
2012 target will be even more difficult to meet as the economy
shrinks.  Spain’s stability program approved by the EU sets a target
of 4.4 percent this year. That compares with an 8.5 percent
shortfall last year, above its 6 percent goal.  “We did not have any discussions on concrete numbers” for
Spain, De Guindos said.  Rating company Fitch Ratings today said a 4.4 percent
deficit for 2012 is “unrealistic” as last year’s slippage
indicates it will take longer to reduce the deficit than
previously assumed. A higher target would be “desirable” and
won’t necessarily impact Spain’s debt rating, Fitch said in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  