-- Venezuela International Reserves Rise Most in Three Months
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2012-03-01T22:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/venezuela-international-reserves-rise-most-in-three-months-1-.html
Venezuela ’s international reserves
held at the central bank rose the most in three months yesterday
after a presidential decree published Feb. 28 allows state  oil
company   Petroleos de Venezuela SA  to transfer part of a windfall
tax to the bank.  Reserves rose  $834 million yesterday to $27.69 billion, the
largest single-day gain since Dec. 30, according to data
published today on the central bank’s website.  PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is known, now has the
option to sell a portion of the windfall tax in dollars received
from oil firms operating in Venezuela to the central bank in
return for bolivars. Previously, PDVSA transferred all of the
resources to the national development fund known as  Fonden  in
dollars.  “We’re receiving more dollars this year from oil revenue
that used to go directly and exclusively to Fonden,” Oil
Minister  Rafael Ramirez  told reporters Feb. 28. “Now, we are
going to sell more foreign currency to the central bank, which
is good for economic equilibrium.”  Venezuelan international reserves may rise $5 billion this
year as a result of the change to the windfall tax structure and
high  oil prices , according to Asdrubal Oliveros, director of
Caracas-based consulting and research firm Ecoanalitica.  Ramirez, who is also president of PDVSA, said the oil
company is ready to transfer half of the oil windfall tax
payments to the central bank in order to provide Fonden with
bolivars.  Venezuela, which depends on oil for 95 percent of export
revenue, saw the price of its  crude export basket  surge 7
percent in February to $114.59 a barrel, the highest since
August 2008.  Central bank reserves have fallen 7.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  