-- Veolia Jumps on Talks to Sell Transdev Transit Unit: Paris Mover
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-03-01T13:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/veolia-jumps-on-talks-to-sell-transdev-transit-unit-paris-mover.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s
biggest water utility, jumped to a four-month high in Paris
after saying it’s in exclusive talks to sell the Transdev mass-
transit unit.  Veolia  rose as much  as 9.6 percent and was trading 87.5
cents higher as 10.06 euros at 12:44 p.m. in Paris. The utility,
the biggest gainer on the benchmark CAC 40 index, had lost about
half its market value since a July warning that it would miss a
financial target and take writedowns.  Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot “appeared confident
and determined” and the outlook provided in December was
maintained, Veronique Colas, analyst at AlphaValue, said by e-
mail. Last week, she had called for the utility’s board to
resign to improve governance.  Frerot is seeking to revive the utility amid reports that
his predecessor  Henri Proglio , who remains a director, was
trying to garner board support for a replacement. Frerot’s
revamp would undo a legacy of expansion under Proglio that took
the utility to 77 countries from  Argentina  to  South Korea .  Frerot “should and will survive what has been a very
clumsy attempt to destabilize his authority, given that the path
he has proposed to restructure Veolia has been accepted by the
market,” Verity Mitchell, utilities analyst at HSBC Plc, said
by e-mail.  Peppered With Questions  The CEO was peppered with questions about his future at a
press conference today in Paris. He ducked the ones about his
relationship with Proglio, saying the “past is the past” and
that a board meeting yesterday had approved by a “large
majority” the restructuring plan and his leadership.  “What I care about is what are we going to do with this
company, where are we going to take it and what is the future,”
Frerot said, adding that during the “episode” he spent his
energy convincing employees of the need to push through changes
and reassuring “sometimes worried” customers.  In addition to plans for 5 billion euros (46.7 billion) in
asset sales this year and next, Frerot pledged 450 million euros
of cost-cutting until 2015 and streamlining the way the utility
is managed because the current structure is “heavy and
costly.”  “Veolia is today insufficiently armed,” for changes that
have occurred in the market, he said, promising a “new Veolia”
would emerge.  ‘Significantly More’  The utility achieved 1.54 billion euros of divestments last
year, taking the total to 4.08 billion euros during the past
three years, according to the company’s statement today. This
was “significantly” more than a target of 3 billion euros
between 2009 and 2011, it said.  Veolia is in exclusive talks with an unidentified investor
for the sale of Transdev, the mass-transit unit it owns with the
Caisse des Depots et Consignations, Frerot said today. “We are
optimistic for completion relatively quickly” by the end of
2012, he said.  Veolia may not sell all its stake to the investor right
away and could retain a “very minor” holding that would
eventually be sold, he said. The utility’s goal is to exit from
the transport business “completely.”  Merge Units  Veolia Transdev was created after Veolia and French state-
owned bank Caisse des Depots et Consignations agreed to merge
their transport units in 2010. The holders had planned for an
initial public offering of the business that Chief Financial
Officer Pierre-Francois Riolacci said in May 2010 had an equity
value of 1.4 billion euros.  Veolia has also initiated the process of selling solid
waste activities in the U.S. and U.K. regulated water
businesses, according to the statement. “We have received
substantial interest” in the assets, Frerot said.  Veolia will narrow its geographic reach to about 40
countries in a bid to lower debt to less than 12 billion euros
by the end of 2013, the company said. Net financial debt was
14.73 billion euros at Dec. 31, down from 15.22 billion euros a
year earlier.  Veolia today reported a net loss was 490 million euros
compared with a restated profit of 559 million euros a year
earlier, the Paris-based company said today in a statement. That
was greater than the average estimate of a 281 million-euro loss
of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Frerot declined to
provide an earnings outlook for 2012 because of the plans for
asset sales.  This year “will be the first for the transformation of
Veolia after a year of transition,” Frerot said today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  