-- VeriFone Enters Retail-Display Ad Market With LIFT Acquisition
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-03-01T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/verifone-enters-retail-display-ad-market-with-lift-acquisition.html
VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY) , the largest
maker of credit-card terminals, plans to announce the
acquisition of  LIFT Retail Marketing Technology Inc.  today to
enter the market of in-store display advertising.  LIFT’s digital displays, which sit next to cash registers
at gas stations and  convenience stores , assess items consumers
have in their shopping basket and suggest additional products
they might want to buy. The system can increase an average
store’s sales by 5 percent, Jennifer Miles, a VeriFone executive
vice president, said in an interview.  The acquisition pits San Jose, California-based VeriFone
against companies serving display ads at stores, airports,
elevators and movie theaters, including  National CineMedia Inc. (NCMI) ,
RMG Networks Inc.,  Technicolor (TCH)  SA’s Premier Retail Networks Inc.
and  Gannett Co. (GCI) ’s Captivate Network. The market for the so-
called digital out-of-home media increased 16 percent to $6.47
billion in 2010 and was  projected to grow  17 percent last year,
researcher PQ Media said.  “We are extending a strategy to expand beyond the payment-
related services VeriFone is known for,” Miles said. The
company, which already provides display advertising in taxis as
well as coupons and offers at gas stations, expects to announce
agreements for in-store displays with several retail chains “in
the very near future,” she said.  VeriFone could make additional acquisitions to expand its
presence in the retail-display advertising market, Miles said.
It’s in discussions with more than one company, she said.  Last year, VeriFone Chief Executive Officer Douglas Bergeron said the company could spend as much as $1 billion a
year on acquisitions in emerging markets and data services.  The purchase price for Atlanta-based LIFT weren’t
disclosed.  Editors: Niamh Ring, Stephen West  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland , Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 