-- VTB Capital Eyeing Vivacom Sale, Bostandjiev Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-03-01T15:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/vtb-capital-eyeing-vivacom-sale-bostandjiev-says-correct-.html
VTB (VTBR)  Capital, the investment banking
unit of Russia’s second-biggest state-run lender, is considering
the acquisition of Vivacom AD, Bulgaria’s biggest fixed-line
phone company, together with the Sofia-based  Corporate
Commercial Bank AD. (6C9) , said Atanas Bostandjiev, chief executive
officer of VTB Capital Plc.  “We are looking at the deal in partnership with the
Corporate Commercial Bank,” Bostandjiev said in an interview in
Sofia today. “It is a very complex transaction and it is too
early to say anything more specific.”  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS, the biggest Turkish
mobile-phone company, may make a bid for Vivacom AD, valuing the
Bulgarian company at about $1.4 billion, people with knowledge
of the process said earlier today.  “This valuation is too huge,” Bostandjiev said.  Vivacom (5BT)   is majority-owned by PineBridge Investments LLC,
Hong Kong businessman Richard Li’s investment-management firm.
Vivacom breached terms on 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion) of
loans a year ago, which led to its sale. The loans were arranged
by Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , along with Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc to finance Vivacom’s 2007 buyout,
Bloomberg data shows.  Icelandic billionaire Thor Bjorgolfsson, who controlled the
company between 2005 and 2007, filed a bid in partnership with
Panos Germanos, founder of Germanos SA, a Greek phone services
retailer, Capital newspaper reported yesterday, citing
unidentified people. The third company to have filed a binding
bid by the Feb. 27 deadline, is Pamplona Capital Management LLP,
a London-based private equity investor, according to Capital.  The sale is managed by Morgan Stanley in  London , hired by
Vivacom’s creditors.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net  