-- VTB Capital to Invest in Balkan Expansion, Bostandjiev Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-03-01T16:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/vtb-capital-to-invest-in-balkan-expansion-bostandjiev-says-1-.html
VTB Capital Plc, the investment
banking unit of  Russia ’s second-biggest state-run lender, plans
to invest “several hundred million euros” in the Balkans in
the next few years, the bank’s chief executive said.  VTB Capital opened an office in the Bulgarian capital Sofia
today to help expand in southeast  Europe  as western investors
pull cash from the region because of the debt crisis at home.
Moscow-based VTB Capital has units in  London ,  Hong Kong ,
Singapore, Dubai,  New York , Vienna and Kiev.  “I’ll be happy if we invest several hundred million euros
in the next few years in various projects in  Bulgaria , Romania,
Serbia and  Greece  directly as a bank or supporting our
clients,” VTB Capital Chief Executive Officer Atanas Bostandjiev said in an interview in Sofia . “There are good
opportunities in the energy, transport, telecommunications and
agriculture industries everywhere in the region.”  Balkan countries including  Serbia  and Romania are
struggling to narrow budget gaps and raise funds through state-
asset sales to meet commitments under international bailout
agreements. Western investors are cautious to invest in the
region, on concern the Greek debt crisis will further hinder
economic growth.  “We’ll be looking at privatization deals planned in
Bulgaria, Serbia and Romania,” Bostandjiev said. “We are
interested in the planned sale of the Romanian railways freight
unit. Serbia is planning bank sales, which are of interest.
Similar deals in Slovenia and Croatia are also of interest.”  ‘Looking at’ Vivacom  VTB Capital bought an 80 percent stake in Bulgartabak,
Bulgaria’s biggest tobacco company, for 100 million euros ($133
million), through its Austrian-registered unit BT Invest GmbH
six months ago. The government also plans sell stakes in state
utilities including the Bulgarian Energy Holding EAD to raise
cash to meet foreign debt payments in January 2013 of some 800
million euros.  VTB Capital “is looking at” the acquisition of Vivacom
AD, Bulgaria’s biggest fixed-line phone company, “in
partnership with” the Sofia-based  Corporate Commercial Bank AD (6C9) ,
Bostandjiev said.  “It is a very complex transaction and it is too early to
say anything more specific,” Bostandjiev said.  Bulgaria weathered the global crisis without an
international bailout. The European Union’s poorest nation in
terms of per-capita economic output wants to narrow this year’s
budget deficit to 1.35 percent of gross domestic product to
contain the effect of the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  VTB Capital AD, the Bulgarian unit, will provide investment
banking services, including advice on debt and equity
transactions and on mergers and acquisitions, Bostandjiev said.  Former Bulgarian Finance Minister Milen Velchev was named
chief executive officer and the lender expects the new office to
grow to about 20 staff members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  