-- Wallis Biography Reveals New Details About Suicidal Wimp: Books
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-03-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/wallis-biography-reveals-new-details-about-the-king-suicidal-wimp-books.html
When Wallis Simpson tried to leave
Edward VIII, he threatened to kill himself. She stayed, became
his wife and so saved the British royal family.  This is Anne Sebba’s unusual perspective in “That Woman,”
her new biography of the U.S. socialite who is often blamed for
almost destroying the monarchy by her obsession with becoming
queen.  The author quotes letters that suggest Wallis was “utterly
genuine in her desire to disappear from the king’s life” and
“get out of a predicament she now loathed.”  It’s been 80 years since the then-Prince of Wales dined at
the  London  home Wallis shared with her second husband, Ernest
Simpson, staying until 4 a.m.  Four years later, Edward gave up his crown and empire for
“the woman I love.” If the woman born Bessiewallis Warfield
had been crowned, Queen Elizabeth II’s diamond jubilee wouldn’t
be happening now.  Newly uncovered documents show Wallis retained enough love
for Ernest to write him passionate letters as they broke up, and
she wasn’t so crazy about the king, whom she called “Peter
Pan,” says Sebba.  Edward was a childish man who put whims above duty and was
quite prepared to cut his throat if she walked away, according
to courtier Alan Lascelles. Wallis was trapped. This is hardly
the love story of the century.  Visiting Hitler  The king avoided books, neglected state papers and naively
meddled in politics -- as he did when he was Duke of Windsor and
visited  Adolf Hitler  in the highly mistaken hope of encouraging
peace and rebuilding ties with  Germany .  Wallis was complicit in that ill-timed visit. Photographs
of Hitler kissing her hand encouraged the view that the Windsors
would be installed as king and queen at the head of a puppet
government if the Germans invaded Britain.  Sebba is dismissive of lurid stories of an earlier affair
with an Italian count and a botched abortion -- though she’s no
Wallis apologist and can see the reasons she was branded a
grasping monster, a Champagne-swigging party crasher, a spy and
a sexual gymnast who wanted a man and money.  Wallis was striking, not beautiful; bright, not charming.
Sebba praises her for her fashion sense and poise, though she
doesn’t quite answer the big question of why Edward married her.  That Man?  While the queen mother called her “that woman,” there are
suggestions that Wallis was really “that man.” The book
soberly examines the claims, saying she may have had androgen
insensitivity syndrome, or an inability to process testosterone,
which leads a child with male chromosomes to appear female from
the outside.  Sebba’s book is more satisfying than “W.E.,” Madonna’s
recent movie presenting Wallis as a U.S. style icon who becomes
an English social climber with ruthless ambition.  There’s been a whole industry of books about the duchess.
Hugo Vickers’s “Behind Closed Doors” examines her later years
in detail. Her health problems in the 1950s are often said to
have been cancer of the ovaries or womb, while Wallis’s own
unrevealing autobiography from 1956, “The Heart Has Its
Reasons,” dryly notes on its last page that she would have
liked to have had children.  Sebba  skates over some moral and political issues, while
drawing out British class snobbery and the duchess’s aimless
life after her exile to Paris.  The book’s final picture is well chosen. It shows Wallis’s
funeral at St. George’s Chapel, Windsor, on April 30, 1986. As
the Welsh Guards efficiently move the coffin down the steps
before laying it to rest next to the Duke at Frogmore, the queen
mother watches with a faint smile.  “That Woman: The Life of Wallis Simpson, Duchess of
Windsor” is published by St. Martin’s Press in the U.S. and
Phoenix in the U.K. (344 pages, $27.99, 7.99 pounds paperback).
To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 