-- Wheat Drops for Second Day as U.S. Storms May Moisten Soil; Soybeans Fall
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-03-01T13:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/wheat-declines-as-snow-may-help-ease-drought-conditions-in-parts-of-u-s-.html
Wheat fell for a second day in
 Chicago  on speculation storms in parts of the U.S., the world’s
biggest exporter, will boost soil moisture. Soybeans declined,
threatening this year’s longest rally.  Snow this week in parts of North Dakota, the biggest U.S.
grower of wheat, will ease concerns about dry soil, Telvent DTN
agricultural meteorologist  Bryce Anderson  said in a report
yesterday. The storm will miss parts of eastern North Dakota and
western  Minnesota . Rain in parts of the southern Great Plains
including Kansas, the second-biggest producer, will boost crops.  “There is speculation that winter storms in the northern
U.S. will increase soil-moisture levels in the run-up to the
spring sowing period over the next two months,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  Wheat for May delivery dropped 0.6 percent to $6.6375 a
bushel by 1:15 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The grain rose 0.3 percent last month. Milling wheat for May
delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris fell 0.5 percent to
207.25 euros ($275.93) a ton.  “The better seasonal conditions should translate into an
increase in U.S. spring-wheat planting,”  Luke Mathews , a
commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said in
a report e-mailed today. “Global wheat supplies are huge, and
the moisture profile in the northern U.S. grain belt has
improved following recent winter storms.”  Winning Streak  Soybeans for May delivery slid 0.4 percent to $13.1525 a
bushel in Chicago after gaining 4.3 percent in eight sessions
through yesterday. The oilseed jumped 10 percent in February,
the most since December 2010.  Futures declined on speculation prices now account for
damage to crops from dry weather in  South America . The harvest
in  Brazil , expected by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to be
the biggest shipper, is likely to fall 7 percent to 70 million
tons this year, the USDA’s Foreign Agricultural Service said
yesterday.  “Beans had a good run in February, so it’s likely”
investors are selling, said Erin FitzPatrick, an analyst at
Rabobank International in  London . “Sometimes taking a breather
is a good thing.”  Corn for May delivery fell 0.5 percent to $6.5475 a bushel
after six advances in a row. The grain rose 3 percent in
February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at   jdeane3@bloomberg.net  