-- Wisconsin’s High Court Asked to Remove Justice From Labor Bargaining Case
-- B y   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2012-03-01T05:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/wisconsin-top-court-asked-to-remove-justice-gableman-from-labor-law-case.html
Wisconsin ’s highest Court should
remove one of its members from the reconsideration of a decision
on legislation limiting public employees’ collective bargaining
rights, a prosecutor who challenged the ruling said.  Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne, in a request
filed yesterday, said the conflict-of-interest issues he raised
in the case were ignored by Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice
Michael Gableman. Gableman was represented free of charge in an
earlier ethics case by the  law firm  Michael Best & Friedrich
LLP, which also assisted state officials in the collective
bargaining lawsuit filed by Ozanne last year.  “It is clear he has not carefully considered the motion,”
Ozanne said of Gableman in yesterday’s filing.  The  Supreme Court  ruled 4-3 in June to uphold the
collective bargaining law. Gableman was in the majority. A 3-3
decision would have allowed the lower court ruling that was in
Ozanne’s favor to stand.  In January, Ozanne asked that the collective bargaining
case be reopened after learning that Gableman had been
represented for free by the law firm. Gableman issued a written
decision Jan. 20 saying that “recusal is neither justified, nor
warranted.”  Viet D. Dinh, a lawyer for Gableman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment yesterday on Ozanne’s filing.  Ozanne, a Democrat whose county includes Madison, opposed
the collective bargaining law signed by Republican Governor
 Scott Walker . The prosecutor sought to overturn it by
challenging the legality of legislative proceedings that
produced it.  The case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald, 2011AP613-LV, Wisconsin
Supreme Court (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  