-- With $2,000 Tab, Meadowood Grabs Bragging Rights in California
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-03-01T19:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/with-2-000-tab-napa-valley-s-meadowood-grabs-california-bragging-rights.html
Napa Valley’s Restaurant at
Meadowood, when it reopens from renovations in late March, will
serve what probably will be  California ’s most expensive tasting
menu at $500 per person.  The state’s priciest dinner is currently served at Urasawa
in  Beverly Hills , where a sushi meal runs about $483 after tax
and tip. What’s another $17 for Hollywood moguls, Silicon Valley
billionaires and  Sean Parker ?  After Thomas Keller’s The French Laundry, Meadowood is the
only other California restaurant to hold three Michelin stars.  Meadowood’s new 15-20-course “counter menu” will include
tax and gratuities in the $500 price. Wine is extra.  Optional beverage pairings will start around $350 per
person, which can bring the cost of a dinner for two to nearly
$2,000 per couple. The “curated” oenophilic extravagance will
involve rare wines from  Screaming Eagle  and  Harlan Estate , whose
owners are also partners at  Meadowood .  “I don’t want this to be seen as merely an uber-expensive,
‘why the hell not’ offering created with the hope of appealing
to the vanity of a few,” Chef Christopher Kostow wrote in an e-
mail. He said he expects 5-10 percent of guests to order the
$500 menu, which will be available in the dining room or at a
new kitchen counter that seats four.  “The increased length allows for a more rhythmic meal;
more space for textural, temperature, flavor interplays and
juxtapositions; more time for conversation between us and the
guest,” wrote Kostow.  Cheaper Tasting  The restaurant will continue to offer its 8-9-course chef’s
menu at $225 per person.  The $125 four-course option is being eliminated.  Guests will choose either of the two menus during the
booking process. To eliminate the transactional experience of
dining, Kostow said he’s looking into ways to have diners pay in
full before visiting Meadowood.  There won’t be extra fees for high-end ingredients like
caviar, truffles or foie gras. “At this price point the idea of
putting supplement charges on the menu is ghastly. I hate it,”
said Kostow.  The $500 price tag has been difficult for diners to swallow
in post-recession America.  Masa Takayama opened the $500-per-person Shaboo in  Las
Vegas  in late 2009; that price didn’t include tax or gratuity.  Cut to $300  Less than a year later, he lowered the entry-level price to
$300. The exorbitant eatery, where diners themselves cook Kobe
beef and foie gras in Japanese hot-pots, is now serving dinner
only two nights a week. This reporter was the only diner at
Shaboo during an evening meal in early 2010.  Culinary message boards have also reported light crowds at
 Masa , Chef Takayama’s $450-per-person sushi temple in  New York ’s
Time Warner Center.  Mario Batali ’s  Del Posto  in New York stopped serving its
$500 “collection menu” last summer, which involved chef Mark
Ladner cooking tableside for his guests.  Saison in  San Francisco  charges $498 for a  beverage-paired 
tasting, inclusive of tax and tip; reservations are easily
attainable virtually any day of the week.  Kostow is aware of the risks. “This will be much harder 
for us. Period.”  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 