-- Alabama, Georgia Fight to Salvage Immigration Laws in U.S. Appeals Court
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2012-03-01T19:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/two-states-fight-to-save-immigration-laws-in-u-s-appeals-court.html
Alabama  and  Georgia  argued to
salvage state laws targeting illegal immigrants in a hearing
before a federal court that already said there’s a “substantial
likelihood” some of those measures will be thrown out.  A three-judge panel heard arguments today in Atlanta in
three cases, two from Alabama and one from Georgia. U.S. Circuit
Judge Charles Wilson said the panel won’t issue a decision until
after the U.S. Supreme Court rules on a challenge to  Arizona ’s
immigration measures. The Arizona case will be heard in April by
the high court.  One provision of the Alabama law that has been temporarily
blocked requires illegal immigrants to carry registration papers
and forces schools to determine the legal status of students as
they enroll. Wilson and U.S. Circuit Judge Beverly Martin said
they were concerned with the law’s practical application.  “Is it just a scare tactic?” Wilson asked John Neiman,
Alabama’s solicitor general.  “No,” said Neiman, calling the information that would be
gathered “relevant to policy making.”  The judges asked if the children would be deported after
declaring themselves illegal residents.  “Well, I suppose yes,” Neiman said. The children could be
deported if the U.S. government decided to ask for the
information, he said.  Undocumented Residents  Martin and Wilson asked several times if Alabama’s law is
meant to drive undocumented residents out of the state.  “That is not the intent,” Neiman said.  The law’s school papers provision says “it is a compelling
public interest to discourage illegal immigration” by enforcing
federal immigration laws and its own new measures.  The federal government is challenging Alabama’s law, saying
immigration is a federal matter. The U.S. has also sued to block
laws aimed at apprehending illegal immigrants and keeping them
from taking jobs in  South Carolina , Arizona and  Utah .  “States are not free to complement federal law” regarding
immigration, Beth Brinkman of the U.S. Justice Department, told
the judges today. State courts could enforce immigration laws
inconsistently with federal practice, she said.  Martin said federal immigration law allows illegal
residents to live in the U.S. while applications for legal
status are pending.  “Why don’t you just accept that?” she asked the states’
lawyers.  Immigration Checks  Georgia’s law would allow the police to check immigration
status and bar transporting illegal aliens in some
circumstances. It would require employers to verify a worker’s
immigration status. The statute was blocked in June by a trial
judge’s preliminary injunction. The state appealed. That issue
was not considered today.  The  Justice Department  and nongovernment advocacy groups
are likely to win parts of their challenges to the statutes
because the federal government exclusively controls immigration,
a different three-judge panel of the court said earlier.  Both Alabama and Georgia have argued in court papers that
they are trying to help the federal government manage
immigrants. The laws are aimed at authorities who police and
teach illegal residents, not the immigrants themselves, the
states say.  Lawyers for Georgia say the law will help prevent illegal
immigrants from being “victimized by employers or others” and
“forced to work in horrific conditions.”  ‘Criminalizes Its Consequences’  “The state does not regulate immigration but rather
criminalizes its consequences,” Georgia Attorney General Samuel S. Olens said in a brief.  Alabama’s documentation rule would “have a chilling
effect,” causing children to drop out of school and thus
denying them due process of law guaranteed in the Constitution,
Justin Cox, a lawyer with the  American Civil Liberties Union ,
said in court papers. The ACLU joined the lawsuits filed by the
Hispanic groups in both states.  The Alabama law would encourage illegal residents to
“self-deport to states that are supportive” of illegal
residents, making it more difficult to find them, the Justice
Department said in court papers. The statute “frustrates the
federal government’s ability to pursue removal proceedings”
when necessary, it said.  Water Services  Martin asked how illegal residents would get life-
sustaining services, such as water, under Alabama’s provision
that bars them from entering a government contract.  Neiman said the Alabama attorney general wrote an opinion
listing mostly licensure activities as barred by the law. Such
activities can include obtaining a driver’s license, according
to the opinion.  “But it doesn’t exclude water,” Martin said. Martin also
said the court can’t use an attorney general’s opinion as
precedent for their consideration.  The  Supreme Court  in December agreed to review a ruling
against Arizona’s requirement that police officers check the
status of someone arrested who they reasonably suspect is in the
country illegally. The Georgia and Alabama laws have the same
provision.  The cases are U.S. v. State of Alabama, 11-14532, and
Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v. Bentley, 11-14535,
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit (Atlanta) and
Georgia Latino Alliance for Human Rights v. Deal, 11-cv-01804,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  