-- Yahoo May Win Clash Over U.K. Soccer Data, EU Court Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-01T17:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/yahoo-may-win-european-union-court-case-over-u-k-soccer-data.html
Yahoo! Inc (YHOO) . may win a bid to access
annual schedules of the English and Scottish soccer leagues, the
European Union’s highest court said.  Soccer leagues may not be able to claim copyright
protection for match schedules, the Luxembourg-based EU court
said in a ruling today. The U.K.’s Court of Appeal must make a
final decision on the matter.  “A football fixture list cannot be protected by copyright
when its compilation is dictated by rules or constraints which
leave no room for creative freedom,” the EU court said in a
statement on today’s ruling. “The fact that the compilation of
the list required significant labor and skill on the part of its
creator does not justify, in itself, it being protected by
copyright.”  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , and a number of
betting companies that want to access the information, are at
loggerheads with the soccer leagues over whether their lists’
data is protected by copyright. While Yahoo’s U.K. unit argued
the data isn’t protected and can be published without payment,
the English and Scottish leagues said they own the rights to the
data on the annual fixture lists and can charge for its use.  “It is pretty clear that the bar has been set high and
that football fixture lists are unlikely to qualify” for
copyright protection, Tony Ballard, a lawyer at Harbottle &
Lewis LLP in London, said in an e-mailed statement. “Those who
compile these lists, and other lists like them such as program
schedules, will find it difficult to control or charge fees to
those who use the data to provide news and information in print
or online.”  Court of Appeal  A  London  court in 2010 ruled the data is protected by
copyright under the EU’s database law. The case is now pending
at the Court of Appeal in London, which last year referred the
case to the EU tribunal for guidance.  Yahoo “considers the judgment a whole-hearted endorsement
of its position that there is no copyright in football fixture
lists,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Yahoo “looks forward” to the U.K. court hearing “so that
the football leagues claims to a de-facto monopoly over this
information can finally be put to rest,” it said.  Football DataCo, which is responsible for the Premier
League and Football League fixture lists, is “confident” the
U.K. court will uphold database protection for the match
listings, “which provide much-needed revenue at all levels of
the professional game,” David Folker, the company’s general
manager, said in an e-mail.  Copyright Claims  The European Gaming and Betting Association, a group which
represents  Unibet Group Plc (UNIB)  and Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment
Plc, said the ruling “puts an end” to Football DataCo’s
copyright claims on fixture lists used by a number of media
companies and betting companies.  The case is:  C-604/10 , Football DataCo Limited, Football
Association Premier League Ltd, Football League Limited,
Scottish Premier League Limited, Scottish Football League, PA
Sport UK Limited v. Yahoo UK Limited,  Stan James  (Abingdon)
Limited, Stan James Plc, Enetpulse APS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Luxembourg via 
 Awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  