-- Hygiene Products Focus Drives Credit Risk Lower at SCA
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-03-01T09:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/hygiene-drives-credit-risk-lower-at-sca-as-tissue-move-pays-off.html
Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCAB) ’s focus on
hygiene products has helped the Swedish company skirt the
epidemic that’s gripped the rest of the Nordic paper industry.  Credit-default swaps insuring SCA’s five-year bonds fell to
77.2 basis points on Feb. 24, the lowest in almost nine months,
with investors predicting a 6.8 percent risk the Stockholm-based
company will be unable to pay its debt. That compares with 26
percent for  UPM-Kymmene Oyj (UPM1V)  and 27 percent for  Stora Enso Oyj (STEAV) ,
the two biggest paper companies in the region.  SCA agreed in January to sell most of its packaging
operations to  DS Smith Plc (SMDS)  for 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion),
two months after buying  Georgia-Pacific LLC (GP) ’s European tissue
operations for 1.32 billion euros to add brands including Lotus.
About 80 percent of SCA’s business will be in hygiene after the
packaging sale goes through, and the company plans to push
deeper into the industry with more acquisitions.  “SCA is becoming more and more a consumer products company
than a traditional forest company,” said Riikka Tuominen, a
credit analyst at  Nordea Bank. (NDA)  “A growing share of revenue
comes from tissue and personal hygiene, where the demand is
fairly stable and even growing in  emerging markets , so that’s
good for its credit profile.”  Credit Rating  SCA, which is  Europe ’s biggest private  forestry owner, 
makes Tempo tissues and Libero diapers, as well as printing
paper and container board. Its latest acquisition brought SCA’s
European market share to 35 percent in consumer tissue, and 30
percent in tissue sold to hotels and restaurants.  Moody’s Investors Service rated SCA’s Baa1 on Feb. 22,
citing the “inherent demand stability” in the growing hygiene
business. Standard & Poor’s rates SCA BBB+, the third-lowest
investment grade rating and the same level as Moody’s.  The European  paper industry  has been in a state of decline
for years, as demand for newspapers and magazines drops and
capacity shifts to  Asia , curtailing export opportunities.
European paper volumes will probably fall 5 percent in 2012,
while paper prices are set to decline 3 percent, Moody’s said
Feb. 20 in a report.  “We have a different creditworthiness than these other
names” in the Nordic forest industry, said Carl-Axel Olson,
SCA’s treasurer. “Thanks to our increasing focus on hygiene
products, the business risk is seen as developing in a positive
direction.”  Tempo  SCA rose as much as 0.5 kronor, or 0.4 percent, to 118.7
kronor in Stockholm, and traded at 118.7 kronor as of 10:44 a.m.
SCA has gained 16 percent this year, valuing the company at
about 83.3 billion kronor ($12.6 billion). UPM and Stora have
both gained 22 percent, while Swedish paper and pulp maker
 Holmen AB (HOLMB)  has dropped 2.9 percent.  SCA derived just over half its sales from paper, pulp and
packaging in 2004 and has steadily grown its hygiene business
since then. In 2007 it bought  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s European
tissue operations including the Tempo brand. Last week, SCA
offered 1.9 billion kronor for  Taiwan ’s Everbeauty, which
manufactures and markets baby diapers and incontinence products.  The company boosted its operating margin at the personal
care unit to 12.1 percent in the fourth quarter, from 11.5
percent a year earlier. By contrast, the margin at the forest-
product division, which makes publication paper and pulp, fell
to 10.6 percent from 13.8 percent.  Culling Jobs  SCA’s transformation has included large-scale job cuts. The
company said in October it will eliminate 2,000 jobs as part of
a cost-saving plan at its hygiene and packaging units. That
followed a move in 2009 to close plants and cut 2,200 European
packaging jobs. SCA employs about 45,000 people globally.  Stora, the leading papermaker in Europe, has eliminated
more than 6,000 jobs in the past five years and cut mills to
stem falling demand.  Norske Skogindustrier ASA (NSG) , the Norwegian
maker of newsprint paper, has reduced its workforce by more than
4,000 since 2005.  Norske Skog, which makes only newsprint and magazine paper,
hasn’t reported an annual profit since 2004. The company is
closing its mill in Follum,  Norway , leaving it with 13 paper
plants around the world. While it’s not planning to shut more
mills, it will “evaluate the future” of its unprofitable plant
in Renkum,  Netherlands , spokesman Carsten Dybevig said.  Credit-default swaps insuring 10 million euros of Norske
Skog’s debt for five years cost 3 million euros upfront and
500,000 euros a year, signaling a 75 percent probability of
default within that time.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “Norske Skog has never defaulted on any loan in history,
and we won’t do it in the future either,” Dybevig said. “We
will fix our profitability, and improve our position when it
comes to capacity, cost and long-term debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm   at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  