-- Zimbabwe Seeks Fund to Manage Weath From Diamonds
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2012-03-01T16:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/zimbabwe-s-biti-sees-need-for-fund-to-manage-diamond-wealth-1-.html
Zimbabwe  needs to set up a sovereign
wealth fund for revenue from its Marange diamond fields, Finance
Minister  Tendai Biti  said.  There is a “clear gap” between gems being sold in
Zimbabwe and the amount of money reaching government, Biti told
a conference in Johannesburg today. He said it wasn’t “proper”
for Zimbabwe’s state-owned mining company, the Zimbabwe Mining
Development Corp., to manage the southern African nation’s
diamond production.  “It’s quite clear that we urgently need a new diamond
act,” he said. “This act would establish a stand-alone diamond
agency.”  The ZMDC has registered 45 million carats, which Biti
described as “minute” for such a “massive” mining operation.
The nation also needs to set up a diamond exploration company
and a “diamond agency,” which would help market the gems, he
said.  Zimbabwe’s diamonds are mainly mined in Marange in
Manicaland province where the country’s military and police have
been accused of human-rights abuses.  Global Witness , a London-
based human rights body, withdrew from a  Kimberley Process 
monitoring group in Zimbabwe,  saying corruption  remained a
problem in Marange.  $200 Million for Fund  The Kimberley Process, which monitors the trade of conflict
gems, has allowed Zimbabwe to sell its Marange stones.  Zimbabwe “can be happy” if it raises $200 million for its
wealth fund from its diamond revenue, which is projected to grow
more than ninefold to $700 million this year, Biti said
separately in an interview today.  The government is also planning a separate sovereign wealth
fund of more than $1 billion with proceeds from the rest of the
economy, Biti said.  The ZMDC operates Marange in joint ventures with closely
held South African, Chinese and Dubai-based companies that
aren’t obliged by law to release production data.  The Marange diamond fields were seized from U.K.-based
 African Consolidated Resources Plc (AFCR)  under unclear circumstances
in 2006. The fields were subsequently divided between Mbada
Mining (Pvt) Ltd., Canadile Mining (Pvt) Ltd. and  China ’s Anjin,
all of which have joint-ventures with the ZMDC.  The Rio Tinto Plc-owned Murowa diamond mine and closely
held River Ranch Mine (Pvt) Ltd. in Zimbabwe aren’t subject to
Kimberley Process scrutiny because accusations haven’t been made
against them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  