-- ZTE Eyes Surpassing Alcatel on Emerging Market Phone Demand
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-03-02T08:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-01/zte-eyes-surpassing-alcatel-on-emerging-market-wireless-demand.html
ZTE Corp. (000063) ,  China ’s second-biggest
maker of phone equipment, wants to become one of the world’s top
three makers of network infrastructure in three years, said Xu
Ming, the company’s vice president of wireless products.  ZTE plans to use its footprint in emerging economies in
Africa and Asia to win contracts for faster fourth-generation
wireless networks, Xu said in an interview at the Mobile World
Congress in Barcelona this week.  The Chinese company ranked sixth among telecommunications
infrastructure makers in 2010 with a 7.2 percent market share,
according to the most recent  Gartner Inc. (IT)  estimates. To win the
third spot behind Ericsson AB and Huawei Technologies Co.,
Shenzhen-based ZTE will have to overtake  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , with a
13.3 percent share,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  with 9.4 percent and
Nokia Siemens Networks with 8.4 percent based on the estimates.  “We are growing stronger and stronger in research and
development and in the market, and we are confident to become
the No. 3,” Xu said. “In the following two to three years we
can, in every region, be a top three provider for all
infrastructure. Our chances are climbing with 4G.”  Pricing Pressure  ZTE rose 2.7 percent to HK$23.10 in Hong Kong trading
today. The stock has declined 5.1 percent this year, compared
with the 50 percent gain in the stock of Alcatel-Lucent through
yesterday.  Alcatel-Lucent slipped 1.3 percent to 1.76 euros at 9:50
a.m. in Paris.  Pierre Ferragu , a Sanford C Bernstein analyst,
cut his rating to “market-perform” from “outperform.”  Stronger economic growth in emerging markets and less
developed networks mean phone companies in those countries are
more eager to award deals to supply the population with wireless
connections, Xu said.  The network equipment market has transformed over the past
decade as new competition emerged from Asian vendors, such as
 ZTE (763)  and Huawei, putting extra pressure on gear prices and on
incumbents’s revenues.  “ZTE’s technology is pretty solid and very innovative but
to move past  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  and others they would have to build
their service business,” said Bettina Tratz-Ryan, a Gartner
analyst based in Germany. “Especially in new network rollouts
around 4G, operators tend to evaluate their suppliers by their
ability to help in design and implementation.”  The Chinese company also aims to become the third-largest
vendor of  mobile devices  after winning the No. 4 spot in the
final quarter of last year based on Gartner figures. ZTE sold
18.9 million devices for a market share of 4 percent in the
period, behind  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
ZTE’s smartphone sales may double this year as it gains market
share in Europe,  North America , Brazil and Japan, the company
said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  