-- AIG Jumps on Surprise Operating Profit as Investments Gain
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-02-22T12:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/aig-swings-to-3-96-billion-loss-on-costs-from-plane-unit-deal.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that repaid a U.S. bailout, gained in early trading
as fourth-quarter results beat analysts’ estimates after
investments drove a surprise operating profit.  AIG jumped 3.8 percent to $38.70 at 7:40 a.m. in New York.
Operating profit was 20 cents a share, beating the average
 estimate  for a loss of 8 cents in a Bloomberg survey of 17
analysts. The net loss was $3.96 billion, driven by claims from
superstorm Sandy and costs tied to a deal to sell the plane-
leasing unit, New York-based AIG said yesterday in a statement.  The operating profit was “driven primarily by better-than-
forecasted capital-markets” and other investment results,  Randy Binner , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, said in a note.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 68, has struck
deals to sell units including non-U.S. life insurers to simplify
the company and help repay the government. He reached an
agreement in December to sell at least 80 percent of the
International Lease Finance Corp. plane business to a group of
Chinese investors.  AIG  surged  36 percent in 12 months through yesterday in
regular trading as the U.S. sold its stake. Taxpayers owned as
much as 92 percent of AIG during a bailout that began in 2008
and swelled to $182.3 billion. AIG sold more than $70 billion of
assets such as Asian insurers and a U.S. consumer lender to help
repay the rescue, which ended in December.  ‘New Era’  “When history is written, we will look back and see that
by the end of 2012, a new era for AIG had begun,” Benmosche
said in the statement.  Operating profit at the life unit climbed to $1.09 billion
from $912 million a year earlier as investment income rose about
15 percent.  So-called  alternative investments  generated a gain of $617
million, compared with a loss of $86 million a year earlier, AIG
said in a supplemental filing. Income from private equity surged
to $454 million from $10 million and hedge funds added $163
million, compared with a loss of $96 million a year earlier.  AIG had $18.9 billion of alternative investments as of Dec.
31, down from $19.3 billion on Sept. 30. Returns for hedge-fund
and private-equity investments are reported on a one-month and
one-quarter lag, respectively.  Net unrealized gains on bonds available for sale widened to
$23.8 billion from $23.2 billion three months earlier. The
figures, reflecting market fluctuations that aren’t counted
toward earnings, are monitored by investors and rating firms as
a gauge of financial strength.  Claims Costs  The insurer booked a tax benefit in the year-earlier
period, when net income was $21.5 billion. That result was tied
to a projection that AIG would generate enough operating profit
to use the tax assets, which are linked to prior losses and can
limit future payments to the government.  Full-year profit was $3.44 billion, compared with $20.6
billion a year earlier.  The property-casualty unit, led by  Peter Hancock , posted a
fourth-quarter pretax loss of $983 million, compared with a
profit of $817 million a year earlier, as the company faced
claims from Sandy. The business that was known as Chartis spent
$1.25 on claims and expenses for every premium dollar it
collected, compared with spending $1.07 a year earlier.  Sandy cost AIG about $1.3 billion after tax. The storm
struck the U.S. Northeast in October and cut profit at insurers
including Travelers Cos., Chubb Corp., and Allstate Corp.
Travelers, the lone insurer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
reported $689 million of catastrophe costs in the fourth
quarter, led by Sandy.  Premium Revenue  Premium revenue at AIG’s property-casualty unit slipped 3.9
percent to $8.61 billion. Premiums, deposits and other
considerations at the life unit fell 11 percent to $5.22 billion
from a year earlier on a decline in fixed-annuity deposits,
driven by low  interest rates .  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities,
decreased to $66.38 a share as of Dec. 31 from $68.87 three
months earlier. There was a $4.4 billion charge tied to
discontinued operations, fueled by ILFC, the insurer said. AIG
said it was more selective about taking on risk.  The loss at the mortgage-insurance business widened to $45
million from $25 million a year earlier. Longer foreclosure
processes in some states pushed he company to increase reserves
for losses on first-liens. Mortgage insurers pay lenders when
homeowners default and foreclosures fail to recoup costs.  AIG reported having  63,000 employees , compared with 57,000
a year earlier. The increase was mostly the result of a decision
to count agents who previously weren’t classified as full-time
employees, Jim Ankner, an AIG spokesman, wrote in an e-mail
before results were released. Some employees were added as AIG
acquired broker-dealer Woodbury Financial Services from Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc., Ankner said.  AIG reported a staff of about 116,000 at the end of 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  