-- AIG’s Ascot Said Among Insurers of Stolen Diamonds
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-02-22T09:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/aig-s-ascot-said-among-insurers-of-stolen-diamonds.html
Lloyd’s of London  insurers including
a carrier backed by  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  are facing
claims on the theft of $50 million in diamonds from a Brussels
airport, said people with knowledge of the policies.  AIG’s Ascot was the lead insurer on the policy bought by
 Brink’s Co. (BCO) , which was robbed on Feb. 18, and  Willis Group
Holdings Plc (WSH)  was the broker, said the people, who asked not to
be named because policy details are confidential. Ascot and
Willis have sent loss adjusters to  Belgium  to probe the heist,
said the people who declined to be named.  “We self-insure up to an amount we deem appropriate, and
then we use third-party insurers,” said Ed Cunningham, a
Brink’s spokesman who declined to identify the companies
providing coverage or the size of the loss. “The entire
incident is under investigation.”  The robbers broke through a fence and flashed guns at the
pilots of a  Swiss International Air Lines Ltd.  plane and took
packets of gems, including rough and unpolished stones. Nobody
was injured. Brink’s has repaid all of its customers for their
losses, according to Cunningham, who said the company has
coverage via the Lloyd’s market. Matt Gallagher, an AIG
spokesman, declined to comment yesterday on the heist.  AIG, the insurer that repaid a U.S. bailout last year,
takes on Lloyd’s risks through its Ascot Corporate Name Ltd.,
according to a person familiar with the company’s operations.
Policies are sold through Ascot Underwriting Ltd., which is
majority-owned by an employee trust, with New York-based AIG
having a stake as well, the person said.  AIG dropped 0.8 percent to $37.28 a share yesterday in  New
York  trading, valuing the firm at about $55 billion.  ‘Significant Impact’  The robbery will have a “significant impact” on first-
quarter earnings, Richmond, Virginia-based Brink’s said in a
Feb. 20 statement, without providing a specific figure. The
company said it was shipping a “portion” of the diamonds.  Ascot was joined by other London insurers in underwriting
the Brink’s policy, the people said. Lloyd’s declined to
comment. Ascot spokeswoman Jenny Love declined to comment as did
Nathan Hambrook-Skinner of London-based Willis.  “It’s a significant claim especially coming so soon after
the unprecedented specie losses from superstorm Sandy,” said
Mike Burle an underwriter of terrorism, fine arts and specie,
which refers to valuable property, risks at Liberty Mutual
Holding Co.’s  Liberty Syndicates  in  London . “Increased rates
and thus premiums will be seen in many if not all sectors of the
specie market.”  The owners of some of the diamonds may have had separate
policies, Burle said.  London’s Loss  “Either way, the majority of the losses are likely to fall
in London,” he said.  Claiming compensation may not be straightforward because
questions could be raised about the airport’s security and the
valuation of the diamonds, the people said. Rough diamonds are
typically more difficult to value than polished stones.  Claims would probably be valid even if the robbery was
found to be aided by an employee of a firm involved in
transporting the diamonds, according to Philip Turner, the
London-based specie practice leader for Marsh Inc., the
insurance broker owned by  Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC)  Policies
typically only exclude losses from land war and nuclear
conflict, he said.  Brink’s probably is responsible for the first several
million dollars of losses, with the rest borne by multiple
carriers, said Etti Baranoff, an associate professor of risk,
insurance and finance at Virginia Commonwealth University.  “There are many layers” of insurance coverage, she said.
“The only loss for them will probably be the self-insurance
part.”  Lloyd’s, the world’s oldest insurance market, oversees a
syndicate system where insurers join to provide businesses with
coverage against catastrophes, lawsuits, accidents, and theft.
The market’s specie fine art division receives about $700
million of premiums each year, according to Liberty’s Burle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 