-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Retreat as Fed Debates Bond Buying
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-02-21T08:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/taiwan-dollar-forwards-retreat-as-fed-debates-bond-buying.html
Taiwan dollar forwards fell the most
in almost two weeks after several Federal Reserve policy makers
said the central bank should be ready to vary the pace of its
monthly debt buying that boosts supply of the greenback.  The  Taiex index  of stocks snapped a four-day rally after
the minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Jan. 29-30
meeting showed policy makers were divided about the strategy
behind Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s program of buying bonds until
there is “substantial” improvement in the U.S. labor market.
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao called on local authorities to
“decisively” curb real-estate speculation and take steps to
rein in the property market after data showed prices surged the
most in two years last month. Bonds were steady.  “The FOMC minutes had a surprisingly clear element of
hawkish flavor,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “It’s a key risk to
emerging-market assets as it would imply less funds available to
purchase them than what is currently priced in.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards weakened 0.4 percent to
NT$29.65 versus the dollar as of 4:23 p.m. local time, the
biggest loss since Feb. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In
the spot market, the currency fell 0.3 percent to NT$29.68
against its U.S. counterpart, according to prices from Taipei
Forex Inc.  The central bank has sold the local currency near the close
on most days in the past 11 months, according to traders who
asked not to be identified.  Economic Growth  The island’s economy expanded 3.4 percent last quarter from
a year earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey before finalized official data due Feb. 22. Gross
domestic product increased 0.98 percent in the preceding three
months.  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a gauge
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
rose 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 5 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 1.125 percent bonds due March 2023 was
little changed at 1.211 percent, according to Gretai Securities
Market. The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady at 0.386
percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  