-- Americans in Poll See Housing Market Boosting Economic Growth
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2013-02-21T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/americans-in-poll-see-housing-market-boosting-economic-growth.html
Americans, by a margin of more than
3 to 1, expect the housing market to improve over the next 12
months, part of a broader brightening in their outlook for the
economy, according to a Bloomberg National Poll.  Fifty percent of poll respondents say the market will
continue to get better in 2013 compared with only 16 percent who
say they expect it to decline. An additional 31 percent say the
market will stay about the same.  “Prices are very steadily, slowly, starting to creep back
up,” says Eric Matheny, 31, an attorney from  Fort Lauderdale ,
 Florida , who purchased a new home five months ago. “The housing
market is a major part of the economy, so it says something
about the strength of the economy.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller 20-city index rose 5.5 percent in the
12 months to November, the biggest year-over-year gain since
August 2006. In January, homebuilders  began work  on 613,000
single-family homes, the most since July 2008, the U.S. Commerce
Department said yesterday.  As the housing market, the epicenter of the 2008 financial
crisis, continues healing, Americans say they expect its
improvement to spread through the economy, according to the poll
of 1,003 adults conducted Feb. 15-18.  By a margin of 43 percent to 26 percent, respondents say
prospects for job growth will rise over the next 12 months, with
30 percent seeing little change; 37 percent anticipate a
stronger economy compared with 25 percent who disagree and 37
percent who say it will be about the same.  Deficit Concern  Susan Kosko, 43, a risk-management assistant in rural
 Pennsylvania , says she feels “a tiny bit” better about the
economy thanks to rising home prices in her area and low
 interest rates .  “The deficit is a big concern,” she adds via e-mail.  On several other measures of economic well-being that
Bloomberg has tracked over time, the share of poll respondents
saying they expect improvement rose from December.  Asked about overall financial security, 32 percent say they
expect their situation to get better compared with 14 percent
who see tougher times ahead and 48 percent seeing little change.  There’s also an increase in the share of respondents saying
the market value of their homes will rise, with 27 percent
expecting higher prices compared with 16 percent who anticipate
falling values and 34 percent saying they’ll be about the same.
In December, Americans were evenly split, with 20 percent
predicting higher prices and 20 percent lower prices.  Getting Closer  By a margin of 49 percent to 37 percent, Americans say they
feel they’re moving closer to their career and financial goals.  “We’re every year getting closer and closer,” says
Matheny. “I’ve got a good work ethic and I put my heart and
soul into my job.”  Still, more than three years after the end of the 2007-09
recession, concerns remain. Asked about having enough disposable
income to make large household purchases, 29 percent say they
expect more difficulty in the coming year compared with 19
percent who plan to loosen their belts.  Thirty-one percent say money for vacations or entertainment
will be tighter while 21 percent say the situation will improve.
While 28 percent say they expect their household-income
situation will be better, 13 percent say it will be worse and 54
percent see no change.  “We’re advancing, but very, very slowly,” says John
Grannan, 62, a retired police officer in  Fort Wayne ,  Indiana ,
who now teaches criminal justice at a local university.  The economy will grow 1.8 percent this year, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Failing Grade  With the stock market close to regaining its  pre-crisis
peak , respondents expect better  investment performance  by a
margin of 23 percent to 18 percent, with 34 percent seeing
little change.  Bob Magera, 63, a part-time pharmaceutical salesman in
Myrtle Beach,  South Carolina , says his 401(k) retirement
accounts lost about 50 percent of their value during the
financial crisis.  “I’m not where I’d like to be, but I’m OK,” he said.  The outlook isn’t without clouds. President  Barack Obama 
continues to get a failing grade from a plurality of respondents
on the question of “making people like me feel more
economically secure.” By 48 percent to 45 percent, respondents
disapprove of the president’s performance on that issue.  Political Dysfunction  Outright majorities say they expect the national debt and
health-care costs to continue worsening. By a 56 percent to 16
percent tally, poll respondents say the nation’s  $16 trillion
debt  will get worse over the next 12 months while 55 percent say
health-care costs will get worse.  Washington’s chronic showdowns over  government spending 
also have left Americans worried about the impact of political
dysfunction on retirement programs such as  Social Security  and
Medicare. And by 46 percent to 10 percent, those surveyed expect
their federal tax bills to rise in the coming year.  Sizable shares of poll respondents express concern that
Social Security and Medicare may not be available when they
retire. On Social Security, 43 percent say it probably or
definitely won’t exist when they need it, while 54 percent say
the program will definitely or probably be there.  Thirty-nine percent of Americans are skeptical that
Medicare will be around when they need it, while 57 percent say
the health-insurance program for the elderly will definitely or
probably be there.  Global Standing  “Unless we get this  deficit  under control and unless we
get spending under control, I don’t think they’ll be around in
five or six years,” says Grannan. “Sooner or later, those
people we elected better get along and do something before this
country falls apart.”  The poll also finds concern over the prospects for the
U.S.’s global standing. Since the financial crisis erupted in
the fourth quarter of 2008, the Chinese economy has grown at an
average annual rate of  8.9 percent  compared with 0.6 percent for
the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the poll, 35 percent say the country’s standing in the
world will get worse over the next 12 months while 26 percent
say it will improve. An additional 37 percent expect it to
remain unchanged.  The Bloomberg National Poll was conducted by Selzer & Co.,
a  Des Moines , Iowa-based pollster. It has a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in  Washington  at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  