-- American Express Board of Directors Adds Palmisano, Lauvergeon
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-02-21T22:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/american-express-appoints-former-ibm-chief-palmisano-to-board.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
U.S. credit-card issuer by customer spending, named former
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  Chief Executive Officer
Samuel J. Palmisano and former  Areva (AREVA)  SA chief Anne Lauvergeon to
its board.  The two were chosen for business expertise and leadership
experience, AmEx Chairman and CEO Kenneth I. Chenault said today
in statements from the New York-based company. The appointments
are effective March 1, AmEx said.  Palmisano, 61, was CEO of IBM from 2003 to 2011 and joined
the Armonk, New York-based company in 1973. He was chairman of
IBM, the world’s biggest computer-services provider, from
January through September 2012 and continued to advise the
company until his retirement last December. He also serves on
the board of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , based in Irving,  Texas , and
ranked as the world’s biggest refiner.  Lauvergeon, 53, is a partner and managing director of
Efficiency Capital, an investment firm that focuses on energy,
technologies, and natural resources, according to AmEx. She
previously worked at Alcatel-Lucent, as well as Lazard Frères &
Cie, according the statement. In 1999, Lauvergeon was named
chairman and CEO of Cogema, which was later formed into Paris-
based Areva, serving as CEO from 2001 to 2011, AmEx said.  Billionaire  Warren Buffett , whose Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
is the largest shareholder in American Express, has praised
Palmisano.  IBM’s Prominence  Former IBM CEO Lou Gerstner and Palmisano “did a superb
job in moving IBM from near-bankruptcy twenty years ago to its
prominence today,” Buffett wrote in a letter to  shareholders 
last year explaining his bet on the computer-services company.
“Their operational accomplishments were truly extraordinary.”  Lauvergeon and Palmisano are additions to the board. AmEx
directors may not stand for re-election after age 72, according
to the company’s 2012  proxy statement .  AmEx’s board had 12 members last year including Care
Capital LLC founder Jan C. Leschly and Phoenix House Foundation
Inc. founder Edward D Miller, whose age was listed as 71 in the
regulatory filing. AmEx hasn’t announced retirements of Leschly
or Miller.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  