-- Anastasiades Says Russia Deal on Cyprus Bailout a Priority
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-02-21T13:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/anastasiades-says-deal-with-russia-on-cyprus-bailout-a-priority.html
Nicos Anastasiades, the front-runner
to be Cyprus’s next president, said brokering a deal with  Russia 
on its participation in a financial rescue will be one of the
first matters he tackles if he wins the Feb. 24 election.  “My feeling from recent contacts with Russian officials is
that Russia is ready to seriously examine this possibility” of
contributing to Cyprus’s bailout, Anastasiades said today in an
e-mailed response to questions. “Reaching an agreement with
Russia will be one of my first and immediate priorities.”  Anastasiades will compete with communist party-backed
Stavros Malas this Sunday after no candidate secured an absolute
majority in a first round vote on Feb. 17. Anastasiades placed
first with 45.5 percent to 26.9 percent for Malas. The winner of
this weekend’s election needs to revive stalled talks with the
European Union on funds to save the island nation from collapse.  German officials insist that Russia, which lent Cyprus 2.5
billion euros ($3.3 billion) in 2011, participates in any rescue
and have called for an investigation into whether the island is
being used for money laundering.  Accusations that Cyprus is used for Russian money
laundering are “unfair and exaggerated,” Anastasiades said.
Cyprus already adheres to anti-money laundering regulations and
is committed to working with international organizations and the
EU to further improve their implementation, he said.  Bank Losses  Cyprus has been in negotiations with the European
Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary
Fund over the size and terms of a bailout since June, when it
became the fifth euro-area country to request aid after its
banks lost 4.5 billion euros in  Greece ’s sovereign debt
restructuring.  After the losses on the Greek writedown, the biggest in
history, Pacific Investment Management Co. was hired to review
the portfolios of Cypriot banks to assess their recapitalization
needs, which will determine the size of the nation’s bailout.
The banks disagree with Pimco’s worst-case scenario figure of
10.1 billion euros in capital needs over the next three years,
Phileleftheros newspaper reported today, without citing anyone.  Reassurances Sought  “The assumptions should be reconsidered,” Anastasiades
said, without referring to the Phileleftheros report. Cyprus
doesn’t want special treatment, it wants reassurances that the
methods employed to assess bank capital needs were the same as
in other bailed-out euro-area countries, he said.  Cyprus has been divided since 1974, when  Turkey  invaded the
northern third of the island following a coup by supporters of
the country’s union with Greece.  Reunification of the island is a top priority, however it’s
unrelated to Cyprus’s economic problems, Anastasiades said. He
said he would resist any attempt to link the two.  “The call for assistance from our EU partners is a
completely different issue,” he said.  Cyprus entered the EU in 2004 after a referendum to re-join
the island was rejected. It is represented by the
internationally recognized Republic of Cyprus in the south.
Turkey is the only country to recognize the northern Cyprus
state, where it keeps about 30,000 troops.  Anastasiades said he is committed to working with the
United Nations and the EU on a “more direct and effective” way
to find a viable solution and that Turkey needs to take steps to
facilitate the reunification process, including withdrawing
troops it has stationed there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net  