-- Landan, Ex-Mercury CEO, to Pay $4.5 Million in SEC Accord
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-02-22T00:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/landan-ex-mercury-ceo-to-pay-4-5-million-in-sec-accord-1-.html
Amnon Landan, former chief executive
officer of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s Mercury Interactive unit, will
pay $4.5 million to settle claims by U.S. securities regulators
that he took part in a scheme to improperly backdate  stock
options .  Landan will pay $2.3 million to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, representing disgorgement of $1.2 million
in profit plus interest and a $1 million fine, according to a
filing today in federal court in San Francisco by attorneys for
the agency and Landan.  He will also pay $2.2 million in reimbursement to Mercury
Interactive and is prohibited from serving as an officer or
director of a publicly traded company for five years, according
to the filing. Landan didn’t admit or deny the SEC’s
allegations, according to the filing.  Andrew Solomon, Landan’s attorney, had no immediate comment
on the filing in an email.  Former Mercury Interactive Chief Financial Officer  Douglas
Smith  agreed to pay $350,000 to settle SEC claims in the
backdating lawsuit, according to a separate filing today.  The five-year-old lawsuit against Landan and other former
Mercury executives alleges a scheme to change dates on employee
stock options to make them more valuable without reporting the
resulting compensation expenses. Stock option backdating led to
a federal investigation, the ousters of 90 executives and
directors, billions of dollars in restatements and criminal
charges against executives at 10 companies.  SEC attorneys say more than 40 stock option grants at
Mercury Interactive were backdated from 1997 to 2002, and $258
million in compensation expenses weren’t reported to investors
as a result, according to court documents.  The case is SEC v. Landan, 07-2822, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  