-- Arsenal’s Wenger to Get $106 Million Player Fund: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-21T07:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/arsenal-s-wenger-to-get-106-million-player-fund-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Transfer Funds  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  will be given as much as 70
million pounds ($106 million) to spend on new players by the
club’s board, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Gunners are drawing up two different lists of potential
transfer targets to be acted upon depending on whether they
qualify for the  Champions League , the newspaper said.  Even if the club only qualifies for the second-tier Europa
League or misses out completely on European competition, Wenger
will still be given major funds, the Mirror added.  Wenger’s Targets  Wenger’s top targets are Fiorentina striker Stevan Jovetic,
Liverpool goalkeeper Pepe Reina, Borussia Dortmund forward Mario Gotze, Celtic’s Victor Wanyama and his fellow midfielder Etienne
Capoue of Toulouse, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Arsenal manager will consult chief scout Steve Rowley
and the club’s other talent spotters about the plans and they
are said to be working on identifying alternatives knowing the
budget could vary, the newspaper added.  Lewandowski Chase  Borussia Dortmund’s  Robert Lewandowski  could still sign for
 Manchester United  in the offseason even after newspaper reports
in Germany said the Poland striker is set to move to  Bayern
Munich , the  Sun reported .  Lewandowski, who’s scored 60 goals in 121 matches for
Dortmund, is likely to leave the club at the end of this season
before his contract expires next year, the newspaper added.  Pele’s Advice  Three-time World Cup-winner Pele urged fellow Brazilian
Neymar to snub any advances from Manchester City and join
Barcelona instead should the 21-year-old striker leave Santos,
the  Independent reported .  “Santos need him and for that reason I don’t think he
should leave but if he must go it should be to  Barcelona ,” the
newspaper cited Pele as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  