-- Stocks Drop With Commodities on Economy, Fed; Euro Slides
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-02-21T21:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/asian-stocks-drop-with-oil-won-on-china-property-fed-minutes.html
Global stocks tumbled the most since
November and commodities fell as a report signaled the euro-
area’s economy contracted more than forecast and concern grew
that the U.S. Federal Reserve may slow the pace of stimulus. The
euro weakened while German bunds rose with Treasuries.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities lost 1.3
percent and emerging-market stocks erased this year’s gains. The
Standard & Poor’s Index fell 0.6 percent after the gauge sank
1.2 percent yesterday, the most in three months. The S&P GSCI
Index of 24 raw materials retreated 1.6 percent to a one-month
low as oil settled at its lowest price of the year. The euro
declined 0.7 percent to $1.3185. U.S. 10-year yields slipped
four basis points to 1.97 percent as  Germany ’s 10-year rate
slipped eight basis points.  A report on the euro-area’s economy signaled the region is
struggling to recover from a recession, while U.S. data showed
jobless claims rose more than forecast and Philadelphia-area
manufacturing unexpectedly shrank. Fed policy makers said the
central bank should be ready to vary the pace of its $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases, minutes from the last policy meeting
showed yesterday, spurring concern stimulus will be curtailed.  “We have a hangover from the minutes yesterday,” Joe
Heider, Cleveland-based principal for Rehmann Financial Group,
which oversees $2.2 billion in assets, said in a phone
interview. “But I don’t think it’s a long-term trend.”  Five-Year High  The S&P 500 dropped from a five-year high yesterday after
rising 7.3 percent since the beginning of the year through Feb.
19. Indexes of commodity, technology, financial and industrial
companies lost at least 0.9 percent to lead declines in eight of
the 10 main  industry groups  in the S&P 500 today. Intel Corp.,
Caterpillar Inc., Home Depot Inc. and Bank of America Corp. fell
at least 1.8 percent for the biggest losses in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average, which slipped 46.92 points to 13,880.62.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, rose
1.5 percent as its dividend increase overshadowed a first-
quarter profit forecast that trailed analysts’ estimates.
Hewlett-Packard Co. rose 2.4 percent before reporting earnings
after the close of trading. The shares added another 7.9 percent
in extended trading as the company’s fiscal first-quarter
revenue and earnings, as well as its second-quarter profit
forecast, beat analyst estimates, suggesting Chief Executive
Officer Meg Whitman is making progress turning the computer
maker around.  U.S. jobless claims increased by 20,000 to 362,000 in the
week ended Feb. 16, the Labor Department reported today. The
median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for an increase to 355,000. The Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic index dropped to minus 12.5,
trailing the median estimate for a reading of 1.  Economic Data  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading indicators for
January increased 0.2 percent, matching the median economist
estimates. Another report from the National Association of
Realtors showed sales of previously owned U.S. homes increased
0.4 percent in January, beating the median forecast for a 0.8
percent decrease.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  sank 1.5 percent, the most in
two weeks. The volume of shares changing hands in companies
listed on benchmark gauges in the U.K., Germany and  France  was
at least 15 percent greater than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A  composite gauge  of euro-area services and manufacturing
output dropped to 47.3 from 48.6 in January, London-based Markit
Economics said today,  Industries most reliant on economic growth for revenue led
losses, with Akzo Nobel NV, the world’s largest paintmaker,
sinking 3 percent and BHP Billiton Ltd., the biggest mining
company, sliding 4 percent.  Axa Slumps  Axa SA fell 3.1 percent after  Europe ’s second-largest
insurer reported profit that missed analysts’ estimates. BAE
Systems Plc rallied 4.1 percent, the most in five months, as the
region’s largest arms maker announced a 1 billion-pound ($1.5
billion) buyback program and posted profit topped projections.  The euro fell against 12 of its 16 major counterparts,
losing 1.3 percent versus the yen. The Dollar Index, which
measures the U.S. currency against six trading partners, gained
as much as 0.5 percent to 81.508, the highest level since Sept.
5.  Spanish  10-year bonds  trimmed declines after the government
sold more debt than targeted at an auction. The yield was up one
basis points at 5.20 percent after climbing as much as six basis
points to 5.24 percent. Spain sold 4.23 billion euros ($5.58
billion) of bonds, more than its maximum target of 4 billion
euros.  Commodities  Nickel dropped 3.1 percent and copper fell 1.2 percent as
21 of 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI Index retreated, sending
the gauge down the most in three months. West Texas Intermediate
oil fell 2.5 percent to $92.84 a barrel, the lowest settlement
since Dec. 31.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  sank 1.4 percent to the
lowest since Dec. 27. The Shanghai Composite Index retreated 3
percent and the CSI 300 tumbled 3.4 percent, the most since
August 2011.  China ’s government told local authorities to curb
real estate speculation, according to a statement yesterday.
Benchmark gauges in  Russia ,  India , South Africa,  Hungary , the
Czech Republic and  Thailand  lost at least 1 percent.  Emerging-market stocks may enter a “significant
correction” after they trailed developed-nation shares this
year, JPMorgan & Chase Co. said in a report dated yesterday. The
MSCI gauge for developed countries has advanced 4.3 percent this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  