-- S&P Probe by Massachusetts Said to Extend to Post-Crisis Ratings
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-02-22T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/massachusetts-s-p-probe-said-to-extend-into-post-crisis-ratings.html
Standard & Poor’s  practices for
grading commercial property bonds since the 2008 credit crisis
are drawing scrutiny from Massachusetts authorities, according
to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The scope of the probe by state Attorney General  Martha Coakley  extends beyond the securities and period that are the
subject of a lawsuit brought by the U.S. Justice Department
against New York-based McGraw-Hill Cos. and its S&P unit.  Coakley is looking into whether the world’s biggest credit-
rating company lowered its standards to win business ranking
commercial property bonds as the market recovered from the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because they’re not authorized to
speak publicly about the case. Her office acknowledged
conducting a probe of S&P earlier this month.  The Justice Department’s case focuses on deals from
September 2004 to October 2007, accusing S&P and its parent of
inflating ratings on bonds backed by home loans made to the
riskiest borrowers, according to the complaint filed Feb. 4 in
federal district court in Los Angeles. The U.S. seeks $5 billion
in damages, equivalent to more than five years of profit at
McGraw-Hill.  The probes from Coakley and  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman threaten the ratings company with broader
litigation after the U.S. was joined by 13 states and the
 District of Columbia  in their lawsuits this month over S&P’s
role in helping trigger the crisis that sent the world’s largest
economy into its longest recession since 1933 as defaults soared
and home values plummeted.  Broader Litigation  “Our office is engaged in our own related investigation
into this matter and we are closely monitoring this lawsuit
filed by other  Attorneys General ,” Brad Puffer, a spokesman for
Coakley in Boston, said Feb. 5 in an e-mailed statement. “These
are serious allegations and, as our previous action around
mortgage-backed securities has shown, our office remains
committed to holding accountable those who helped trigger the
financial crisis and to preventing further harm.”  Jillian Fennimore, a spokeswoman for Coakley, declined to
comment further.  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, declined to
comment.  Frozen Out  Schneiderman is investigating whether S&P, Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings violated a 2008 settlement
that was reached with his predecessor  Andrew Cuomo  that resolved
a state investigation into ratings, a person familiar with the
matter told  Bloomberg News  on Feb. 8.  S&P was frozen out of the commercial-mortgage backed
 securities market  for more than a year after pulling grades on a
$1.5 billion offering from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. in July 2011, forcing underwriters to cancel the
transaction five days after it was placed with investors.  At the time, S&P temporarily stopped rating new commercial-
mortgage bonds, saying it had to review a potential conflict in
its model. The following month, the company said the conflict
had turned out not to be significant and would resume grading
deals.  When S&P re-entered the market in October, Moody’s
criticized the company for awarding investment grade ratings on
a $1.5 offering from JPMorgan Chase & Co., saying the underlying
loans did not “merit” the ranking.  Grading securities tied to debt on skyscrapers, hotels and
shopping centers is one of the most lucrative businesses for
ratings companies. The firms generally charge between $1 million
and $2 million to grade a commercial mortgage bond, which
bundles the loans into securities of varying risk, according to
an October 2011  paper  by  Andrew Cohen , a researcher at the
 Federal Reserve .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  