-- Asset Freezes Among Steps Obama Urged to Take on Cyber Thieves
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-02-21T00:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/asset-freezes-among-steps-obama-urged-to-take-on-cyber-thieves.html
President  Barack Obama  must take
tougher actions than those specified so far to deter cyber
attacks on vital  computer networks , including freezing
offenders’ assets or denying them entry into the U.S.,
cybersecurity experts said.  Obama’s administration yesterday pledged to share more
intelligence with companies about nations involved in economic
espionage and methods used to steal corporate information, and
to study the need for stronger U.S. laws against trade-secret
theft. That came after Obama issued an executive order Feb. 12
to develop voluntary cybersecurity standards for companies
operating power grids, telecommunication networks and banks.  Neither move would impose fines or penalties, and the
executive order doesn’t require standards to be developed for a
year. Obama’s administration announced its trade-secret strategy
a day after computer-security firm Mandiant Corp. said the
Chinese army is probably the source of hacking attacks against
at least 141 companies since 2006.  “We’ve reached a point where we need to have some teeth to
our response,” Adam Segal, senior fellow for China studies at
the  Council on Foreign Relations , said in a phone interview
yesterday. “We can’t go around saying that this is the largest
transfer of wealth in U.S. history and then just continue on the
same course of action.”  U.S. counterintelligence officials in 2011 called China the
world’s biggest perpetrator of economic espionage, saying cyber
theft is jeopardizing an estimated $398 billion in U.S. research
spending.  Targeted Penalties  The U.S. government punishes companies, other governments
and individuals for smuggling drugs or trafficking in  conflict
diamonds , Stewart Baker, a former assistant secretary for policy
at the Department of  Homeland Security , said in a phone
interview yesterday. The government could deter cyber attacks or
trade-secret theft by some of the same means, he said.  Those would include denying individuals or companies that
perpetrate hacking or benefit from cyber attacks the right to
operate in the U.S., said Baker, a partner at the Washington law
firm Steptoe & Johnson LLP.  The House Intelligence Committee last year urged U.S.
telecommunications companies not to do business with Chinese
network-equipment makers Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063) ,
saying they could be conduits for the Chinese government to
install malicious hardware or software in U.S. networks.  “There are a lot of ways to raise the price of this kind
of activity now that we know that the security of the attackers
is no better than the security of the people they are
attacking,” Baker said, referring to the ability of Alexandria,
Virginia-based Mandiant to trace hacking to a neighborhood that
includes the headquarters of a Chinese military unit.  Asset Freezes  The administration could freeze cyber thieves’ funds in
U.S. banks or seize their property, Baker said.  In announcing the trade-secret strategy yesterday,
administration officials said it was aimed at more than
computer-based theft. They said the pace of economic espionage
is accelerating through recruitment of current and former
employees of companies, as well as cyber intrusions against U.S.
businesses, law firms, universities and financial institutions.  “A hacker in China can acquire source code from a  software
company  in  Virginia  without leaving his or her desk,” Attorney
General Eric Holder said. “With a few keystrokes, a terminated
or simply unhappy employee from a defense contractor can
misappropriate designs, processes and formulas worth billions of
dollars.”  Failed Legislation  Obama issued his cybersecurity order after Congress failed
last year to pass a bill to better defend critical computer
networks. U.S. Senate Republicans including  Arizona  Senator  John McCain  have joined the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in opposing
legislation they say could lead to new cybersecurity regulations
on companies.  U.S. Representatives Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican,
and C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger, a Maryland Democrat,
reintroduced a proposal Feb. 13 to give legal protection for
companies that share cyber threat information with each other
and the government.  The bill passed the House last April and failed to advance
in the Senate after Obama threatened a veto, saying the measure
didn’t go far enough to boost defenses and failed to protect
privacy of consumer data.  Improving Defenses  Obama’s executive order directs regulatory agencies to
require the companies they oversee to meet mandatory
cybersecurity standards, which will help improve security for
those businesses, said  James Lewis , a senior fellow and director
of the Technology and Public Policy Program at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies. Companies might feel
pressure to improve their digital defenses once the standards
are developed next year, he said.  Still, the standards are voluntary, and nothing in the
executive order will help deter cyber attacks on U.S. critical
networks in the near future, Lewis said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  The Obama administration could deny U.S. visas to the
commanders of the Chinese military unit named in the Mandiant
report, Lewis said.  A spokesman for China’s Foreign Ministry, Hong Lei, denied
any military involvement in cyber attacks and said his
department has been a victim of them.  Lewis called for a progression of steps to engage  China ,
with fines and penalties when other options fail.  ‘Hard Options’  “Don’t go to the hard options until you’ve exhausted some
of the other options,” he said. “Let them know it’s coming,
though.”  The Obama administration should also work with
international organizations like the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization on preventing cyber espionage, David Fidler, a law
professor and cybersecurity scholar at  Indiana University , said
in a phone interview yesterday.  “What China is going to worry about is the  United States 
pushing a diplomatic initiative on a global scale,” he said.
“We need to begin changing attitudes and pressure. The smart
way to do it is a strategic initiative across multiple forums.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  