-- Aussie Drops for a Second Day as Asian Stocks Decline
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-02-21T06:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/aussie-remains-lower-as-asian-stocks-extend-global-drop.html
The Australian dollar declined,
following yesterday’s biggest one-day drop in almost a month, as
Asian stocks extended equity losses worldwide, curbing demand
for higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie slid versus its Japanese counterpart
following a global commodities rout.  New Zealand ’s currency,
known as the kiwi, dropped for a second day after central bank
Governor Graeme Wheeler said yesterday he’s ready to intervene
in foreign-exchange markets, prompting a surge in the local
dollar’s volatility to a five-month high. Both South Pacific
currencies fell as  China  told local authorities to
“decisively” curb real estate speculation.  “There’s a bit of negative risk sentiment out there, so
Aussie and kiwi have come under some pressure,” said Peter Dragicevich, a Syndey-based currency economist at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia , the nation’s largest lender. “We expect them
to bounce back over the next week or so.”  The Australian dollar lost 0.2 percent to $1.0233 as of
4:46 p.m. in Sydney after declining 1 percent to $1.0256
yesterday in the biggest drop since Jan. 24. The Aussie will
rebound to $1.08 by Dec. 31, Dragicevich said. It bought 95.62
yen from 95.97 in  New York .  Australia ’s  10-year yield  fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.54 percent after touching a nine-month
high of 3.61 percent yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares declined 1.6 percent.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 1.2 percent in New York
yesterday, the largest drop since Nov. 14. The S&P GSCI Spot
Index of 24 raw materials lost 1.1 percent, the most since Dec.
6, while the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index declined 0.6
percent yesterday.  Volatility Spike  Implied one-month volatility in the  New Zealand dollar , a
measure of expected price swings over the time period, rose 35
basis points to 9.98 percent, set for the highest close since
Sept. 5. Increased volatility in an asset heightens the
potential for investor losses.  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Wheeler said “the
kiwi is not a one-way bet” in a speech to manufacturers and
exporters in Auckland yesterday, helping drive a 1.3 percent
decline in the kiwi dollar versus its U.S. counterpart, the
biggest since Dec. 21. The currency fell 0.2 percent to 83.42
U.S. cents today.  The kiwi fetched NZ$1.2267 per Australian dollar after it
touched a one-week low of NZ$1.2349 yesterday, paring its gain
this year to 2.2 percent.  Shifting Fortunes  Yesterday’s decline in New Zealand’s currency against the
Aussie following Wheeler’s comments “marks a shift in the
fortunes of the  currency pair ,”  Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong-based
global head of foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole SA,
wrote in a note to clients today.  The 14-day relative strength index for New Zealand’s
currency versus its Australian peer was at 59 today from 73 a
week earlier, which was above the 70 level that some traders see
as a sign an asset has risen too far, too fast and may be due to
reverse course.  New Zealand’s  two-year swap rate , a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates that are sensitive to expectations for
borrowing costs, added one basis point to 2.98 percent.  The Aussie was little changed in the past week, while its
New Zealand peer declined 0.8 percent, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, a set of gauges that track 10
developed-nation currencies.  Chinese cities that have had “excessively fast” price
gains should “promptly” impose home-purchase restrictions if
they’ve not done so already, according to a statement yesterday
after a State Council meeting headed by Premier  Wen Jiabao .
China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New Zealand’s
second-biggest export destination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  