-- Aussie Gains as Stevens Signals Intervention Bar High
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-02-22T05:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/aussie-rises-as-stevens-says-not-seeking-fx-response.html
The Australian dollar climbed after
Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  endorsed the current level
of borrowing costs and signaled that the bar is high for
currency intervention.  The so-called Aussie advanced versus all of its 16 major
counterparts after Stevens said “there is a good deal of
interest rate stimulus in the pipeline” in testimony today to a
parliamentary committee in Canberra. It’s set for a five-day
gain after five consecutive weeks of declines, the longest
stretch in eight months.  New Zealand ’s currency climbed after a
report today showed credit card spending increased for a third-
straight month in January.  “Stevens’ comments are very firmly focused on what a
strong currency means for inflation, rather than including any
threat of action,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency
strategist in Sydney at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “The tone of his
prepared comments indicates no great urgency to cut rates in the
near term.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.7 percent to $1.0314 as of
4:49 p.m. in Sydney. It’s gained 0.1 percent since Feb. 15, when
it completed a five-week decline, the longest streak since June.
New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, climbed 0.4 percent to
83.76 U.S. cents, trimming its five-day drop to 0.9 percent.  The rate on  Australia ’s 3-year government bonds, among the
most sensitive to interest-rate expectations, rose 3 basis
points to 2.88 percent. The 10-year yield was little changed at
3.54 percent.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 69 percent chance RBA policy makers will keep the cash
rate at 3 percent when they next meet on March 5, up from 62
percent at the end of last week.  Intervention Consideration  The Aussie has declined 0.8 percent this year versus its
U.S. counterpart after a 1.8 percent gain in 2012. Stevens told
lawmakers he’d need to be confident the currency is “seriously
overvalued” before considering intervention to weaken it.  Stevens’ comments contrast with those made by his New
Zealand counterpart Graeme Wheeler, who said on Feb. 20 that
he’s prepared to step in to smooth peaks in the nation’s
currency, even as he recognized that it would be unable to
determine the kiwi’s level.  The Australian dollar climbed 0.2 percent to NZ$1.2312
after touching NZ$1.2349 on Feb. 20, the highest in more than a
week. The Aussie may rise toward NZ$1.28 in the next one to
three months,  Sue Trinh , a Hong Kong-based senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada wrote in a note to clients
today. That would take it to a level unseen since November.  In New Zealand, central bank data showed credit card
spending rose 0.4 percent last month from a year earlier after a
4.5 percent gain in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  