-- Australia Faces A$5.9 Billion Budget Revenue Shortage, Swan Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-21T22:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/australia-faces-a-5-9-billion-budget-revenue-shortage-swan-says.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s government is facing a revenue shortfall of about
A$5.9 billion ($6 billion), undermining her ruling Labor party’s
economic credentials with elections due in September.  “Company tax and resource rent taxes continue to be hit by
a combination of the high dollar, lower commodity prices and
greater deductions from the investment boom,” Treasurer Wayne Swan said today at a speech in Sydney. Cash receipts for the six
months to Dec. 31 were A$3.9 billion less than previously
forecast and “early data for January suggests another A$2
billion could be added to that revenue shortfall,” Swan said.  Gillard’s bid to overcome the opposition Liberal National
coalition’s lead in opinion polls is being damaged by weaker
growth, lower prices for  Australia ’s resources, and a strong
local currency that’s curbing tax receipts. She was forced in
December to abandon a pledge to return the budget to a surplus
this year.  Gillard’s Minerals Resource Rent Tax, which puts a 30
percent levy on iron ore and coal profits, raised A$126 million
in its first six months, trailing targets, the government said
earlier this month. The Tony Abbott-led opposition claims the
shortfall in revenue is an example of the government’s fiscal
bungling.  Mining Tax  “The MRRT -- as a profits-based tax -– has been impacted
substantially by the slump in commodity prices, but the MRRT is
still only responsible for around 20 percent of the write down
in revenue,” Swan said today. “Expected revenue in 2012-13 has
been revised down by over A$25 billion since the 2010
election.”  In its October  mid-year review , the government forecast a
budget surplus of A$1.08 billion in the 12 months ending June
30. It recorded a A$44 billion deficit last fiscal year. It cut
the estimated revenue from the mining tax to A$2 billion from a
A$3 billion forecast in May.  Weaker commodity prices and an elevated currency have
prompted mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to put off
projects and cut jobs, while a construction slump forced
building-materials company  Boral Ltd. (BLD)  to reduce payrolls.  Iron ore  prices  into  China  averaged about $117 a metric ton
in the six months to Dec. 30, compared with about $159 a year
earlier. Queensland coking coal averaged about $173 a ton in the
half, compared with about $250 a year earlier.  Gillard has seen support for her party slump in recent
weeks. Labor fell 5 percentage points to 44 percent on a two-
party preferred basis, with Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition
surging 5 points to 56 percent, according to a Newspoll survey
published in the Australian newspaper Feb. 4. The measure is
designed to gauge which major party is likely to win the seats
required to form a government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  