-- BAE Plans $1.52 Billion Buyback as Profit Beats Views
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-21T11:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/bae-plans-1-billion-pound-share-repurchase-reports-profit-drop.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Europe ’s largest
arms maker, said it will buy back shares worth as much as 1
billion pounds ($1.5 billion) over three years after demand
outside the U.S. and the U.K. helped swell its cash reserves.  BAE gained as much as 6.2 percent, the most since Sept. 12,
the day that merger plans were announced with European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. BAE said it’s left those plans
behind, and the company will embark on its buyback program
today, underpinned by net cash of 387 million pounds. Earnings
before interest, tax and amortization fell 6.4 percent to 1.89
billion pounds last year, beating analysts’ estimates.  “There are a lot of green shoots in this organization,”
Chief Executive Officer Ian King told reporters. “That gives us
the confidence to do a share buy back.”  The share repurchase comes four months after the collapse
of a planned merger with EADS, which would have helped broaden
BAE’s business into civil aviation. The deal failed on German
government opposition. Some BAE investors had opposed the tie-up
at the time and pushed for a share buyback instead.  King said talks with EADS would “absolutely not” be
revived. “You have to move on,” he said, adding that exploring
the tie-up was the right move at the time.  Moving On  “This was a very good set of results,” said  Nick Cunningham , a London-based analyst at Agency Partners. “The
 cash flow  benefited from timing on prepayments, but a bird in
the hand beats one that is due to come in a year or so.”  BAE expects “modest growth” in underlying earnings per
share in 2013, excluding the impact of the share buyback. Profit
could be affected by a possible 1 billion-pound hit on sales
from U.S. budget cuts due to take effect on March 1 under so-
called “sequestration” legislation, King said.  Earnings could improve by another 3 pence a share if talks
with Saudi Arabia about the pricing of an existing deal for
Eurofighter Typhoon warplanes are concluded, the company said.
Negotiations are making “good progress,” King said, without
saying when they may be completed.  “Timing is not driving us to make a decision,” he said.
Fighter deliveries to  Saudi Arabia  are set to resume in May
after a pause, providing impetus to get the deal done.  Full-year sales fell 7.2 percent to 17.8 billion pounds,
reflecting lower Western defense spending. The value of the
order book increased 8.4 percent to 42.4 billion pounds largely
on the strength of 11.2 billion pounds in deals signed with
customers other than BAE’ main markets, the U.S. and U.K. The
backlog should grow further this year, King said.  Job Cuts  The company has been cutting jobs as it seeks to maintain
profitability in the face of lower  government spending . BAE said
yesterday the U.S. business risks more than 3,500 layoffs as
Pentagon curtails ship repairs.  “We will continue to pursue cost reductions and
efficiencies with vigor,” King said, with additional
restructuring possible in land system activities.  Discussions also continue with the U.K. government over the
possible closure of one of three British naval shipyards. The
company is trying to bring capacity in line with reduced demand
after the biggest building spree since World War II, King said.  BAE has begun the process to seek a new chairman to succeed
Dick Olver, who is due to retire in May 2014, King said.  Invesco
Ltd. (IVZ) , which holds a 13.4 percent stake on BAE, called on Olver
to quit over the EADS merger, a combination the investor
opposed. Nick Rose was named as independent director in November
to lead the search for a new chairman.  The company said it’s continuing to seek bolt-on
acquisitions that provide rapid access to relevant technologies
and capabilities, or “enhance routes to market.”  The stock has advanced 3.6 percent this year, valuing the
company at 11.3 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  