-- Bain’s Edcon Sees Improved Discount Trading After Weak Quarter
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-02-21T12:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/bain-s-edcon-sees-improved-discount-trading-after-weak-quarter.html
Edcon Holdings Pty Ltd., a South
African clothing retailer owned by Bain Capital Partners LLC,
said trading at its lower-price units has improved in the past
two months after a weak third quarter.  “Clearly there is a tightening in the market,” Chief
Executive Officer Jurgen Schreiber said on a conference call
from Johannesburg today. “We’ve seen positive momentum in the
discount division in January and February,” while “benefits
from our refurbishments are coming through.”  South African retailers have been reporting weaker sales
growth for the final quarter of 2012 after rising unemployment
and inflation put the brakes on consumer spending. Edcon posted
a net loss of 836 million rand ($93.5 million) for the third
quarter to Dec. 29, compared with a 235 million-rand profit a
year earlier, it said in a statement today. Sales rose 0.8
percent to 8.8 billion rand.  Bain Capital, based in Boston, bought Edcon for 25 billion
rand in May 2007 to tap into rising consumer spending in
Africa’s largest economy. Edcon, which owns chains including
Edgars, Jet, CNA, Boardmans and Red Square, had 1,220 outlets at
the end of the reporting period, with the average retail space
rising 3.7 percent.  Truworths International Ltd. (TRU) , South Africa’s biggest
clothing retailer by market value, said yesterday a weakening
consumer credit environment would weigh on its performance in
the first part of 2013.  African Operations  Edcon, which also has stores in Botswana, Namibia,
Swaziland, Lesotho, Mozambique and Zambia, said revenue
generated in Africa outside of its domestic market contributed
6.5 percent of retail sales in the quarter.  “We are seeing very strong growth in our African
operations,” Schreiber said. “Our businesses outside of South
Africa are giving better returns than our home market.”  Four stores were opened in Mozambique in December and Edcon
plans to open outlets in two more countries by the end of the
year, Schreiber said, without specifying which countries.  The yield on Edcon’s euro-denominated bond due March 2018
fell for a third day, sliding 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 10.18 percent by 2 p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  