-- Banks Increasing Mortgage Forgiveness as Deadline Looms
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2013-02-21T22:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/banks-increasing-mortgage-forgiveness-as-deadline-looms.html
Banks that agreed to help  troubled
borrowers  as part of a $25 billion settlement over mishandled
foreclosures accelerated efforts as the most generous terms of
the deal head toward expiration.  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and three
other banks in last year’s agreement spent $42.3 billion in aid
such as principal reductions, refinancings and home-equity loan
forgiveness through the end of 2012, compared with $21.9 billion
through the third quarter, according to  figures  today from the
settlement’s independent monitor,  Joseph Smith . Forgiveness of
primary mortgages rose to $6 billion from $2.6 billion.  Banks are stepping up principal reductions to take
advantage of terms that give extra credit for speedy resolutions
before the bonus expires on Feb. 28. They focused for the first
10 months on so-called short sales that let homeowners avoid
 foreclosure  by selling for less than they owe on their
mortgages. By the end of 2012, banks had spent $19.5 billion in
short sales, where owners sell for less than they owe, up from
$13.1 billion in September.  “It’s not a party, we’re not home-free, but it’s a big
increase in mortgage aid, and that’s going to help both
borrowers and the housing market,” said  Christopher Mayer , a
real estate professor at  Columbia Business School  in  New York .  Sales Increase  The housing market recovery has been gaining strength as
 mortgage rates  near record lows spurred purchases and
unemployment eased. About 4.66 million previously owned houses
sold last year, the most since 2007, the National Association of
Realtors said today in a report. Prices gained 12 percent in
January from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month increase since
2005.  Seriously  delinquent  U.S. mortgages fell to the lowest
level since 2008 in the third quarter, the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  said today. Loans 90 days or more behind or in the
foreclosure process improved to 6.78 percent of mortgages from
7.03 percent in the previous three months. The rate was 7.73
percent a year earlier, the Washington-based group said.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, provided $7.9
billion of relief to 87,000 homeowners through December, the New
York-based company said in a statement today. That includes
about $3 billion of refinancings to people with homes worth less
than they owe and almost $2 billion of principal reductions,
JPMorgan said.  BofA Reductions  Bank of America reduced about $7 billion of first-lien
principal and cut $9.8 billion of home-equity debt, the company
said today in a statement. Wells Fargo said it cut about $1.7
billion of primary mortgage and home-equity principal.  In the Feb. 9, 2012, mortgage agreement with federal
regulators and 49 state attorneys general, Bank of America,
JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY)  settled federal and state allegations of fraud and other
misconduct without conceding guilt, receiving immunity from
state civil cases. The accord created the Office of Mortgage
Settlement Oversight now supervised by Smith, the former North
Carolina bank commissioner.  “I’m happy the banks have done as much as they have in
consumer relief,” Smith said in an interview today. “What I’m
hearing in the field is we have a long way to go on servicing
standards. I’m not declaring victory.”  100 Changes  The agreement requires lenders to make more than 100
changes in the way they service loans, according to Smith. The
firms are banned from pursuing foreclosure while borrowers are
seeking loan modifications, and the banks must comply with new
standards for ensuring documents used to seize homes are valid.  Banks receive different amounts of credit toward their
quota for consumer relief depending on what type of aid they
give. Credit for principal reductions ranges from $1 to 45 cents
on the dollar, contingent on how far underwater the loan has
fallen, and whether it’s owned by the lender or managed on
behalf of investors. Home-equity loan forgiveness earns credit
of 90 cents on the dollar if it’s up to 90 days late, and 50
cents if three months to six months overdue.  Banks get an additional 25 percent credit for first or
second lien principal reductions or credited refinancing during
the first 12 months of the program. If their quota isn’t met
within the first three years, banks will have to pay penalties.  Regulator Settlement  This year, 13 banks including Bank of America,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  settled with regulators over
similar charges including so-called robo-signing, the fraudulent
endorsement of affidavits used in foreclosures. The collective
$9.3 billion of agreements free them from complying with a 2011
order by the  Federal Reserve  and the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency mandating they pay for and provide documents for
independent reviews of foreclosures in which borrowers claim
bank malfeasance.  Banks will pay $3.6 billion to borrowers who were
foreclosed on in 2009 and 2010, with everyone receiving
something, whether they lost a home through the use of
fraudulent documents or their case was pursued legitimately. The
regulators will appoint a payment agent and decide the amount of
money each borrower receives. In the new restitution system, as
in the one it pre-empts, the banks will provide the information
to document their conduct.  Combined profit for all commercial banks in the U.S.
advanced to a record $130.2 billion last year, beating a 2006
peak of $128.1 billion, according to  Hamilton Place Strategies ,
a Washington consulting firm. Net income was helped by an
increase in mortgage lending, particularly loan refinancings,
said Patrick Sims, the firm’s research director.  “Banks are paying big mortgage settlements -- it’s
definitely a big expense for them -- but they have set aside
reserves for that,” Sims said. “With the improvement in the
economy and less troubled loans, banks now can take their
capital and apply it to more profit-making activities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  