-- Banks Use Punishment to Ditch Troubled Loans: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2013-02-21T13:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/banks-use-punishment-to-ditch-troubled-loans-mortgages.html
Banks that agreed to help troubled
borrowers as part of a settlement with regulators over
 foreclosure  misdeeds are spending most of the promised aid on
sales that displace homeowners and forgiveness that erases  home
equity loans  from their books.  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and three
other banks in last year’s $25 billion foreclosure-abuse
settlement spent $19.5 billion through the end of 2012 approving
so-called short sales that let homeowners sell for less than
they owe on their mortgages,  Joseph Smith , the settlement’s
monitor, said today. By comparison, the banks spent $6 billion
reducing borrowers’ principal to help them stay in their homes,
an increase from $2.6 billion at the end of the third quarter.  While the banks are stepping up efforts to help borrowers
stay in their homes, they are still spending most of the
settlement on short sales and forgiveness of home-equity
loans that allow them to take bad loans off their books.
Profits from new  lending  are increasing even as regulators
enforce penalties for modification missteps and foreclosures
pursued with fraudulent or missing documents. Last year,
mortgage revenue at the four largest lenders -- Bank of America,
JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and U.S. Bancorp --surpassed the
amount they spent on consumer settlements and investor demands
they buy back faulty loans.  “The banks have shown a knack for sidestepping government
attempts to have them redress their role in the foreclosure
crisis and keep people in their homes,” said Arthur Wilmarth, a
law professor at George Washington University in the nation’s
capital. “A lot of these efforts end up helping the banks, not
the homeowners.”  High-Maintenance  Short sales rid banks of high-maintenance borrowers as they
stretch to implement more than a dozen new servicing regulations
imposed by the settlement with the federal government and 49
state attorneys general. The harm done to consumer credit scores
by short sales is about the same as going through a foreclosure,
according to Fair Isaac Corp., inventor of the so-called FICO
system of ranking risk.  Short sales “are a real relief provided to the borrower,
and consumer relief is the premise of the program,” said  Rick Simon , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America.  Amy Bonitatibus  of JPMorgan in  New York , Tom Goyda of
Wells Fargo in  San Francisco , and  Sean Kevelighan  for Citigroup
in New York declined to comment.  The banks spent $11.3 billion extinguishing home equity
loans that in many cases stood behind delinquent primary
mortgages.  In the settlement, reached Feb. 9, 2012, Bank of America,
JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Wells Fargo and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) 
settled federal and state allegations of fraud and other
misconduct without conceding guilt, receiving immunity from
state civil prosecution. The pact created the Office of Mortgage
Settlement Oversight now supervised by Smith, the former North
Carolina Commissioner of Banks.  More Money  This year, 13 banks including Bank of America,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  settled with regulators over
similar charges including so-called robo-signing, the fraudulent
endorsement of affidavits used in foreclosures. The collective
$9.3 billion of agreements free them from complying with a 2011
order by the  Federal Reserve  and the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency mandating they pay for and provide documents for
independent reviews of foreclosures in which borrowers claim
bank malfeasance.  “The decision to pursue a settlement allows more money to
go to more consumers much more quickly than would have occurred
had the independent foreclosure review run its course,” said
 Bryan Hubbard , director of public affairs at the OCC.  The banks will pay $3.6 billion to borrowers who were
foreclosed on in 2009 and 2010, with everyone receiving
something, whether they lost their home through the use of
fraudulent documents or their case was pursued legitimately. The
regulators will appoint a payment agent to decide the amount of
money each borrower receives. In the new restitution system, as
in the one it preempts, the banks will provide the information
to document their conduct.  Rising Profits  Wells Fargo, JPMorgan, Bank of America and U.S. Bancorp
reported $24.4 billion from home lending in 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Combined profits for all commercial banks in the U.S. rose
to a record $130.2 billion last year, beating a 2006 peak of
$128.1 billion, according to Hamilton Place Strategies, a
Washington consulting firm. Net income was helped by an increase
in mortgage lending, particularly loan refinancings, said
Patrick Sims, the firm’s director of research.  “Banks are paying big mortgage settlements -- it’s
definitely a big expense for them -- but they have set aside
reserves for that,” Sims said. “With the improvement in the
economy and less troubled loans, banks now can take their
capital and apply it to more profit-making activities.”  Trusting Banks  “How can anyone say we’ll trust the banks, after their
mistakes got us into this situation in the first place?” said
 Ira Rheingold , executive director of the National Association of
Consumer Advocates.  There are no provisions in the newest settlements to cap
the number of short sales banks can use to meet their $5.7
billion of promised mortgage assistance, according to the OCC’s
Hubbard. Cases in the midst of third-party evaluations to
determine if there was wrongdoing were dropped as part of the
settlement. If aggrieved borrowers object, they should go
through the banks’ internal complaint processes, the Fed said in
a January statement.  “They wrecked the economy, many people lost their homes
unfairly -- the amount of the payouts falls way short of the
amount of harm they have done,” said Alys Cohen, staff attorney
for the National Consumer Law Center. “So far, the banks are
getting off really easy.”  A growing number of people who say they  lost homes  because
of bank fraud have decided to put their faith in the courts,
instead of regulators’ deals. Since last year’s settlement, more
than two dozen suits seeking class-action status have been filed
by borrowers against banks for wrongful foreclosure.  In the prior 12 months, there was only a handful, according
to a nationwide search of court dockets. Class action suits
allow a group of borrowers to seek redress using lawyers who
don’t get paid unless they win.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  