-- Bank of Canada Names Larry Schembri as Deputy Governor
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-02-21T18:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/bank-of-canada-names-larry-schembri-as-deputy-governor.html
The Bank of Canada said Larry Schembri will become deputy governor as of Feb. 25, an internal
promotion to its rate-setting panel while the government
conducts a broader search to replace departing Governor  Mark
Carney .  Schembri, 55, has been adviser to Carney since 2010. He
replaces Jean Boivin, who left in October to become associate
deputy finance minister under  Jim Flaherty .  “Larry’s expertise of monetary theory and policy in open
economies, and profound understanding of the international
monetary system make him an exceptional addition to Governing
Council,” Carney said in a  statement  posted on the central
bank’s website. “His dedicated efforts in recent years in
support of the Bank’s financial stability function have
contributed greatly, not only to the Bank, but also to the
important work of the Financial Stability Board.”  The new deputy joins a governing council that has left
borrowing costs unchanged for more than two years as it grapples
with a recovery hampered by the global recession. Still, the
 Bank of Canada  remains the only central bank among Group of
Seven nations with a bias toward tightening.  Deputies are chosen by the bank’s board of outside
directors. The job posting for applications said the winner
should have management experience and “superior analytical and
communications skills,” including competence in English and
French, Canada’s official languages.  The bank’s directors will now focus on selecting a governor
to replace Carney, a choice that must be ratified by the federal
cabinet. The directors and government are looking at a broad
pool of candidates beyond internal choices such as senior deputy
Tiff Macklem, a person with knowledge of the process told
 Bloomberg News  last month.  The history of finding deputies from inside the bank is
mixed. Current members Agathe Cote and  John Murray  were promoted
from within. Timothy Lane was named deputy governor six months
after coming from the  International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  