-- Bausch & Lomb Owner Said to Seek Banks for IPO as Sale Falters
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-02-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/bausch-lomb-owner-said-to-seek-banks-for-ipo-as-sale-falters.html
Warburg Pincus LLC is interviewing
banks for an initial public offering of Bausch & Lomb Inc. after
an effort to sell the eye-care company resulted in disappointing
bids, said people with knowledge of the matter.  The private-equity firm is soliciting pitches from  Bank of
America Corp. , Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., which financed the firm’s 2007 buyout of
Bausch & Lomb, said one of the people, who asked not to be named
because the process is private. New York-based Warburg had
worked with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  on finding a buyer for the
company and had sought at least $10 billion, people familiar
with the process said in January. Goldman Sachs will likely work
with another bank on the IPO, another person said.  Warburg is pursuing an IPO to exit its investment after
private bids came in at less than $9 billion, one of the people
said. Additionally, Warburg and Bausch & Lomb have been
encouraged by the performance of Zoetis Inc. since its January
debut, another person said. Zoetis, Pfizer Inc.’s animal-health
unit, raised $2.57 billion in its IPO, pricing the shares above
the marketed range, and has climbed 25 percent.  Warburg is weighing how to dispose of the business as it
seeks investments for a new fund that documents obtained by
Bloomberg News show has a target of $12 billion. Warburg took
Bausch & Lomb private in a 2007 deal valued at $4.6 billion,
including debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Contact Lenses  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , Johnson & Johnson and  Sanofi (SAN)  all had
shown interest in Bausch & Lomb, whose products include  contact
lenses  and eye-care solutions, people said last month. Merck &
Co. and Pfizer also considered offers, these people said.  Adam Grossberg, a spokesman for Bausch & Lomb, and  Jeffrey
Smith , a spokesman for Warburg, declined to comment on the
process. Representatives for Goldman Sachs, Bank of America,
Citigroup, JPMorgan and Credit Suisse declined to comment.  A $10 billion sale would give Warburg a more than 200
percent gain on its $1.7 billion equity investment in the 2007
buyout, the people said in January.  Bausch & Lomb has three businesses: pharmaceuticals, vision
care and surgical, according to documents provided by the
company in December. Pharmaceuticals and vision each account for
about 40 percent of sales, with the rest coming from surgical.  Since the buyout, Bausch & Lomb’s earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization have risen to just under
$700 million from about $400 million, people familiar with the
company’s financial situation have said. The company projected
2012 Ebitda of more than $700 million and double-digit revenue
growth, another person said.  Geographically, about 40 percent of Bausch & Lomb’s sales
come from  North America , 33 percent from Europe and the rest
from  Asia  or  Latin America .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  