-- Billionaire-Backed Explorer to Revive Oil Hunt: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-02-22T11:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/billionaire-backed-explorer-to-revive-oil-hunt-corporate-india.html
Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) , controlled by
billionaire  Anil Agarwal , will start drilling its first new well
in five years to raise output and help bolster the best profit
margin for an  oil company  in  Asia .  The company, which got the Indian government’s approval
last week to explore new oil pools in its biggest field in the
western state of Rajasthan, is accelerating its plans to drill
30 wells in the year starting April 1 and a similar number in
the following 12 months, Chief Executive Officer P. Elango,
said.  Cairn India  says the new deposits may increase its
reserves by as much as 50 percent to 1.5 billion barrels.  “Our primary focus is to increase production and for that
we have to undertake great exploration activities,” Elango said
at his office in Gurgaon, near New Delhi. “In the future,
through additional capacities we can add more production at
small incremental costs.”  Cairn  India  needs new reserves to meet its target of
raising production by 71 percent to 300,000 barrels a day as
rivals including state-owned  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) , the
nation’s biggest explorer, report a drop in output. Agarwal
acquired Cairn India from Edinburgh, Scotland-based  Cairn Energy
Plc (CNE)  and other investors in 2011 for $8.67 billion to diversify
into energy and tap Indian demand, which the U.S. Energy
Information Administration  estimates  will grow 14 percent in the
five years to 2015.  Profit Margin  Cairn India’s EBITDA margin, or earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization as a percentage of sales, was
76.18 percent in the quarter ended Dec. 31, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest among Asia Pacific oil
and gas companies with a market value of at least $5 billion and
the most among the 50 companies in India’s Nifty Index.  The measure was 44 percent for ONGC and 50 percent for
 Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s biggest offshore explorer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The exploration program and the plan for enhanced oil
recovery is going to help Cairn maintain oil production for a
long time,” said Neelabh Sharma, a Mumbai-based analyst with
BOB Capital Markets Ltd., a unit of state-run  Bank of Baroda ,
who upgraded the company’s shares to buy from hold on Feb. 20.
“The company’s earnings are directly linked to the price of
Brent crude and as economies emerge from a slowdown, oil price
will rise, helping Cairn.”  Brent Crude  The explorer sells crude in India at rates linked to Brent
oil prices, unlike state-owned ONGC, which is required to bear
part of the country’s fuel subsidy.  Crude in London trading, a benchmark price for more than
half of the world’s oil, has gained 3 percent this year,
following a 3.5 percent increase last year. Average prices last
year were a record $111.11 per barrel.  Cairn India, operator of the nation’s biggest oilfield on
land, reported 48 percent higher profit at 33.4 billion rupees
($612 million), or 16.5 rupees a share, in the third quarter
ended Dec. 31 after it increased production from the Rajasthan
block.  Cairn India has fallen 3.8 percent this year, compared with
a 0.6 percent decline in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex. (SENSEX)  The
 shares  were little changed at 306.95 rupees at the close of
trading in  Mumbai  today, giving it a market value equivalent to
$10.8 billion.  Vedanta, Sesa  Agarwal’s  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  and unit  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) 
completed buying a 59 percent stake in Cairn India from Cairn
Energy and other shareholders in December 2011. India’s cabinet
approved the takeover on the condition royalty will be included
in the cost of developing the Rajasthan field, which can be
recovered from sales. ONGC, Cairn’s partner with a 30 percent
stake in the block, paid the entire royalty since production
started in August 2009.  Cairn India’s earnings is helping cut losses for iron-ore
miner Sesa Goa after a court-ordered extraction ban last year.  The government approved Cairn India’s plan to raise
production from the block in Barmer in Rajasthan state to
300,000 barrels a day, equivalent to about 40 percent of India’s
current  output . To reach that target, the company will need to
find more oil in the area, Elango said. The block has proved
reserves of 1 billion barrels.  Cairn India’s operating expenses in the Rajasthan block,
including the cost of transporting crude to the coast for sale
to refineries, is currently about $3 per barrel, Elango said.
The company plans to start a project that will pump chemicals
into producing  oil wells  to help flush out hard-to-extract crude
from the reservoir in the year starting April 1, 2014. The
operating cost to produce the additional crude will be in a
range of $8 to $12 a barrel, he said.  ‘Long Journey’  “We’ll maintain this level of operating costs, which will
incrementally go up when we deploy enhanced oil recovery methods
to produce more oil,” Elango said. “We’re looking at how we
can pull this deployment forward a bit. This project will help
sustain the field’s production for a longer period.”  The explorer’s share of production from fields in India was
128,058 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the quarter, 29
percent higher than a year earlier and 1 percent lower than in
the preceding quarter, the company said Jan. 21. Net production
from the Rajasthan field averaged 118,984 barrels of oil
equivalent per day in the three months, compared with 87,585
barrels a day a year earlier and 120,261 barrels a day in the
previous quarter.  “Our vision is to take the 175,000 barrels a day to
300,000 barrels,” Elango said. “It’s a long journey in which
we have to drill several exploration wells. We’re very confident
about the volume increasing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  