-- Billabong Posts Record Net Loss on Brand Writedowns
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-22T05:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/billabong-posts-record-a-537-million-loss-on-one-time-charges.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the
surf-wear company for which Bain & Co. alumni are studying rival
bids, posted a record loss on A$567 million ($583 million) of
charges as it wrote off most of the value of its main brand.  The loss was A$537 million in the six months ended Dec. 31
compared with net income of A$16.1 million a year earlier, the
 Gold Coast , Australia-based company said in a statement today.
The stock fell 5.5 percent to 86 cents, compared to the A$1.10 a
share the buyout groups said they may bid.  Billabong will post 80 percent of its assets and 85 percent
of its earnings as security to its lenders after brand and
goodwill writedowns put it in breach of terms on its debt, it
said. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization in  Europe  fell 78 percent and full-year group
profit will be as much as 20 percent below previous forecasts.  “Ebitda is unraveling faster than the company can
control,” Sondal Bensan, an analyst at  BT Investment Management
Ltd. (BTT)  in Sydney, said by e-mail. “Chance of a bid at A$1.10
diminishes by the day.”  Altamont  Capital Partners  and VF Corp. are considering a
bid for the company at A$1.10 a share as a rival group of
Sycamore Partners Management and Billabong Americas head Paul Naude mull an offer at the same price. The A$527 million value
of the offers is less than the value of today’s writedowns.  Share Slump  Billabong became a takeover target last year as it sold
inventory below cost to clear shelf space, paid penalties to
break store leases early, cut the value of its brands and posted
its first annual loss since a 2000 listing.  At today’s closing price, the stock is trading at 22
percent less than the offers. The stock lost 90 percent of its
value during 2011 and 2012, making it the  worst performer  on the
 S&P/ASX 200 index. (AS51)   Three other private equity approaches for the company have
been rejected or scrapped over the past year.  The due diligence process on the current bids is expected
to conclude next month, the company said today. Jesse Rogers,
who co-founded Altamont, and Stefan Kaluzny at Sycamore both
previously worked at Bain & Co., the consulting firm formerly
led by  Mitt Romney .  First-half sales fell 8.1 percent from a year earlier to
A$702 million, driven by a 17 percent slump in Europe and a 5.3
percent drop in the Americas, excluding the effect of currency
movements.  Confidence Slump  “If anyone within or outside of Billabong still believes
we don’t have to radically change the way we run this business,
today’s half-year results end that illusion,” Chief Executive
Officer Launa Inman told an investor call today. The result in
Europe “is not only disappointing, it is unacceptable,” she
said.  A measure of  consumer confidence  in Billabong’s home market
returned just two positive readings in the half and the
country’s central bank has cut  interest rates  to a  half-century
low  in an attempt to stimulate the economy.  The Billabong brand, which  VF Corp. (VFC)  says is its “primary
interest” in any takeover, was written down to A$30 million at
the end of December, down 88 percent from A$252 million six
months earlier.  “Brand Billabong has, as you know, been problematic,”
Inman said today. Orders for the label in the current half were
up in the U.S., flat or slightly down in  Canada , and down in
Europe and  Australia , Inman said.  Nixon Watches  The writedown to that brand drove the A$428 million
impairment of goodwill and brands. There was also a A$107
million writedown of its investment in the Nixon watches and
accessories business, the company said. Billabong sold about
half of Nixon to buyout firm Trilantic Capital Partners for
A$285 million last February.  “The pressure’s building on the company,” Daniel Broeren,
a Sydney-based analyst at  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , said before
the announcement. “The trading that a lot of multibrand
retailers experienced in December wasn’t positive.”  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and one-time items in the full year will be A$74 million to A$85
million, below a range of A$85 million to A$92 million forecast
Dec. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  