-- Bird-Flu Research to Continue as U.S. Sets Funding Conditions
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-02-21T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/bird-flu-research-to-continue-as-u-s-sets-funding-conditions.html
U.S. health authorities outlined the
 conditions  for funding research on the H5N1 bird flu virus a
month after scientists lifted a yearlong pause on the work that
was imposed amid concerns it could be used by terrorists.  The  Department of Health  and Human Services will only fund
studies that meet seven criteria, officials including HHS chief-
of-staff Sally Howard and National Institutes of Health director
Francis S. Collins wrote in the journal Science today. The
criteria include a requirement to demonstrate that a virus that
scientists plan to create in a lab could evolve naturally, and
that safety and security risks can be managed.  The conditions are aimed at enabling research that would
help the world prepare for a rapidly spreading form of H5N1. The
virus has infected 620 people in 15 countries since 2003,
 killing 60 percent  of them, according to the  World Health
Organization . Most victims have had direct contact with birds,
and the virus has so far failed to acquire the ability to
transmit easily between humans.  “HHS must, out of necessity, support some scientific
research that involves a certain level of inherent risk but that
is nevertheless essential for our health and well-being,”
Howard and colleagues wrote.  Scientists worldwide issued a voluntary moratorium on H5N1
research in January 2012 after two NIH-funded studies showed how
to make the virus easier to transmit among ferrets, the mammals
whose response to flu is most like that of humans.  The findings illuminated the genetic mutations the virus
would need to undergo to become more transmissible, and raised
concern the laboratory strains could be released accidentally or
that publication of the findings could enable terrorists to
create the viruses.  The scientists lifted the moratorium on Jan. 23, saying
researchers should restart work in countries where governments
have approved appropriate biosecurity measures. That didn’t
include the U.S. at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  