-- BlackRock’s Koesterich Sees U.S. Growth Disappoint on Spending
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-02-21T03:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/blackrock-s-koesterich-sees-u-s-growth-disappoint-on-spending.html
Growth in the U.S. may disappoint in
the first half of 2013 as higher taxes reduce  consumer spending ,
according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager.  Investors holding more U.S. equities than the benchmark
they track should reduce exposure as volatility will likely
increase with the deadline for automatic federal budget cuts
approaching, said New York-based Russ Koesterich, the chief
investment strategist at BlackRock. Republicans and President
Barack Obama are seeking to assign blame for who would be at
fault if the cuts, known as sequestration, take effect. That
approach signals a deal before the March 1 deadline is doubtful.  “A lot of the risk we’re seeing in the near term, both
around the headline events of the sequester and budget debates,
but also on the growth side probably stems from the U.S.,”
Koesterich said at a briefing in Sydney. “Part of what we’d
suggest again is lowering the allocation a bit to the U.S. and
second of all, being cautious of the parts of the market that
are dependent upon U.S. consumption.”  BlackRock favors equity holdings in smaller developed
markets including Canada, Australia, Switzerland, Singapore and
 Hong Kong . These nations emerged from the financial crisis with
lower debt levels, stronger labor markets and better long-term
prospects than the U.S., parts of Europe and Japan, he said.  Stocks Sink  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  sank 1.2 percent yesterday,
the most since Nov. 14. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index,  VIX, (VIX)  which measures the cost of using options
as insurance against losses in the  S&P 500 , rose the most in 15
months yesterday.  Stocks fell after Federal Reserve minutes showed a debate
over the pace of central bank asset purchases that aim to
stimulate the economy. It may be four to five years before the
central bank restores normal monetary policy in the U.S.,
Koesterich said.  When Congress returns from a recess next week,  Senate
Democrats  are planning a vote on a $110 billion proposal that
would end some  farm subsidies , impose a 30 percent minimum tax
rate on the highest earners and delay the cuts until 2014. That
would meet Obama’s requirement that higher taxes for top earners
or companies be part of a plan to delay the cuts.  Congress should replace sequestration with spending cuts
and no new revenue, Republicans maintain, because more than $600
billion in tax increases on top earners took effect last month.
Republicans control the House and have the ability to block
Senate Democrats from acting unilaterally.  “We’d be a little bit cautious over the near-term because
of this, not that I think there’s going to be a dire event but
there will be some headline risk and volatility around it,”
Koesterich said.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 1.8 percent in 2013, slowing
from a 2.2 percent pace last year, according to the median
forecast of economists polled by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  