-- Bovespa May Climb to 70,000 on Growth, Bradesco’s Levy Says
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-02-21T17:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/bovespa-can-gain-to-70-000-as-growth-picks-up-bradesco-says.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index may rally 25
percent to reach 70,000 for the first time since April 2011 as
signs of an economic rebound make up for a likely increase in
interest rates this year, according to Joaquim Levy, the head of
Bradesco SA’s asset management unit.  “Maybe the worst is behind us,” Levy, who served as
 Brazil ’s treasury secretary under President  Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva , said today in an interview at his office in Sao Paulo,
without giving a time frame for his 70,000 forecast. “We could
see better growth figures in the fourth quarter, and also in the
first quarter. In this scenario, you’d see earnings improving,
giving support to the stock market.”  The central bank will start raising the target lending rate
from a record low 7.25 percent by July to curb inflation that
reached a one-year high last month, Levy said.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge has dropped 10 percent in
the past month, the worst performance among 94 major global
stock indexes in local-currency terms. The index has been
battered by government policies that forced electricity
providers to lower prices, pressured commercial banks to reduce
 interest rates  and required Petroleo Brasileiro SA, which is the
country’s second-most-traded stock, to sell gasoline at a loss.  For equities to rebound, the government would have to
“stop making noises” that could erode investors’ confidence in
Brazil, said Levy, who manages 287.4 billion reais ($145.6
billion) at Bradesco Asset Management.  ‘Market-Friendly’  An eventual interest-rate increase could be seen as
“market-friendly,” indicating that President Dilma Rousseff’s
administration is seeking to create the foundation for balanced
economic growth, he said.  Policy makers may lift the target rate by as much as 1.5
percentage points, said Fernando Barbosa, Bradesco Asset
Management’s chief economist, without giving a time frame.  “The central bank will not tolerate this level of
inflation,” Barbosa said. “They’re going to raise rates.”  His outlook is at odds with the median forecast of about
100 economists in a central bank survey, which projects the
target rate will be unchanged this year.  While higher borrowing costs may “put some pressure” on
Brazil’s currency, the government probably won’t let the real
strengthen beyond 1.90 per dollar to avoid cheaper import goods
from hurting local manufacturing, Barbosa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  