-- BP Wins Ruling to Exclude Some Criminal Evidence in Trial
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-02-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/bp-won-t-face-some-criminal-plea-evidence-in-trial-judge-says.html
A federal judge ruled that certain
documents related to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s criminal plea and indictments of
its employees can’t be used as evidence against the company in
the Feb. 25 trial over fault for the 2010  Gulf of Mexico   oil
spill .  “The parties are precluded from introducing during the
Phase One trial the documents listed,” U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  said yesterday in a four-page order. He
declined to rule yet on whether any part of the guilty plea
itself would be admissible at the trial.  BP, owner of the Macondo well that exploded in April 2010,
claimed the so-called criminal information, which spelled out
federal prosecutors’ allegations against the company, as well as
the indictments were “hearsay” and couldn’t be used in the
civil trial. Barbier agreed to exclude these documents.  In November, BP reached a settlement with the U.S. Justice
Department, agreeing to pay $4 billion to resolve all criminal
charges stemming from the spill. Federal prosecutors also
indicted three BP workers.  The blowout and explosion aboard the rig, the Deepwater
Horizon, killed 11 workers and spilled more than 4 million
barrels of oil into the Gulf of Mexico. The accident sparked
hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP, Vernier,
Switzerland-based Transocean, which owned the rig, and Houston-
based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services.  Nonjury Trial  Barbier will conduct a nonjury trial beginning Feb. 25 to
determine liability for the incident and whether any of the
defendants acted with gross negligence.  In a separate ruling yesterday, Barbier said Halliburton
and the plaintiffs’ lawyers can introduce some evidence of
“prior alleged improper conduct” by Transocean.  Transocean had urged Barbier to bar evidence that isn’t
directly related to its conduct on the Macondo well. Opponents
will be able to introduce a series of Transocean e-mails and
letters concerning prior well-control incidents on other company
rigs, including one that occurred within months of the Macondo
blowout, Barbier said.  Steve Herman , a lead attorney for the plaintiffs, said,
“We believe that there is overwhelming evidence that BP,
Transocean and Halliburton were all grossly negligent, and we
look forward to introducing that evidence at trial.”  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP, declined to comment on the
ruling. Transocean’s spokesman Lou Colasuonno didn’t immediately
return calls and e-mails seeking comment.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 