-- Brazil Real Declines as Mantega Signals End to Currency Measures
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2013-02-21T21:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/brazil-swap-rates-fall-on-global-growth-concern-real-declines.html
Brazil ’s real fell to a two-week low
after Finance Minister Guido Mantega said there is no need to
take additional measures to intervene in the market as the local
currency stabilizes at about 2 per U.S. dollar.  The real sank 0.6 percent to 1.9728 per dollar at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo, the weakest since Feb. 6, after Mantega
commented in a conference call with reporters. Swap rates on the
contract due in January 2014 fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.67 percent.  The decline in the real trimmed its gain this year to 4
percent, still the biggest among major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The currency fell 9 percent last year as President
Dilma Rousseff’s government intervened to limit gains and
protect domestic industry.  “The currency is weakening because of Mantega’s remarks,”
Joao Paulo de Gracia Correa, a currency manager at Correparti
Corretora, said by phone from Curitiba, Brazil. “He’s stressing
that the rate at 2 per dollar is good for the economy.”  In an interview in Moscow on Feb. 15, Mantega said the
government wouldn’t allow the currency to over-appreciate in a
bid to rein in consumer prices. A stronger currency helps tame
inflation by making imports cheaper.  Most swap rates dropped today as diminished global growth
prospects reduced speculation that Brazil’s central bank will
boost borrowing costs to contain inflation.  Fed Statement  A gauge of euro-area services and manufacturing contracted
at a faster pace in February than economists forecast. Minutes
of the Federal Reserve’s January meeting published yesterday
indicated several policy makers said the U.S. central bank
should be ready to vary the pace of its $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases stimulating the world’s biggest economy.  In Brazil,  inflation  in the month through mid-February as
measured by the IPCA-15 index probably slowed to 0.62 percent
from 0.88 percent in the prior period, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The national
statistics agency is due to publish its report tomorrow.  “Our basic scenario is still stable interest rates until
the end of the year,” Rafael Laurindo, a senior economist at
Porto Seguro Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a phone
interview. “The picture abroad and at home is complex.”  The best way to cool inflation without jeopardizing growth
is to keep borrowing costs at the current level for a
“sufficiently prolonged” period, the central bank said in the
minutes of its Jan. 15-16 meeting.  Central bank president Alexandre Tombini said in Brasilia
on Feb. 19 that policy makers could adjust monetary policy as
needed as they seek to reassure investors that the government
won’t refrain from raising interest rates to contain inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  