-- BSkyB Signs Disney Deal for Movie Channel on U.K. Pay-TV
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-02-21T11:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/bskyb-signs-disney-deal-for-film-channel-on-u-k-pay-tv-platform.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
the U.K.’s biggest pay-television company, and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) 
are starting a pay-TV channel on the broadcaster’s platform to
screen new and old Disney films.  Sky Movies Disney, which begins airing March 28, will have
first-run rights to the newest Disney films such as “Brave,”
“Tinker Bell: Secret of the Wings” and “Wreck-It Ralph,”
typically shown about six months after their cinema release, the
two companies said in a statement today. Older Disney films,
including titles such as “Finding Nemo,” “Cars” and “A
Bug’s Life,” will also be available on the channels.  BSkyB spends 2.3 billion pounds ($3.5 billion) a year on
content, which includes first-run rights from Hollywood film
studios, and has been winning new customers with exclusive
sports and entertainment broadcasts. The Isleworth, England-
based company, which is about 40 percent owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , added 88,000 customers in the fiscal first
half ended Dec. 31 by gaining subscribers for packages that
combine TV, Internet and phone services.  Under the terms of the deal with Disney, BSkyB also has
first-run rights to show movies from Lucasfilm and Marvel
Studios, such as “Iron Man 3” and “Avengers Assemble,”
across other Sky channels.  BSkyB shares fell 1.2 percent to 817 pence at 11 a.m. in
London, paring their gain this year to 6.5 percent.  BSkyB is also exporting content as it seeks new viewers.
 Modern Times Group AB (MTGA) , based in Stockholm, said today it signed
a deal with BSkyB to distribute the Sky Sports News HD channel
on its Viasat satellite platforms. The service will be available
to Nordic users at the end of the month and to Baltic users
later this year.  The agreement also allows Modern Times to include Sky
Sports content on its Nordic and Baltic TV channels, and its
Viaplay online pay-TV service in  Nordic countries .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  