-- Knicks Deal Brewer to Thunder as 1 of 11 NBA Pre-Deadline Trades
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-02-22T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/bucks-acquire-j-j-redick-at-nba-trade-deadline-sentinel-says.html
The  New York Knicks  traded shooting
guard Ronnie Brewer to the Oklahoma City Thunder for a 2014
second-round draft pick, one of 11 National Basketball
Association deals made before the trade deadline passed.  The Orlando Magic acquired forward Tobias Harris and guards
Doron Lamb and Beno Udrih from the Milwaukee Bucks in exchange
for guard J.J. Redick, forward-center Gustavo Ayon and guard Ish Smith before yesterday’s deadline, General Manager Rob Hennigan
said.  In addition, the Magic got forward Hakim Warrick and an
undisclosed amount of cash from the  Charlotte  Bobcats in
exchange for forward Josh McRoberts. The Magic said they intend
to waive Warrick.  “Tobias is a versatile forward that can play both forward
positions, while Doron is a combo guard who helps fortify our
backcourt with his shooting and ball-handling ability,”
Hennigan said in a statement. “Beno is a proven point guard who
adds veteran leadership and experience to our team.”  The  Miami Heat  traded center Dexter Pittman, cash and a
second-round pick in June’s draft to the Memphis Grizzlies for
the rights to Ricky Sanchez, a former second-round pick now
playing in Argentina.  The  Phoenix Suns  sent a 2013 second-round draft pick to the
 Houston Rockets  to get Marcus Morris, who was reunited with his
twin brother, Markieff. Phoenix waived Luke Zeller.  Telfair Traded  Elsewhere around the league, the Toronto Raptors acquired
guard Sebastian Telfair from the Suns for center Hamed Haddadi
and a second-round draft pick. The Boston Celtics dealt guard
Leandro Barbosa and center Jason Collins to the Washington
Wizards for guard Jordan Crawford. The Thunder also traded guard
Eric Maynor to the Portland Trail Blazers for the draft rights
to Giorgios Printezis.  The  Atlanta Hawks  traded Anthony Morrow to the Dallas
Mavericks for Dahntay Jones and acquired Jeremy Tyler from the
Golden State Warriors for a conditional 2013 second-round pick.
Golden State also sent Charles Jenkins to the Philadelphia 76ers
for a conditional 2013 second-round pick.  The Knicks also agreed to sign 12-year veteran Kenyon Martin to a 10-day contract, Yahoo reported. Martin has not
played in the NBA this season.  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Rob Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  