-- Buffett’s Ketchup Fancy Plies Heinz With Junk: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-02-21T19:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/buffett-s-ketchup-fancy-plies-heinz-with-junk-corporate-finance.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s love of
ketchup and hash browns is transforming  H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ)  into the
most-leveraged food maker in America.  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and 3G Capital Inc.’s $23
billion acquisition of Heinz may double the company’s total debt
to five times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to Fitch Ratings, the highest of any
comparable food company. The cost to protect Heinz’s debt from
losses soared to a record after the announcement.  While Buffett has used takeovers to build Berkshire into a
$249 billion company and burnish his reputation as the world’s
most successful investor, financing the deal with $14.1 billion
in debt threatens to strip Heinz of the investment-grade  rating 
that it’s had for four decades. Fitch cut Heinz to junk on Feb.
15 and credit-default swaps imply a Ba1 rating, according to
Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets research group. That’s two steps
lower than its Baa2 rating from Moody’s Investors Service and
three below its BBB+ grade from Standard & Poor’s.  The trading “underscores the hazards of high-grade bonds
in an active M&A environment,” said Martin Fridson, chief
executive officer of research firm FridsonVision LLC. Investors
should be aware of the “inherent danger now that leveraged
buyouts as well as strategic acquisitions are once again
prominent in the financial landscape,” he said.  No Boost  Michael Mullen, a spokesman for Pittsburgh-based Heinz,
didn’t return a telephone message seeking comment.  Instead of boosting its credit profile to match Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire’s AA+ and Aa2  ratings , Heinz was cut to
junk in two days in the eyes of credit investors, Moody’s data
show. The swap prices, which climb as investor perceptions of
creditworthiness deteriorate, rose to levels implying a Baa3
rating on Feb. 14, from Aa3 the day before. They fell again to
Ba1 the next day.  Heinz’s leverage may increase to five times or more after
the takeover is completed from 2.5 times on Oct. 28, according
to a Feb. 15 Fitch report in which the rating firm cut Heinz’s
credit grade to BB+. That would make the ketchup-maker the most
highly-leveraged U.S. food manufacturer with a market value
greater than $5 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Financing Package  Heinz, which said in a Nov. 20 regulatory filing that it
had about $5.04 billion of total debt at the end of October,
obtained $14.1 billion in financing from JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Wells Fargo & Co. to support the deal, according to a Feb.
15 filing.  Berkshire and billionaire  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G will each
pay about $4.1 billion for an equity stake. Berkshire is also
contributing $8 billion for preferred shares which gets an
annual dividend of 9 percent, Buffett’s firm said in a filing.  The credit-default swap contracts tied to the company’s
debt fluctuated by 187 basis points, or more than 400 percent,
in the two trading days after it was announced, CMA data show.  Some of Heinz’s debt include provisions to protect
investors in event of an acquisition or a downgrade.  Holders of the company’s $300 million of 2.85 percent notes
due March 2022 will receive 101 cents on the dollar in addition
to unpaid interest if anyone buys more than half of the
company’s outstanding voting stock, or if the rating is lowered
by all three rating firms to junk, according to that security’s
prospectus.  Higher Leverage  “It took the market time to digest just how leveraged, and
how subordinated, senior unsecured bondholders will be as a
result of approximately $10.5 billion of senior secured bank
debt that will be layered ahead of bonds that don’t benefit from
a change of control,” said John Kneebone, a credit analyst at
Paris-based BNP Paribas SA. “Many see the potential for
leverage to go higher than anticipated levels” of about 6.1
times, he said.  Heinz credit swaps surged Feb. 15 to 228 basis points at
7:37 a.m. in New York, fell to 184 at 9:07 a.m., and surged
again to 224 basis points in the next 23 minutes, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  “Market speculation” that the deal wouldn’t trigger the
change-of-control provision is probably incorrect, according to
a Feb. 14 report from Covenant Review LLC, an independent credit
research firm based in New York.  ‘Pretty Dumb’  Confusion over the change of control pushed some debt below
par, according to Covenant Review’s founder Adam Cohen. To
exploit that loophole, Berkshire and 3G would have to create a
holding company over Heinz, and then argue that the combined
entity counts as a “person” in one instance but not another,
Cohen said.  “That’s a really hard argument to make,” he said. “I
can’t say it’s impossible but it’s pretty dumb.”  Credit-default swaps on Heinz, which pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt, were the third most-traded entity
last week among 1,000 tracked by the  Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp. , up from 720th place the week before, according to the
DTCC, which runs a central registry for the market.  A daily average of $430 million traded last week, compared
with an average of $150 million over the past month.  Default Swaps  Banks, hedge funds and other money managers had bought and
sold swaps on a net $906 million of Heinz as of Feb. 15, up from
$599.6 million the week before, DTCC data show.  The maker of condiments and Ore-Ida potato snacks, led by
Chief Executive OfficerBill Johnson since 1998, had gained 17
percent in the past 12 months as it boosted sales in  developing
economies . The company traces its roots back to 1869, when Henry
John Heinz and neighbor L. Clarence Noble began selling grated
horseradish, according to Heinz’s website. The company
introduced its famous Tomato Ketchup in 1876.  The company’s $436.6 million of 6.75 percent notes due in
2032, which hadn’t traded since August, dropped 21 cents to 107
cents on the dollar to yield 6.12 percent on Feb. 14, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. The next day they sank to 101.5
cents to yield 6.6 percent.  The debt traded at 105.8 cents to yield 6.23 percent at
12:57 p.m. in New York, the data show.  “While details about the company’s financing plans or
additional debt needs have not been disclosed, we believe the
transaction would weaken Heinz’s credit protection measures well
below current levels,” S&P analysts Bea Chiem and Jeffrey
Burian wrote in a Feb. 14 note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  