-- Bullard Says Fed May Raise Main Rate by June 2014
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-02-21T19:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/bullard-predicts-fed-rate-rise-from-zero-possible-by-june-2014.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said U.S. unemployment may drop to 6.5
percent by the middle of next year and prompt the central bank
to raise its benchmark interest rate from near zero.  “The current St. Louis Fed forecast for the  unemployment
rate  implies that the 6.5 percent threshold will be crossed in
June 2014,” Bullard said today in New York. The Fed last month
renewed its pledge to keep borrowing costs low “at least as
long” as joblessness exceeds 6.5 percent and if projected
inflation won’t go beyond 2.5 percent one or two years in the
future.  Bullard today repeated his proposal to adjust the Fed’s $85
billion in monthly bond buying to account for changes in the
economic outlook. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the Fed
will keep buying bonds until there’s a “substantial”
improvement in the labor market, and the Fed hasn’t specified a
date for the end of purchases.  “Without an end date, the committee may have to alter the
pace of purchases as news arrives concerning U.S. macroeconomic
performance,” Bullard said today to the Center for Global
Economy and Business at New York University’s Stern School of
Business.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  on Jan. 29-30 debated
Bullard’s proposal, according to minutes of the meeting released
yesterday. Several participants “emphasized that the committee
should be prepared to vary the pace of asset purchases,” the
minutes showed.  ‘Tapering’ Purchases  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  has also endorsed the
idea of “tapering” asset purchases before halting the stimulus
to avert a potentially disruptive “cold turkey” end in the
buying. The central bank, seeking to stoke growth and bring down
7.9 percent unemployment, has expanded its balance sheet to a
record exceeding $3 trillion.  In response to audience questions, Bullard said the outlook
for the  U.S. economy  has become more favorable partly because of
an easing in Europe’s debt crisis, which cut growth last year.  At the same time, the U.S. economy’s potential for growth
may have declined from its rate before the 2008 financial
crisis, he said.  The FOMC’s achievement of “substantial” gains in the job
market will occur gradually, the St. Louis Fed leader said.  “This suggests that as labor markets improve somewhat, the
pace of asset purchases could be reduced somewhat, but not ended
altogether,” Bullard said.  Economic Outlook  Bullard is willing to alter monthly purchases by $10
billion to $15 billion depending on shifts in the economic
outlook, he said to reporters after his speech.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.9 percent to
1,498.15 at 2:18 p.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note declined four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 1.96 percent.  The St. Louis Fed chief said he sees weaknesses in the use
of unemployment as a threshold for an  interest rate  change.  “The use of thresholds is not a panacea,” he said in his
speech. “The FOMC cannot pretend to target medium- or long-term
unemployment.”  Also, “the Committee needs to reiterate that it considers
many more variables in attempting to gauge the state of the U.S.
economy” and that hitting the thresholds for employment or
inflation shouldn’t be viewed as a trigger for policy action.  Bullard didn’t comment on recent economic reports in his
presentation.  Claims Rise  Initial claims for  unemployment benefits  rose for the first
time in three weeks by 20,000 to 362,000 in the week ended Feb.
16, the Labor Department reported today. A separate report
showed the  Consumer Price Index  was little changed. Over the
past 12 months it has risen 1.6 percent, the smallest year-over-
year gain since July.  Bullard, 51, backed the FOMC decision last month to
continue monthly securities purchases after the economy shrank
0.1 percent during the fourth quarter. The Fed in December 2008
cut the main interest rate close to zero to bring down borrowing
costs and fuel economic growth.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,
Indiana,  Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in  New York  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomnberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  