-- Rothschild’s Failed Bumi Bid Sets Stage for Split From Bakries
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-02-21T19:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/bumi-holders-reject-rothschild-plan-to-replace-ceo-chairman.html
Nathaniel Rothschild lost his bid to
replace the chairman and chief executive officer of  Bumi Plc (BUMI) ,
helping clear the way for it to sell a stake in an Indonesian
coal business being probed for alleged financial irregularities.  Rothschild, scion of a centuries-old banking dynasty who
sought backing to oust directors he said failed investors, had
his proposals rejected by shareholders at a meeting today. The
41-year-old financier has been locked in a battle with the
Indonesian Bakrie family over the control of Bumi after co-
founding the venture with them in a $3 billion deal in 2010.  Bumi will seek shareholders’ approval to separate from the
Bakries as soon as possible and restructure its board with a
“sense of urgency,” it said in a statement after the vote
against removing Chairman Samin Tan and CEO Nick Von Schirnding.  While 19 of 22 proposals were rejected at the meeting, the
stockholders supported Rothschild’s goal of replacing two
directors, including Bakrie representative Nathin Rathod.  Bumi plunged 69 percent in  London  last year amid boardroom
infighting and financial probes in the U.K. and  Indonesia . While
Rothschild and Bumi both sought to unwind collaboration with the
Bakries, Bumi said it could only be done with the current board.  The Bakries have proposed exchanging their 23.8 percent of
Bumi for 10.3 percent of Indonesian unit PT Bumi Resources. That
plan would also see Bumi Plc sell the remaining 18.9 percent of
its Bumi Resources stake for $278 million to the family.  Good Chance  One of Rothschild’s proposed board members, Richard Gozney,
was supported by shareholders and the financier’s proposal to
remove Jean-Marc Mizrahi was also backed by investors.  Rothschild said before the meeting that, while there was a
“very good chance we’ll get some representation,” he would
maintain pressure on the board should he lose, and “wait and
see” whether to support the separation proposal.  Liberum Capital  Ltd. said that a rejection of Rothchild’s
plan to oust most directors would make it easier to split Bumi
Plc from Bumi Resources, helping to boost the share price.  “It definitely helps the split because the Bakries have
said they are supportive of the board’s proposal,” Richard Knights, an analyst at Liberum Capital, said in London. “Now
the board can work with the Bakries on separating from Bumi
Resources and both parties can move forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  