-- Bumi’s Defeat of Rothschild Clears Way for Bakries Split
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-02-22T16:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/bumi-closer-to-bakrie-separation-as-rothschild-proposals-snubbed.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI) ’s defeat of an attempt by
co-founder Nathaniel Rothschild to take control of the board
clears the way for the coal producer to proceed with a deal to
split from Indonesia’s Bakrie family.  Rothschild, scion of a centuries-old banking dynasty who
sought backing to remove the chief executive officer, chairman
and the majority of the directors, had his proposal rebuffed by
shareholders at a  London  meeting yesterday. The 41-year-old
financier said the board had failed shareholders as he battled
the Bakrie family over control of Bumi after creating the coal
venture with them in a $3 billion deal in 2010.  Bumi will now seek investors’ approval for the Bakries to
swap their shares in Bumi Plc for the London-traded company’s
stake in PT  Bumi Resources (BUMI) , one of its Indonesian units that’s
under investigation for alleged financial irregularities. Bumi
Plc will be left with an 85 percent stake in PT Berau Coal
Energy, Indonesia’s fifth-largest coal miner.  “Now the board can work with the Bakries on separating
from Bumi Resources and both parties can move forward,” Richard Knights, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd., said in London.
Yesterday’s vote “definitely helps the split because the
Bakries have said they are supportive of the board’s proposal.”  While 19 of 22 resolutions were rejected at the meeting,
including the removal of Chairman Samin Tan and CEO Nick von Schirnding, investors supported Rothschild’s proposal to oust
two directors, including Bakrie representative Nalinkant Rathod.  Former Ambassador  One of Rothschild’s proposed board members, former U.K.
ambassador to  Indonesia  Richard Gozney, was backed by
shareholders and the financier’s bid to remove Jean-Marc Mizrahi
was also supported.  Bumi fell 8 percent to 360.1 pence by the close in London,
the lowest for two weeks. It plunged 69 percent last year amid
boardroom infighting and financial probes in the U.K. and
Indonesia. While Rothschild and the Bakries sought to unwind
their collaboration, Bumi said it could only be achieved with
the current board.  The tide turned in the board’s favor on Feb. 18 when Rosan Roeslani, an associate of the Bakries, sold about 24.2 million
Bumi shares to three separate investors. That increased the
amount of votes Rothschild needed to win at the meeting
yesterday, as the voting rights associated with those shares had
previously been excluded by a U.K. Takeover Panel ruling.  ‘No Mandate’  “Without the Takeover Panel intervention we would have
been successful in 20 of 22 resolutions,” Rothschild said in a
statement. “The current board no longer has a mandate and needs
to move on. They should promptly resign.”  Rothschild said that about two-thirds of “non-aligned”
shareholders voted against the board. He said before the meeting
that he would maintain pressure on the board should he lose, and
“wait and see” whether to support the separation proposal.  The removal of Tan was supported by 43 percent of
shareholders, while 44 percent backed the ouster of Scott Merrillees, Bumi’s chief financial officer. Of the 12 directors
Rothschild sought to remove, only CEO von Schirnding and Deputy
Chairman Julian Horn-Smith received more than 60 percent support
from shareholders, with 61 percent and 62 percent respectively.  Von Schirnding appealed to Rothschild and other
shareholders who voted against the board to support its
proposals for separation from the Bakries, when he spoke with
Mark Barton and Olivia Sterns on Bloomberg TV’s Countdown Show
today. Von Schirnding said the board had “a clear plan” to put
to a shareholder vote in April or May.  ‘Resources Champion’  Rothschild and the Bakrie Group, a palm-oil-to-property
empire run by billionaire politician Aburizal Bakrie and his
brothers, set up Bumi by bundling 29 percent of Bumi Resources
and 85 percent of  PT Berau Coal Energy. (BRAU)  They sought to create an
Indonesian “resources champion” in combining the coal
companies, a tie-up that saw the Bakrie Group became the first
major Indonesian business to tap the U.K. equity market.  The Bakries have proposed exchanging their 23.8 percent of
Bumi for 10.3 percent of Bumi Resources. That plan would also
see Bumi Plc sell the remaining 18.9 percent of its Bumi
Resources stake for $278 million to the family.  Bumi Resources had its debt rating cut to B2 from B1 today
by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the Jakarta-based
company’s debt-to-earnings ratio and weak coal prices for the
downgrade. Corporate governance “remains an issue” for Bumi
Resources, even with the likely separation from Bumi Plc,
Moody’s said.  Replacing Tan  The Bakrie Group welcomed the outcome of yesterday’s
meeting, saying it “gives the board a clear mandate to restore
shareholder value by progressing with our separation proposal.”
The group said it hopes Rothschild “joins our own move to
restore value at Bumi by supporting our proposal.”  Tan will step down as chairman once an independent
replacement is found, according to Bumi, which said it also
plans to slim down its board. The company said it will continue
to pursue potential claims where there is a prospect of recovery
following a recent investigation conducted by Macfarlanes LLP.  Rothschild, who holds about 14.8 percent of Bumi stock
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, had nominated former
 Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI)  head Wallace King as chairman and Brock Gill as CEO. He had also sought to reappoint himself to the
board, and to bring in Indonesian businessman Hashim Djojohadikusumo.  The Financial Times reported Feb. 20 that Aburizal Bakrie
may face Djojohadikusumo’s brother, Prabowo Subianto, in
Indonesia’s 2014 presidential elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  