-- California Gasoline Gains on March Trading, Low Supply
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-02-22T02:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/california-gasoline-gains-on-march-trading-lower-inventories.html
(Corrects title of Ryan Mossman in last paragraph.)  Spot gasoline in  California 
strengthened against futures after the prompt-month contract
rolled into March and a government report showed West Coast
inventories fell.  Stockpiles on the West Coast, known as the PADD 5 region,
dropped for the second week in a row,  trimming 723,000 barrels 
to 33 million in the period ended Feb. 15, the Energy
Information Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department, said today.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles was at
a premium of 10 cents a gallon against April gasoline futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:06 p.m. East
Coast time. Before today, the fuel traded against March futures,
closing yesterday at a 29.50-cents-a-gallon premium.  The average retail price for regular gasoline in California
rose to $4.203 a gallon, up 11.6 cents from a week before, AAA
Southern California reported.  “Prices have now gone up even more than they did during
the spike in October and the one last February, and more quickly
than they did during any one-month stretch in 2008, when we had
another big spike,” Jeffrey Spring, a spokesman for the
Automobile Club of Southern California, based in Costa Mesa,
said by e-mail. “ Los Angeles  drivers are now paying nearly as
much as drivers on Maui for regular unleaded, which is
unprecedented.”  San Francisco  The discount for Carbob in  San Francisco , which also rolled
into March, traded at a discount of 9 cents a gallon against
April futures, compared with a 6.5 cent premium yesterday
against March futures.  The premium for California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los
Angeles widened 75 cents to 14 cents a gallon versus Nymex
heating oil futures.  In  Portland ,  Oregon , conventional  84 sub-octane gasoline  to
be blended with ethanol traded at a 9-cent premium to gasoline
futures.  Californians “should expect to see a rise up to the summer
driving season, perhaps reaching $4.50 a gallon,” Ryan Mossman,
vice president and general manager of Fuel Center at FuelQuest
in Houston, said by e-mail. “Prices should then taper off
toward the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliot Caroom in  New York  at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  