-- California Treasurer Sets $2.7 Billion Bond Sale in March
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-02-21T20:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/california-treasurer-schedules-2-5-billion-bond-sale.html
California  will sell $2.7 billion of
general-obligation debt in March, the first offering since
 Standard & Poor’s  raised its rating on the most indebted state.  The offer will include $2.2 billion of tax-exempt bonds and
$310 million that are subject to federal taxes, Treasurer Bill Lockyer said in a statement.  California’s general-obligation rating was raised by S&P
for the fist time since 2006 in January. S&P’s one-step boost to
A, sixth-highest, from A- followed tax increases championed by
Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  and spending reductions that
bolstered the state’s fiscal outlook.  The upgrade left  Illinois , with the nation’s worst-funded
pension system, as the lowest-rated state.  In addition to the new issue, California will remarket $228
million of Build America Bonds March 13, according to Lockyer’s
schedule. The Build America Bond program gave states and cities
a 35 percent federal subsidy on interest as part of an economic
stimulus plan. California and local government sold more than
$39 billion of the debt.  The state will take orders from individual investors March
12 and March 13. The taxable bonds will be priced March 13 and
the tax-exempt debt will be priced March 14, said  Tom Dresslar ,
a spokesman for the treasurer.  JPMorgan Securities and Goldman Sachs & Co. will lead the
sale, Dresslar said in a statement.  California tax-exempt bonds due in September 2042 traded
today with an average yield of 3.3 percent, or about 0.3
percentage point above  benchmark  municipal debt, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That spread has shrunk by more than half
since the bonds priced in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  