-- Canada December Employment Insurance Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-02-21T13:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/canada-december-employment-insurance-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s employment insurance report for Dec. released
by Statistics Canada.  In December, the number of people receiving regular Employment
Insurance (EI) benefits fell for the third time in four months,
down 8,300 (-1.6%) to 517,000. The recent decreases brought the
number of beneficiaries down to a level similar to that of the
spring of 2012.  All provinces had fewer beneficiaries in December, with the
largest percentage decreases occurring in Prince Edward Island,
Newfoundland and Labrador as well as Manitoba.  Claims virtually unchanged in December
To receive EI benefits, individuals must first submit a claim.
The number of claims provides an indication of the number of
people who could become beneficiaries.  Nationally, the number of initial and renewal claims totalled
226,700 in December, virtually unchanged from the previous
month.  Provincially, there were fewer claims in Manitoba (-6.1%),
Alberta (-3.2%), New Brunswick (-2.1%) and  Quebec  (-1.9%), while
the number increased in Nova Scotia (+4.3%), Newfoundland and
Labrador (+2.7%) and Ontario (+1.7%). There was little change in
the other provinces.  Fewer beneficiaries in all provinces
The number of people receiving regular benefits fell in all
provinces in December.  The largest percentage decrease occurred in Prince  Edward
Island , where the number of beneficiaries declined 4.6% to 7,800
in December, following four months of little change.  There was also a notable decline in Newfoundland and Labrador,
where the number of beneficiaries fell by 4.1% to 32,400,
continuing a downward trend that began in the fall of 2011.  The number of people receiving regular benefits in Manitoba
decreased by 3.3% to 12,900 in December, following a 1.5%
decline the month before.  The number of beneficiaries in Saskatchewan fell by 2.5% to
9,700 in December, after little change in the previous three
months.  In Nova Scotia, the number of beneficiaries declined 2.1% to
29,000, following a decrease of similar magnitude in the
previous month.  Smaller declines also occurred in New Brunswick (-1.9%),  Alberta 
(-1.7%), Quebec (-1.1%), Ontario (-0.8%) and British Columbia (-
0.8%).  Note to readers
Employment Insurance regular benefits are available to eligible
individuals who lose their jobs and who are available for and
able to work, but can’t find a job. The change in the number of
regular beneficiaries reflects various situations, including
people becoming beneficiaries, people going back to work, and
people exhausting their regular benefits.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted unless
otherwise specified. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends.  EI statistics are produced from administrative data sources
provided by Service Canada and Human Resources and Skills
Development Canada. These statistics may, from time to time, be
affected by changes to the Employment Insurance Act or
administrative procedures. Recent examples are the pilot project
entitled “Working While on Claim,” introduced on August 5, 2012,
and the regulation on search for suitable employment, that came
into effect on January 6, 2013.  The number of regular beneficiaries and the number of claims
received for the current and previous month are subject to
revision.  The number of beneficiaries is a measure of all people who
received EI benefits from December 2 to 8. This period coincides
with the reference week of the Labour Force Survey (LFS).  EI statistics indicate the number of people who received EI
benefits, and should not be confused with LFS data, which
provide information on the total number of unemployed people.  There is always a certain proportion of unemployed people who do
not qualify for benefits. Some unemployed people have not
contributed to the program because they have not worked in the
past 12 months or their employment is not insured. Other
unemployed people have contributed to the program but do not
meet the eligibility criteria, such as workers who left their
job voluntarily or those who did not accumulate enough hours of
work to receive benefits.  New content and historical revision on the way
Over the next few months, data on people who receive regular EI
benefits will be available for the first time by occupation and
detailed age group.  New seasonally adjusted data by sex, age, census metropolitan
area, census agglomeration and occupation will also be
available.  Seasonally adjusted series will be revised back to January 1997
to reflect the most recent seasonal factors. Geography
boundaries will be updated from the 2001 to the 2006 Standard
Geographical Classification (SGC), which mainly affects
boundaries of census metropolitan areas and census
agglomerations.  In addition, the definition of regular beneficiaries will be
expanded to include those receiving regular benefits while
participating in employment benefit programs, such as training.
Furthermore, self-employed people receiving special benefits
will be included in the special benefits category.  All data are available on CANSIM. 