-- Canadian Dollar Falls for Fifth Day as Commodities, Stocks Drop
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-02-21T22:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/canadian-currency-falls-for-a-fifth-day-as-commodities-decline.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened for a fifth
day against its U.S. counterpart in the longest losing streak
since October as crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, dropped
amid ebbing risk appetite.  The currency fell to the weakest level since July as
commodities and global stocks sank a day after minutes of the
Federal Open Market Committee’s last meeting spurred bets the
U.S. central bank may slow its monetary stimulus. The American
dollar rose versus most major peers as investors sought refuge
amid concern U.S. lawmakers will fail to head off $1.2 trillion
in automatic spending cuts set to begin next week.  “The main driver of Canadian-dollar weakness was
yesterday’s FOMC announcement,” John Curran, senior vice
president at Canadianforex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange
dealer, said in a telephone interview from Toronto. “Oil
weakness, or weakness across asset classes, has fallen in line
with the Federal Reserve’s statement.”  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is nicknamed for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.2 percent to
C$1.0185 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0208, the weakest since July 25. The loonie’s last five-day
stretch of losses ended Oct. 29. One Canadian dollar buys 98.18
U.S. cents.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar versus the loonie reached 6.99 percent, the highest since
Oct. 23, exceeding the 200-day moving average of 6.96 percent.
Implied volatility signals the expected pace of currency swings
and is quoted by traders to set option prices. The five-year
average is 11.6 percent.  Bonds Gain  Canada’s government bonds rose, pushing yields on the
benchmark 10-year debt down three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.98 percent. The price of the 2.75 percent
securities due in June 2022 increased 29 cents to C$106.48.  The Bank of Canada said it will auction C$3.4 billion ($3.3
billion) of five-year notes on Feb. 27. The 1.25 percent
securities will mature in March 2018.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell as
much as 1.7 percent to 656.93, the lowest level since Jan. 18.
Crude oil for April delivery slid to as low as $92.63 a barrel
in New York, the least since Jan. 7. Raw materials including oil
account for about half of Canada’s export revenue.  The S&P 500 Index lost 0.6 percent, and the  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index sank 1.3 percent as investors sought safer assets.  Fed Minutes  “The Canadian dollar has been caught in the updraft of
U.S. dollar strength,” Adam Button, a currency analyst at
Forexlive.com in  Montreal , said in a telephone interview.  The greenback climbed yesterday against 13 of its 16 most-
traded peers, including Canada’s dollar, as stocks and
commodities slid after the minutes of the Fed’s last meeting
were released. They showed several officials said the central
bank should be ready to vary the pace of the $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases it’s making to spur economic growth.  The loonie has weakened 1 percent this year among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar and the euro have
climbed 2 percent.  Eight days are left before the budget cuts begin in the
U.S. unless lawmakers head them off. Inaction would lower gross
domestic product by 0.6 percent and cost 750,000 jobs by year-
end, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office.
The reductions, part of a 2011 deal, were supposed to be so
onerous Congress and the president would never let them occur.  ‘Growing Concern’  “There’s growing concern for the sequestration on March
1,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , said by phone from Toronto.  The loonie headed for a third straight weekly loss before
data tomorrow forecast to show Canada’s inflation rate slipped
to the lowest in more than three years and retail sales fell.  The  consumer price  index increased 0.6 percent in January
from a year earlier, a Bloomberg survey showed before Statistics
Canada reports the data. It was 0.8 percent in December, the
lowest level since October 2009.  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney reiterated to lawmakers
last week in Ottawa that an increase in the benchmark  interest
rate , which has been 1 percent since 2010 to spur growth, is
less urgent because inflation has been slower than forecast.  Retail sales  declined 0.3 percent in December after rising
for five consecutive months, according to the median forecast in
a separate Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s report.  The loonie may have weakened too much, too fast, and be due
to strengthen, a technical measure indicated. The currency’s 14-
day relative strength index against the U.S. dollar touched
24.6, its second day below the 30 level some traders see as a
sign that an asset may be about to reverse direction.  Canada’s dollar will gain to 98 cents per U.S. dollar by
year-end, according to the median forecast of 47 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  