-- Carlyle Falls Most Since May as Earnings Miss Estimates
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-02-21T21:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/carlyle-says-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-28-on-performance-fees.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the second-largest
U.S. private-equity company, tumbled the most since going public
in May after reporting fourth-quarter profit that fell short of
analysts’ estimates.  Economic net income, a measure of profit excluding some
costs tied to the firm’s initial public offering, declined 28
percent to $182.2 million from $254.2 million a year earlier, as
fund holdings appreciated at a slower pace, Washington-based
Carlyle said today in a statement. After-tax economic net income
was 47 cents a share, missing the 68 cents-a-share  average
estimate  of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Carlyle, like competitors  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO) , is diversifying into areas such as
commodities, real estate and credit as it seeks to reduce its
reliance on traditional leveraged buyouts, which tend to produce
volatile earnings. Fourth-quarter profit was held down because
holdings appreciated 4 percent during the quarter, compared with
7 percent in the prior year, Carlyle executives said today on a
conference call with investors and analysts.  Some of the decrease in economic net income was also
because of “differences in the composition of our funds
experiencing appreciation,” William Conway, Carlyle’s co-chief
executive officer, said during the call. “Our funds not yet
accruing carry experienced greater appreciation in 2012,” he
said, referring to carried interest, or the firm’s share of
profits generated by its funds.  Shares Fall  Carlyle  fell  7.8 percent, the most since its IPO last year,
to close at $33.80 in New York trading after losing as much as
13 percent earlier in the day. The shares have  gained  54 percent
since the May 2 public offering, which raised $671 million by
selling 30.5 million shares for $22 each, below the proposed
range.  Carlyle said it hasn’t started collecting carried interest
from its flagship buyout fund, the $13.7 billion Carlyle
Partners V pool that began investing in 2007, even though it has
generated 1.5 times its invested capital and delivered a net
internal rate of return of 10 percent as of Dec. 31.  “It isn’t science; it’s a little bit art,” Conway said
regarding the decision of when to book a fund’s profits. “We
have an enormous profit built in so far. Accrued carry on the
fund is in excess of $800 million.”  Fund Values  The value of the firm’s corporate private-equity funds
increased 5 percent during the quarter, compared with 9 percent
at Apollo, 7 percent at Blackstone and 4 percent at  KKR & Co. (KKR) ,
the firm run by Henry Kravis and  George Roberts . Together, the 4
percent gain in all of Carlyle’s so-called carry funds, which
also include real estate and the firm’s hedge funds-of-funds,
compared with a 1 percent decline for the Standard & Poor’s 500
 index  during the fourth quarter.  The value of buyout holdings at private-equity firms
affects economic net income because the metric depends on
quarterly mark-to-market valuations of those investments.
Accounting rules require the firms to value their portfolio
holdings every quarter.  Carlyle’s distributable earnings, which measure the
availability of funds to return to private and public investors,
fell 24 percent to $188 million from $247 million a year
earlier. The company said it will pay a distribution of 85 cents
a share to public investors on March 13.  Active Buyer  The firm was the most active U.S. private-equity buyer in
2012, taking part in deals worth at least $19 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “When it comes to our activity in 2012, I would say I am
pleased but not satisfied,” said Conway. The firm deployed $7.9
billion into deals last year, below its five-year average of $9
billion a year, he said.  Total assets under management rose to $170 billion from
$157 billion at the end of the third quarter, driven by
Carlyle’s acquisition of stakes in commodities hedge-fund
manager Vermillion Asset Management LLC and energy investor NGP
Energy Capital Management LLC. Blackstone, the largest so-called
alternative-asset manager, said last month its assets under
management reached a record $210 billion.  Carlyle raised $4.6 billion during the quarter, including
for its latest flagship buyout fund, Carlyle Partners VI. The
fund has gathered $6 billion on its way to a target of $10
billion, co-CEO David Rubenstein said on the conference call.  Dividend Recaps  Carlyle, like other alternative-asset managers, reports
profit that differs from U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Fourth-quarter profit under those rules, known as
GAAP, was $12 million, or 25 cents a share.  Carlyle has benefited from low interest rates, tapping the
favorable debt markets to put its portfolio companies on
healthier standing. Conway said 25 of the firm’s portfolio
companies have taken advantage of cheap credit to refinance
debt, fund deals and perform dividend recapitalizations, or the
process of borrowing money and paying a dividend to the owners.  “In the current environment, a big source of distributions
has been the dividend recaps that we’ve done,” Conway said. “I
think for a while that’s likely to continue.”  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  Carlyle during the quarter bought 55 percent of Vermillion,
adding $2.2 billion in commodities assets to Carlyle’s Global
Market Strategies business. The firm also acquired a 47.5
percent revenue interest in NGP for $424 million, after which
Rubenstein said energy is the “single most attractive global
area in which to invest today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  