-- Central Banks Discussed Nominal GDP Targets at G-20
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-02-21T11:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/central-banks-discussed-nominal-gdp-targets-at-g-20.html
Group of 20 policy makers discussed
a broad rethinking of monetary tools at their meeting in Moscow
last week, including strategies to support growth by targeting
nominal gross domestic product,  Russia ’s envoy to the G-20 said.  A proposal for the monetary authorities to adopt a target
of nominal GDP, aired by Bank of England Governor-designate  Mark Carney  in December, was discussed on the sidelines of the G-20
meetings, said Russia’s G-20 sherpa, Ksenia Yudaeva. Russia
holds the group’s rotating presidency this year.  “Maybe it’s an appropriate instrument for developed
countries with reserve currencies, but for developing and small
economies, it absolutely doesn’t answer their problems,”
Yudaeva said in an interview in Moscow. “Inflation is more or
less fine; even in Russia we can collect it on a  weekly basis .
Nominal GDP is published with big lags and big revisions.”  Officials in the U.K. have begun debating the need for a
change in the system established in 1992, suggesting nominal GDP
as a better target to give Carney and the central bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee more scope to support growth. The
introduction of a new mandate is a “very pretty concept, though
in practice it’s entirely inoperable,” according to Yudaeva, a
42-year-old with a PhD in economics from the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  who was previously a chief economist at
 OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s biggest lender.  Appropriate Policy  “There’s a very strong process of reconsideration of what
appropriate monetary policy means for central banks,” said
Yudaeva, who joined President  Vladimir Putin ’s administration
last year as head of the Kremlin’s council of economic advisers.
“If in the 2000s inflation targeting was considered the best
policy, leaving interest rates as the only tool, now new
instruments have emerged.”  Carney, who leaves the Canadian central bank June 1 to take
over the BOE, has said he plans to oversee a “re-founding” of
the institution, formed in 1694. He has discussed the
possibility of shifting monetary focus to nominal GDP, as well
as signaling more flexibility on meeting the regulator’s
inflation target.  While central banks are pivoting away from accepted tools
of monetary policy and embrace strategies that include asset
purchases and  capital controls , Russia has “no need to react
yet,” Yudaeva said.  Inflation Targeting  Russia, the largest emerging economy to increase  interest
rates  last year, is planning to shift to inflation targeting by
2015. The country’s central bank was forced to abandon its
target range of 5 percent to 6 percent for consumer price growth
last year after a surge in global food prices.  Governments are turning to a new group of monetary-policy
makers as nations run out of room to ease fiscal policy. The
financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008 forced the monetary authorities
to weigh fresh strategies to jumpstart economic growth and
sustain recoveries, Yudaeva said.  New Zealand ’s central bank governor yesterday said he’s
ready to intervene in foreign-exchange markets, adding to
comments by officials from  South Korea  to  South America  warning
their currencies are too strong, even as G-20 nations say
they’ll refrain from competitive devaluation.  ‘Paradigm’ Shift  “The paradigm of what’s considered correct policy for
central banks will change,” Yudaeva said. “We are seeing
that.”  The  International Monetary Fund  in December endorsed
nations’ use of capital controls in certain circumstances,
marking a reversal of its historic support for unrestricted
flows of money across borders.  Finance ministers and central bankers from G-20 nations
pledged in a Feb. 16 statement not “to target our exchange
rates for competitive purposes,” while refraining from singling
out  Japan  for weakening its currency. After Japan’s leaders
pledged steps to boost the economy that caused the yen to
tumble, policy makers in South Korea and the  Philippines  are
weighing curbs to capital inflows, while Norway’s central bank
said it is ready to cut interest rates to counter the krone’s
strength.  In the run-up to the G-20 meeting, Japan had been under
fire for a drop in the yen. Group of Seven members roiled
 currency markets  last week with takes on their own statement
regarding attempts to manipulate currencies for competitive
advantage.  “The question should remain at the center of the financial
G-20’s attention,” Yudaeva said. “There should be further
discussion, and perhaps the development of a code of conduct.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  