-- CFTC Chairman Gensler Questions Long-Term Viability of Libor
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-02-21T17:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/cftc-chairman-gensler-questions-long-term-viability-of-libor.html
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Chairman Gary Gensler questioned the long-term
viability of benchmark rates such as Libor, saying underlying
markets on which they rely may be permanently disrupted.  “Anchoring to real transactions is essential to have
confidence in these benchmarks,” Gensler said in an interview
in London today. “The banks are right now estimating something
that isn’t an active market.”  Gensler, who spearheaded probes into interest-rate rigging
at the world’s biggest banks, is visiting the British capital to
meet with Martin Wheatley, a managing director at the U.K.
Financial Services Authority, and other regulators from around
the world to discuss the future of interest-rate benchmarks.
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  have
been fined more than $2.5 billion by U.S. and U.K. regulators
for manipulating the London interbank offered rate, and more
than a dozen more firms are being probed.  In June, the CFTC published a code of conduct governing how
banks make their daily submissions. Rate-setters will have to
base their inputs on a hierarchy of data points, starting with
actual transactions in the unsecured interbank deposit market,
Gensler said. Where none exist, banks should then consider any
borrowings made through other instruments, including commercial
paper or repurchase agreements.  Frozen Market  “One of the really challenging things is how systemic this
is,” Gensler said. “This is like a reference rate that is too
big to replace, but I don’t think we want to fall prey to that
because it’s so unstable.”  Potential alternatives to Libor include the Overnight
Indexed Swap rate, a gauge of overnight borrowing costs, as well
as benchmark government bond yields and a rate based on secured
borrowing, such as the Repurchase overnight index average, he
said.  Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, banks stopped lending to one another for periods
of more than a day or two. In the absence of any interbank
transactions, banks increasingly set Libor to suit their own
derivatives positions, according to regulatory filings.  The market has remained frozen for longer maturities and
may never re-open because banks view each other as too risky to
lend to, Gensler said. Upcoming regulatory changes, including
the latest round of capital rules set by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision, also make such transactions too costly and
firms can get cheaper funding directly from their central banks,
he said.  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association, a
banking industry lobby group, that asks firms to estimate how
much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. The top and bottom
quartiles of quotes are excluded, and those left are averaged
and published for individual currencies before noon in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  