-- Chelsea, Tottenham Advance in Europa League; Liverpool Is Out
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-21T23:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/chelsea-tottenham-advance-in-europa-league-liverpool-is-out.html
Chelsea and Tottenham both scored
late to earn 1-1 draws and advance in soccer’s Europa League,
while Liverpool was eliminated on the away-goals tiebreaker.  Newcastle and three-time winner  Inter Milan  also moved into
the final 16 of Europe’s second-tier club competition last night
as defending champion  Atletico Madrid  was knocked out.  Eden Hazard scored with the last kick of the match in
stoppage time as Chelsea beat Sparta Prague 2-1 over two games.
Mousa Dembele’s 90th-minute goal gave Tottenham a 3-2 series win
against Lyon.  Liverpool beat visiting Zenit St. Petersburg 3-1 to leave
the teams tied 3-3, with the Russian club advancing because of
the away goal it scored. Atletico Madrid’s 1-0 win at Rubin
Kazan wasn’t enough to prevent a 2-1 series loss.  Hazard’s goal saved Chelsea from being knocked out of its
second European competition of the season. The Blues are in the
Europa League after being eliminated from the elite  Champions
League , which they won last season.  Trailing 1-0 from last week’s opening loss,  Sparta Prague 
tied the series when David Lafata scored in the 17th minute. The
game appeared headed for extra time when Hazard, who came on in
the 67th minute, fired a shot past Tomas Vaclik in the closing
seconds of stoppage time.  Chelsea next plays Steaua Bucharest, which beat Ajax 4-2 in
a penalty shootout after each team won 2-0 at home.  Trailing 2-1 from the opening match, Lyon pulled even with
Tottenham on Maxime Gonalons’s 17th-minute goal last night in
France. Lyon was moments away from advancing on away goals when
Dembele fired a shot from 25 yards out into the far corner to
push Spurs through to a meeting with Inter Milan, which beat
Cluj 3-0 to complete a 5-0 aggregate win.  Newcastle Advances  Shola Ameobi  scored with a penalty kick in the 64th minute
to give Newcastle a 1-0 series win against Metalist Kharkiv. The
Magpies will play Anzhi Makhackhala, which advanced 4-2 against
Hannover following a 1-1 draw.  In Liverpool, Hulk scored in the 19th minute to give Zenit
a 3-0 aggregate lead before two goals from  Luis Suarez  and one
from  Joe Allen  gave the Reds hope. Zenit was able to hang on and
will next face Basel, which progressed 3-1 against Dnipro
following a 1-1 draw in which each team had a player red carded.  Radamel Falcao’s goal was not enough for Atletico Madrid to
overturn a 2-0 deficit against  Rubin Kazan , which next meets
Levante after the Spanish club beat Olympiacos 1-0 for a 4-0
series victory.  Lazio defeated Monchengladbach 2-0 to complete a 5-3 series
win and will now face Stuttgart, which advanced 3-1 on aggregate
following a 2-0 win at Genk.  Benfica clinched a 3-1 series win against  Bayer Leverkusen 
with a 2-1 victory and will next play Bordeaux, which completed
a 2-1 win against  Dynamo Kiev  with a 1-0 victory.  Viktoria Plzen’s 2-0 win against Napoli gave it a 5-0
series victory and set up a matchup with Fenerbahce, which won
its game and series with BATE Borisov 1-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 