-- Chesapeake Increases Hedging as Gas Bull CEO Readies Exit
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-02-21T21:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/chesapeake-increases-hedging-as-gas-bull-ceo-readies-exit.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  is hedging
half its 2013 natural gas production less than a year after
almost running out of cash because the outgoing chief executive
officer failed to protect against falling prices.  Chesapeake, which posted its largest fourth-quarter profit
decline since 2008 today, locked in prices for 50 percent of
this year’s gas output and an even larger proportion of expected
crude production, Chief Financial Officer Domenic Dell’Osso
said. As recently as December, the company said it was “largely
unhedged,” leaving 2013 gas supply exposed to price swings.  The effort to stabilize future cash flow marks a strategic
change just three weeks after Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake
announced the imminent departure of CEO Aubrey McClendon from
the company he co-founded and ran for almost a quarter century.
McClendon exited gas hedges in late 2011 amid forecasts for a
weather-driven spike in demand and prices that never happened,
exposing Chesapeake to collapsing prices that forced the CEO to
sell assets and increase borrowing.  Chesapeake “capitulated” by hedging after avoiding or
minimizing their use for so long, David Tameron, a Denver-based
analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said in a note to clients today.
“We view the move as positive as it should help protect  cash
flow ” if North American gas supplies continue to grow faster
than demand.  Hedges are financial instruments such as swaps and futures
contracts that commit an energy producer to exchange a portion
of output for a fixed price by a certain date. Chesapeake, the
largest U.S. gas producer after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , lost $2.1
million a day last year as gas plunged to a decade low, too
little to justify the costs to drill some of the company’s
biggest deposits in Texas and  Louisiana .  ‘Not Happy’  Chesapeake said on May 1 the company was in danger of
running out of cash in 2013 without a rebound in gas prices and
billions of dollars in asset sales. That month, the company took
a $4 billion short-term loan from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Jefferies Group Inc. The company failed to reach its 2012 goal
of $13 billion to $14 billion in asset sales.  McClendon said on a May 2 conference call that the company
was “not happy” with the decision to exit its hedged position
in late 2011. “If we had to do it all over again and with the
hindsight of winter, we would have obviously done something
different,” he said.  During a Dec. 4 presentation, Senior Vice President Jeffrey Mobley said estimated 2013 gas production remained largely
unhedged because the company believed prices were poised to
increase. At some point in the past 11 weeks, Chesapeake
executives decided to abandon their plan to face the 2013 gas
markets without substantial hedges in place.  ‘Short-Term Protected’  “The short-term impact of commodity prices won’t have the
impact that it did have on us last year,” Dell’Osso said during
a conference call with analysts today. Being “short-term
protected while still being long-term bullish I think makes
sense.”  On those occasions when Chesapeake has turned to hedging,
its record has been mixed. The company posted a 36 percent drop
in fourth-quarter profit to $300 million today as hedges locked
some of Chesapeake’s gas output in to below-market prices.  Chesapeake received an average price of $2.07 per thousand
cubic feet of gas during the last three months of 2012, a 47
percent decrease from a year earlier, according to a company
statement.  The earnings announcement followed the release of an
internal inquiry into McClendon’s use of private stakes in
company-owned wells to borrow more than $800 million from some
of the company’s biggest financiers. The review found no
intentional misconduct on the part of McClendon.  Fracking Pioneer  McClendon agreed last month to retire from the company he
co-founded in 1989. He was one of the pioneers of the horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing techniques that triggered a
renaissance in U.S. energy supplies, eventually leading to a
drop in North American gas prices.  The 53-year-old CEO came under scrutiny in March and April
last year amid revelations that he’d used personal stakes in
thousands of company-owned wells as collateral for more than
$800 million in private loans. He was stripped of his
chairmanship in June.  No successor CEO has been named yet. McClendon agreed to
remain with the company through April 1 to smooth the transition
to a new leader, despite “philosophical differences” with the
board, according to a Jan. 29 statement.  Chesapeake has hedged about 50 percent of projected gas
production this year at an average price of $3.62 per million
British thermal units, according to today’s statement. The
company has hedging contracts in place for about 85 percent of
the year’ oil output at an average price of $95.45 a barrel.  More Production  Chesapeake boosted gas output by 2.9 percent during the
last three months of 2012 to 280 billion cubic feet, according
to the statement. Crude output from the company’s wells jumped
69 percent to 8.94 million barrels for the period and production
of natural gas liquids such as propane and butane increased by
3.5 percent.  Gas comprised 77 percent of Chesapeake’s output during the
fourth quarter as the company pumped more crude, down from 82
percent a year earlier.  Chesapeake fell 0.3 percent to $20.19 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  