-- Chesapeake Energy Profit Tumbles on Wrong-Way Natural Gas
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-02-21T21:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/chesapeake-energy-profit-tumbles-on-wrong-way-natural-gas.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , which
yesterday cleared its outgoing chief executive officer of
misconduct after a 10-month probe into his personal finances,
said fourth-quarter profit dropped on wrong-way bets on the
price of  natural gas .  Net income fell to $300 million, or 39 cents a share, from
$472 million, or 63 cents a share a year earlier, the Oklahoma
City-based oil and gas explorer said in a statement today.
Excluding certain one-time gains and losses, Chesapeake said it
earned 26 cents a share. It had been expected to post adjusted
per-share profit of  14 cents , based on the average of 32
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chesapeake received an average $2.07 per thousand cubic
feet of gas during the final three months of 2012, a 47 percent
decrease from a year earlier, according to the statement. The
company failed to fully capitalize on the first increase in
average quarterly gas prices in more than a year because of
hedging contracts that locked about three-fourths of its gas
output into below-market prices.  The earnings announcement followed the culmination of an
internal inquiry into CEO Aubrey McClendon’s use of private
stakes in company-owned wells to borrow more than $800 million
from some of the company’s biggest financiers. The review found
no intentional misconduct on the part of McClendon.  Transactions Reviewed  The investigation by the board’s audit committee and the
Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell LLP law firm involved more than 50
interviews with executives from Chesapeake and other companies,
according to yesterday’s statement. The transactions reviewed
included McClendon’s borrowings from EIG Global Energy Partners
LLC, a private-equity firm that bought preferred shares in two
Chesapeake subsidiaries in 2011 and 2012.  The investigation weighed on Chesapeake’s shares,
compounding the impact of slumping gas prices that eroded cash,
triggering job cuts, accelerated borrowing, asset sales and
curtailments of some drilling projects.  Chesapeake raised gas output by 2.9 percent during the
quarter to 280 billion cubic feet, according to the statement.
Crude output from the company’s wells jumped 69 percent to 8.936
million barrels for the period and production of so-called gas
liquids such as propane and butane increased by 3.5 percent.  Crude Increases  Gas comprised 77 percent of Chesapeake’s output during the
fourth quarter as the company pumped more crude, down from 82
percent a year earlier, the company said.  For 2013, Chesapeake has hedged 50 percent of projected gas
production at an average price of $3.62 per million British
thermal units, according to the statement. The company has
hedging contracts in place for 85 percent of this year’s oil
output at an average price of $95.45 a barrel.  Chesapeake fell 0.3 percent to $20.19 at the close in  New
York .  U.S. gas futures averaged $3.544 per million British
thermal units during the final three months of 2012, a 2 percent
increase from $3.476 a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It was the first year-over-year increase in
average quarterly prices since the April-to-June period of 2011.  Falling Shares  Chesapeake shares have declined 18 percent in the past year
amid a glut of gas from North American shale wells, two
successive winters of warmer-than-normal weather in some of the
largest U.S. fuel markets, and a collapse of investor confidence
in McClendon’s strategy and decision-making.  McClendon agreed on Jan. 29 to retire from the company he
co-founded in 1989 and built into what was for a time the
preeminent U.S. gas producer. As one of the pioneers of the
horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing techniques that
triggered a renaissance in U.S. energy production, McClendon
amassed gas and  oil fields  covering an area equivalent to half
the size of New York state.  The 53-year-old McClendon’s empire began to crumble in
March and April last year amid revelations that he’d used
personal stakes in thousands of company-owned wells as
collateral for more than $800 million in private loans. He was
stripped of the chairmanship in June at the behest of
Chesapeake’s largest investors, Southeastern Asset Management
Inc. and billionaire  Carl Icahn .  No successor CEO has been named. McClendon agreed to remain
with the company until April 1 as the CEO search proceeds,
Chesapeake said in a Jan. 29 statement.  The company may need to sell as much as $9 billion in
assets this year after shedding about $11 billion in oil fields
and pipelines in 2012 to plug a funding shortfall, said  Brian Gibbons , an analyst at CreditSights Inc.  ((Chesapeake scheduled a conference call to discuss fourth-
quarter results for 9 a.m. New York time. To listen, go to
 http://www.chk.com .))  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  