-- Li Ka-shing Hotel Room Sale Sparks Face-Off With Leung
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-02-21T22:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/cheung-kong-s-hong-kong-hotel-room-sale-spurs-government-warning.html
As Hong Kong’s government scrambles
for measures to rein in rising property prices,  Asia ’s richest
man has turned to selling hotel rooms in the city, a move that
may spark further regulation.  Li Ka-shing ’s  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  this week raised
HK$1.4 billion ($181 million) selling all 360 rooms at its Apex
Horizon project in Hong Kong’s northwest. Foreign buyers are
required to pay a 15 percent extra tax on purchases of
residential properties, one of the measures imposed in October
to stem a doubling in  housing prices  in the past four years. The
measures so far haven’t been extended to other real estate, such
as hotel rooms, offices, shops and parking spaces.  The move challenges efforts by Hong Kong Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying, whose attempts since taking over in July to
rein in  home prices  amid a widening wealth gap in the city have
been stymied by low  interest rates  and a stream of buyers from
mainland  China . The government said it will inspect the
development where  Cheung Kong  is selling the hotel rooms to
ensure they aren’t being used as residences.  Cheung Kong’s sale “is a smart move, but it’ll probably be
a one-time move,” said Lee Wee Liat, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at BNP Paribas SA. “We’re a bit concerned this will trigger a
government push to extend curbs to other property asset class. I
doubt they’ll let this happen again.”  The city’s second-largest builder sold all the rooms,
ranging from 656 square feet to 909 square feet in size, on Feb.
20 and 21, spokeswoman Anita Tsui said by phone yesterday.  Other curbs introduced by the government since 2009 include
higher mortgage down-payment requirements and extra taxes when
buyers resell homes within two years of purchases.  Government Follow-Up  Leung, the city’s chief executive, has told government
officials to “follow up closely” on the case, looking at
issues of land-lease, planning, hotel management, fire and
consumer-protection, Hong Kong’s Standard newspaper reported
today, citing Leung’s remarks at a reception yesterday.  Officials will request information from Cheung Kong to
clarify any legal restrictions, regulations and possible hotel-
management issues, Leung said, according to the newspaper.  Hong Kong’s Development Secretary  Paul Chan  said Feb. 20
the government has sent inspectors to the Apex Horizon project
to make sure the rooms aren’t used as residential apartments and
are operating under guesthouse licensing rules.  Buyers should be aware of the uses of the units, Chan said,
according to a transcript published on the government website.
The government reserves the right to take back the property if
the terms of the land grant are violated, he said.  Shares of Cheung Kong fell 2.4 percent to HK$119.30 at the
close of trading in Hong Kong yesterday, the biggest decline
since Feb. 5.  Li is Asia’s richest man with a net worth of $28.9 billion,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaire Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  