-- China Leading Index Rises at Faster Pace, Conference Board Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-21T02:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/china-leading-index-rises-at-faster-pace-conference-board-says.html
A leading index for  China’s economy 
rose at a faster pace in January, suggesting the nation’s growth
rebound is maintaining momentum.  The gauge increased 1 percent from December to 253.4, the
 Conference Board , a New York-based research group, said in a
statement today, citing a preliminary reading. That compared
with a gain of 0.4 percent the previous month and 1.1 percent in
November.  Today’s report adds to signs that  economic growth  may
accelerate for a second quarter after exports rose more than
estimated last month and a broad measure of credit increased to
a record. The nation’s growth momentum is “relatively strong,”
the central bank said in a report released Feb. 6.  The pickup in the index “was driven primarily by consumer
expectations and estimated real estate activity, both of which
were likely positively affected by the Chinese New Year
holiday,” Andrew Polk, an economist with the Conference Board
in Beijing, said in today’s statement. At the same time, “ the
current rebound in economic activity continues to look modest,”
he said.  Foreign direct investment in  China  fell 7.3 percent in
January from a year earlier, the eighth straight decline,
 Commerce Ministry  data showed yesterday, signaling overseas
companies have yet to gain confidence in the nation’s recovery.  China’s economy expanded 7.9 percent in the final three
months of 2012 from a year earlier, ending seven quarters of
deceleration. At the same time, full-year expansion last year
was 7.8 percent, the weakest since 1999. The Conference Board
said last month that it forecasts 7.5 percent growth in 2013,
while the median estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg are
for 8.1 percent both this quarter and for the full year.  Holiday Distortion  Components of the leading index, which include loans, a
gauge of raw-material supplies, export orders, consumer
expectations and floor space started, use data from the central
bank and the  National Bureau of Statistics , the group said.  China’s economic data are distorted in January and February
because of the timing of the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday,
which fell in January last year and February in 2013.  First published in May 2010, the index has successfully
captured turning points in China’s economic cycles if plotted
back to 1986, the group said.  --Zheng Lifei, Nerys Avery. Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  