-- China Hacking Claims Full of Loopholes, State Media Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-21T03:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/china-hacking-claims-full-of-loopholes-state-media-says.html
China’s state-owned news agency said
claims the nation’s military is behind global cyber attacks are
“full of loopholes.”  It is “highly unlikely” anyone can trace where attacks
originate from because hackers hide behind a network of proxies,
Xinhua News Agency said in a commentary late yesterday. The
article was in response to a report this week by Alexandria,
Virginia-based security firm Mandiant Corp., which said the
Chinese army was probably backing a hacking group operating from
a Shanghai office block.  “It is beyond belief that a firm specialized in the field
of cyber security could be so indiscreetly desperate as to jump
to a conclusion so full of loopholes,” Xinhua said. The claims
“will only tarnish the image and reputation of the company
making them, as well as that of the U.S.”  China’s foreign ministry and the People’s Liberation Army
have also both said this week that the country doesn’t support
hacking. Mandiant said the Chinese army is probably the source
of hacking attacks against at least 141 companies globally since
2006.  U.S. politicians and businessmen “seek to use China to
pursue their personal political and commercial interests,”
Xinhua said. The country needs China as a “presumed enemy” to
justify spending on an even stronger cyber military force, it
said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  issued an executive order Feb.
12 to develop voluntary cyber security standards for companies
operating power grids, telecommunication networks and banks. His
administration yesterday pledged to share more intelligence with
companies about nations involved in economic espionage and
methods used to steal corporate information.  The U.S. military has “a significant cyber force” of its
own, including the 780th Military Intelligence Brigade, which
carries out cyber missions, Xinhua said.  The 780th Brigade’s official  website  says the unit
“conducts signals intelligence, computer network operations,
and enables dynamic computer network defense operations of Army
and Defense networks.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  