-- China Oil Stockpiles Fall; Diesel Supply at Seven-Month High
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-21T04:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/china-oil-stockpiles-fall-diesel-supply-at-seven-month-high-1-.html
China ’s commercial crude inventories
at the end of January dropped to the lowest level in 10 months
and diesel stockpiles climbed to the highest since June as the
nation boosted oil processing to a record.  Crude supplies, excluding emergency reserves, dropped by 1
percent from a month earlier, a report from Xinhua News Agency’s
China Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals newsletter showed today.
Inventories dropped to 28.86 million tons, which was the lowest
since March, according to calculations by Bloomberg based on the
Xinhua data. Diesel stockpiles jumped 18 percent to 9.48 million
tons, the highest since June.  China, the world’s second-largest oil consumer,  processed 
an all-time high of 10.2 million barrels a day in December amid
a rebound in economic growth. Gross domestic product  expanded 
7.9 percent in the fourth quarter compared with 7.4 percent in
the previous period, snapping a seven-quarter slowdown,
government figures showed Jan. 18.  “Record-high crude throughput in January led to the slight
decrease of crude oil inventory,” according to the OGP report.
“The stocks of diesel oil witnessed a sharp increase in January
due to weak demand in the winter time.”  Gasoline stockpiles jumped 5.47 percent to 7.4 million
tons, the highest since at least two years ago. Kerosene
supplies increased 1.37 percent to 1.45 million tons, today’s
data showed.  “We estimate January’s crude processing volume will also
be at a high level, similar to that of December,” Jean Zou, an
oil analyst with C1 Energy based in Guangzhou, said by telephone
today. China hasn’t yet published the January figure for
refining volumes.  OGP stopped publishing outright stockpile levels in July
2010. Inventory levels calculated by Bloomberg News are based on
percentage changes that OGP provides monthly and volumes given
by the publication up to July 2010.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  