-- China Extending Zhou Stay Seen as Aid to Financial Overhaul
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-21T07:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/china-extending-zhou-pboc-stay-seen-as-aid-to-financial-overhaul.html
China’s plans to make its financial
system more market-based and expand the yuan’s role as a global
currency are incentives to extend the tenure of the nation’s
longest-serving central bank governor, analysts said.  Zhou Xiaochuan , who turned 65 last month, will probably
become a vice chairman of parliament’s top advisory body, an
appointment that exempts him from mandatory retirement, Reuters
reported yesterday, citing two people with party-leadership ties
and two people in the financial industry who weren’t identified.
Zhou will remain governor for an indefinite time to help enact
changes including easing restraints on the yuan, Reuters said.  Under Zhou, China ended a decade-old currency peg to the
dollar, expanded the  bond market  and gave banks more freedom to
set  lending  and deposit rates. With a new government leadership
set to take office next month, retaining Zhou would provide
stability at a time when the People’s Bank of China is grappling
with rising risks from shadow banking and changing how it
conducts monetary policy.  “With a wealth of experience, Governor Zhou is a well-
seasoned policy maker who can help push forward China’s
financial sector reform,” said Liu Li-Gang, head of Greater
China economics for Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
in  Hong Kong , who previously worked for the  World Bank . “His
stay will provide policy continuity, consistency, and confidence
to China’s financial system.”  An official with the PBOC’s news department, who asked not
to be identified because of the institution’s rules, said the
central bank won’t comment on the Reuters report.  Member List  The Communist Party’s omission of Zhou from its new 205-
member  Central Committee  in November and a Feb. 2 profile by the
official China Securities Journal that said he’d step down in
March had signaled the governor, who took office in 2002, would
leave as part of a once-a-decade leadership change.  Zhou understands global markets and has contacts among the
world’s financial leaders, said  David Loevinger , former senior
coordinator for China affairs at the U.S. Treasury Department,
now an analyst in Los Angeles at TCW Group Inc., which oversees
about $138 billion.  “He represents the country well,” said Chen Zhiwu, a
finance professor at  Yale University  in New Haven, Connecticut,
and former adviser to China’s State Council. “My understanding
is that they want to keep him on so that others can have more
time to gain experience on the international stage.”  Credit Expansion  Zhou must confront an expansion in credit outside the
banking system that includes less-regulated products such as
trust loans. Aggregate financing, an  indicator  started by the
PBOC in 2011 to gauge funding in the economy, rose 160 percent
to a record 2.54 trillion  yuan  ($407 billion) in January from a
year earlier while new local-currency loans increased 45 percent.  “Zhou faces a rising risk in the financial system,” said
Tao Dong, head of Asia economics excluding Japan at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong. “He needs to draw a fine line
among growth, inflation, risk and restructuring.”  China’s economic expansion is set to accelerate for a
second straight quarter after an almost two-year slowdown, based
on the median forecast of analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .
In its quarterly monetary policy report released Dec. 28, the
PBOC highlighted the need to control risks as an objective, a
possible sign of growing concern that a surge in non-bank
lending will lead to defaults.  Zhou led the central bank during the global financial
crisis and oversaw exchange-rate reforms in July 2005 that paved
the way for the yuan to rise about 25 percent against the  U.S.
dollar . The PBOC has also loosened controls over the yuan’s use
for international trade and investment purposes.  Daily Tool  Last month the central bank said it would start daily
short-term liquidity operations as an additional tool to manage
the supply of cash. That may presage the adoption of a new,
market-based benchmark  interest rate , according to Standard
Chartered Plc.  Next month’s annual meeting of China’s legislature will see
officials complete a transition that began with Xi Jinping
replacing  Hu Jintao  as head of the Communist Party in November.
It put Xi in line to also take over from Hu as president.  Li Keqiang , who became the party’s second-highest official, is set
to replace  Wen Jiabao  as premier.  Xiao Gang, chairman of Bank of China Ltd., will be
appointed PBOC party secretary, setting him up to succeed Zhou
eventually, Reuters reported. Other potential candidates include
 Shang Fulin , the nation’s banking regulator, and  Guo Shuqing ,
head of the securities regulator.  Capital Controls  The governor in December spoke of limits on reform, saying
China will keep controls on short-term capital flows even if it
implements deeper convertibility of the yuan. The PBOC doesn’t
have the political independence of counterparts such as the U.S.
Federal Reserve, meaning senior officials above Zhou must
approve major decisions.  “There will be many difficulties and risks ahead, so a
veteran and well-respected central banker to steer the cause
could be a huge plus,” Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong, said in a telephone
interview.  -- Kevin Hamlin , Scott Lanman. With assistance from Zheng Lifei
and  John Liu  in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  