-- China Swaps Touch Two-Week High on Record PBOC Fund Withdrawals
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-02-21T09:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/china-swaps-rise-to-2-week-high-on-record-pboc-fund-withdrawals.html
China ’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
touched a two-week high on speculation the central bank will
tighten monetary policy to temper gains in home prices.  Premier Wen Jiabao called on local authorities to
“decisively” curb real estate speculation and take steps to
rein in the property market after data showed prices surged the
most in two years last month. The People’s Bank of China drained
910 billion yuan ($146 billion) from the financial system this
week, the biggest withdrawal since Bloomberg started compiling
the data in 2008.  “It shows determination of the central bank to tighten
liquidity conditions as they need to guard against nascent
inflation and asset-price gains, especially in real estate,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Credit Agricole CIB strategist in Hong
Kong.  The one-year swap, the fixed cost needed to receive the
floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed two basis points to
3.16 percent as of 5 p.m. in  Shanghai , the highest level since
Feb. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The PBOC issued 10 billion  yuan  each of 28- and 91-day
repurchase agreements today, contracts that are used to drain
funds, according to a statement on its website. The monetary
authority withdrew cash this week for the first time since June
by resuming repo operations.  The seven-day  repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, gained five basis points to 3 percent, according
to a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The overnight rate rose 16 basis points, the biggest
since Feb. 6.  The yield on the 3.39 percent government bonds due August
2022 declined one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.55
percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center. Yesterday,
it slid three basis points, the most since Dec. 25, after the
finance ministry sold similar-maturity debt at a lower rate than
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of six finance
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  