-- China’s Stocks Fall to Three-Week Low on Property Curbs Concern
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-02-21T02:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/china-s-stock-index-futures-fall-on-property-curbs-concern.html
China’s stocks  fell to the lowest
level in three weeks after the government ordered curbs on real-
estate speculation through measures such as expanding a property
tax and setting home-price control targets.  Anhui Conch Cement Co., the nation’s biggest producer of
the building material, slumped 3.4 percent.  China Construction
Bank Corp. (939) , the largest mortgage lender, slid to the lowest in a
month. Jiangxi Copper Co. and PetroChina Co. led declines for
metal and energy stocks after minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s
last meeting showed debate over further stimulus action.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  retreated 1.5 percent to
2,362.24 at 9:56 a.m. local time, heading for the lowest level
since Jan. 29. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  dropped 1.7 percent to
2,656.48, with seven out of 10 groups down by at least 1
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.2 percent
yesterday after minutes of the Fed meeting showed policy makers
were divided about bond purchases known as quantitative easing.  “Stocks are down after U.S. stocks plunged overnight and
as investors are concerned on the latest statement on property
measures,” Huang Cendong, an analyst at Tebon Securities Co.,
said in  Shanghai  by phone today.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  slumped 1.6 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese companies in the U.S.
slipped 1.1 percent yesterday.  The Shanghai index had risen 22 percent from a three-year
low on Dec. 3 through yesterday on signs economic growth is
accelerating. The benchmark index’s valuation of 9.98 times
projected 12-month earnings was the lowest in three weeks.
Trading volumes were 12 percent above the 30-day average today.  Home Purchases  Chinese cities that have had “excessively fast” price
gains should promptly impose home-purchase restrictions if
they’ve not done so already, according to a statement released
yesterday after a State Council meeting headed by Premier  Wen
Jiabao . Provincial capitals and municipalities reporting
directly to the central government should also publish annual
price-control targets to keep new-home costs “basically
stable,” according to the statement. Wen also said  China  will
expand property-tax trials, Xinhua said.  A gauge of  Chinese developers  in the Shanghai index fell
0,5 percent today as the government seeks to cool the real
estate market after prices rebounded.  Home prices  rose 1 percent
last month from December, the most since January 2011, according
to data from  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest property
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  