-- Christie Lets Atlantic City Bet Ride as Revel Reorganizes
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-02-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/christie-lets-atlantic-city-bet-ride-as-revel-reorganizes.html
Governor  Chris Christie  isn’t giving
up on reviving New Jersey’s  Atlantic City  even though its newest
casino plans to seek  bankruptcy protection  and another is ready
to sell itself for less than its 1984 construction cost.  Christie, a first-term Republican seeking re-election in
November, has said the city’s gambling venues are key to the
state’s economic recovery. He gave Revel AC Inc. $261 million of
tax breaks, saying the hotel and casino would lead the seaside
resort city’s transition from day-trip to luxury destination.  The $2.6 billion Revel, though, has fallen short of its own
expectations since opening in April, ranking next to last in
January gambling revenue out of the city’s 12 casinos, the state
reported Feb. 11. The operators plan a prepackaged bankruptcy to
erase more than $1 billion in debt.  “The agreement we have reached with our lenders will
ensure that the hundreds of thousands of guests who visit Revel
every year will continue to enjoy a signature Revel experience
in our world-class facility,” Chief Executive Officer Kevin DeSanctis said in a Feb. 19 statement.  Certain Revel lenders will provide about $250 million in
financing, the company said. The resort boasts almost 1,900
hotel rooms and a 130,000-square-foot (12,100-square-meter)
casino floor with more than 2,000  slot machines .  Investor Support  “They’re investing in Atlantic City,” Christie told
reporters yesterday in Little Ferry, New Jersey. “If they
thought that there was no future there, they could close Revel
down.”  Christie, 50, also was confident in the pending sale of
Trump Plaza for $20 million. That’s about 10 percent of the $210
million spent to build the hotel and casino in 1984, the
 Associated Press  said. The sale to Meruelo Group will be
completed by May 31, according to Trump Entertainment Resorts.  Atlantic City is only halfway into a five-year turnaround,
the governor said.  “You can call it a failure at the end of five if that’s
where it turns out, if that’s where we wind up being,” Christie
said. “But I’m not ready to give up yet.”  Atlantic City casino revenue fell 8 percent in 2012, the
sixth straight decline. Competition from  Pennsylvania  has been
rising, with the Keystone State passing  New Jersey  last year to
become the second-largest U.S. gambling market after  Nevada .  Challenge Failing  Revel hasn’t succeeded in taking control of the upper end
of Atlantic City’s casino market from Borgata, the market
leader. Borgata has remained in first place for monthly revenue
since Revel opened. Revel’s slots were in last place in January,
while its tables were in seventh, state figures show.  A strategy of marketing to high-end consumers “may have
sacrificed non-gaming revenue and indirectly depressed gaming
revenue” at Revel, said Brian C. Miller, a Bloomberg Industries
analyst. Revel’s third-quarter occupancy rate of about 80
percent was the city’s lowest, while its average room rate of
$138.53 was the highest, according to Miller’s research.  Revel’s fate won’t determine the future of the Atlantic
City market, according to Joseph M. Kelly, who teaches business
law at the State University of  New York  at Buffalo.  “Revel won’t be the first and probably won’t be the last
in Atlantic City to file for reorganization in Chapter 11,”
Kelly, who is also a co-editor of Gaming Law Review, said by
telephone.  Donald Trump ’s Taj Mahal declared bankruptcy in 1990.  Expanding Betting  Atlantic City’s revival relies partly on expanded gambling.
The Democratic-controlled Legislature on Feb. 26 will decide
whether to accept Christie’s changes to a bill that would let
casinos offer Internet-based betting. A federal court may rule
by the end of the month on a proposal to make New Jersey the
fifth state to legalize sports betting.  Atlantic City was a bustling resort until the 1960s, when
it became riddled with poverty, crime and corruption. The state
approved casino gambling in 1976,  limited  to the city, to boost
its ailing finances.  The first casino, Resorts International, opened in 1978.
Gambling revenue rose every year until 2007, when the 18-month
recession began. Six of Atlantic City’s casinos went through
bankruptcy or restructuring, while development stalled.  Christie stepped in to help Revel after  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
walked away from the project in 2010, halting funding on what
was conceived as the city’s biggest resort. The bank wrote off
most of its $1.2 billion investment.  Backed by Christie, the state Economic Development
Authority granted $261 million in tax incentives to help restart
Revel construction two years ago. He signed legislation at the
construction site to create a tourism district, boosted
marketing and eased regulations on casino operators.  The Revel restructuring shows support for a “new type of
business model for Atlantic City,” according to Israel Posner,
the executive director of the Levenson Institute of Gaming,
Hospitality and Tourism at the Richard Stockton College of New
Jersey in Galloway Township.  “The lenders are confident that the business model is
something that makes sense going forward, and the lenders are
willing to stand by it,” he said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  