-- Chrysler’s $46,000 Ram Truck Roams Manhattan Cobblestones
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2013-02-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/chrysler-s-46-000-ram-truck-roams-manhattan-cobblestones.html
New York  is not a truck kind of
town. Delivery and moving vans, sure, but  pickup trucks  seem
like odd emissaries from another America, a place where cabs are
few and Ford F-150s are king.  Talk to any truck folks, and they’ll probably mention the
latest Ram 1500, a reworked vehicle from the revamped Chrysler.
It’s hot stuff among truckeratti.  Yet even a shiny, pricy, Ram 1500 Crew Cab ($46,000 as
tested), gets odd looks around Manhattan. It marks you as an
outsider as surely as eating a slice at the  Times Square Sbarro 
or riding the Circle Line.  Which makes sense. Our roads are clogged enough, and trying
to squeeze around Tribeca in a long, wide vehicle like the Ram
is not doing anybody any favors. Turns are extra wide, and
pedestrians eye the tall, flat nose of the Ram warily as they
cross in front.  Yet I think that the residents of my fine city are missing
out. There’s a reason we Americans have a love affair with the
truck. And a week in the Ram reminded me why.  Many of the surprises come from how far the Ram has come
from the rough trucks of my youth. Or, really, even from the
Ram’s last generation. (Chrysler just made a huge recall of
2009-2012 models because of a problem that could cause the rear
axle to lock up, a dangerous situation.)  Mercedes Amenities  The 2013 model year is awash in the kind of amenities that
you’d have found in a top-of-the-line Mercedes-Benz sedan a
dozen years ago. Take the eight-speed automatic transmission. It
saves gas and is never found hunting for the right gear.  The seats are comfortable. You can get buckets, or you can
opt for a bench-style seat. I like the bench seat best because
it reminds me of my high-school, hand-me-down pickup. Only a
small person will fit in the middle, but you can also fold down
a center partition which gives you an extra storage area.  Because my test model was a bigger-than-life crew cab
starting at $36,740 (you can get the Ram in any number of cab
configurations), it also had big back seats accessed by man-size
rear doors. Models start in the mid-$20,000 for a two-door 4X2.  While a truck hood makes a fine table to hunch over a
large, wind-fluttering map, you won’t need a  Rand McNally  in the
Ram’s glove box. My test model had Chrysler’s quite-good
navigation screen, an 8.4-inch touch screen that is easy to
figure out.  Thumping Bass  I also had satellite radio, which comes in clearly and
which scrolls through channels quickly. Mine was piped through
an upgraded ($300) Alpine system with a thumping bass. Different
from the twist dial I grew up with, which tuned in two staticky
AM stations.  You won’t mistake the 1500’s ride for a Lexus sedan, but an
optional air suspension ($1,595) keeps it relatively level while
cornering. It also allows you to alter ride height. The lowest
setting makes for easier access to the cab. The highest is used
to clear obstacles if you go off road.  The Ram is built to take abuse, and in that sense is well
suited to  Manhattan . I bumped along downtown cobblestone
streets, rolled over a dislodged metal plate and plowed through
Chihuahua-sized divots on the  West Side Highway .  So too did the Ram behave brilliantly after the recent snow
storm. Slush and snow pileups gave it no pause. However, bad
weather in any nose heavy, light-reared truck means you have to
get any braking done early and in a straight line.  Off Road  The model I had was equipped with four-wheel-drive, which
you have to engage when needed and is best for off-road use.
Otherwise it functions as a rear-wheel drive. Some trucks power
all four wheels all the time, better suited for urban cowboys.  The Ram’s full glory was engaged when I moved apartments. A
bunch of stuff needed to be stored elsewhere, out in the
country. I stuffed the back seats with fragile items and the
rear bed swallowed large pieces of furniture.  Out on the highway, the 3.6-liter V-6, with 305 horsepower
and 269 pound-feet of torque, was up to the job of pushing the
1500 up steep hills and past slower cars. It gets 16 miles per
gallon city, 23 highway.  For those who can’t resist the call of serious power, Ram
offers a 5.7-liter Hemi V-8 with 395 horsepower and 407 lb-foot
of torque. It manages 13 and 19 mpg.  Around a small town in  Pennsylvania , the Ram grew admiring
glances.  “Beautiful truck,” one old-timer breathed at the gas
station.  Then it was back to Manhattan. Near my new apartment, I
headed to a parking garage. And then another. And another. At
each place, the answer was the same. No, sorry. Uh-uh. Too big.
Too long. No room in here for a vehicle of that size.  New York just isn’t a truck kind of town.  The Ram 1500 SLT Crew Cab 4X4 at a Glance  Engine: 3.6-liter V-6 with 305 horsepower and 269 pound-     feet of torque.  Transmission: Eight-speed automatic.  Gas mileage per gallon: 16 city, 23 highway.  Price as tested: $46,605.  Best features: All around usability.  Worst feature: Trying to find a place to park it.  Target buyer: A truck lover looking for some luxe touches.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and  Greg
Evans  on  TV .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 