-- Citigroup Awards Corbat $11.5 Million After Pandit Pay Rejection
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-02-22T02:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/citigroup-awards-corbat-11-5-million-after-pandit-pay-rejection.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , whose shareholders
rejected its former leader’s pay package, gave new Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  an $11.5 million compensation
deal for 2012.  The payout includes a $4.18 million cash bonus and $3.14
million of so-called performance share units, or PSUs, according
to a regulatory filing yesterday. Citigroup introduced the PSUs
as executive compensation after discussions with almost 20
shareholders, the New York-based lender said.  Shareholders rejected former CEO Vikram Pandit’s 2011 pay
plan last year amid complaints it was too easy for him to
collect his $15 million package plus long-term incentives that
could have been worth about $40 million. After promising to
reconsider, the board ousted Pandit, 56, in October and promoted
Corbat, 52.  “When our shareholders spoke last year about Citi’s
compensation structure, we listened,” Chairman  Michael O’Neill ,
who also heads Citigroup’s compensation committee, said in the
filing. “As a result of this process, we are introducing a new
compensation structure that more strongly connects compensation
with performance, emphasizes strong risk management and is both
competitive and in line with regulatory standards.”  The bank also disclosed about $30 million of stock awards
for other executives, based on yesterday’s closing share price
of $42.35. Jamie Forese and Manuel Medina-Mora, promoted by
Corbat to co-presidents earlier this year, shared about $7
million in awards, filings show.  Cash Bonus  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for Citigroup, declined to name
the shareholders the bank consulted on pay. O’Neill led the
discussions with the investors, who together hold more than 30
percent of the bank’s shares, according to the filing. Top
shareholders include  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Vanguard Group Inc.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Jamie Dimon , Morgan Stanley’s  James Gorman  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s  Brian T. Moynihan , received
no cash bonuses for 2012.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  awarded Lloyd C. Blankfein a $5.7 million cash bonus, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  “The cash part is the heavy minority in these packages,
which I think is OK,” said  Alan Johnson , founder of
compensation-consultant firm Johnson Associates Inc. “People
have gotten used to it.”  Corbat’s 2012 total compensation matched the one for Dimon,
whose bank posted a $21.3 billion profit in 2012. Citigroup, the
third-biggest U.S. bank, reported a $7.54 billion profit for the
year. Directors of New York-based JPMorgan cut Dimon’s pay 50
percent after they concluded that he was responsible for an
investment unit’s trading losses.  Stock Performance  Citigroup shares gained 50 percent in 2012, compared with
JPMorgan’s advance of 32 percent.  Goldman Sachs gave Blankfein a $21 million package and
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America awarded Moynihan
$12 million. Gorman’s compensation was cut 7.1 percent to $9.75
million from a year earlier.  Citigroup’s compensation committee includes Joan Spero,
 William Thompson , Diana Taylor and  Ernesto Zedillo  as well as
O’Neill. Taylor is the companion of New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Corbat received a $1.05 million salary for 2012 and $3.14
million of deferred stock, according to the filing. His pay for
2011 wasn’t disclosed in last year’s proxy statement. The bank
gave Corbat $9 million for 2010, according to an earlier  filing .  Reflects Market  “His package reflects the market in terms of what CEO’s at
financial firms command,” said  Michael Karp , CEO at New York-
based executive-search firm Options Group.  The new CEO plans to fire 11,000 workers and pull back from
certain markets as he seeks to cut costs and increase returns
for shareholders. He previously was CEO of the bank’s operations
in Europe, the Middle East and Africa and head of the Citi
Holdings unit.  “Mr. Corbat’s 2012 pay was based on his substantial
contributions in his CEO role for the region, his impact as a
senior executive on Citi’s overall performance and the immediate
contributions he made upon assuming the Citi CEO role in
October,” according to yesterday’s filing.  Corbat’s compensation reflects the lender’s new pay
structure, which is designed to bring rewards more in line with
Citigroup’s performance, the bank said. Awards will be based on
“pre-defined” goals -- including financial metrics --
established at the beginning of the year, replacing the previous
system of rewarding executives at the discretion of the
compensation committee, the firm said.  Profit Sharing  Executives previously gained from a profit-sharing plan
introduced by former Chairman  Richard Parsons  in 2011, which
granted senior bank chiefs a slice of the profit at the Citicorp
unit for that year and 2012. The plan excluded losses at Citi
Holdings, which contains unwanted assets. Parsons retired in
April.  The PSUs will be paid after three years once Citigroup
meets performance goals tied to total shareholder return and
return on assets, according to the filing.  Executives will collect all of the PSUs if Citigroup
produces a return on assets of 0.85 percent and produces a
better total shareholder return than half of a group of eight
rivals including Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, JPMorgan and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , according to the filing.  The lender’s return on assets, or ROA, was 0.4 percent at
the end of 2012, according to  Bloomberg data . The metric
measures the profit that a firm makes on its investments.  Medina-Mora, head of consumer banking, received $3.14
million of PSUs on top of $3.13 million in separate stock
awards. Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  got $1.95 million
of PSUs in addition to $1.88 million in stock, according to
filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  