-- Citigroup Names Keegan to Take Over Bartlett’s Equities Role
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-02-21T18:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/citigroup-names-dan-keegan-to-assume-bartlett-s-equities-role.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank , named Daniel Keegan to assume responsibility for
equities businesses in the Americas from Rick Bartlett, who’s on
an extended medical leave.  Keegan will relinquish his role as head of global cash
equities effective immediately, according to a memo sent to
employees of the New York-based bank. The firm named  Kevin Russell  to oversee global cash trading, in addition to his role
as head of trading for the Americas, the memo shows.  The move adds to management changes at the firm’s equities
business, run from  London  by Derek Bandeen, 49. He overhauled
the unit last year, shutting a proprietary-trading unit and
promoting executives including Keegan to new management roles.
Bartlett, 45, took leave in January.  “In his absence and with his realization that he is
unlikely to return to his previous role, we have decided to make
some changes,” according to the memo, which was signed by
executives including Bandeen. “Dan brings to this role a wide
range of experience in managing broad teams of professionals, a
dedication to innovation and an in-depth understanding of our
client base and culture.”  Revenue at Citigroup’s equities-trading unit rose 1 percent
to $2.42 billion in 2012, according to a financial supplement.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank,  reported  $4.41
billion of equities-trading revenue, a 1.6 percent decline from
2011.  Bank of America Corp. , the second-biggest,  said  that
revenue fell 13 percent to $3.27 billion.  Team Leaving  Keegan had overseen electronic trading at Citigroup. He
previously worked for New York-based JPMorgan and Automated
Trading Desk LLC, an electronic trading firm that Citigroup
bought in 2007.  Shakil Ahmed, who helped Keegan oversee electronic trading,
will leave at the end of this month to pursue fund-management
opportunities, according to the memo. Ahmed is departing with 12
fellow Citigroup executives, the memo shows.  Ahmed ran an internal Citigroup hedge fund that used $400
million of the firm’s money and mathematical models to bet on
stocks. The bank shut the Quantitative Strategies fund in 2011
after appointing him head of electronic market-making.  Raised in Vienna, Ahmed received a doctorate in computer
science from  Yale University . He joined the bank in 2008 from
Process Driven Technologies, which was then a proprietary-
trading operation at  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Dow Jones reported the moves earlier today. Bartlett didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails sent to his work address.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  