-- CME Sued by CFTC for Disclosing Non-Public Information
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-02-21T21:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/cme-sued-by-cftc-for-disclosing-non-public-information.html
CME Group (CME)  Inc., owner of the world’s
largest futures exchange, and two former employees were sued by
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission for disclosing
material non-public information on customer trades.  William Byrnes and Christopher Curtin, who worked for CME’s
New York Mercantile Exchange, broke the law by revealing
nonpublic information to an outside commodity broker between
February 2008 and September 2010, the CFTC said in a lawsuit
filed today in federal court in Manhattan.  The information included identities of buyers and sellers,
the number of contracts traded, the prices paid and the trading
strategies of participants, the CFTC said in the suit. The CFTC
is seeking monetary penalties from each defendant and a finding
that CME’s Nymex is liable for their conduct. The agency is also
seeking to bar them from participation in commodities trading.  “The CFTC court action announced today is disappointing
because it relates to incidents that CME Group has already
addressed and handled appropriately, and involved no harm to any
customer or the markets,” the CME Group said in an e-mail
statement. “Nevertheless, the CFTC is now seeking to hold Nymex
liable for the actions of these former employees, which were
contrary to exchange policy and, when discovered, resulted in
the immediate termination by us of their employment.”  Phone Calls  Nymex, responding to a complaint from a market participant
in 2009, reviewed a day’s worth of phone calls and e-mails
involving Byrnes, who knowingly and willingly disclosed
nonpublic information on at least 60 occasions from about
February 2008 to September 2010, the CFTC said in the complaint.  “CME Nymex never questioned Byrnes concerning the
complaint or took any additional steps designed to determine
whether Byrnes had been engaged in such egregious misconduct,”
the CFTC said. Byrnes’s conduct continued until about December
2010, when he was terminated, the agency said.  Curtin knowingly and willfully disclosed nonpublic
information about trades on at least 16 occasions between May
2008 and March 2009, the CFTC said. He voluntarily resigned from
CME to take another job in the futures industry in or about
April 2009, according to the complaint.  Christopher Curtin now works at ELX Futures LP in New York,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be named. Calls to Curtin’s office weren’t returned. Contact
information for Byrnes wasn’t immediately available.  “Those who run exchanges and profit from trading need to
be responsible custodians of the information and for their
employees actions related to sensitive data,” CFTC Commissioner
Bart Chilton said in an interview today.  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
Byrnes, 12-cv-1174, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  