-- Colombia Yields Sink on Central Bank Board Changes; Peso Drops
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-02-21T20:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/colombia-yields-sink-on-central-bank-board-changes-peso-slides.html
Colombian bond yields fell to a
record after President Jose Manuel Santos named the deputy
finance minister to one of two vacant central bank board posts,
bolstering speculation the bank will extend interest-rate cuts.  Yields on the government’s benchmark peso-denominated bonds
due in 2024 dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 4.99 percent at the close of trading in Bogota, the
lowest level since the bonds were issued in 2009.  Santos said in a message on his Twitter account today that
he named Deputy Finance Minister Ana Fernanda Maiguashca and
Adolfo Meisel, who heads the central bank’s branch in Cartagena,
to the seven-member board that sets  interest rates . Maiguashca
said in a Feb. 12 interview that the central bank should pursue
a range of goals instead of focusing exclusively on inflation.  “We can expect her to start with a dovish stance,” said
Alejandro Reyes, the head analyst at Ultrabursatiles SA
brokerage, who formerly monitored inflation at the central bank.
“I see Meisel leaning more toward the hawkish side. What the
market is seeing is that under this new board it’s easier for
the bank to decide on a rate cut.”  The new board members will begin voting at the bank’s March
policy meeting, sitting out tomorrow’s vote. The remaining five
board members will reduce the benchmark lending rate by 0.25
percentage point to 3.75 percent, according to a majority of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Traders project a rate cut
tomorrow and another one later this year, according to Reyes.  Departing Members  Maiguashca and Meisel replace Fernando Tenjo and Juan Jose Echavarria, who said in a January interview that he was close to
the center of opinion at the central bank, voting with Tenjo on
some occasions to contain inflation.  Banco de la Republica has lowered the overnight lending
rate 1.25 percentage points since June to 4 percent as economic
growth waned and consumer prices rose at the slowest pace in
almost three years.  The peso weakened 0.4 percent to 1,799.20 per  U.S. dollar ,
extending its drop this year to 1.8 percent as the government
and central bank announced increased dollar purchases to stem a
rally that sent the peso to a 17-month intraday high on Jan. 2.  Lower foreign direct investment in  Colombia  is reducing
pressure on the peso to strengthen, according to  Camilo Perez ,
the head analyst at  Banco de Bogota SA (BOGOTA) , the country’s second-
biggest bank.  “Inflows have been less than people were anticipating,”
Perez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  