-- Commerzbank Debuts Bonds BlackRock Joined Pimco to Question
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-02-21T12:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/commerzbank-debuts-bonds-blackrock-joined-pimco-in-questioning.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  sold Europe’s first
covered bonds backed by loans to small- and medium-sized
companies instead of the safer real estate or public-sector debt
traditionally used in the 250 year-old market.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which oversees $3.8 trillion as the world’s
largest money manager, said using SME loans to back covered
bonds risked devaluing the asset class, while Pacific Investment
Management Co. said the notes may not qualify for benchmark
indexes. While investors expressed doubts, banks are keen on the
notes because they’re seeking new debt to package into covered
bonds after Europe’s property meltdown.  “Commerzbank should be a good deal,” said Richard Kemmish, the head of covered bonds at Credit Suisse Group AG in
 London . “Similar deals,” may follow from “other countries
such as  Italy , where the SME sector is very important for the
economy,” he said.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest lender, issued 500
million euros ($661 million) of the five-year bonds with an
interest rate of 47 basis points more than the benchmark mid-
swap rate. Barclays Plc, Credit Agricole SA and UniCredit SpA
helped Commerzbank manage the sale.  Jozef Prokes, a London-based  fund manager  at BlackRock,
said that SME-backed notes may not be true covered bonds. Timo Boehm at Pimco in Munich said investor appetite for the
Commerzbank deal would suffer if they’re not included in indexes
benchmarking the debt.  Junk Loans  The bonds are likely to be rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors
Service, its third-highest credit grade, and an equivalent AA by
 Fitch Ratings , said a person with knowledge of the deal, who
asked not to be identified.  More than 75 percent of the SME loans backing Commerzbank’s
notes will be high-yield debt, according to a presentation for
the 5 billion-euro  program  set up to issue the bonds in
December. The issuer guarantee that’s a feature of covered bonds
helps the securities obtain their investment-grade ratings.  The deal received “positive feedback” from investors,
Karsten Swoboda, a spokesman for Commerzbank in  Frankfurt , said
before the issue was completed. The pricing ranks between that
for a Pfrandbrief issue, or German mortgage-backed covered bond,
and a Commerzbank unsecured note, he said.  Covered bonds started in 1769, when Prussia’s King Frederick let aristocrats, churches and monasteries raise money
by pledging their estates as security. Denmark followed suit
after the 1797 fire that destroyed Copenhagen.  Fitch Ratings said that “at least two other issuers” are
considering SME loan-backed covered bonds, without naming them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  