-- Consumer Bureau Said to Warn Banks of Auto Lending Suits
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-02-21T21:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/consumer-bureau-said-to-warn-banks-of-auto-lending-suits.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau has told at least four banks that it may sue
them over vehicle loans and  interest-rate  markups by auto
dealers that appear discriminatory, according to three people
briefed on the matter.  The banks received letters from the CFPB last week giving
them 15 days to provide an explanation of the practice, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plans aren’t
public. The letters indicate the bureau believes the banks may
have violated the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, a 1974 law that
bars discrimination in lending.  The letters, sent as vehicle loan originations are on the
rise, demonstrate that the CFPB may be willing to sanction banks
over mark-ups by auto dealers, which were excluded from the
bureau’s supervision in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Law. As the economy
has improved, auto and truck loan originations climbed to $85.8
billion in the third quarter of 2012, according to the  Federal
Reserve .  “Auto lending is within our jurisdiction,” CFPB Director
 Richard Cordray  in a conference call with  credit unions  on Feb.
5, without referencing any enforcement plans. “We are examining
institutions around auto lending just as we are looking at them
on mortgage, credit cards,  student loans .”  Moira Vahey, a CFPB spokeswoman, declined to confirm the
existence of the letters or comment on possible enforcement
matters.  The market for auto loans is fragmented, with no lender
controlling more than 6 percent of the market in the third
quarter of 2012, according to data compiled by  Experian Plc. (EXPGY) 
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  had 5.9 percent at that time, while  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY)  had 5.54 percent and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  had
4.94 percent.  Top Lenders  Other banks that are among the top 20 auto lenders include
 Bank of America Corp. ,  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB) ,  U.S. Bancorp (USB) ,
 SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  and  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
according to Experian.  “There is always a demand for autos,” Melinda Zabritski,
director of automotive finance at Experian, said in an
interview. “You also have banks with money to lend.”  The regulation of auto lending was one of the hardest-
fought provisions of Dodd-Frank. Auto dealers overcame
opposition from the Obama administration to gain an exclusion
from oversight by the CFPB, with Congress giving regulatory
power to the Federal Trade Commission instead.  Cordray said on Feb. 5 that the agency is fielding “a
number” of complaints on vehicle financing through its consumer
response system. Dealers often provide financing by giving
buyers loans backed by banks and other lenders, a process known
as indirect lending.  CFPB Jurisdiction  CFPB has the authority to supervise banks with more than
$10 billion in assets.  The agency also has the authority to issue a regulation
that would allow it to supervise the larger players in the field
of auto lending that are not traditional banks. Those could
include some in-house financing companies owned by the major
auto manufacturers, said Leonard Chanin, the former head of
regulation-writing at CFPB.  “I think ultimately the bureau will want to establish
their supervisory authority over auto loans,” Chanin, now a
partner at the law firm  Morrison & Foerster LLP , said in an
interview. “It’s a matter of time and priorities.”  Vahey, the CFPB spokeswoman, said in an e-mail: “As in all
market-wide issues, if action is needed, we want to act in a way
that promotes a level playing field for all lenders, both banks
and nonbanks.”  Disparate Impact  CFPB has the power to enforce ECOA, the 1974 law banning
discrimination in lending. Last year, the agency indicated it
would apply a legal doctrine known as “disparate impact” to
consumer financial products. The doctrine states that lenders
can be sanctioned for actions that have a discriminatory effect
-- as demonstrated by statistical analysis, for example -- even
if they didn’t intend to discriminate.  “From the perspective of a consumer disadvantaged by
policies that have a discriminatory effect, it makes no
practical difference whether a lender consciously intended to
discriminate,” Cordray said in a speech yesterday to the CFPB’s
Consumer Advisory Board. “Every consumer, regardless of race,
gender or other characteristics protected by federal law, should
have equal access to credit.”  Fees collected by auto dealers “have historically been
found to affect people of color more than others,” said Vahey,
the CFPB spokeswoman.  Expanding ‘Access’  Bailey Wood, a spokesman for the  National Automobile
Dealers Association , declined to comment on any potential CFPB
action. He defended the dealers’ role in vehicle finance across
racial and economic categories.  “At the end of the day, dealer assistance does more to
expand access to credit than anything else,” Wood said in an
interview. “We make sure that people can get  car loans .”  The  Supreme Court  has signaled interest in a case on
disparate impact involving a separate law, the Fair Housing Act.  The possible CFPB lawsuits concern a practice in the
indirect lending process that consumer groups call the “dealer
markup,” and whether it is applied in a discriminatory way,
according to the people. Industry lobbyists refer to the
practice as “dealer participation” or “dealer-assisted
financing.”  Under this practice, buyers receive a loan that is costlier
than the one the bank gave the dealer. The industry says the
difference is a reasonable price for dealers’ services, and that
buyers can negotiate that spread down.  Marketplace ‘Competitive’  “It’s a very competitive marketplace, and consumers can
negotiate the cost of car and financing,” Chris Stinebert, head
of the American Financial Services Association, a trade group,
said in an interview.  The Center for Responsible Lending, a Durham, North
Carolina-based consumer advocacy group, has estimated that
buyers who bought cars in 2009 paid $25.8 billion in interest
over the lives of their loans due to dealer markups. They also
argue that buyers have limited chances to negotiate the price of
the loan, and are unaware that dealers are compensated through
the financing, not only the vehicle sale.  ‘Perverse’ Incentive  “This creates a perverse market incentive where the
dealer’s incentive is to sell the loan that provides the most
compensation for the dealer, which by definition is not the loan
that provides the most competitive rate for the consumer,” the
center wrote in a March 30 comment to the FTC.  The center has compared dealer markups to the yield-spread
premium, which compensated mortgage originators through the
interest rate on a home loan. The  Federal Reserve  banned the
yield-spread premium for mortgages in a 2010 regulation.  Stuart Rossman, director of litigation at the Boston-based
National Consumer Law Center, said any action by the agency to
address auto lending would now have to occur through its
authority to examine banks.  “In a general sense, CFPB can only cover the banks,”
Rossman said in an interview.  The consumer law center litigated a  series of cases  on
discrimination in auto lending about a decade ago. The cases
resulted in settlements valued at more than $100 million and
changes to lending practices in auto finance, according to the
NCLC website.  Stinebert, of the financial services trade association,
said that the cases also led bank and non-bank auto finance
businesses to limit the dealer markup.  “Those voluntary caps on dealer participation agreed years
ago are still in place,” Stinebert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  