-- Copper and Nickel Slump on Concern Fed May Slow Pace of Stimulus
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-02-21T10:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/copper-and-nickel-slump-on-concern-fed-may-slow-pace-of-stimulus.html
Copper and nickel reached this
year’s lows in London on concern the  Federal Reserve  will slow
the pace of economic stimulus in the U.S. as  China  seeks to rein
in its real-estate market.  Some Fed policy makers said the central bank should be
ready to vary the pace of bond purchases, known as quantitative
easing, minutes of a meeting showed yesterday. The dollar
strengthened for a fifth session in six against a basket of six
currencies today. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  called on local
authorities to “decisively” curb property speculation.  “Fed minutes show a debate on how to end QE3,” Pengjiang “Richard” Fu, director for Asian commodities trading at
Newedge Group SA in London, said by e-mail. A stronger dollar
reduces commodities’ appeal as an alternative investment.  Copper for delivery in three months fell 1.3 percent to
$7,857 a metric ton by 10:26 a.m. on the  London  Metal Exchange.
Prices touched the lowest level since Dec. 24 and neared the
200-day moving average at about $7,831. Copper for delivery in
May slid 1.4 percent to $3.5745 a pound on the Comex in  New
York .  China and the U.S. are the world’s two biggest copper
consumers, and the Copper Development Association says building
generates about 40 percent of demand for the metal, used in
pipes and wiring. Nickel is used to make stainless steel,
utilized in products from sinks to door and window fittings, the
British Stainless Steel Association’s  website  shows.  Nickel tumbled 3.1 percent to $16,640 a ton in London after
reaching the lowest price since Nov. 27. Prices dropped below
the 200-day moving average at about $16,917, a sign to some
analysts who study technical charts of potential further drops.  Copper  inventories  monitored by the LME, up 31 percent this
year to the highest since November 2011, rose for a sixth
session to 420,250 tons, daily figures showed. Stockpiles more
than doubled to a record in  Malaysia ’s Johor in 2013.  “There is so much copper still sitting in warehouses
around the world that even if more nations’ economies were
growing faster, inventories would not be falling fast enough,”
Mark Lewon, president of Salt Lake City-based scrap recycler
Utah Metal Works Inc., said by e-mail yesterday.  Tin, lead, zinc and aluminum slid in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  