-- Corn Drop Seen as U.S. Sows Most Since 1936: Commodities
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-02-21T21:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/corn-drop-seen-as-u-s-sows-most-since-1936-commodities.html
From South Dakota to  Ohio , farmers
are preparing to plant the most corn in almost eight decades
after drought ruined record U.S. harvests predicted by the
government.  “Farmers are looking for every acre possible to plant this
year,” said Bill Bayliss, 67, who is expanding acreage by 10
percent on land he farms in West Mansfield, Ohio, where drought
conditions have disappeared. “The price is attractive, and we
have seen an improvement in soil moisture.”  Corn acreage in the U.S., the world’s top grower and
exporter, will be the largest since 1936, yielding an all-time
high of 13.863 billion bushels at harvest should weather
conditions improve, the average of 17 analysts’ estimates in a
Bloomberg survey shows. The U.S. Department of Agriculture, in a
report today, predicted output will jump 34.8 percent to a
record 14.53 billion. Futures contracts show traders expect corn
prices to fall 19 percent by December to $5.54 a bushel as
supply grows after the harvest, cutting costs for livestock
producers and ethanol distillers.  While adverse weather the past three years prompted the
USDA to back off predictions made in May before planting
started, corn prices that are higher than 2012’s record average
mean the crop remains profitable for farmers. The grain dropped
to a six-week low today in  Chicago , settling at $6.855.  “We are in a major transition to a more-abundant supply
situation,” said  Don Roose , president of U.S. Commodities Inc.
in West Des Moines,  Iowa , who grows corn and soybeans on his
farm. “We have sent a clear price signal to the rest of the
world to produce more corn.” Prices may drop below $4 in
Chicago this year, he said.  Corn Slump  Corn futures that reached a record $8.49 in September have
fallen 7.4 percent this month on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities is down 2.7
percent, while the MSCI World Index of shares fell 1.1 percent.
Treasuries lost 0.05 percent, a Bank of America index shows.  Farmers have the capital needed to boost production of
corn, the biggest domestic crop valued at a record $77.35
billion in 2012, as the financial  condition  of U.S. agriculture
has never been better, government and Federal Reserve data show.  Farm income will jump to a record $128.2 billion this year,
Midwest cropland values are the highest ever and the ratio of
debt to equity is the lowest on record at 11.3 percent,
according to the USDA. While the worst drought since the 1930s
cut output by 13 percent last year, farmers were protected from
losses by crop-insurance payouts that reached an all-time high
of $14.7 billion, with more claims expected.  Planting Boom  Planting from March to June will reach 97.73 million acres,
up from a 75-year high of 97.155 million in 2012, according to
the Bloomberg survey. The USDA forecast a 0.7 percent drop to
96.5 million acres. While the drought cut output 13 percent to
10.78 billion bushels last year, improved weather and better
yields in 2013 will help boost stockpiles before the 2014
harvest to 1.795 billion bushels, the most since 2006 and up
from a 17-year low of 632 million this year, according to the
survey.  Hedge funds and other large speculators cut their net-long
corn positions, or bets on higher prices, by 31 percent in the
week ended Feb. 12 to 126,363 futures and options, the biggest
reduction since June, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. Holdings are down from 279,010 contracts on Dec. 4.  Lower Prices  Most farmers “expect prices to ratchet lower,” said
Bayliss, the Ohio farmer. “I’m looking for cash prices to fall
below $4.50 and hope it’s not $3.50 or $2.50.”  The USDA, at its annual outlook conference today in
Arlington,  Virginia , forecast  prices  will plunge 33 percent to
average $4.80 in the year ending Aug. 31, 2014, from $7.20 a
year earlier.  With a return to normal yields this year, “a rebuilding of
stocks and lower commodity prices would be expected in the
fall,” Joseph Glauber, the chief economist at the USDA, said
Jan. 14 at a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing in  Washington .  Drought conditions remain in the Great Plains and Midwest,
the main growing area. As of Feb. 19, 83 percent of the six-
state region from  Kansas  to North Dakota has soil moisture below
10 percent of normal, with some at zero, and where water
shortages and crop damage are likely, according to the U.S.
Drought Monitor. A year ago, 6.1 percent was in drought.  Drought Risk  Severe drought covers the entire state of  Nebraska , the
fourth-largest corn grower, more than half of Iowa, the biggest
producer, and 70 percent of  Minnesota , ranked No. 2, the monitor
shows. Drought conditions will persist in the Plains and
Southeast through April 30, the government said Feb. 7.  “The market is not paying attention to the potential
problems from dry soils,” said  Dan Basse , the president of
AgResource Co. in Chicago. “If we don’t see an improvement in
the weather and soil conditions by April 10, the market will
respond just like last year. It’s premature to be talking about
sub-$5 corn when parts of the Midwest need 6 inches to 14 inches
of rain to restore soil moisture.”  Dry soil across the western Midwest will limit the rebound
in output, leaving prices in 12 months at $6, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said in a Feb. 10 report. Standard Chartered Bank
said in a Feb. 14 report that corn will average $6.80 in the
fourth quarter, 23 percent more than the December futures.  After predicting record  crops , the USDA revised its
forecasts lower in 2010 as fields were damaged by heavy rains
during planting and a later heat wave, and again the following
two years because of droughts.  Long Recovery  It will take two or three years for a return to bumper
crops, Randall Miles, a soil scientist at the University of
 Missouri  in Columbia, said in a  report  last week. Rainfall would
need to be 16 inches above normal to recharge soil moisture
depleted by roots that went as deep as 8 feet to survive the
drought, Miles said.  The drought is beginning to diminish in Midwest areas east
of the Mississippi River and in the Great Plains and western
Midwest,  Drought Monitor  data show. Warming equatorial waters in
the Pacific Ocean and stronger trade winds are shifting from dry
patterns to ones with increased rain in the central U.S., Gail Martell, president of Martell Crop Projections in Whitefish Bay,
 Wisconsin , said in a Feb. 12 report.  Corn production also is rising outside the U.S. after four
years of higher-than-average prices. Traditional buyers of U.S.
corn including  Japan , South Korea and  Mexico  are purchasing more
from  Brazil ,  Argentina  and Ukraine. Output in Brazil and
Argentina, the biggest exporters after the U.S., will increase
5.9 percent to a record this year, the USDA said Feb. 8.  More Profitable  While corn futures for December delivery in Chicago trade
at $1.315 a bushel less than the May contract, the price is
still 35 percent higher on average for post-harvest supplies
during the past decade and above the cost of production, said
Richard Guse, 52, who farms with his brother in Waseca,
Minnesota. That’s an incentive to grow more, he said.  Guse estimates he can earn $135 an acre on corn this year,
compared with $25 if he grew soybeans, based on current prices.  Corn yields in the U.S. will jump 31 percent to 161.5
bushels an acre this year from a 17-year low of 123.4 bushels in
2012,  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest farm-equipment seller,
said on Feb. 13. The average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 155.4 bushels. Deere, based in Moline,  Illinois ,
said prices will drop 24 percent this year to average $5.25.  Cheaper Feed  “We can plant more corn and make more money,” said Chad
Blindauer, 41, who farms corn, soybeans, wheat and alfalfa with
his father and older brother in Mitchell, South Dakota. “It’s
remarkable how well corn performs in dry weather. When farmers
see corn yields going up every year and other grain yields
essentially stagnate, there is a big incentive to plant more
 corn .”  A record crop and lower prices would make a “world of
difference” in feed costs for livestock producers, which
eventually would reduce U.S. retail-beef prices that reached a
record in January, said Jim McCann, 67, the owner of Shining
Cross Cattle Co. near Miller, Missouri.  “The price is going to come down in the supermarket
because our input costs will be lower,” said McCann, whose
operation in southwest Missouri buys light-weight steers, feeds
them on pasture and corn and then sells them to feedlots.  Production of corn-based  ethanol  has tumbled to 789,000
barrels a day in the week ended Feb. 8, compared with 920,000
eight months earlier, when the drought began to send grain
prices surging, U.S. Department of Energy data show. Weekly
output last month was the lowest since June 2010.  Ethanol Premium  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the largest U.S. ethanol
refiner, has been paying an average premium of 34.6 cents a
bushel over futures for delivery this month in Decatur,
Illinois, where the company is based, up from 27 cents a year
earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We can come out of this supply hole very quickly,” said
Roger Fray, the executive vice president of grain at the farmer-
owned  West Central Cooperative  in Ralston, Iowa, with 28
locations in the state. “The odds are against a repeat of the
severe drought of 2012. Cash prices will likely fall below $4 at
harvest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  