-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise; JPMorgan Sells $2.5 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-02-21T21:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/credit-swaps-in-u-s-climb-second-day-after-fed-policy-minutes.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for a second day after  Federal Reserve  minutes
released yesterday signaled policy makers may consider slowing
the pace of asset purchases.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, advanced 0.9
basis point to a mid-price of 88.4 basis points at 4:14 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The minutes released by the Federal Reserve for the Jan.
29-30 meeting showed policy makers were divided about the
strategy behind Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s program of buying
bonds to bolster the economy. Some officials said an earlier end
to purchases might be needed, while others warned against a
premature withdrawal of stimulus.  “There is a fear in the market that you are taking away a
pillar of support in the form of asset purchases,”  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “It’s like you take away
the punch bowl before the party finishes.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Safeway Swaps  The cost of protecting  Safeway Inc.’s (SWY)  debt from losses
dropped after the second-largest U.S. grocery chain reported
fourth-quarter profit that topped analyst estimates.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the Pleasanton,
California-based company’s debt decreased 37 basis points to 265
basis points as of 3:42 p.m. in New York, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 2.3 basis points to an almost two-week high of
447 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, sold
$2.5 billion of bonds with fixed and floating rates.  The lender issued $750 million of three-year, 1.125 percent
notes to yield 77 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries and $1.75 billion of three-year floaters paying 62
basis points more than the three-month London interbank offered
rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt widened 4.5 basis points to 503 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s . A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  