-- Daimler Extends Zetsche as CEO as Bernhard to Run Trucks
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-02-21T16:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/daimler-extends-zetsche-s-ceo-contract-until-end-of-2016.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  extended Chief Executive
Officer  Dieter Zetsche ’s term and named manufacturing manager
 Wolfgang Bernhard  to run the truck unit in a possible step to
the top job at the world’s third-biggest luxury-car maker.  Zetsche’s contract as CEO will be prolonged until the end
of 2016, Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler said today in a
 statement . Bernhard will become head of the Daimler Trucks
division, the world’s largest maker of heavy vehicles, switching
roles with  Andreas Renschler , who will oversee production and
purchasing at Mercedes-Benz cars and vans.  “The chances that Bernhard could succeed Zetsche as CEO
have increased further with today’s announcement,” Roman Mathyssek, a Frankfurt-based analyst at IHS Global Insight, said
by phone. “There’s an unwritten law at Daimler that the CEO has
to prove himself at the truck division.”  Zetsche vowed 1 1/2 years ago to return the Mercedes brand
to its No. 1 rank among luxury carmakers. Since then, the
division has fallen further behind Munich-based  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi unit in global sales.
BMW overtook Mercedes as the world’s biggest luxury-car brand in
2005. Audi, building on a presence in  China , has been in second
place since 2011.  Shorter Contract  Zetsche’s three-year contract extension is shorter than the
five-year renewals common in German industry. Volkswagen
prolonged CEO  Martin Winterkorn ’s term by five years in 2011 and
BMW approved a similar extension for CEO Norbert Reithofer in
September 2010.  “The supervisory board is acting in accordance with good
corporate governance rules, which imply that board members who
are 60 years old or turn 60 during their tenure get a contract
extension of three years instead of five,” Joerg Howe, a
Daimler spokesman, said in a telephone interview. Zetsche turns
60 in May.  The shares  dropped  1.04 euros, or 2.3 percent, to 44.09
euros at the close of trading in  Frankfurt  today. The stock has
gained 6.7 percent this year, valuing the German company at 47.1
billion euros ($62.2 billion).  Bernhard, 52, will be taking charge of the Daimler division
that includes the Freightliner commercial-vehicle brand in the
U.S. and Fuso in the  Japan , in addition to Mercedes-Benz heavy
vehicles built in  Europe  and  Brazil . He returned to Daimler in
2009 after a five-year absence that included a stint at VW, and
took the Mercedes car division’s production post in 2010.
Zetsche and his predecessor Juergen Schrempp both worked in the
commercial-vehicles division before becoming CEO.  Swapping Jobs  Renschler, 54, has overseen the truck business since
October 2004, managing the division’s investments in  emerging
markets  such as Russia and India. His work at the Mercedes car
unit, which Zetsche leads, will involve implementing efficiency
measures at a division that has a goal of cutting 2 billion
euros in spending by 2014.  As the European car market heads into a sixth consecutive
annual decline, Daimler is  forecasting  that earnings before
interest and taxes from ongoing business in 2013 will remain
unchanged from last year, when operating profit dropped 10
percent to 8.1 billion euros.  “A three-year contract makes sense,” said  Daniel Schwarz ,
an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “If Mercedes is
going to close the gap to BMW and Audi, then results of
Zetsche’s efforts should be evident by then. A five-year
contract could have been seen critically by some investors.”  New Models  Zetsche’s strategy at Mercedes includes rolling out 13 new
vehicles without predecessor models over the next eight years
and fixing a disjointed sales strategy in China. He’s targeting
an increase in profit starting next year, while balancing the
costs of adding models, such as the CLA coupe and a compact
sport-utility vehicle, with the spending-reduction targets.  The CEO joined Daimler in 1976 and has since held various
positions at the manufacturer’s car and commercial-vehicle
divisions, including a period running the truck business. His
total compensation for 2011, including fixed salary, bonuses and
long-term  stock options , was calculated at about 8.65 million
euros, with a possible increase if Daimler beats performance
targets in coming years.  A member of Daimler’s management board since 1998, Zetsche
was also CEO of U.S. carmaker Chrysler, a Daimler unit at the
time, from 2000 to 2005. Zetsche became head of the Mercedes-
Benz car division in September 2005 and succeeded Schrempp as
Daimler CEO three months later.  Remaking Daimler  Zetsche has largely stripped the company of Schrempp’s
legacy, imitating Chrysler’s separation in 2007, deciding in
2011 to discontinue the ultra-luxury Maybach brand and
proceeding with an exit from  European Aeronautic Defence & Space
Co. (EAD) , the parent of planemaker Airbus that Daimler helped found,
with the sale of a 7.5 percent stake in December.  Daimler also extended  Thomas Weber ’s contract as
development chief through 2016. The engineer, 58, was promoted
to Daimler’s management board in 2003 and has been responsible
for research and development since May 2004, overseeing the
introduction of the four-door CLS coupe. Weber, who joined the
then Daimler-Benz AG in 1987, has a PhD and was awarded an
honorary professor title from the university of Stuttgart in
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  