-- Del Piero Commits to Second A-League Soccer Season With Sydney
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-21T03:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/del-piero-commits-to-second-a-league-soccer-season-with-sydney.html
Alessandro Del Piero will stay in
Australian soccer’s A-League after the World Cup-winning Italian
forward took up the option of a second season with Sydney FC.  Del Piero, who’s scored 11 goals in 16 A-League starts for
Sydney since joining in September, agreed with the club to
activate the second year of a contract that the Sydney Morning
Herald reported is worth A$2 million (US $2 million) a season,
Sydney FC said today in an e-mailed statement.  Del Piero, 38, has helped lift Sydney FC’s average home
crowd to 18,535, the best since the A-League’s inaugural season
in 2005-06, and the club’s games are being televised live in
 Italy . The former Juventus captain’s 11 goals are already the
most by a Sydney FC player in a single campaign.  “Alessandro’s arrival has been a wonderful success for
Sydney FC and the A-League both domestically and
internationally,” Sydney FC Chairman Scott Barlow said in the
statement. “His performances on the field have been tremendous.
Off the field he has also delivered unprecedented interest and
profile for Sydney FC across all levels of the club.”  Sydney FC beat clubs in  England , Switzerland and  Scotland 
to the signing of Del Piero, who became a free agent in May
after scoring 289 goals in a record 704 matches for Juventus.
His salary makes him the highest-paid player in  Australia ’s four
football codes, according to the Sydney Morning Herald.  High-Profile Signings  Sydney FC has been a pioneer in bringing high-profile
players to the A-League. The club, which won the championship in
2006 and 2010, made former Manchester United striker Dwight Yorke its first marquee signing in 2005 and also acquired
Brazilian World Cup winner Juninho in 2007. Socceroos captain
Lucas Neill last week joined on a guest contract until the end
of the 2012-13 season.  During his time with Juventus, Del Piero won six Italian
Serie A championships, one Champions League title and the
Intercontinental Cup. He also played 91 games for the Italian
national team and his 27 goals put him in a tie for fourth place
on the country’s goalscorers list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  