-- Dell Sues Philips Alleging Cathode-Ray Tube Price Fixing
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-02-22T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/dell-sues-philips-alleging-cathode-ray-tube-price-fixing.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , the personal-computer
maker poised for a $24.4 billion going-private buyout, sued a
U.S. unit of  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  for allegedly fixing
the prices of cathode-ray tubes during the past two decades.  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell contends Netherlands-based
Philips officials between 1995 and 2007 conspired to
artificially inflate prices for the older, bulky tubes, used in
computer monitors before flat panels, according to a complaint
filed Feb. 17 in federal court in Austin, Texas.  “Numerous other persons” injured by Philips and “co-
conspirators” are plaintiffs in a series of similar lawsuits
combined for pretrial purposes in a group antitrust case in
federal court in Northern California, Dell lawyers said in the
filing. The group contains more than 50 cases, the docket shows.  Beginning in 1995, agents for tube-makers had at least 500
meetings in locales such as  Taiwan , South Korea, Thailand,
China, the U.K. and Europe to discuss price guidelines,
production, customer demand, market share, sales allocations and
limiting competition, Dell lawyers contend in court papers.  In 2012, the European Commission fined companies including
Philips and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  a record 1.47 billion euros
($1.9 billion) over alleged CRT price-fixing.  In the Texas case, Dell seeks a jury trial, legal fees and
unspecified triple damages.  “We can confirm that Dell has filed a complaint in the
pending CRT litigation in the United States,” Mark Stephenson,
a spokesman for Philips, said today in an e-mail. “As this is
an ongoing legal case, we cannot comment in more detail.”  The case is Dell v. Philips Electronics, 13-cv-141, U.S.
District Court, Western District of  Texas  (Austin). The Multi-
District Litigation case is In re Cathode Ray Tube (CRT)
Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 1917, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  