-- Dexia Posts 2.87 Billion-Euro Loss, Reimburses Emergency Loans
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-02-21T10:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/dexia-posts-2-87-billion-euro-loss-reimburses-emergency-loans.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the bank being wound down
after two bailouts, reported a 2.87 billion-euro ($3.8 billion)
loss as it sold most of its remaining lending units and funding
costs exceeded interest income.  The 2012 net loss, which followed a record shortfall of
11.6 billion euros a year earlier, included 1.61 billion euros
of divestment losses, the Brussels-based company said today in a
statement. Dexia also paid almost 1 billion euros in fees for
government funding backstops and interest on emergency loans
from central banks, which have been repaid in the meantime.  The dismantlement forced Dexia into nearly complete
government ownership as  Belgium  and  France  bought 5.5 billion
euros of preferred stock in December to replenish the bank’s
capital. While the second taxpayer-funded rescue in four years
almost wiped out existing shareholders, it should enable Chief
Executive Officer Karel De Boeck to restore market confidence in
Dexia’s ability to honor its debts, reduce borrowing costs and
minimize losses in winding down what European Union Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  called “the largest bad bank in
the EU.”  “The business plan relies on the hypothesis of a
restoration of confidence on the  capital markets ,” Dexia said
in the statement. “If the market’s absorption capacity proves
to be insufficient, Dexia would have to call on more costly
funding sources.”  While Dexia plans to carry most of its residual assets to
maturity, De Boeck told Belgian lawmakers on Nov. 27 that the
bank won’t be profitable before 2018. Its  core Tier 1  ratio
improved to 19.7 percent because of the bailout funds, up from
8.5 percent on Sept. 30.  Cash Collateral  The bank’s borrowing needs are sensitive to changes in
long-term  interest rates , as every 0.1 percentage-point decline
in the 10-year yield requires an extra 1 billion euros of cash
collateral to shield its counterparties in interest-rate swap
contracts from losses.  Dexia also remains exposed to  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis, with a maximum credit risk of almost 61 billion euros in
Italy and  Spain , or about 5.5 times the bank’s Tier 1 capital as
of Dec. 31. About 9 percent of its 66 billion-euro residual bond
portfolio is rated non-investment grade.  The Brussels-based bank and its French subsidiary Dexia
Credit Local won EU approval in December for as much as 85
billion euros of government funding guarantees at a reduced cost
of five basis points annually, following payment of an
additional 200 million-euro implementation fee. A basis point in
a hundredth of a percentage point.  State Guarantees  It has already tapped 31.5 billion euros of those
guarantees since the agreement took effect on Jan. 24, in
addition to 20.8 billion euros of temporary guarantees rolled
over into the new agreement, according to  data  compiled by the
Belgian central bank. Dexia also has 13.8 billion euros left
outstanding under an earlier guarantee agreement associated with
its first government bailout in 2008.  Dexia Credit Local’s guaranteed medium-term notes have a AA
rating at  Standard & Poor’s , equivalent to Belgium’s credit
score and six steps above DCL’s own long-term credit rating of
BBB. Moody’s Investors Service assigned an Aa3 rating to the
guaranteed debt securities. DCL’s deposit certificates, which
account for the bulk of Dexia’s guaranteed debt, have the
highest short-term credit scores at both Moody’s and S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  