-- Dow AgroSciences Wins Bid to Overturn Pesticide Proposals
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-21T22:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/dow-agrosciences-wins-bid-to-overturn-pesticide-guidelines-1-.html
Dow Agrosciences LLC and two other
pesticide makers won a bid to overturn  U.S. National Marine
Fisheries Service  proposals to protect salmon when an appeals
court found the agency’s decision “arbitrary and capricious.”  The fisheries service recommendations to protect salmon
from the pesticides chlorpyrifos, diazinon and malathion were
based “on a selection of data, tests and standards that did not
always appear logical, obvious or even rational,” the appeals
panel in Richmond, Virginia, ruled today, reversing a lower
court and sending the proposals back to the fisheries service.  The fisheries office also failed to supply an economic
reason to ban pesticides from buffer strips of land abutting
salmon habitats, according to the ruling by Judge Paul Niemeyer,
writing for a three-judge panel.  “By not addressing the economic feasibility of its
proposed ‘reasonable and prudent’ alternative providing for one-
size-fits all buffers, the Fisheries Service has made it
impossible for us to review whether the recommendation satisfied
the regulation and therefore was the product of reasoned
decision-making,” Niemeyer wrote.  The fisheries service, a unit of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, is reviewing the ruling, Fionna
Matheson, a NOAA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Fish Threat  Stephen Mashuda, an attorney for  Earthjustice , a San
Francisco-based environmental advocacy group that joined the
case on the government side, predicted that the fisheries
service will be able to supply the evidence to back up its
position the the pesticides pose a threat to salmon and related
species, such as steelhead trout.  “We’re still confident that the agency’s ultimate
conclusions about the pesticides will stand,” Mashuda said.
“These are three of the most toxic pesticides on the planet, to
wildlife and to humans.”  Garry Hamlin, a spokesman for Indianapolis-based Dow
Agrosciences, said the company is pleased by the ruling.  Dow was joined in the case by Makhteshim Agan of North
America Inc. and Cheminova Inc. U.S.A.  The case is Dow Agrosciences v. National Marine Fisheries,
11-cv-2337, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit
(Richmond,  Virginia ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  