-- The Other Crisis Facing the Federal Judiciary
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-02-21T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/the-other-crisis-facing-the-federal-judiciary.html
Pope Benedict XVI’s announcement
that he will step down at the end of this month has prompted
some commentators to wonder why we don’t encourage U.S. federal
judges to retire early, too. Actually, we do -- and too many
are.  For years, judges have complained about their pay. The
Ethics Reform Act of 1989 provided for annual cost-of-living
increases for judges and members of Congress. Political
pressures have frequently driven Congress to suspend its own pay
adjustments; when it does so, it generally suspends those of
judges, as well. This bizarre but by now almost automatic
coupling has had unfortunate constitutional consequences.  The simplest way to understand the problem is that the
framers of the Constitution expected judges to serve for life.
They did not expect the same of legislators. Serving in the
legislature was not considered a career position; it was not
even considered a full-time job. Despite the changes in the
nature of the work, we see echoes of this constitutional
division in the simple fact that when a senator or
representative decides not to seek re-election and enters the
private sector, no one thinks the choice in the least peculiar.
When a federal judge does it, we feel uneasy.  Cutting Pay  The problem isn’t going away. A  recent survey  asked retired
federal judges why they stepped down. Although judges leave for
complex reasons, the most common explanation was a desire to
earn additional income.  “Grossly inadequate salary is demeaning and necessitated my
retirement,” one judge wrote. “Had judges been fairly
compensated I never would have retired.” Another was even more
blunt: “Had Congress kept its promise of $125,000 in constant
1989 dollars, I would still be on the bench.”  Some context: $125,000 in 1989 dollars would be about
$228,000 in 2012 dollars. A federal district judge currently
receives an  annual salary of  $174,000. To most Americans, that
probably sounds like a lot of money. But there are literally
hundreds of executive-branch employees who earn more. So do
first-year associates at many large law firms.  By effectively cutting judicial compensation -- and make no
mistake, that is what has happened -- Congress is reducing the
incentives to remain on the bench for life. The framers would
have been appalled.  Article III  of the Constitution reads that judges “shall
hold their offices during good behavior.” As a non-Catholic, it
is not for me to say whether life tenure for the pope is an
indispensable feature of the faith. But the framers of the
Constitution certainly believed it to be an indispensable
feature of an independent judiciary.  Alexander Hamilton , in  Federalist No. 78 , suggested a
relationship between life tenure and the quality of those who
would be willing to serve: “Hence it is, that there can be but
few men in the society who will have sufficient skill in the
laws to qualify them for the stations of judges. And making the
proper deductions for the ordinary depravity of human nature,
the number must be still smaller of those who unite the
requisite integrity with the requisite knowledge.”  Why does this matter? Because “a temporary duration in
office, which would naturally discourage such characters from
quitting a lucrative line of practice to accept a seat on the
bench, would have a tendency to throw the administration of
justice into hands less able, and less well qualified, to
conduct it with utility and dignity.”  Life tenure, then, was seen as the price of persuading
talented lawyers to give up the lucrative work of practicing
law. At the time of the framing, judicial compensation was set
in part with the idea that the judges should find a lifetime of
federal service lucrative, too.  Jarring Interests  John Adams , in his “ Thoughts on Government ,” expressed a
similar view of the ideal judges: “Their minds should not be
distracted with complicated jarring interests -- they should not
be dependent on any man, or body of men; they should lean to
none, be subservient to none, nor more complaisant to one than
another. To this end they should hold Estates for Life in their
Offices.”  But it isn’t enough to give judges the opportunity to
remain at their posts. We should also supply a proper incentive.
At the moment, the incentives are perverse. There is at least
 modest evidence  to support the notion that wealthier judges are
less likely to retire and seek outside income -- a proposition
in accord with common sense. If this theory is correct, there
are important distributional reasons for Congress to act, unless
we want a federal bench in which the judges with the greatest
experience are also those who are rich.  To be sure, salary isn’t everything. Federal judges receive
plenty of non-monetary compensation. Their posts carry enormous
prestige, and they exercise considerable power. Their salaries,
at least in nominal dollars, cannot be reduced. Judges cannot be
easily dismissed. They have enormous autonomy. Moreover, judges
 are part of  what at least strives to be a high-commitment
culture (such as the military), meaning that the drive to
fulfill the common mission is in a sense also part of the
compensation.  On the other hand, just because salary isn’t everything
doesn’t mean that salary isn’t anything. At the margins, money
income will continue to influence the behavior of judges, as it
does the behavior of other workers. And as salaries continue to
lag, and other costs continue to rise, judges will continue to
leave, and in higher numbers.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  put the problem this way  six
years ago : “Inadequate compensation directly threatens the
viability of life tenure, and if tenure in office is made
uncertain, the strength and independence judges need to uphold
the rule of law -- even when it is unpopular to do so -- will be
seriously eroded.”  Paying Bills  Once upon a time, resignations from the federal bench were
scandalous. In 1961, a federal judge who had recently dismissed
a price-fixing complaint against several  oil companies  stepped
down to become general counsel to an  oil company , an act that
occasioned thunderous denunciations from politicians and the
press. Today’s departures, by contrast, raise no serious ethical
concerns. Most judges who depart for financial reasons simply
have bills to pay -- kids in college, a mortgage -- the same
challenges as the rest of us. Judges typically are appointed to
the federal bench in their 50s or late 40s, the top earning
years for professionals. We invite them to sacrifice in order to
serve the nation.  We ask the same sacrifice of others, of course. The
difference is that when other federal employees leave to seek
additional income, it doesn’t necessarily threaten the
constitutional system. When judges do it, the independence of
the third branch totters. This may not be the best time to urge
that the federal government spend more money. If we do not,
however, the courts will eventually face a crisis of legitimacy.  Last year, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit  ruled that  judges are entitled to at least part of the
cost-of-living increases Congress has denied them. Last month,
the Obama administration asked the  Supreme Court  to review that
ruling. Let’s hope the justices decline.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 