-- The Shaky Science Behind Obama’s Universal Pre-K
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M u r r a y
-- 2013-02-21T00:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/the-shaky-science-behind-obama-s-universal-pre-k.html
“Study after study shows that the
earlier a child begins learning, the better he or she does down
the road,” said U.S. President  Barack Obama  in Feb. 14  speech 
in Decatur,  Georgia . “Every dollar we invest in high-quality
early education can save more than seven dollars later on --
boosting graduation rates, reducing teen pregnancy, reducing
violent crime.”  Obama wants to help our nation’s children flourish. So do
I. So does everyone who is aware of the large number of children
who are not flourishing. There are just two problems with his
solution: The evidence used to support the positive long-term
effects of early childhood education is tenuous, even for the
most intensive interventions. And for the kind of intervention
that can be implemented on a national scale, the evidence is
zero.  Let me begin with the two studies in the early education
literature that are so famous you may well have heard of them:
the  Perry Preschool Project  and the  Abecedarian Project . The
Perry Preschool study took place a half-century ago, in the
early 1960s. It treated 58 children ages 3 and 4 years old. The
Abecedarian Project took place in the early 1970s. It  treated  57
children, starting a few months after birth and continuing
through age 5.  Many Caveats  Both programs achieved positive results of the kind that
Obama described. But caveats about those results have troubled
careful observers of the programs for years, especially when
they hear Perry Preschool and Abecedarian cited as proof that
early education accomplishes great things. The main problem is
the small size of the samples. Treatment and control groups work
best when the numbers are large enough that idiosyncrasies in
the randomization process even out. When you’re dealing with
small samples, even small disparities in the treatment and
control groups can have large effects on the results. There are
reasons to worry that such disparities existed in both programs.  Another problem is that the evaluations of both Perry
Preschool and Abecedarian were overseen by the same committed,
well-intentioned people who conducted the demonstration
projects. Evaluations of social programs are built around lots
of judgment calls -- from deciding how the research is designed
to figuring out how to analyze the data. People with a vested
interest in the results shouldn’t be put in the position of
making those judgments. This is why evaluations undertaken by
program staffs usually aren’t taken seriously. These
considerations don’t automatically discredit the positive
findings produced by Perry Preschool or Abecedarian, but neither
program provides evidence one wants to bet the ranch on.  The most concrete reason for doubting the wider
applicability of the Perry Preschool and Abecedarian effects is
this: A large-scale, high-quality replication of the Abecedarian
approach failed to achieve much of anything. Called the  Infant
Health and Development Program , it was begun in 1985. Like
Abecedarian, IHDP identified infants at risk of developmental
problems because of low birth weight and supplied similarly
intensive intervention. Unlike Abecedarian, IHDP had a large
sample (377 in the treatment group, 608 in the control group)
spread over several sites assessed by independent researchers.
IHDP provided a level of early intervention that couldn’t
possibly be replicated nationwide, but it gave us by far the
most thorough test of intensive early intervention to date.  Few Differences  The follow-ups at ages 2 and 3 were positive, with large
gains in cognitive functioning for the treatment group. But by
age 5, those gains had attenuated. Where are things now? In the
most recent report, the children in the study had reached 18.
For the two-thirds of the sample who weighed no more than 2,000
grams (4.4 pounds) at birth, almost all of the outcome measures
weren’t even in the right direction: The control group did
slightly better. For those who weighed 2,001 to 2,500 grams at
birth, the best news the analysts could find were positive
differences on a math test and on a self-report of risky
behaviors that reached statistical significance but were
substantively small. Combine the results for both groups, and
the IHDP showed no significant effects on any of the reported
measures -- not cognitive tests, measures of behavior problems
and academic achievement, or arrest, incarceration and school-
dropout rates.  Should we conclude that the IHDP results were depressed
because of infants with serious neurologic complications, and
that it would have worked on neurologically normal infants? The
researchers ran the analysis on children who were free of
significant neurological problems and found no difference.  Another possibility is that the aggregate results were
damped down because some of the IHDP children were not
socioeconomically disadvantaged. Were the results any better
when the disadvantaged members of the sample were analyzed
separately? The 18-year follow-up report is silent on that
question. I can’t help but assume that if the results for the
disadvantaged children had been better, we would have heard
about them. Based on the published record, the IHDP results give
no reason for optimism about even the most intensive early
education approaches.  The disappointing results from the IHDP don’t mean that
early education can’t do any good. Other studies of good
technical quality have convinced me that the best early
education programs sometimes have positive long-term effects,
though much more modest than the ones ascribed to Perry
Preschool and Abecedarian. That leaves us with one last problem:
None of those first-rate programs are replicable on a large
scale. The kind of nationwide expansion of early education that
Obama wants won’t have the highly motivated administrators and
hand-picked staffs that demonstration projects enjoy, and the
per-child cost of the interventions on the Perry Preschool and
Abecedarian model are prohibitively high. If you’re going to
have a national program, you’re going to get the kind of early
education that Head Start provides.  Rigorous Evaluation  This brings us to the  third-grade follow-up  of the national
impact assessment of Head Start, submitted to the government in
 October  and released to the public late last year. Head Start
has been operating since the 1960s. After decades of evaluations
that mostly showed no effects, Congress decided in 1998 to
mandate a large-scale, rigorous, independent evaluation of Head
Start’s impact, including randomized assignment, representative
samplings of programs and a comprehensive set of outcomes
observed over time.  Of the 47 outcome measures reported separately for the 3-
year-old and 4-year-old cohorts that were selected for the
treatment group, 94 separate results in all, only six of them
showed a statistically significant difference between the
treatment and control group at the .05 level of probability --
just a little more than the number you would expect to occur by
chance. The evaluators, recognizing this, applied a statistical
test that guards against such “false discoveries.” Out of the
94 measures, just two survived that test, one positive and one
negative.  One aspect of the Head Start study deserves elaboration.
The results I gave refer to the sample of children who were
selected to be part of the treatment group. But 15 percent of
the 3-year-old cohort and 20 percent of the 4-year-old cohort
were no-shows --- a provocative finding in itself. When the
analysis is limited to children who actually participated in
Head Start, some of those outcomes do become statistically
significant, though still substantively small. But keep in mind
that we’re looking at selection artifacts: Children who end up
coming to the program every day have cognitive, emotional or
parental assets going for them that children who fail to
participate don’t have. This means that if somehow the no-shows
could be forced to attend, you couldn’t expect them to get the
same benefit as those who participated voluntarily. If you’re
asking what impact we could expect by making Head Start
available to all the nation’s children who might need it, you
have to make the calculation based on giving access to the
service.  Modest Good  So what should we make of all this? The take-away from the
story of early childhood education is that the very best
programs probably do a modest amount of good in the long run,
while the early education program that can feasibly be deployed
on a national scale, Head Start, has never proved long-term
results in half a century of existence. In the most rigorous
evaluation ever conducted, Head Start doesn’t show results that
persist even until the third grade.  Let me rephrase this more starkly: As of 2013, no one knows
how to use government programs to provide large numbers of small
children who are not flourishing with what they need. It’s not a
matter of money. We just don’t know how.  Is there anything that money can buy for these children? I
am sure that Head Start buys some of them a few hours a day in a
safer, warmer and more nurturing environment than the one they
have at home. Whenever that’s true, I don’t care about long-term
outcomes. Accomplishing just that much is a good in itself. But
how often is it true? To what extent does Head Start
systematically fail to serve the children who need those few
hours of refuge the most?  Asking those questions forces us to confront a reality that
politicians and other opinion leaders have ducked for decades:
America has far too many children born to men and women who do
not provide safe, warm and nurturing environments for their
offspring -- not because there’s no money to be found for food,
clothing and shelter, but because they are not committed to
fulfilling the obligations that child-bearing brings with it.  This head-in-the-sand attitude has to change. If we don’t
know how to substitute for absent, uncaring or incompetent
parenting with outside interventions, then we have to think
about how we increase the odds that children are born to
present, caring and competent parents.  How to do that? That’s a topic for another day. My limited
goal here is to ask that we not fool ourselves into thinking
that expanding early childhood education is going to improve the
life chances of the children most in need of help.  ( Charles Murray  is a scholar at the  American Enterprise
Institute  and the author of “Coming Apart: The State of White
America, 1960-2010.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Charles Murray at  Caroline.Kitchens@aei.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Shipley at   djshipley@bloomberg.net . 