-- The Strange History of Corporate Sex Scandals
-- B y   J u l i e   B e r e b i t s k y
-- 2013-02-21T15:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/the-strange-history-of-corporate-sex-scandals.html
Americans are on familiar terms with
the sex scandal. Liaisons in business and politics are regularly
reported in sordid detail, and typically explained as the
boneheaded decisions of smart and successful men under the
influence of power and libido.  In the 1950s, such scandals briefly provided an opportunity
for a larger national conversation, one that questioned the
ethics of corporate America’s focus on the bottom line and
generated the first systematic advice regarding how to keep sex
from hurting profits. As Max Lerner, a columnist for the  New
York  Post, summed it up, the “reach of the business spirit into
sex or perhaps the reach of the sex drive into business
enterprise” was a new social and commercial reality.  The occasion for this realization was the radio broadcast,
on Jan. 19, 1959, of Edward R. Murrow’s “The Business of Sex,”
in which the CBS journalist who stood up to Senator Joseph McCarthy exposed how companies large and small routinely used
call girls to close deals and wrote off the cost as a business
expense. Some companies, the program charged, kept prostitutes
on their payrolls, listing them as employees in the public-
relations department. In New York, Murrow reported, as many as
30,000 women made their living helping to grease the wheels of
industry.  Anonymous executives on the broadcast described the when,
where and how, while a number of women recounted their
experiences of being paid to “date” businessmen. One preferred
this job to her experience as a secretary, in which married
executives repeatedly asked her out. Another secured a “verbal
agreement” for an order of appliances before she went to bed
with a company’s client because he was in a “very anxious mood.”  National Character  The broadcast struck at the heart of postwar concerns about
manliness and the nation’s character, concerns that often
focused on the white-collar world. After the war, with one in
five privately employed Americans working for one of the top 200
corporations, the independence of the nation’s men seemed at
risk. A country of rugged individualists, critics warned, was
giving way to one of paper pushers.  Murrow’s expose suggested something even more unsavory.
Capitalism itself was implicated, lending the story national
significance in the Cold War effort to prove American values
superior to those of communism.  Questions about the ethical fiber of American businessmen
had been growing in urgency since 1948, when Alfred Kinsey
published “Sexual Behavior in the Human Male.” Twenty-seven
percent of Kinsey’s subjects who had attended college admitted
to infidelity by age 50. Kinsey’s report spawned numerous
studies on adultery among white-collar men, which psychiatrists
often traced to the “competitive and hard-paced” aspects of
modern business and middle-class materialism.  Evidence of the use of prostitutes in business also began
to proliferate. In 1957, authorities charged Nella Bogart, a
Polish refugee, with providing prostitutes for  General Electric
Co. (GE) ’s sales convention in  Atlantic City . Time magazine suggested
that GE had finally taken the concept of “being nice to big
customers” too far. Bogart’s attorney asked the jury to consider
whether the executives who testified to hiring Bogart were “any
better” than she was. They voted to acquit.  A Backlash  There was no jury to adjudicate Murrow’s charges, but big
business immediately denied them. The Hearst chain of newspapers
called the program an “outrageous insult to the great
institutions that form the backbone of America’s economic
strength,” and also condemned it for providing fodder for
communists: People throughout the developing world would soon
hear that the U.S. had “reached such a state of decadence its
business could be transacted only with the aid of ‘call girls.’”
Meanwhile, the  Internal Revenue Service  confirmed that some
companies had tried to claim these expenses as business
deductions. (Such charges, the IRS assured the public, were
disallowed.)  Some commentators emphasized the positive. If nothing else,
Murrow’s report disproved those, such as novelist  Norman Mailer ,
who argued that the supplication required to climb the corporate
ladder robbed men of their virility. As Max Lerner asked, did
Americans really want “the Russians to believe that the virility
of capitalism thrives only in boardrooms, never in bedrooms? No,
a thousand times no.”  But if such adventures were good news for those worried
about businessmen’s libidos, the consensus was that sex scandals
weren’t beneficial to corporate America’s image. Just a few
months later, another scandal -- this one involving the high-
living  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  executive Forrest Teel, who was murdered
by his spurned mistress, a former file clerk -- again raised
questions about the kinds of men who captained American
enterprise. When the judge allowed radio and film crews into the
courtroom, the trial became an international spectacle.  Murrow’s program had ended with a call for Americans to
examine the larger cultural implications of using sex to promote
business. In other words, this wasn’t a story “about sex.”
Rather, it was about “the social ethic of our society” and “our
capacity to treat each other merely as commodities.”  Conversation along these lines was short-lived, however,
and was replaced by a discussion of how to manage the negative
fallout that could accompany the mixing of business and
pleasure. This was most evident in personnel journals, such as
Modern Office Procedures, which increasingly urged companies to
develop policies that would ensure that consensual
relationships, adulterous and otherwise, didn’t damage morale
and productivity or, in the case of executives, become a PR
nightmare.  Despite this advice, companies expressed an unwillingness
to pass judgment on an employee’s personal life unless it
clearly threatened the bottom line.  In many respects, that’s where things remain today. Laws
against sexual harassment changed the sexual culture of the
office in some ways, but the majority of American businesses (70
percent by some estimates) still don’t have policies governing
consensual relationships.  It’s also unclear to what degree a sex scandal can affect
business by alienating customers or hurting profits. Though
certainly the loss of a talented executive can cost a company in
a number of ways, the lesson of GE’s prostitution crisis was
that its bottom line survived intact.  The company did, however, decide to invite wives to one
yearly sales convention. And that, for the time, was change.  ( Julie Berebitsky  is a professor of history and the chair
of the women’s and gender studies program at Sewanee: The
University of the South. She is the author of “Sex and the
Office: A History of Gender, Power and Desire.” The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the author of this post: Julie Berebitsky at
 jberebit@sewanee.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  