-- LME Stands to Gain as EU Seeks OTC Derivative Transparency
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-02-21T17:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/lme-stands-to-gain-as-eu-seeks-otc-derivative-transparency-1-.html
The London Metal Exchange, the
world’s biggest industrial-metals marketplace, stands to gain as
the European Union seeks greater transparency for over-the-
counter derivatives, its deputy chief executive officer said.  “The fact that the stuff the LME currently doesn’t see
will end up needing to be cleared means more business for the
exchange,” Diarmuid O’Hegarty said today at a press conference.
The LME held a separate briefing on the EU’s European Market
Infrastructure Regulation for its members, which include
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG.  EMIR  mandates  clearing of OTC derivatives, as well as
reporting of all derivative contracts to a so-called trade
repository. Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for
all trades made by their members to reduce risk from an
individual default. The LME is starting its own clearing
business with a goal of going into operation next year.  Implementing EMIR has been “factored into the job” of
setting up LME Clear, O’Hegarty said. The LME is “halfway”
through starting the clearing unit, Trevor Spanner, managing
director for post-trade services, said Feb. 12.  Regulators around the world are seeking to push more
trading onto clearinghouses in reaction to the 2008 financial
crisis. Investors bought and sold contracts worth $14.5 trillion
last year on the LME, where copper, aluminum, nickel, tin, zinc
and lead are traded.  Rules including EMIR will increase the costs of running
metals businesses, according to O’Hegarty. He said the new
regulations will amount to “a benefit” in case of an event
similar to the 2011 collapse of futures brokerage  MF Global
Inc. (MFGLQ) , which reported a $1.6 billion shortfall in customer funds.  Increased rulemaking was not aimed specifically at the
metals market, and regulators have yet to provide definitions
for OTC derivative contracts, O’Hegarty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  