-- East Asia Leadership Change May Help Trade Trump Island Disputes
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-02-21T03:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/east-asia-leadership-change-may-help-trade-trump-island-disputes.html
Leadership changes provide a good
opportunity for  China , Japan and South Korea to put aside
territorial disputes to pursue a free trade deal, South Korea’s
trade minister said.  The pursuit by China’s Xi Jinping, Japan’s Shinzo Abe and 
South Korea's Park Geun Hye of “more futuristic” relations than
those of their predecessors is helping to facilitate trade talks,
Bark Tae Ho said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Seoul office 
this week. Officials from the three countries meet in  Tokyo  for 
a second day today ahead of a three-way summit early this year.  Japan and China’s $334 billion trade links were damaged
last year amid escalated tensions from overlapping territorial
claims on resource-rich East China Sea islands. A trade
agreement between three of Asia’s four biggest economies would
create the world’s third-largest trading bloc after the North
American Free Trade Agreement and the European Union, according
to South Korea’s Trade Ministry.  “Last year some disputes delayed a little bit of our
process but the free trade agreement is more of an economic
issue,” Bark said. “I don’t see much delaying so far.”  Xi replaced Hu Jintao as head of the Chinese Communist
Party and the nation’s military on Nov. 15. Abe in December
became the seventh prime minister in Japan since he last held
the post in 2007. In South Korea, Park, the daughter of former
President Park Chung Hee, takes office next week to become the
nation’s first woman leader.  “South Korea can only grow through trade,” Park told
officials at the Korea International Trade Association and Korea
Employers Federation in Seoul yesterday.  Trading Nation  South Korea has free trade and economic partnership
agreements with ten partners including the U.S.,  Chile ,  India 
and the European Union. Asia’s fourth largest economy is also in
talks with 11 other partners including  Canada ,  Australia , New
Zealand and the Gulf Cooperation Council.  Trade is equivalent to about 97 percent of the country’s
gross domestic product, based on import and export data from
Korea Customs Service. South Korea’s GDP grew 2 percent in 2012,
the slowest pace since 2009, as the  European debt crisis  and
global slowdown sapped overseas demand for its products.  Reliance on exports has made South Korean companies
vulnerable to a strong won, which has strengthened more than 20
percent against the yen in the last six months, aiding the
Japanese rivals of Korean companies including Hyundai Motor Co.
and Samsung Electronics Co.  Shares of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  reached as high as 4,920 yen
last week, the  highest  since 2008. Samsung said last month that
the won’s strength may erode its operating profit by more than 3
trillion won ($2.8 billion) this year.  Two Sides  “The exchange rate has always two sides of one coin,”
Bark said. “Exporters will suffer but importers are gaining a
lot, and we’re importing a lot, too, for exporting.”  “Their difficulties will be mitigated by the import
side,” he added.  Petroleum imports increased 14.1 percent in January from a
month earlier to $2.6 billion, according to data from South
Korea’s Knowledge Economy Ministry. Imports of motor parts
increased 498.3 percent, while freighter ship imports increased
155.9 percent from a year earlier, the data show.  The yen’s weakening has provided relief for Japanese
automakers hit by a plunge in China deliveries in September and
October as Chinese consumers shunned their cars.  Japan ’s
purchase of three disputed islands from a private citizen in
September prompted violent protests in China against Japanese
businesses. The islands, called Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in
Japan, are in an area rich in oil, natural gas and fish.  The combined gross domestic product of China, Japan and
South Korea was $14.3 trillion in 2011, compared with $18
trillion for NAFTA and $17.6 trillion for the EU, according to
South Korea’s trade ministry.  WTO Contest  South Korea is also monitoring progress on the U.S.-led
 Trans-Pacific Partnership  free trade pact, Bark said. South
Korea will consider joining if the agreement fits the country’s
own free trade agreement with the U.S., he said.  Bark, 60, will continue to serve as South Korea’s trade
minister until the Park’s new administration completes
restructuring of ministries. He’s running against eight other
candidates to succeed Pascal Lamy as head of the World Trade
Organization. Lamy’s second and last term as Director-General of
the World Trade Organization comes to an end on Aug. 31.  Bookmakers don’t see Bark winning the post, forecasting
instead a victory for an African or Latin American candidate.  Bark described his candidacy as an “uphill” battle, with
former South Korean Foreign Minister Ban Ki-Moon serving as
Secretary General of the United Nations and Jim Yong Kim, a
Korean-American, helming the World Bank. Still, he said he’s
best qualified to advocate trade needs of both developing and
developed nations.  The WTO needs to modernize to include “21st century
issues” including investment competition, which are currently
ignored as they are perceived as being applicable only to
developed nations, Bark said.  “The WTO is becoming awfully outdated because of
preoccupation with negotiations over the last 10 or 12 years,”
Bark said. “Maybe the profile in the future will be different
but the WTO is the only global governance organization regarding
trade, so we have to strengthen somehow the WTO’s function.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  