-- Ebix Drops After Report on Singapore Related-Party Loan
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-02-21T21:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/ebix-drops-after-report-on-singapore-related-party-loan.html
Ebix Inc. (EBIX)  fell the most in almost 11
years in Nasdaq trading following a report claiming the company
hid a $65.8 million related-party loan to its Singapore
subsidiary from U.S. regulators.  The report, posted on the website Seeking Alpha by Gotham
City Research LLC, said the loan appeared in a disclosure form
filed by Atlanta-based Ebix’s Singapore unit and was never
disclosed in the company’s U.S. filings.  Ebix, which makes software for the  insurance industry ,
plunged $5.07, or 27 percent, to $14 today, the largest one-day
drop since July 2002. The shares have  lost  41 percent in the
past 12 months, putting the company’s market capitalization at
$521.9 million.  The related-party loan originated in 2009, according to the
Singapore filing, which was obtained by  Bloomberg News . The
subsidiary’s 2010 financial statements, which were filed last
March -- more than two years after the end of the reporting year
-- also listed the loan.  The company hasn’t disclosed the related-party loan in any
of its 10-K  filings  in the U.S., according to the Gotham City
Research report. No mention of the Singapore loan was evident in
a review of Ebix’s U.S. filings. The company has yet to file its
10-K for 2012.  At $65.8 million, the amount of the related-party loan
exceeds Ebix’s reported net income for 2009 and 2010, and falls
just short of the $71.4 million in net income reported for 2011,
according to the company’s filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Ebix Confident  Steve Barlow, an Ebix spokesman, said yesterday that he was
confident the company’s filings were in order.  In November, Bloomberg News reported that the SEC had been
investigating Ebix’s accounting practices. That investigation,
conducted by attorneys in the SEC’s Atlanta office, is
continuing, said a person who had been interviewed about Ebix in
recent weeks.  An SEC spokeswoman, Florence Harmon, declined to comment.
In November, Ebix said it wasn’t aware of any SEC investigation.  According to the Singapore filing, the $65.8 million loan
“represents amount due to a related company for the purchase of
intangible assets.” The loan carries a 9 percent interest rate
“and is not expected to be repaid within the next 12 months,”
according to the most recent filing, for 2010.  A copy of the Gotham City Research report was provided to
Bloomberg News prior to publication. The author, who asked not
to be identified by name out of concern about legal action from
Ebix, said he had a short position on the stock.  Short Interest  Short interest  in Ebix stood at 13.02 million shares today,
the highest since July 2011.  The short interest ratio, or the number of short shares
divided by the average daily volume, was 44.3.  The Gotham City Research report isn’t the first time Ebix
shares have been attacked anonymously by a short-seller. On
March 22, 2011, a blogger writing under the name “Copperfield
Research” posted a critical analysis of the company’s earnings
on Seeking Alpha. The article described Ebix as a “house of
cards.”  Two days after that blog post, Ebix’s stock fell 24 percent
to $22.52, on volume of 15 million shares. In the days before
the selloff, average volume had been less than 1 million shares.
The company’s market capitalization shrank that day to
$878 million from $1.2 billion.  ‘Distorts Facts’  Ebix, in a statement dated March 25, 2011, said: “It is
management’s opinion that this post misrepresents and distorts
facts not relevant to the company’s current financial position,
long-term growth prospects and management policies.”  The company said in the statement that “the Seeking Alpha
post appears to have been issued specifically to cause a decline
in the company’s stock price to support the increase in the
short interest in the company stock, and purchases of  stock
options  related to these short positions.”  Barlow, the Ebix spokesman, didn’t respond to requests for
comment today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in  New York  at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at   atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  