-- ECB Says No Illegtimate Iran Payments Made Via Target2
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-02-21T18:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/ecb-says-no-illegtimate-iran-payments-made-via-target2.html
The  European Central Bank  said no
payments that contravene European Union sanctions on  Iran  are
cleared via its payments system, Target2, as U.S. lawmakers
consider pushing for tougher controls on euro-based transfers
to the country.  The ECB ensures that no illegitimate transactions are
cleared in Target2, a spokesman for the Frankfurt-based ECB said
by telephone.  U.S. lawmakers want to use legislation to put pressure on
the ECB to take action, according to a congressional aide
familiar with the proposals.  Mark Dubowitz , executive director
of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies in Washington, says
some ECB policy makers are prepared to ban Iranian
counterparties from Target2.  “Target2 is crucial to Iran because U.S. financial
sanctions have already curtailed much of Iran’s dollar-
denominated business,” Dubowitz, who has advised the  U.S.
Congress , said in an interview. “Euros are Iran’s principal
hedge against the impact of sanctions.”  The 27-nation EU bans transactions with Iranian banks apart
from some pre-approved payments including those relating to food
and medicine. The assets of at least three Iranian banks have
been frozen as part of a list of sanctioned people and entities
considered to be providing support to the Islamic Republic’s
government. Iran denies allegations that it is seeking to build
nuclear bombs.  Information available on the ECB’s website shows that four
Iran-based banks have a total of six branches registered in the
ECB’s database of financial institutions, although they may not
be eligible to receive refinancing loans from the central bank.  The ECB spokesman said the central bank doesn’t comment on
individual counterparties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  