-- Technip Raises Dividend, Sees Growth as Profit Tops Estimate
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-21T12:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/technip-raises-dividend-as-ceo-says-oil-spending-growth-robust-.html
Technip SA (TEC) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
oilfield-services provider, raised its dividend and forecast
profit growth this year after quarterly results beat estimates.  Technip proposed a 2012 dividend of 1.68 euros, up 10 cents
from a year earlier.  Net income  slipped 2 percent to 147 million
euros ($194 million) last quarter, beating the 144.5 million-
euro average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We are very confident about our markets which we believe
are robust and growing,” Chief Executive Officer Thierry Pilenko said today on a conference call. Sales and profit will
increase in 2013 as “large” oil and gas projects start. North
America’s petrochemicals industry is also “active,” he said.  Technip rose as much as 2.5 percent, the highest intraday
price in two weeks, and traded up 1.3 percent at 80.01 euros as
of 12:52 p.m. in Paris.  The company and its peers have reported higher equipment
orders as rising energy prices drive investment in hard-to-reach
oil prospects.  Brent crude  averaged $111.68 a barrel last year,
a record high, spurring European producers such as  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  to raise exploration budgets.  Order Backlog  Technip, Europe’s largest oil-services provider after
 Saipem SpA (SPM) , had a record order backlog of 14.3 billion euros at
the end of the last quarter, up from 13.5 billion euros for the
previous three months. While it has tried to keep its portfolio
diversified, a selective approach is “critical,” Pilenko said.  Technip supplies pipes, platforms and equipment to the oil
and gas industry, and builds plants for petrochemicals
producers. Last year, it bought Shaw Group Inc.’s Stone &
Webster technology and energy businesses, gaining 1,200
engineers and researchers.  The acquisition has expanded Technip’s market in  North
America , and it may bid for five or six petrochemical plant
contracts in coming years, Pilenko said at a press conference.  “The North American market has surprised everyone,” he
said. “Five years ago the market was the most expensive in
which to build and operate petrochemical plants, and now it’s
the cheapest” because of affordable energy to run the plants.  Technip expects to increase revenue as much as 16 percent
to 9.5 billion euros this year, the Paris-based company said in
a statement. Spending by  oil companies  on exploration and
production will expand at a “double-digit” rate, Pilenko said.  Technip expects the operating margin in its subsea division
to hold steady at about 15 percent this year, while the onshore-
offshore margin will be 6 percent to 7 percent, compared with 7
percent in 2012. The company will maintain investment at about
519 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  