-- Hedge Funds Boost Stock Bets to ’07 High, Goldman Says
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-02-21T18:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/hedge-funds-boost-stock-bets-to-07-high-goldman-says.html
Hedge funds are more bullish on
equities than they have been in six years and  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  replaced  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. as the top-held
stock, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Net long exposure to stocks in hedge funds climbed to 52
percent in the fourth quarter, matching the 10-year high reached
in the first quarter of 2007, a team led by Goldman Sachs’
Amanda Sneider and  David Kostin  said in a report yesterday. For
the first time in three years, iPhone maker Apple was not the
most-popular stock held by firms, falling to third place as
insurer AIG became the most-held position.  “Hedge funds notably reduced holdings of underperforming
long-time favorites Apple and gold while raising allocations to
rallying financials,” Sneider and Kostin wrote.  Hedge funds increased bets stocks will advance after
returns failed to keep pace with the rally in equities last year
as  short sales  limited gains. While the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index jumped 16 percent in 2012 including dividends, the average
hedge fund returned 8 percent, according to Goldman Sachs. The
average mutual fund focused on large companies returned 14
percent, the note said.  Apple tumbled 20 percent last quarter, the worst
performance in four years, amid concern increased competition
and a lack of breakthrough products will reduce profit margins
at the world’s most-valuable company. The shares have slumped 16
percent this year.  Cutting Gold  Hedge funds also reduced holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust to
the lowest in at least four years, Goldman Sachs said. The
exchange-traded fund known as  GLD (GLD) , the biggest ETF backed by the
metal, plunged 5.7 percent in the fourth quarter as U.S.
economic concerns eased, eroding demand for the metal as an
investment hedge. The ETF has lost 5.7 percent so far in 2013.  AIG surged 52 percent last year as the New York-based
company finished repaying the last of its $182.3 billion bailout
by the U.S. government. The shares are up 5.3 percent this year.
Financial stocks rose the most out of  10 groups  in the S&P 500
last year, rallying 26 percent.  The funds have continued to underperform relative to the
S&P 500 this year, returning 3 percent through Feb. 8, Goldman
Sachs said. The benchmark measure added 6.6 percent including
dividends in the same period. Goldman Sachs’ report tracked 725
hedge funds with $1.3 trillion of equity positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  