-- Legal Uncertainty Worries Investors in Southeast Asia
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-02-21T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/legal-uncertainty-worries-investors-in-southeast-asia.html
An unpredictable legal environment
in  Southeast Asia  is the top concern of investors, according to
an Economist Corporate Network survey, highlighting the
challenge the region faces as it seeks to integrate by 2015 in
an effort to boost growth and attract more investments.  Governments change their minds about important legislation
with little warning, according to a report based on a survey of
147 companies including Unilever and General Electric Co.
released today. “Even when laws remain unchanged, court
decisions and interpretations of the laws can be highly
arbitrary,” the report said.  While China remains the manufacturing capital of the world,
companies including Nissan Motor Co. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  are
expanding in Southeast Asia, lured by the prospect of a  $2.2
trillion market . Nations including the  Philippines  are stepping
up efforts to regain investor confidence after regulatory
reversals and contract disputes in the past prompted Frankfurt,
Germany-based Fraport AG to leave the country.  “The region’s diversity and uncertain legal environment
remain major challenges for many multinationals,” said Clive
Cook, a senior consultant at law firm Baker & McKenzie LLP that
commissioned the report. Companies are looking for legal
advisers with expertise across different Association of
Southeast Asian Nations markets, he said in a statement.  China’s Equal  Economic expansions in  Indonesia , the Philippines,  Thailand 
and  Malaysia  exceeded 6 percent last quarter, compared with 1.5
percent for  South Korea  and 3.4 percent for  Taiwan . Foreign
direct investments to the 10-member Asean rose to $116.54
billion in 2011, nearly equal to  China ’s $123.99 billion,
according to the  United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development .  “Huge swathes of Asean’s population stand on the threshold
of middle class status,” the Economist Corporate Network said
in its report, forecasting the number of households with an
annual income of at least $5,000 to more than double to 85
million by 2017 from 40 million in 2010.  Unilever, the world’s third-largest consumer-goods maker by
market value, is extremely bullish in the region, according to
the report.  “The populations are young and growing,” Peter Ter Kulve,
chief executive officer of Unilever in the Asean, said in the
report. “Incomes are rising rapidly. The cities are doing very
well, but the rural story is just as strong. Given increasing
demand for food globally, agricultural wages on the plantations
across the region are rising.”  Demographic Dividend  Southeast Asian nations already enjoy a demographic
dividend, with the Philippine  labor force  expanding by almost 18
million, or 31 percent, to 75 million by 2020 compared with
2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch projected in April. Malaysia
will grow by 19 percent, to 22 million. Indonesia will see a
gain of more than 18 million, to 180 million.  Still, resistance by domestic companies to open up markets
remains strong with Myanmar and Indonesia identified as the two
most protected markets, according to the survey.  “Another issue that companies have to contend with is
protectionism,” the report said. “Despite ongoing efforts at
integration and opening up of Asean’s internal market,
resistance remains strong from local players in many markets.”  Indonesia will limit restaurant franchise holders to 250
outlets, with some exceptions, to protect small-and medium-size
businesses, Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan  said last week.  The regulation affects companies such as PT Fastfood
Indonesia, which operates more than 400  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  KFC
restaurants. Yum also owns the Pizza Hut dining chain. The rule
applies to all food-mart franchisers and franchisees, including
public companies, Wirjawan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  