-- Egypt IMF Deal Needed to Halt Economic Crisis, El-Arabi Says
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-02-21T12:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/egypt-imf-deal-needed-to-halt-economic-crisis-el-arabi-says-1-.html
Egypt  can’t emerge from its economic
“crisis” without reaching an accord with the International
Monetary Fund, and plans to invite fund officials to return in a
matter of days, Planning and Investment Minister Ashraf El-Arabi
said today.  Foreign reserves have dropped below three months import
cover, a decline that “disturbs” officials, El-Arabi told
reporters in Cairo. He said Egypt’s economy needs an injection
“of new blood” from outside.  The warning was the strongest indication yet of the
problems facing President Mohamed Mursi as he looks to revive an
economy growing at its slowest pace in two decades, with foreign
reserves more than 60 percent below their end-2010 levels. Anger
over government policies has sparked protests that have flared
into violence, with more than 50 killed last month.  Egyptian officials see the IMF loan, which has been
repeatedly delayed, as key to unlocking other donor aid.
Officials expect the deficit this year will come in at 180
billion pounds ($26.7 billion), or 10 percent to 10.5 percent of
gross domestic product, El-Arabi said.  IMF Meetings  El-Arabi said the government would invite the fund to
return within a week, and said a deal could be struck before
parliamentary elections whose date has yet to be fixed. The
comments indicated the government was in the final stages of the
economic program that it must present as part of the talks.  The political impasse has compounded the economic woes.
Egypt’s five-year credit default swaps climbed 37 basis points
today to 575 basis points -- their highest level since August,
according to data provider CMA.  The challenge for officials under an IMF program would be
to control spending, while not stoking more unrest.  Prime Minister Hisham Qandil has said any reforms will not
target the neediest, amid concern that cutting the subsidies
will result in a spike in prices of staple goods.  Mursi plans to reduce to six from 25 the number of goods
that will be subject to a sales tax increase, the independent
al-Shorouk newspaper reported today, citing Tax Authority chief
Mamdouh Omar. .  “The government took into account higher sales tax on
goods that won’t affect citizens, keeping in mind the social
dimension” of the reforms, Omar was quoted as saying. Backlash
over an earlier decision by Mursi to raise sales tax on a range
of goods in December forced him to back down a day later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  