-- Biggest Emerging Stock Slump in Seven Months Wipes Out 2013 Gain
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-02-21T22:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/emerging-stocks-drop-most-in-three-months-on-fed-belle-plunges.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in seven months, erasing gains in 2013, after the  Federal
Reserve  sparked concern that the U.S. may curtail stimulus and
declining commodity prices dragged producers lower.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum producer,
slumped to a 3 1/2-month low in Moscow.  Belle International
Holdings Ltd. (1880) , a women’s footwear maker, plunged the most on
record in  Hong Kong  after saying profit will be at the lower end
of analysts’ estimates. Oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA surged 12 percent in Sao Paulo, the biggest
gain on the  emerging markets  gauge. Benchmark stock indexes in
 China  and Turkey both slumped more than 2 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 1.4 percent to
1,053.14 in  New York , the steepest drop since July 23. Some Fed
policy makers said they should be ready to vary the pace of the
central bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, according
to minutes of a meeting released yesterday. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell to a one-month low.  “Easing the U.S. stimulus will siphon away some of the
liquidity and that’s affecting investors’ sentiment because it’s
this liquidity that fueled the rally in emerging stocks,” Allan Yu, who helps manage about $11 billion at Metropolitan Bank &
Trust Co., said by phone from Manila.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund fell 1.4 percent to $43.09, tumbling to the lowest level
since Dec. 10.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, surged 11 percent to
18.20, the steepest one-day advance since Jan. 28.  ‘Significant Correction’  The MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and
China sank 1.9 percent to the lowest level since Dec. 27.  The 21 countries in the developing-nations  gauge  send about
17 percent of their exports to the U.S. and 26 percent to the
European Union on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show. A report today showed euro-area services and
factory output contracted.  Emerging-market stocks may enter a more “significant
correction” after underperforming developed-nation shares this
year, according to JPMorgan & Chase Co.  “Fundamentals and technicals are weakening,” JPMorgan
strategists led by  Adrian Mowat  wrote in a report yesterday.  Materials, telecommunications services and energy stocks
are leading declines in 2013 among 10  industry groups  in the
MSCI emerging gauge, all retreating at least 3.2 percent.
 Telekomunikacja Polska SA (TPS) , Poland’s largest phone company and
the  worst performer  in the emerging-markets measure this year,
has tumbled 45 percent in 2013 after the company cut its
dividend proposal as fourth-quarter revenue slumped.  Mexico Declines  Brazil’s  Bovespa index  fell for a seventh day, losing less
than 0.1 percent to cap the longest stretch of daily declines
since May. Airline  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4)  retreated
3.4 percent. Brazilian fuel distributor  Ultrapar Participacoes
SA (UGPA3)  rose 4.5 percent after earnings beat analysts’ predictions.  Mexico’s  IPC Index (MEXBOL)  dropped 0.4 percent, as cement producer
Cemex SAB retreated 2 percent.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of Chinese stocks
traded in the U.S. fell 1.3 percent to an 11-week low.  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  tumbled 9.3 percent, while  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
China’s biggest real estate website, slipped 4.6 percent to a
2013 low.  Oil slid 1.7 percent in New York while nickel, copper and
zinc led industrial metals lower in  London .  Poland Rating  Russia’s Micex Index fell 1.2 percent to its lowest close
this year. Rusal slid 3.4 percent in Moscow and OAO Mechel, the
nation’s biggest maker of steelmaking coal, lost 3.8 percent.
OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural gas producer, lost 1.1
percent.  AFK Sistema (SSA)  sank 5.2 percent in London for the lowest close
since November, after the Russian company said its Indian phone-
operator unit is closing services in 10 of its regions of
operation. Sistema also plans to participate in some of India’s
spectrum auctions starting March 11, the company said in a
statement today.  The Czech Republic’s PX Index fell 1.1 percent, while
Hungary’s BUX Index lost 1.8 percent to close at the lowest
level since Jan. 8. Poland’s WIG20 Index retreated 0.3 percent
while the zloty was little changed against the euro after
earlier gaining as much as 0.3 percent.  Fitch Ratings  raised its
outlook for Poland’s debt rating to positive from stable. The
nation is rated A-, Fitch’s fourth-lowest investment grade.  Telekomunikacja Polska fell 3.3 percent to the lowest level
on record. Banco Espirito Santo SA downgraded the stock to sell
from neutral today.  Yield Gap  All 10  industry groups  in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) 
fell, with gauges for consumer, material, energy and financial
stocks sliding at least 1.6 percent. The broader emerging
markets gauge has lost 0.2 percent this year, trailing the MSCI
World Index’s 3.9 percent advance. The emerging-markets index
trades at 10.5 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s 13.7 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 283 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex Index fell 1.6 percent, the biggest
drop since July 23.  Shriram Transport Finance Co. (SHTF)  tumbled 7.5
percent in Mumbai. TPG Capital is selling a $300 million stake
in Shriram, according to terms obtained by  Bloomberg News .  ‘Marginally Higher’  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index declined 2.2 percent
today, erasing this year’s gains. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
fell 3 percent, the most since Nov. 30, 2011. Vietnam’s VN Index
sank 3.7 percent, the sharpest loss in  Asia .  Belle slumped 17 percent. The company expects that its 2012
net income will be “marginally higher” than the previous
year’s and “will fall within the lower end” of analysts’
estimates, according to a filing. Daphne International Holding
Ltd., a rival of Belle, lost 6.4 percent.  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , China’s biggest
developer by sales volume, slid 1.6 percent to the lowest level
in more than two months.  Soho China Ltd. (410) , the biggest developer
in Beijing’s central business district, dropped 1.8 percent.  China’s government told local authorities to curb real
estate speculation, according to a statement yesterday. Chinese
cities that have had “excessively fast” price gains should
promptly impose home-purchase restrictions if they’ve not done
so already, according to the statement released yesterday after
a State Council meeting headed by Premier  Wen Jiabao .  ‘Tricky Period’  “We are in a tricky period of policy risk for China,”
 Michael Wang , an emerging-markets strategist at Amiya Capital
LLP in London, said by e-mail. “There may be some more
tightening related to the property sector and a slowdown in
credit.”  China Minsheng Banking Corp. fell 5.3 percent in Hong Kong
on speculation more restrictions on the property industry will
hurt demand for bank loans and construction materials.  The People’s Bank of China drained 910 billion  yuan  ($146
billion) from the financial system this week, according to
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Credit Agricole CIB strategist in Hong
Kong. That was the biggest withdrawal since Bloomberg started
compiling the data in 2008.  Jollibee Foods Corp. (JFC) , the largest Philippine fast-food
company, surged 5.9 percent to a record in Manila, the second
biggest gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The stock
rallied a fifth day since it reported on Feb. 14 that profit
rose 15 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  