-- Emerging Stocks Erase Gains for 2013 Year as Earnings Disappoint
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-02-21T09:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/emerging-stocks-erase-gains-for-2013-year-as-earnings-disappoint.html
Emerging-market stocks erased gains
for the year, underperforming developed-nation equities as
earnings at companies from  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  to  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  trailed analysts’ forecasts.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1.3 percent to
1,055.02 as of 4:45 p.m. in  Hong Kong , wiping out this year’s
advance. The gauge has fallen 2.6 percent from a 17-month  high 
on Jan. 3 as 62 percent of the companies included reported
quarterly profit that  missed  estimates, compared with 34 percent
in the MSCI World Index of developed nations. The MSCI World has
climbed 4.4 percent this year. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index slumped 2.2 percent today, also erasing this year’s gains.  Falling revenue at Poland’s largest phone company triggered
dividend cuts that drove Telekomunikacja Polska SA down 43
percent this year, the worst-performer on the  emerging-markets 
gauge, contributing to the 6.4 percent drop in the country’s WIG
20 Index.  Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. (JPA) , which built  India ’s only
Formula One track, tumbled 26 percent after a plunge in profits
as  India’s economy  expands at the slowest pace in a decade.  “The fundamentals are still predominantly negative -- that
to me is the most compelling reason for being bearish,” said
John-Paul Smith, an emerging-markets strategist at Deutsche Bank
AG in London. The MSCI developing-nations gauge is set to lose
10 percent this year, Smith said in a phone interview on Feb.
12.  Gazprom Dividend  Materials, telecom services and energy stocks have lost the
most among 10 industry groups, retreating at least 2.9 percent
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. OAO Gazprom,
Russia’s biggest energy producer, has lost 5.5 percent, as the
company said its 2012 dividend may fall as much as 22 percent
after weaker natural-gas sales in all markets reduced earnings.  Hyundai Motor, the biggest South Korean automaker, has
slipped 1.1 percent this year. The company reported a steeper
profit decline than estimated on Jan. 24 as the won’s
appreciation hurt the value of overseas sales. The currency has
climbed 4.1 percent against the dollar and 22 percent against
the yen in the past six months.  The common shares of Petroleo Brasileiro, or Petrobras,
have fallen 21 percent in 2013. The state-run oil producer said
Feb. 4 it will reduce dividends as earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, and amortization items unexpectedly
dropped.  Jaiprakash Associates retreated as the Indian company
reported on Feb. 11 its quarterly profit slumped by about 64
percent.  “When I look at the individual markets from both the
country perspective and the bottom-up stock perspective, I find
very little that I want to own at the moment,” Deutsche Bank’s
Smith said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in  London  at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  