-- Empire State Building Accord Gets Preliminary Approval
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-02-21T21:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/empire-state-building-ipo-settlement-gets-preliminary-approval.html
A settlement of a dispute over the
public offering of a real estate investment trust that would
include the  Empire State Building (ESB)  received preliminary approval
by a New York judge.  Judge Peter O. Sherwood in Manhattan today gave tentative
approval to the $55 million settlement reached in September. The
agreement will let Empire State Realty Trust Inc., which
controls the iconic skyscraper, continue its plan to become a
real-estate investment trust and sell shares on the New York
Stock Exchange.  Investors filed five class actions in New York state court
last year, accusing the company and Malkin Holdings LLC,
supervisor of the firm that holds title to the tower, of
breaches of fiduciary duty.  “We are very pleased with today’s decisions which granted
preliminary approval of the settlement,” Malkin Holdings said
in a statement. “We will continue to move forward with the vote
on the proposed transaction, which we believe is in the best
interests of all investors.”  Sherwood denied a motion by a group of investors including
Andrew Penson, the owner of Manhattan’s Grand Central Terminal,
to intervene in the case, while letting them to argue a claim
that a provision allowing the buyout of investors who vote
against the proposal violates the state’s limited liability
company law.  Property Partnerships  Penson is among higher-profile investors in a dispute
between Malkin Holdings and a number of the unitholders in
Empire State Building Associates LLC, which owns the tower.  Malkin Holdings supervises property partnerships led by
 Peter Malkin  and his son Anthony Malkin. It owns the 2.9
million-square-foot (269,000-square-meter) Empire State Building
in conjunction with the estate of  Leona Helmsley .  The dissidents say disadvantages to a REIT include the
potential loss of a reliable income stream that should rise as
renovations are finished, while the Malkins have said their
proposal would give investors liquidity and greater growth
opportunities.  Certain Conditions  The unitholders in Empire State Building Associates hold
3,300 shares worth $323,803 or $358,670 each, depending on
certain conditions, according to the prospectus for the
transaction. The Malkins, in the prospectus, have asked them to
vote to approve the REIT by March 25. Voters representing 80
percent of the units must approve the plan for the IPO to
proceed.  Penson is a member of a limited liability company that owns
about 10 Empire State Building Associates units, he said in an
affidavit filed two days ago in New York State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan .  Investors who either vote against entering the REIT or
abstain or don’t vote may be subject to a buyout of their stake
for $100 per $10,000 originally invested, should 80 percent of
the other shares vote for it, according to the offering
statement.  The provision gives those participants 10 days to change
their vote to yes after they receive written notice that the 80
percent has been achieved.  Overwhelming Majority  The provision, which dates back to the creation of the
partnership in 1961, was a “practical” way to allow it to act
in the interests of the overwhelming majority of investors
without allowing a small group to hold up those actions, while
retaining partnership status, the statement said.  This provision is “extremely coercive and punitive,”
Stephen Meister, an attorney for the dissenting investors, told
the judge, and illegal under  New York ’s limited liability law.
He said yes votes obtained with it in effect are “irredeemably
tainted.”  Attorney Lawrence Kolker, who negotiated the settlement on
behalf of the investor plaintiffs, told reporters after today’s
hearing that the buyout language was examined as part of their
case.  Kolker said it gives the “no” votes a “chance to get
with everyone else” once the approval is certain and called it
a format common in closely held partnerships.  The case is Meyers v. Empire State Realty Trust Inc.,
650607/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  