-- Terra Firma’s Deutsche Annington Picks 2 Banks for IPO
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-02-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/terra-firma-s-deutsche-annington-picks-2-banks-for-ipo.html
Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG,
 Germany ’s biggest residential landlord, has chosen  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to help manage its initial public
offering, two people with knowledge of the decision said.  The banks will help the unit of  Guy Hands ’ Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd. conduct the share sale this year, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the plans are private.
Representatives of JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Annington
and its owner Terra Firma declined to comment.  Terra Firma, which founded Deutsche Annington after buying
65,000 homes in 2001, is seeking to profit from a residential
property boom in Europe’s largest economy. The FTSE EPRA/Nareit
index of German property stocks gained 31 percent in the past 12
months.  Deutsche Annington, based in Bochum, has 186,000 apartments
in cities including Berlin and Cologne, making it the biggest
owner of German homes. The company has been without a chief
executive officer since Wijnand Donkers left in September. The
IPO will probably take place in the fourth quarter to give the
company time to hire a new CEO, said another person with
knowledge of the matter.  In December, Deutsche Annington completed the refinancing
of about 3.8 billion euros ($5 billion) of debt used to fund
acquisitions. It was  Europe ’s largest commercial mortgage-backed
security restructuring.  Since the CEO’s departure, the company has been led by
Chief Financial Officer A. Stefan Kirsten and Terra Firma’s
chief operating officer, Robert Barr. Deutsche Annington’s homes
were valued at 9.9 billion euros in its  2011 annual report ,
including about 6.7 billion euros in debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  