-- Ethanol RIN Credits Jump 38% to 47 Cents, Starfuels Says
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-02-21T19:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/ethanol-rin-credits-jump-38-to-47-cents-starfuels-says.html
The value of Renewable
Identification Numbers for corn-based ethanol jumped on concern
that biofuel production and gasoline consumption won’t be robust
enough to meet U.S. targets.  Prices for RINs, the credits that help the government track
whether refiners are meeting federal biofuel-use mandates, rose
38 percent to 47 cents today, according to Starfuels Inc., an
ethanol broker in Jupiter,  Florida .  The increase came as  motor fuel demand  shrank and after an
Agriculture Department report estimated that corn used for
ethanol next year will be below what’s needed to produce enough
to meet government plans for 14.4 billion gallons of the fuel.  The federal government wants U.S. refiners to use
escalating amounts of ethanol in gasoline, up to 15 billion
gallons by 2015.  Falling motor fuel consumption, poor production returns and
limits on how much is used in gasoline at filling stations is
making it difficult to meet the targets, according to Mike Blackford, a consultant at INTL FCStone in Des Moines,  Iowa .  “They’ve got an ugly situation,” Blackford said. “They
won’t produce enough or use enough to get to the target. It’s up
to the RINs to make up the difference.”  Denatured ethanol for March delivery fell 1.5 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $2.35 a gallon at 1:32 p.m.  New York  time on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Prices have gained 7.6 percent in the
past year.  Corn Use  Joseph Glauber, the Agriculture Department’s chief
economist,  said today  that corn to be used for ethanol in the
2013-2014 growing season will be below 5 billion bushels for a
second year. One bushel makes at least 2.75 gallons of renewable
fuel.  At least 19 ethanol plants have idled output since June as
the worst drought since the 1930s wilted corn crops and boosted
production costs for the additive, according to the Renewable
Fuels Association in  Washington .  There were about 2.6 billion RINs in the market to start
2012, generated from years of overproduction and consumption
beyond what was mandated,  refiners probably cashed in 300
million to meet that year’s requirements, said Geoff Cooper, an
economist at the RFA.  He estimates that refiners will use more this year to meet
the requirements as production lags.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  