-- EU Carbon Rises as Lawmakers Consider Oversupply, Power Advances
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-02-21T18:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/eu-carbon-rises-as-lawmakers-consider-oversupply-power-advances.html
European Union carbon permits
advanced as lawmakers consider a plan to reduce an oversupply of
the certificates and as power and natural gas contracts rose on
cold weather.  EU carbon permits for December rose 6.4 percent to close at
5.30 euros ($7) a metric ton on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange, the highest level since Jan. 22. They earlier dropped
as much as 4 percent. United Nations Certified Emission
Reduction credits for December climbed 1 cent to 34 cents a ton.  EU allowances have surged 89 percent from a record-low 2.81
euros last month as politicians debate a European Commission
proposal to support prices by holding back new permits. A
parliamentary panel backed a version of the proposed law change
on Feb. 19, and may decide on Feb. 26 whether to pursue a fast-
track approval process with member states.  Carbon rose as policy makers consider the price support
plans and as “the energy complex rose, including natural gas
and front-year German power.” Matthew Gray, an analyst for
Jefferies Group Inc., said today by phone.  German power for 2014 rose 1.2 percent today, according to
broker data. U.K. natural gas for the six months through
September increased 0.2 percent on ICE.  The commission’s draft measure still requires backing from
the whole parliament and national governments before becoming
law.  Lawmakers may consider even more radical reforms because
the current proposal to reduce supply temporarily by 900 million
metric tons over the next three years will probably only boost
prices to an average 13 euros a ton in the eight years through
2020, Gray said.  A tighter cap and price floors are among possible
proposals, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  