-- EU Cartel-Fine Practice to Be Reviewed by German Court
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-02-21T08:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/eu-cartel-fine-practice-to-be-reviewed-by-german-court.html
Germany ’s top constitutional court
is reviewing a complaint about the European Union’s cartel
prosecution practice, according to a list of pending cases
released yesterday.  A company fined by the European Commission for antitrust
violations asked the court to review the decision to punish it
as well as rulings by the  European Court  of Justice on the
issue. The company’s name wasn’t disclosed.  German companies fined by the EU’s antitrust regulator have
long argued the punishments are excessive and the appeal process
before the European courts lacks the fairness and defense rights
afforded by national courts.  The case may reopen a dispute between Germany’s Federal
Constitutional Court and the ECJ over who has the last word in
such matters. As a rule, the German court can’t review EU
authorities’ actions. Agreeing to hear the cartel fine case
indicates the German court will take another look at the issue.  Germany’s top judges ruled in 1974 that as long as the EU’s
court system doesn’t adequately protect constitutional rights,
they can intervene. In 1986, the judges held the EU had since
implemented adequate legal protections and as long as they are
effective, the German court wouldn’t interfere.  The German constitutional court complaint was filed in
2011. That year  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  won an appeal before the  EU’s
General Court , taking 159.9 million euros ($211.9 million) off a
479.7 million-euro antitrust fine for carving up the markets for
elevators and escalators. The Luxembourg-based court ruling
upheld fines against  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Otis unit,
 Finland ’s  Kone Oyj (KNEBV)  and  Schindler Holding AG. (SCHP)   The German case is BVerfG, 2 BvR 2752/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  