-- EU Debt Pools, IMF Image, Heinz, Bank Capital: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-21T13:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/eu-debt-pools-imf-image-heinz-bank-capital-compliance.html
European Parliament  negotiators
abandoned a demand for a fast-track move toward debt pooling by
euro governments at the insistence of a German-led group of
nations opposed to such an  anti-crisis step .  As part of an accord with European Union governments on
stricter budget-oversight rules, representatives of the EU
Parliament discarded its appeal for a fund to pool and help
repay the debts of nations using the euro. Last June, the
assembly voted to create a  “European redemption fund”  in a bid
to link a policy opposed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel to
draft deficit-control legislation she has championed.  The climbdown clears the way for the EU to gain the power
to screen the budgets of nations earlier and monitor more
closely countries where rising borrowing costs threaten
financial stability. The EU will also tighten fiscal
surveillance of nations such as Greece, Ireland and Portugal
after they exit rescue programs.  The two pieces of draft legislation complement 2011 laws
that granted the EU stronger powers to sanction spendthrift
euro-area countries. The latest rules, dubbed the two-pack, also
follow a new European treaty aimed at limiting budget deficits.  The EU Parliament said Europe must go further through euro-
area debt pooling, which Germany, other nations and the European
Commission say is premature and requires a European treaty
change.  In a concession yesterday to the EU Parliament,  European
Economic  and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  agreed to
create an  “expert group”  to assess the feasibility of debt
pooling in the euro area and produce a report by March 2014. The
commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, in 2011 published a paper
outlining options for joint bond sales by euro governments, held
consultations on the matter and hasn’t taken further action.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  IMF Must Build On Image That’s Improved in Crisis, Audit Says  The International Monetary Fund has improved its image
since the global financial crisis and should address member
countries’ long-standing criticism to build on the regained
trust, according to an internal audit.  With a call for temporary fiscal stimulus to avoid a
collapse of the world economy in 2008-2009, the Washington-based
IMF was seen as breaking away from a tradition of austerity,
according to the report by the Independent Evaluation Office.  “The global crisis was a watershed event for the fund,”
which is now perceived “as more flexible and responsive,”
according to the report dated Jan. 17 and released yesterday.
“The true test for the fund will be in periods of calm, when a
trusted adviser role is even more critical for traction.”  With loans in 47 countries including Greece and resources
that were increased twice in the past four years, the IMF
regained the global relevance it had lost in the years leading
to the crisis. Still, the auditor urged the fund to respond to
distrust that lingers in Asia and  Latin America .  The internal auditor two years ago lambasted the IMF for
failing to see the signs of the global financial crisis, saying
the Washington-based fund was sometimes “in awe of” government
officials’ reputation and expertise in nations such as the U.S.
and the U.K.  Yesterday’s report described a perception in some countries
that the fund is still dominated by its largest shareholders
with conditions attached to recent loans in Europe being seen as
“soft” compared with bailouts in the past.  The report made several recommendations, which include
sharing with country officials some information on policy advice
before visiting to assess their economies, crafting medium-term
policy strategic plans for each country and incorporating the
views of all countries when preparing major policy decisions.  Cost of Higher Bank Capital Requirements Is ‘Significant’  A “dangerous misconception” is taking hold that banks can
be safer, at no economic cost, by requiring shareholders to
provide more funding with less money flowing from depositors and
debt holders,  Douglas Elliott , the  Brookings Institution  fellow
who was managing at JPMorgan from 2006-09, wrote in a report.  “There would be significant economic costs, so there needs
to be a debate centered on an examination of the trade-offs;
personally, I agree with the majority of analysts and policy
makers that the costs would outweigh the benefits, but my key
point here is that we need a debate on the trade-offs,” Elliott
wrote in the report.  “The recent severe recession is a reminder of how much
damage a credit crunch can do, so we ought not to inflict one on
ourselves voluntarily,” he said in the report.  Currently, shareholders supply about five percent of the
funding for most banks, while some proposals call for increasing
this as much as 30 percent, according to Elliott.  Compliance Action  Amazon’s European Base Luxembourg Sued by EU on Low E-Books Tax  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s European base of Luxembourg as well as
France face European Union lawsuits over their low value-added
tax rates for e-books, which the EU claims hit sales elsewhere
in the 27-nation bloc.  The  European Commission  is suing both countries in the
European Court of Justice for breaching EU rules that ban
reduced VAT rates for e-books, the regulator said in a statement
today. Luxembourg charges 3 percent VAT on e-books and France
levies 7 percent. The commission said they should charge the
standard rate of VAT, which is 15 percent in Luxembourg and 19.6
percent in France.  The low rates are hurting sales of e-books in other EU
countries and creating “serious distortions of competition,”
the Brussels-based authority said.  Amazon has its European headquarters in Luxembourg,
allowing the world’s largest retailer to charge 3 percent on e-
book sales. VAT rates on sales of other items are  charged  in
line with tax rates in customers’ home countries.  Chesapeake Absolves CEO in Internal Probe of Gas-Well Loans  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  exonerated co-founder and outgoing
Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  for privately borrowing
hundreds of millions of dollars from some of the company’s
biggest financiers.  The review found no intentional misconduct on the part of
McClendon, the Oklahoma City-based oil and natural gas explorer
said in a statement yesterday. The findings, announced three
weeks after McClendon agreed to resign from the company he led
for almost a quarter century, was the culmination of a 10-month
probe by the board into the CEO’s use of minority stakes in
Chesapeake-owned wells as collateral for private loans.  The  investigation  by the board’s audit committee and the
Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell LLP law firm involved more than 50
interviews with executives from Chesapeake and other companies,
according to the statement. The transactions reviewed included
McClendon’s borrowings from EIG Global Energy Partners LLC, a
private-equity firm that bought preferred shares in two
Chesapeake subsidiaries in 2011 and 2012.  “The review of the financing arrangements did not reveal
any improper benefit to Mr. McClendon or increased cost to the
company as a result of the overlap in the financial
relationships,” the company said.  Separate probes are in progress at the Internal Revenue
Service and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The internal investigation also found no evidence of
antitrust violations during Chesapeake’s 2010 acquisitions of
drilling rights in a Michigan shale formation, the company said.
Chesapeake said it has been cooperating with federal and state
investigations of those transactions.  The U.S. Justice Department and Michigan’s attorney general
began inquiries last year into e-mailed communications between
Chesapeake and  Encana Corp. (ECA)  in the run-up to a 2010 auction of
state-owned leases. The e-mails included discussions of divvying
up Michigan counties for bidding by each company.  McClendon, 53, agreed on Jan. 29 to resign effective April
1, citing “philosophical differences” with the board that he
didn’t detail. His grip on power at what was once the pre-
eminent U.S. gas producer began to slip last year when the board
inquiry commenced in April and he was deposed as chairman in
June.  Heinz Deal Trading Anomalies Subject of FBI’s Criminal Probe  The Federal Bureau of Investigation is working with the
Securities and Exchange Commission in a criminal probe of
trading “anomalies” prior to the announcement of a deal to buy
 H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ) , said  Peter Donald , a spokesman for the FBI’s New
York office.  The SEC sued “unknown” traders over “suspicious
trading” of Heinz shares through what the regulator said was an
account at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The trades came one day
before  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and 3G Capital
Inc. announced their $23 billion takeover, the SEC said.  The SEC alleged in a complaint filed Feb. 15 in Manhattan
federal court that the traders earned $1.7 million by purchasing
the ketchup maker’s stock just before the announcement. The
trading in the deal, which Heinz and 3G said is the largest ever
in the food industry, was carried out through a Zurich,
Switzerland-based account and involved call-option contracts,
the SEC said.  The SEC said it obtained an emergency court order to freeze
assets in the Zurich-based account.  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., (GS) 
has said the bank is “cooperating with the SEC’s
investigation.”  The SEC alleged the defendants invested almost $90,000 in
option positions the day before the deal was announced. As a
result, their position increased to more than $1.8 million, a
rise of almost 2,000 percent in one day.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Certain Unknown Traders in Securities of H.J. Heinz Co., 13-
cv-1080, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Courts  EU Cartel-Fine Practice to Be Reviewed by Germany’s Top Court  Germany’s top constitutional court is reviewing a complaint
about the European Union’s cartel prosecution practice,
according to a list of pending cases released yesterday.  A company fined by the European Commission for antitrust
violations asked the court to review the decision to punish it
as well as rulings by the European Court of Justice on the
issue. The company’s name wasn’t disclosed.  German companies fined by the EU’s antitrust regulator have
long argued the punishments are excessive and the appeal process
before the European courts lacks the fairness and defense rights
afforded by national courts.  The case may reopen a dispute between Germany’s Federal
Constitutional Court and the ECJ over who has the last word in
such matters. As a rule, the German court can’t review EU
authorities’ actions. Agreeing to hear the cartel fine case
indicates the German court will take another look at the issue.  The German constitutional court complaint was filed in
2011.  The German case is BVerfG, 2 BvR 2752/11.  JPMorgan Asks Judge to Toss Credit Union Regulator’s Lawsuit  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Bear Stearns unit asked a federal
judge to throw out a regulator’s lawsuit that claims it used
misleading documents to sell $3.6 billion in mortgage-backed
securities to credit unions that later failed.  Bear Stearns, in papers filed Feb. 19 with the U.S. court
in Kansas City, Kansas, contends that the National Credit Union
Administration board is unfairly blaming the bank because the
credit unions took widely known risks that eventually
“backfired.”  NCUA, an Alexandria, Virginia-based independent federal
agency, is responsible for recovering losses to minimize the
costs to its industry-paid stabilization fund.  The agency sued
the JPMorgan Chase unit in December, acting on behalf of credit
unions that went into liquidation.  Bear Stearns’s offering documents said originators of the
underlying mortgages had adhered to underwriting guidelines that
had, in reality, been “systematically abandoned,” making the
investments riskier than represented, NCUA said in its
complaint.  John Fairbanks, an NCUA spokesman, declined to comment on
the Bear Stearns filing, saying the agency doesn’t comment on
pending litigation.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. acquired Bear Stearns in 2008.  The regulator separately sued the New York-based bank as
successor in interest to Washington Mutual Bank and has eight
other cases pending against defendants including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., and investment banking units of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   The case is National Credit Union Administration Board v.
Bear Stearns & Co., 12-cv-2781, U.S. District Court, District of
Kansas (Kansas City).  Interviews/Reports  FSA Deserves Blame on Libor Scandal, Lawmaker Tyrie Says  The U.K.’s financial regulator is partly to blame for not
detecting efforts by banks it supervised to rig benchmark
interest rates for several years, lawmaker  Andrew Tyrie  said.  The Financial Services Authority didn’t identify or deal
with weak compliance at Barclays Plc before it and U.S.
authorities fined the bank 290 million pounds ($441 million) for
rigging the London interbank offered rate and similar
benchmarks, the Treasury Select Committee led by Tyrie said in a
report released today.  “The systemic rigging of important rates appears to have
been pervasive in the  banking industry  over a long period of
time,” Tyrie said in a statement on the findings. “Serious
regulatory shortcomings also came to light. It is only right
that the FSA has had to shoulder its share of the blame for this
scandal.”  The FSA, which along with U.S. regulators fined Barclays,
UBS AG and the  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  more than $2.5
billion, has “increased the intensity of our supervision,
including our focus on firms’ control functions and board
oversight,” it said in response to the committee report.  Miller Says Eventual Looser Credit Raises Bank Concerns  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, talked
about a proposal by  Thomas Hoenig , vice chairman of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., to apply stricter accounting standards
for derivatives and off-balance-sheet assets at the four largest
U.S. banks.  Miller spoke with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Corzine May Get Lifetime Ban From U.S. Watchdog, N.Y. Post Says  Jon Corzine , the former head of commodity futures brokerage
MF Global, may be handed a lifetime ban from the futures trading
industry, the New York Post reported.  The  National Futures Association  directors is expected to
discuss today a motion to initiate the ban, the newspaper said,
citing John Roe, a director of the association.  An NFA spokesman whose name was not provided, and
Christopher Hehmeyer, chairman of association’s board, declined
to comment on the ban, as did Corzine, the Post reported.  MF Global filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31, 2011, hours
after informing regulators that it could not account for
millions of dollars in customer deposits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  