-- EU’s De Gucht Tells Canada to Improve Free-Trade Offer
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-02-21T12:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/eu-s-de-gucht-tells-canada-to-improve-free-trade-offer.html
European Union Trade Commissioner
Karel De Gucht pressed  Canada  to offer the 27-nation EU more
market access two weeks after his visit to Ottawa failed to seal
a free-trade accord.  “What was on the table simply didn’t please me, so I
didn’t make an agreement,” De Gucht told the European
Parliament’s  international trade committee  today in Brussels.
“They need to make additional steps and, if not, there will not
be an agreement.”  De Gucht had sought during his Feb. 6-7 visit to Ottawa to
wrap up almost four years of negotiations on a free-trade deal.
EU-Canada trade in merchandise was worth 52.5 billion euros
($69.2 billion) in 2011, while services commerce totaled 25.8
billion euros, according to the  latest data  from the European
Commission, the bloc’s executive arm.  A negotiated accord, which would need the approval of EU
national governments and the bloc’s Parliament, may end 97
percent of tariffs on EU-Canada goods trade at the entry into
force and 99 percent after seven years. The sticking points have
included Canadian access to the EU’s beef and pork markets and
European access to Canada’s dairy market as well as to Canadian
public-procurement contracts at the sub-federal level.  “On a number of issues they have to make additional
steps,” De Gucht said. “What was on the table is not enough.
Very simple.” He didn’t elaborate.  Saying “we should only make an agreement when it’s a good
one,” De Gucht pledged to continue talks with the Canadian
government and didn’t offer a precise outlook of the timing of
any agreement. “I hope we can conclude those negotiations
rather soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  