-- Euro Weakens Below $1.32 First Time in Six Weeks as Output Drops
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-02-21T22:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/euro-weakens-before-purchasing-managers-indexes-pound-slides.html
The  euro  declined below $1.32 for
the first time in six weeks as an industry report showed
services and manufacturing in the region shrank at a faster pace
in February than economists forecast.  The 17-nation currency fell for a third day versus the yen
on speculation the European Central Bank may have to keep
borrowing costs lower for longer to help spur a recovery. The
Dollar Index fell from a five-month high as manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region unexpectedly contracted. The pound rose the
most in two weeks against the euro.  “The euro zone is still facing contraction, there’s still
is a good amount of headwinds to the economy,” Eric Viloria, a
senior currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “That’s going to weigh on
the euro.”  The euro fell 0.7 percent to $1.3190 at 5 p.m. New York
time after dropping to $1.3161, the lowest level since Jan. 10.
The common currency declined 1.2 percent to 122.81 yen. The yen
strengthened 0.5 percent to 93.11 per dollar.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  pared gains after the Fed’s Philadelphia’s
general economic index dropped to minus 12.5, the lowest reading
since June, from minus 5.8 in January. Readings lower than zero
signal contraction in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania ,
southern New Jersey and  Delaware .  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, used to track
the greenback versus the currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, gained 0.4 percent to 81.378 after rising to 81.508,
the highest level since Sept. 5.  Won, Peso  South Korea’s currency snapped a two-day rally as the
nation’s incoming President Park Geun Hye said yesterday
currency stability is important. The won dropped the most in
three weeks on speculation the Federal Reserve will refrain from
extending monetary easing in the U.S., South Korea’s second-
biggest export market.  The won fell 0.7 percent to close at 1,086.24 per dollar.  Mexico ’s peso fell for a second day as the Fed’s meeting
minutes damped appetite for higher yielding assets. The currency
depreciated 0.2 percent to 12.7464 per U.S. dollar and touched
12.7995, the weakest level since Feb. 11.  The pound gained 0.8 percent versus the shared currency to
86.46 pence after adding as much as 1 percent, the most since
Feb. 7. Sterling added 0.1 percent to $1.5254 after falling to
$1.5132, the lowest since July 2010.  Industrial Output  The euro declined versus the majority of its 16 most-traded
peers as a composite index of factory and services output in the
17-nation currency bloc fell to 47.3 from 48.6 in January,
London-based Markit Economics said. Economists forecast a
reading of 49, according to the median of 22 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  “It’s a technical pullback,” Michael Woolfolk, global
markets strategist in New York at  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
said in a telephone interview. “The market was overly long
euros and we have seen a pullback temporarily in risk, some
profit taking.” A long position is a bet an asset will rise in
value.  The euro has trimmed its gain so far this year to 2
percent, according to a gauge of 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
added 2 percent, while the yen slumped 5.7 percent.  Meeting Minutes  The Dollar Index advanced a second day after minutes of the
Fed’s February policy meeting released yesterday showed some
Federal Open Market Committee officials “emphasized that the
committee should be prepared to vary the pace of asset
purchases, either in response to changes in the economic outlook
or as its evaluation of the efficacy and costs of such purchases
evolved.”  Officials were divided about the strategy behind Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke’s program of buying bonds until there is
“substantial” improvement in a U.S. labor market burdened with
 7.9 percent  unemployment, according to the minutes released
yesterday in  Washington . Some said an earlier end to purchases
might be needed and others warned against a premature withdrawal
of stimulus, the minutes showed.  “The reverberations from the FOMC minutes are still a
factor for the market,” Robert Lynch, a New York-based currency
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a telephone interview.
“You’ve got what has been overnight and, at least so far today,
appears to be more of a risk-off bias in financial markets
stemming mostly from the debate now about just how much more Fed
easing there’s going to be.”  The yen advanced all of its major peers as former  Bank of
Japan (8301)  Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata and Asian Development Bank
President Haruhiko Kuroda were seen as the leading candidates to
head the central bank, the Mainichi newspaper reported today,
without citing anyone.  Iwata would be the most yen-bearish candidate because he
advocates foreign-bond purchases, according to a note from
Citigroup Inc. this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  