-- Euro Rally Pushes French Linkers to Zero From Hero: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-02-22T15:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/euro-rally-pushes-french-linkers-to-zero-from-hero-euro-credit.html
The euro’s rally has found a
casualty: French inflation-protected bonds.  France ’s index-linked debt, which beat its core-market
peers in 2012, is trailing counterparts from the euro-region and
the U.K. this year. The country is the only advanced economy in
 Europe  where such bonds underperformed nominal securities.  Morgan Stanley recommends investors sell the 10-year French
securities against regular bonds, betting on expectations for
slower inflation, and buy so-called linkers in the U.K. as
sterling weakness accelerates price increases.  “Investors should consider currencies when they think
about a country’s inflation profile,” said Anton Heese, the
global head of inflation strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London .
“The euro is being supported by a decline in risk conditions
rather than economic fundamentals. Cross-market, it would seem
to make sense that currency fluctuations will lead to higher
inflation in the U.K. than in the euro zone.”  The euro has risen 10 percent on a trade-weighted basis
since European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged in a
speech in London in July that the ECB will do “whatever it
takes” to safeguard the currency union. The pound has slid 7
percent in the same period.  Currency appreciation may dent growth by making goods and
services of a country more expensive abroad and cut price
pressure by lowering the cost of imports.  Losing Proposition  For investors who want to own euro-region inflation
securities and profit from the euro’s gain,  Germany  is a better
bet because of its top credit rating and stronger economy, said
Robin Marshall, director of fixed income at Smith and Williamson
Investment Management in London, which oversees $19 billion.  “We look to benefit from further gains in the euro, but
we’d rather buy German index-linked bonds than French bonds,”
he said.  French index-linked bonds have lost investors 1.8 percent
this year through yesterday while their German peers fell 1.1
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indices.
U.K. inflation bonds handed investors a 2.3 percent gain while
Italian securities rose 1.3 percent.  The inflation rate in the  euro zone  will fall to 1.9
percent this year from 2.5 percent in 2012, according to the
median of analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The consumer-
price growth rate will be 1.7 percent in France, 1.9 percent in
Germany, and 2.6 percent in the U.K., separate surveys showed.  Weak Spot  France is a benchmark for euro-denominated inflation-linked
bonds because its market size -- at 173 billion euros ($229
billion) -- is more than triple the 55 billion-euro German
linker market. France started selling the securities in 1998
while Germany didn’t issue its first such debt until March 2006.  French inflation bonds posted a 15 percent return last year
even as the euro-region was in recession.  The demand was driven partly after a rating downgrade for
 Italy  in July kicked the southern European country’s index-
linked bonds out of key benchmarks including Barclays Plc’s
World Government Inflation-Linked Bond and Euro Government
Inflation-linked Bond indexes.  While policy measures by the ECB and European leaders have
reduced the risk the monetary union will splinter, the 17-nation
group remains the world economy’s weak spot after the sovereign-
debt crisis that started in  Greece  in 2009 tipped it into
recession. The euro area’s economy will contract 0.3 percent
this year, according to the mid-point of the ECB’s forecast.  Continuing Rally  France’s 10-year  break-even rate , a market gauge of
inflation expectations derived from the difference in yields for
index-linked and regular bonds, rose at a slower pace than its
peers. The rate increased 12 percent from a year ago to 2
percentage points earlier this week.  The German break-even rate of the same maturity climbed 16
percent to 1.87 percentage points while the rate in the U.K.
rose 20 percent from a year ago to 3.24 percentage points.  “French linkers are expensive given their current spreads
to German bonds, and they also offer little protection if the
euro zone blows up again,” said Smith and Williamson’s
Marshall.  For now, there’s little indication the euro’s rally will
end anytime soon. Draghi told reporters on Feb. 7 that the
euro’s appreciation is a sign that confidence has returned to
the currency. While the  exchange rate  isn’t a policy target, he
warned it is “important for growth and price stability.”  Reversing Bets  Hedge funds  and other large speculators have reversed bets
on the common currency this year, after their net wagers on the
euro’s slide reached on record in June.  The difference in the number of bets these investors have
on rise in the euro versus the dollar and those for a fall, so-
called net longs, reached 37,952 this month, according to the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data .  “Our currency strategists expect to see an overshoot in
the euro appreciation in the near-term,” said Morgan Stanley’s
Heese. “Currency moves can have a substantial impact on
inflation markets over the longer term. With hindsight, the
depreciation of sterling in late 2008 contributed significantly
to the sustained and surprisingly high increase in the U.K.
inflation between 2009 and 2001.”  The euro weakened 0.2 percent against the pound to 86.28
pence as of 2:45 a.m. in London. Still, the single currency is
set for a second weekly gain against sterling.  French Economy  Meanwhile, France’s shrinking standing in the region, with
an economy that’s teetering on the brink of recession and
joblessness at a 15-year high, is playing out in its nominal
 bond market  as well.  French debt is underperforming securities from other core
nations in Europe, except the Netherlands, in February.  The French economy dipped into recession last year and
shrank more in the fourth quarter than in any other since 2009
as manufacturers slashed tens of thousands of jobs and President
 Francois Hollande  squeezed the  budget deficit .  “France and Italy are two euro-zone countries we are wary
of in terms of getting sustainable growth back into their
economies,” said Paul Mueller, a  money manager  at Invesco Asset
Management in the U.K., which manages $713 billion. “I can see
a tactical opportunity to go underweight French index-linked
versus German linkers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ; 