-- Evonik Said to Plan 10% Stake Sale in Private Placement,
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-02-22T07:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/evonik-said-to-plan-10-stake-sale-in-private-placement-ipo.html
Evonik Industries AG’s owners said
they sold part of their stake to institutional investors to pave
the way for a fourth attempt at an initial public offering of
the German chemical company.  RAG-Stiftung and CVC Capital Partners Ltd. sold a stake of
less than a 10 percent in a private transaction advised by
MainFirst Bank AG, according to a joint statement today.  After market volatility thwarted three previous IPO
attempts, the owners are now taking a step approach to achieving
their goal of listing Evonik. They’re selling smaller stakes to
some of the same investors that participated in the roadshows
for its past IPO attempt, and the transaction will value the
whole business at about 14 billion euros ($18.5 billion),
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  “Interest was already very strong at the time of the
planned listing in 2012, when market conditions in the end were
too volatile,” Christian Wildmoser, a CVC partner, said in the
statement. “The private placement puts us in a more positive
position towards achieving an intended stock exchange listing
with less effort and makes us less dependent on what is a
volatile market environment.”  Investment  Both partners sold an equal amount, and the purchase price
was above the indicative offers received for the company in
June’s listing attempt and is in line with the valuation of
specialty chemical peers, according to the statement. Both local
and international investors took part in the sale.  The move mirrors plans at  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  for
its chemical asset Taminco, bought in 2011 for 1.1 billion
euros. Preparations are under way for a listing of the Belgian
maker of amine derivatives for use in pharmaceuticals, foods,
crop chemicals and solvents.  Evonik Chairman  Klaus Engel  said the level of interest in
the transaction means investors are buying into the company’s
growth strategy and it will go ahead with its planned
investments of more than 6 billion euros through 2016. Evonik is
driving expansion into  emerging markets  with ingredients and
additives used in health, nutrition, and water.  While some companies have vied for assets of Evonik in a
break-up scenario, an IPO has the potential to create a new
entrant to  Germany ’s DAX benchmark index, joining incumbent  BASF
SE (BAS)  and  Lanxess AG. (LXS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  