-- Hewlett-Packard Profit Forecast Tops Estimates
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-02-21T23:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/hewlett-packard-forecast-tops-estimates-on-data-center-sales.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the largest
personal-computer maker, forecast fiscal second-quarter profit
that exceeded analysts’ estimates, helped by cost-cutting
measures and recovering demand for enterprise services.  Profit, excluding some items, will be 80 cents to 82 cents
a share for the period, which ends in April, the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company said in a statement today. That beat
the 77-cent average  estimate  of analysts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares rose in late trading.  While sales of servers, personal computers and printers
remain sluggish, the better-than-expected profits suggest Chief
Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  is making progress in a five-year
turnaround. After years of strategy shifts and management
upheaval, Hewlett-Packard is sharpening its focus on high-margin
business  products , as PC and printer demand declines.  “They seem to be managing the restructuring better than we
had expected -- it’s still a work in progress,” said  Shannon Cross , an analyst at Cross Research based in Livingston,  New
Jersey . “It’s too early to say you’ve turned the corner on the
top line.”  Fiscal first-quarter revenue fell 5.6 percent to $28.4
billion, compared with analysts’ estimate of $27.8 billion.
Profit, excluding amortization, restructuring and other charges,
was 82 cents a share, compared with the 71-cent prediction. Net
income fell 16 percent to $1.23 billion, or 63 cents a share,
from $1.47 billion, or 73 cents, a year earlier.  Share Jump  Shares rose as much as 8.1 percent in extended  trading .
Hewlett-Packard had advanced almost 2 percent in the last hour
to close at $17.10 in  New York . Almost 4.29 million shares were
traded in that timeframe, three times the average  volume  seen
during the same period over the past five trading days.  “To me, it looks like someone had to have known
something,”  Frank Ingarra , head trader at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based NorthCoast Asset Management LLC, said in a
telephone interview. His firm oversees $1.4 billion. “There’s
huge volume. I would be skeptical to think that someone didn’t
have any idea.”  The stock has  climbed  29 percent since Nov. 19, a day
before the company disclosed an $8.8 billion writedown on the
value of software company Autonomy Corp., which it agreed to buy
for $10.3 billion in 2011.  Taking Root  Sales in Hewlett-Packard’s PC unit fell 7.7 percent to $8.2
billion during the first quarter. Revenue from printers and
related supplies declined 5.3 percent to $5.93 billion. In
enterprise services, where sales were down 7.1 percent to $5.92
billion, two large customers Hewlett-Packard had expected to
leave during the first half of the year delayed that decision.  “The hope is that this is the floor and they’ve gotten a
grip on the business,” said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee
& Leach Inc. Wu has a  neutral  rating on the shares. “They’re
giving guidance that actually makes sense.”  Sales of the company’s technology outsourcing and
consulting services declined less rapidly than the company had
forecast, and printers and ink are yielding higher profit
margins than in the past, Cathie Lesjak, Hewlett-Packard’s chief
financial officer, said in an interview. A program to cut 29,000
jobs is also bolstering profits, she said.  “When revenue declines, it’s hard to say that it isn’t a
lot of the efficiency and productivity that’s driving the bottom
line,” said Lesjak.  Gaining Traction  “I don’t like the fact that we saw revenue declines in
each of our major segments,” Whitman said during a conference
call. “Restoring revenue growth is a priority, and we’re on
it.”  In the statement, Whitman said she “felt good” about the
rest of the year, and is focusing on delivering on the company’s
forecast. Hewlett-Packard maintained its  outlook  for adjusted
profit of $3.40 to $3.60 a share for the fiscal year.  “While there’s still a lot of work to do to generate the
kind of growth we want to see, our turnaround is starting to
gain traction as a result of the actions we took in 2012 to lay
the foundation for HP’s future,” Whitman said.  Hewlett-Packard reported earnings two days after No. 3 PC
maker  Dell Inc. (DELL)  reported fiscal fourth-quarter sales and profit
that topped analysts’ estimates, reflecting businesses’ demand
for servers and software. Dell, which is trying to transform
into a provider of a broad range of technology products, is
planning to go private in a $24.4 billion deal.  PC Weakness  Both companies are being dogged by a decline in PC demand.
Shipments fell 4.9 percent in the fourth quarter, market
researcher Gartner Inc. said. The rise of smartphones, tablets
and software that runs via a browser are crimping sales.  “If you look at HP and Dell, they’ve both tried to be like
IBM for the past five years,” Wu said. “You just don’t need as
powerful a computer anymore, that’s the new market reality. It’s
very different than a decade ago.”  There have been some bright spots for Hewlett-Packard in
the computer market. Its share of fast-growing ultrathin
notebooks was 14 percent in the fourth quarter, according to
IDC, second only to Apple’s. Whitman has also said the company
will eventually re-enter the smartphone market, after
discontinuing phones using software from its Palm Inc.
acquisition in 2011.  At a meeting with investors in October, Whitman and Lesjak
cut Hewlett-Packard’s earnings forecast for this year, blaming
management upheaval and slow updates to key products. That sent
the shares to a 10-year low at the time.  Hewlett-Packard said Nov. 20 it would write down most of
the value of the Autonomy acquisition after discovering the unit
had misrepresented its sales, sending shares plunging 12 percent
that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  