-- Ex-Goldman Traders’ Benros Hedge Fund Shut as Brummer Pulls Out
-- B y   C h r i s   L a r s o n
-- 2013-02-21T13:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/ex-goldman-traders-benros-hedge-fund-shut-as-brummer-pulls-out.html
Benros Capital Partners LLP, a
London hedge fund founded by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
traders, is shutting down after less than two years as
shareholder  Brummer & Partners AB  pulled its investment.  Brummer, a Swedish firm that owns 45 percent of Benros and
seeded it with $300 million at its founding in 2011, announced
it would redeem its investment in a statement on its website.
Daniele Benatoff, one of Benros’s founders, said in an e-mail
that the fund will be shut down, and declined further comment.  The fund “has not lived up to expectations,” Brummer said
in the statement.  Benros is the second so-called event-driven fund founded by
former Goldman Sachs traders to shut in four months. Benros,
which managed $315 million as of Jan. 31, trades securities
based on corporate decisions that might trigger price movements,
such as mergers, management changes and share sales. It was
founded by Benatoff, 33, Ariel Roskis, 37, and three other
veterans of the Wall Street firm’s proprietary trading desk.  Benros declined 5.6 percent last year, according to a
performance report obtained by Bloomberg. It dropped another 1.4
percent through the first six weeks of this year, bringing its
decline to 7 percent since inception, Brummer’s website said.  The average event-driven fund climbed 8.9 percent in 2012,
according to data from Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Edoma, Canosa  Edoma Partners LLP said in October that it would close down
after losing money. Former Goldman Sachs trader Pierre-Henri Flamand started the London-based event-driven fund in 2010.  Brummer, based in  Stockholm , is  Sweden ’s largest hedge-fund
manager. Its recent investments include Canosa Capital LLP, a
hedge fund being set up by two former Rubicon Fund Management
LLP executives that will bet on global macro-economic trends.  Canosa, founded by Tim Attias and Santiago Alarco, is
likely to begin trading in the second quarter, according to a
statement from Brummer last week. Details of Brummer’s
involvement in Canosa weren’t disclosed, and Canosa officials
declined to comment.  Jacob Lannero, a spokesman for Brummer, wouldn’t comment on
either Benros or Canosa. Benros’s closure was first reported by
Financial News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Larson in London at 
 clarson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  