-- Texas Instruments Lifts Dividend 33%, Boosts Share Buyback
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-02-22T21:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/texas-instruments-lifts-dividend-33-percent-boosts-buyback-plan.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog chips, increased its quarterly dividend by 33
percent and said it added $5 billion to its stock repurchase
program. The shares rose the most in more than eight months.  The quarterly dividend will rise to 28 cents a share from
21 cents, payable on May 20 to shareholders of record as of
April 30, the Dallas-based company said yesterday in a
statement.  With the addition to the stock buyback program, the company
has an outstanding authorization to repurchase $8.4 billion in
shares, Texas Instruments said. The announcement yesterday marks
the 10th straight year of dividend increases. Texas Instruments
has an indicated dividend yield of 3.45 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, among the highest in the
semiconductor industry.  “We’re focused not just on top line growth but on
returning cash to stockholders,” said Chief Financial Officer
Kevin March, said on a conference call today. “Over the last
eight to nine years we have reduced our number of shares by 36
percent.”  Dividend growth at Texas Instruments has been the highest
among its peers in the semiconductor industry for the past seven
years, said Chris Danely, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The company’s dividend growth has been driven by a
combination of superior revenue growth and the secular increase
in margins,” he wrote in a research report today. He rates the
company as overweight with a price target of $33.  The shares rose 5.2 percent to $34.18 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest gain since June 29. The stock has climbed
11 percent this year, compared with a 6.3 percent increase for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  