-- Mexico Retail Sales Unexpectedly Contracted in December
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-02-21T16:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/mexico-december-retail-sales-fell-1-8-from-year-ago-agency.html
Mexican  retail sales  unexpectedly
fell in December, bolstering expectations the central bank may
cut  interest rates  this year for the first time since 2009.  Sales dropped 1.8 percent in December from a year earlier,
the national statistics agency said today. The decline, the
first since a 0.1 percent drop in April 2010, surprised all 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, who had a median forecast for a
2 percent increase, and was the worst since the economy began
emerging from a recession three years ago. Sales jumped 3.5
percent in November.  Slowing inflation and concern that  Latin America ’s second-
biggest economy will be dragged down by stalled growth in the
U.S led traders to increase bets that  Banco de Mexico  may cut
interest rates this year. The central bank may have room to
reduce borrowing costs if inflation continues to converge on its
3 percent target in a sustainable way, Banxico Governor Agustin Carstens said Feb. 13.  The drop in sales in December supports speculation the
central bank will cut interest rates from a record-low 4.5
percent, said  Rafael Camarena , an economist at Grupo Financiero
Santander  Mexico  SAB.  ‘Economy Moderating’  “This number surprised us, it’s weaker than we were
looking for,” Camarena said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. “With other information, we see that this shows an
economy moderating.”  Mexico’s peso extended declines after the report’s release,
weakening 0.4 percent to 12.7734 per  U.S. dollar  at 10:09 a.m.
in Mexico City.  The report follows a report last week that showed
industrial output in December shrank for the first time in three
years, surprising all 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Nineteen of 20 economists forecast the central bank will
cut interest rates this year, according to a survey by Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit released yesterday. The median estimate was
for a 50 basis-point cut in April, the survey showed. In the
previous bi-weekly survey, eight of 18 analysts polled had
called for a rate cut this year.  The decline in retail sales was led by a 9.8 percent drop
in purchases of electric tools, computers and items for interior
decorating, while sales of paper and entertainment products
dropped 8.8 percent and vehicles and parts by 3.4 percent.  The decline may have been partly related to shoppers
pushing forward pre-Christmas spending to “Buen Fin,” Spanish
for “good weekend,” a government-sponsored sales push that was
held from Nov. 16 to Nov. 19, Gustavo Hernandez, an economist at
Bank of  Nova Scotia , wrote in an e-mailed research note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  