-- ExxonMobil Witness in Trial Says MTBE Raised Cancer Risk
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-02-21T20:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/exxonmobil-witness-in-trial-says-mtbe-raised-cancer-risk.html
New Hampshire ’s last witness in a
trial alleging Exxon Mobil Corp. contaminated the state’s
drinking water with the gasoline additive MTBE told jurors
studies indicated the chemical raised cancer risks in rodents.  Robert Biles, a retired Exxon Mobil toxicologist who was
ordered to be a witness for the state, said in videotaped
testimony today that several  studies of MTBE  on mice and rats
showed an increased risk of reproductive problems as well as
cancer.  “There was some evidence of severe toxicity in some of the
studies,” Biles said.  The state has estimated it could cost about $818 million to
test, monitor and clean up groundwater contaminated with methyl
tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE. Based on New Hampshire’s estimate
that Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil (XOM)  sold 30 percent of the
state’s gasoline from 1988 to 2005, it might ask the jury for
damages of $245 million if the company is found liable. Other
oil companies sued by the state have settled.  The state’s lawyers questioned Biles about studies by the
 American Petroleum Institute  showing that at mid-to-high levels
ingestion or inhalation of MTBE elevated the risk of brain
tumors,  liver cancer , blood cancer and kidney cancer in mice and
rats.  Findings Expected  Exxon Mobil lawyers today played other excerpts from
Biles’s taped deposition in which he said the toxicology
findings weren’t unexpected or cause for alarm.  “All toxicology studies produce effects,” Biles said.
“We’re all exposed to chemicals every day that cause risks.”  Exxon Mobil is scheduled to begin presenting its case on
March 4.  Yesterday, Exxon Mobil challenged state testimony by
Justine Hastings, an economist who said her methodology
determined that the company sold 30 percent of the state’s
gasoline. The company’s lawyers said she should have used
refinery data, which would have shown a market share as low as
6.9 percent. Hastings said that method can’t adequately measure
how much gasoline is sold.  Exxon Mobil has argued in court that it isn’t liable for
damage because it added MTBE to gasoline to comply with federal
regulations, which pre-empt state law.  Oil companies  added MTBE
to make gasoline burn more thoroughly in order to reduce air
pollution, as required under the 1990  Clean Air Act . The company
argued that the state was aware of the risks of MTBE when it
agreed to participate in a federal clean-air program.  MTBE Alternatives  Witnesses for the state have testified that oil companies
could have used chemicals other than MTBE to increase the oxygen
content of the fuel, such as ethanol.  William Stack, an Exxon Mobil lawyer, said in court this
week that ethanol wasn’t a good choice as an additive because at
the time of the federal mandate it caused engine damage and
wasn’t in adequate enough supply.  MTBE, which New Hampshire banned in January 2007, is highly
soluble in water and can be carried great distances from where
it leaked. It leaked from gas stations, vehicle junkyards,
underground  storage tanks  and pipe fittings, the state has said.  Citgo Petroleum Corp., which was a co-defendant with Exxon
Mobil in the trial, filed a $16 million settlement agreement
with the state on Feb. 15. New Hampshire had received more than
$100 million in settlements from other companies before Citgo’s
agreement, according to court papers.  Shell Oil Co., Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil
Ltd., Vitol SA and Hess Corp. settled before the trial began.  The New Hampshire case is one of scores of lawsuits
involving MTBE filed since 2000 against oil refiners, fuel
distributors and chemical makers. MTBE lawsuits have been
consolidated in federal court in  New York  for pretrial evidence-
gathering and motions.  In 2009, a federal jury ordered Exxon Mobil to pay  New York
City  $104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells
in the city. Exxon Mobil has appealed.  The case is New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-C-0550, New
Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  