-- Fed Regional Chiefs Differ Over Easing Neeed to Lift Jobs
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-02-21T23:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/fed-regional-chiefs-differ-over-easing-neeed-to-lift-jobs.html
Two Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents differed over the Fed’s future progress in cutting
7.9 percent unemployment, highlighting a division among policy
makers over whether to slow the pace of record stimulus.  The jobless rate won’t fall below 6.5 percent until the
second half of 2015, underscoring the need for “powerful and
continuing monetary accommodation,” San Francisco Fed President
John Williams said today. St. Louis’s James Bullard predicted
the rate will hit that level by June 2014 and said bond
purchases could be reduced as the economy improves.  The FOMC has pledged to keep  the main interest rate near
zero  as long as joblessness is above 6.5 percent and inflation
is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent. The panel hasn’t
specified an end-date for its program of $85 billion in monthly
asset purchases, saying only that it will continue until the
labor market improves “substantially.”  Fed officials are debating whether the benefits to the
economy from bond buying exceed the risks the unorthodox easing
will create asset-price bubbles or fuel inflation. Several said
the Federal Open Market Committee should be prepared to adjust
the pace of monthly asset purchases, as Bullard has suggested,
according to minutes of the Jan. 29-30 FOMC meeting released
yesterday.  “As labor markets improve somewhat, the pace of asset
purchases could be reduced somewhat, but not ended altogether,”
Bullard said today in New York. He said the level of purchases
could be adjusted in increments of $10 billion to $15 billion a
month.  The unemployment rate will probably continue to fall by
about 0.7 percentage point per year, said Bullard, who holds a
vote on monetary policy this year.  Substantial Improvement  A number of Fed officials said the costs of stimulus may
warrant reducing or ending the bond-buying program before the
labor market substantially improves, according to minutes of the
January gathering. “Several others” noted the risks of pulling
back the stimulus too soon, the record said.  Stocks declined for a second day today as concern grew the
Fed may slow the pace of bond purchases. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.6 percent to 1,502.42 in New York, while the
yield on the 10-year Treasury note slid two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.98 percent.  Williams, who doesn’t vote on the FOMC this year, said he
expects the economy to grow 2.75 percent in 2013 and 3.25
percent in 2014. Treasury and mortgage-bond purchases will be
needed “well into” the second half of this year, he said,
adding that the Fed could begin tapering the program if the
economy grows faster than he anticipates.  Signal Stop  “I wouldn’t want the beginning of tapering to be a signal
of stopping,” he said to reporters after his speech.  Despite the “lackluster” job market, the San Francisco
Fed official gave no indication he wants to accelerate the pace
of the purchases.  There’s an “asymmetry” to increasing the pace because
there are “some more increasing costs,” and concerns about
“market disruption” if the Fed were to do so, he said.  Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher has endorsed the idea
of “tapering” asset purchases before halting the stimulus to
avert a potentially disruptive “cold turkey” end in the
buying. The central bank has expanded its balance sheet to a
record exceeding $3 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  