-- Fisker Automotive Agrees to End XL Insurance America Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-02-22T02:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/fisker-automotive-agrees-to-end-xl-insurance-america-suit.html
Fisker Automotive Inc. agreed to end
a lawsuit against XL Insurance America Inc. over the loss of
more than 300 luxury cars worth about $33 million that were
destroyed in Superstorm Sandy, according to a court filing.  Fisker, the Anaheim, California-based plug-in hybrid
carmaker seeking a buyer, sued XL Insurance in  New York  State
Supreme Court in December, seeking reimbursement for losses from
the destruction of 338 Fisker Karma extended-range sedans.  The vehicles were located at a facility in Port Newark,  New
Jersey , where they had been unloaded from ocean vessels and were
waiting to be delivered to retail dealers in the U.S., according
to the complaint. Fisker said it notified XL Insurance, a unit
of Dublin-based  XL Group Plc (XL) , of the loss on Nov. 13 and the
insurer denied coverage on Dec. 20.  The two sides agreed to end the lawsuit, according to a
stipulation of discontinuance filed today. No reason was given.  “Fisker Automotive and XL Insurance America Inc. can
confirm that they were able to successfully reach an out-of-
court agreement that resolves their coverage dispute with
respect to the loss of vehicles at Port Newark during
 Hurricane Sandy ,” Roger Ormisher, a spokesman for Fisker, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The terms of the settlement are
confidential.”  Fisker and XL expect to continue their business
relationship, Ormisher said.  Christopher Scanlon, a lawyer for XL Insurance, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
filing.  The case is Fisker Automotive v. XL Insurance America Inc.,
654571/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  