-- Ford Urges U.S. Pressure on Japan Ahead of Meeting
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-02-21T19:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/ford-urges-u-s-pressure-on-japan-ahead-of-meeting.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. carmaker, pushed for President  Barack Obama  to pressure
Japan’s prime minister to open its auto market and refrain from
weakening the yen to give its companies an advantage.  Less than 4 percent of auto sales in Japan last year were
brands from companies based outside the country, Joe Hinrichs,
Ford’s president of the Americas, said today at an Ohio engine
plant. The Dearborn, Michigan-based company also is concerned
about the yen, which has weakened about 8 percent against the
dollar since Dec. 26, when Shinzo Abe became prime minister.  “We hope the U.S. government will send a clear message
that any future trade policy with  Japan  must ensure a level
playing field and not come at the expense of American workers,”
Hinrichs told workers at the Brook Park, Ohio, factory. Ford
plans to invest about $200 million and add 450 new jobs there by
late 2014.  Ford is boosting production in  Asia , with an emphasis in
China, where it will spend more than $4.9 billion to introduce
15 new models by 2015 in an effort to compete in the region with
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  Ford sells “a few hundred
vehicles a month” in Japan, Hinrichs told reporters today.  The yen has weakened more than any currency since mid-
November and trades at about 93 to the dollar. Japan’s Abe, 58,
and Obama, 51, meet tomorrow and will seek to bolster their
alliance as a bulwark against  China ’s territorial claims and
North Korea’s nuclear ambitions.  Executive’s View  “Our workers and our businesses should not be
disadvantaged by governments intervening in currencies,” Ford’s
Hinrichs, 46, told reporters. “Today, we don’t feel our sales
are being impacted or affected by this, but we’re concerned
about what the long-term ramifications are.”  U.S. auto sales will be “strong” in February, and
Hinrichs said he expects Ford will exceed the industrywide gain,
without providing specifics. Ford’s deliveries of cars and light
trucks rose 22 percent in January, outpacing the total market’s
14 percent increase.  “There’s a lot of incentive activity in the marketplace”
on pickups, he said. “But it’s truck month. It will be a strong
month.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Brook Park, Ohio, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  