-- Fortress’s Gagfah Gets $1.4 Billion Loan From BofA
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-02-21T14:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/fortress-s-gagfah-gets-1-4-billion-loan-from-bofa.html
Gagfah SA (GFJ) , the third-biggest owner
of German real estate by market value, got a 1.06 billion-euro
($1.4 billion) loan from  Bank of America Corp . to refinance some
of its 3.4 billion euros of debt due this year.  Gagfah, controlled by  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , used
the funding to pay back 1.04 billion euros of debt maturing in
May, the Luxembourg-based company said in a statement yesterday.  The earlier borrowing was used to buy 38,000 apartments in
2006, held by Gagfah’s Woba unit in Dresden, and was the largest
part of two commercial mortgage-backed securities: DECO 14-Pan
Europe 5 BV and Windermere IX CMBS (Multifamily) SA, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is the first of several financings we are planning
to close during the first half,” Chief Financial Officer Gerald Klinck said in the statement. “It will help to optimize
Gagfah’s capital structure.”  Gagfah has a 2.1 billion-euro loan due in August. That loan
was sold to investors as the German Residential Funding Plc
CMBS. Fortress is among the private-equity firms facing debt
deadlines after buying German real estate with the cheap credit
available in the years before the global financial crisis. The
New York-based firm  owns  66 percent of Gagfah, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The new loan matures in five years and will carry a 3.9
percent interest rate, Gagfah said in the statement. That’s 43
basis points lower than the coupon on the previous loan. A basis
point is the equivalent of 0.01 percentage point.  Gagfah fell 1 percent to 8.74 euros at 3:50 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading. The shares have more than doubled in the past
12 months, making it the  second-best performer  on  Germany’s MDAX
index (MDAX)  for medium-sized companies, which has risen 24 percent.  The company earlier this month abandoned a plan to sell its
Dresden Woba unit after agreeing to take the loan from Bank of
America. Refinancing is a better alternative, even though offers
for the Woba portfolio were attractive, Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Charlton said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  