-- France Said to Consider Alcatel Stake After Patent Deal
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-02-22T18:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/france-said-to-consider-alcatel-investment-among-options.html
The French government is weighing
options including an investment in  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  as it looks
to protect the unprofitable  network equipment  maker’s patents,
people with knowledge of the deliberations said.  Taking a minority stake in Alcatel-Lucent, potentially
through the Fonds Strategique d’Investissement state vehicle, is
among alternatives being considered by the French
administration, said a government official, who asked not to be
identified as he wasn’t authorized to be cited by the media.
Such a move would give  France  more influence at the company
after a 2 billion-euro ($2.6 billion) financing deal criticized
by officials, other people familiar with the matter said.  The French government has been considering options for
Alcatel-Lucent since the December announcement of the loan,
underwritten by  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , that’s secured in part by the manufacturer’s intellectual
property portfolio, the people said.  Other plans that have been considered by officials include
encouraging a merger between Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent and
rival Nokia Siemens Networks, or an investment in Alcatel-
Lucent’s undersea cable business, said the people.  The state may ultimately decide not to take a stake in the
company or intervene, the people said. Alcatel-Lucent today
announced that  Michel Combes , a former Vodafone Group Plc
executive, will replace Chief Executive officer Ben Verwaayen,
who stepped down this month after a three-year turnaround plan
failed to return the company to profit. The selection of a new
Alcatel CEO may help speed a government decision, people
familiar with the situation have said.  Alcatel-Lucent shares fell 1.8 percent to 1.12 euros in
Paris today.  New Chapter  A  government investment  in Alcatel-Lucent would be a new
chapter in the history of a onetime French industrial giant,
with former operations ranging from spaceflight to cutting-edge
theoretical physics, that’s been weakened by Asian competition
and slower spending on network equipment by mobile carriers.  The FSI, which acquires minority stakes in companies it
deems crucial to France’s competitiveness, has invested in
businesses such as smartcard manufacturer  Gemalto NV (GTO)  and  Nexans
SA (NEX) , a supplier of power and fiber-optic cables.  A spokesman for the French  finance ministry  declined to
comment. Representatives of Alcatel-Lucent, Credit Suisse and
Goldman Sachs declined to comment. A representative of the FSI
couldn’t immediately comment.  Struggling Companies  Alcatel-Lucent, created with the 2006 merger of Alcatel SA
with U.S.-based Lucent Technologies, was removed from France’s
benchmark stock-market index in 2012 as its value slipped to
less than 2 billion euros, a decline of 70 percent since 2008.
Since the deal, the combined firm has accumulated about 10
billion euros in losses, while its cash reserves have dwindled
by an average of 700 million euros a year.  Last month, the French government unsuccessfully sought
alternative solutions for Alcatel-Lucent’s financing needs,
according to union representatives. President  Francois Hollande ’s socialist government has regularly opposed attempts
by struggling companies to shut facilities or restructure
assets, fighting job cuts at  Peugeot SA (UG)  and ArcelorMittal.  In late January, Alcatel-Lucent said it had expanded its
initial financing agreement by 400 million euros, achieved an
average price decrease of 90 basis points, and removed financial
covenants, making a default the primary trigger for giving up
its collateral. In a statement, French ministers welcomed the
better terms and took partial credit for the adjustment after
the government “mobilized itself and examined, in cooperation
with the company, all the feasible options.”  Patent Portfolio  Nonetheless, the changes to the terms were due largely to
better market conditions following the avoidance of the so-
called fiscal cliff in the U.S., according to people familiar
with the transaction. The initial conditions, on which
discussions with Alcatel-Lucent Chief Financial Officer Paul Tufano began in October, were reflective of the more risk-averse
market environment of the time, the people added.  Alcatel-Lucent’s patent portfolio, partially inherited from
 New Jersey ’s storied Bell Labs research center, touches on
video-conferencing as well as data compression and transfer.  That intellectual property makes up a significant
proportion of Alcatel-Lucent’s available assets, and was thus
the logical collateral for a company unable to raise funds
through a share sale and facing high costs for unsecured
lending, the people said.  Alleged Infringements  Patents with applications for mobile technology have gained
in value as companies including Apple Inc. and Samsung
Electronics Co. repeatedly take each other to court over alleged
infringements. Google Inc. cited the value of Motorola
Mobility’s patent portfolio as a primary justification for its
$12.5 billion acquisition of the smartphone maker in 2011.  Negotiations on the financing deal followed a period of
turmoil at Alcatel-Lucent, whose board had been informally
seeking a replacement for Verwaayen for about six months, people
familiar with its deliberations said this month.  The board took a very cautious approach to the financing
package, meeting regularly throughout January and pressing
Verwaayen and the banks to examine alternatives that would
reduce Alcatel-Lucent’s risk of losing its collateral, the
people with knowledge of the transaction said.  Even with the government as a major backer, Alcatel-Lucent
faces an uncertain future in a highly competitive industry.
 China ’s Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  have taken market
share from European competitors, falling short only in the U.S.,
where security concerns prevent them from winning major network
contracts.  Alcatel-Lucent has held informal discussions on an eventual
merger with Nokia Siemens Networks, the telecommunications
equipment venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE) , people familiar
with the matter said this month. Such a deal would reduce the
number of major European firms in the sector to two, along with
 Sweden ’s Ericsson AB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  