-- French Minister Backs Diesel Tax Gain to Cut Dangerous Pollution
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-21T16:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/french-minister-backs-diesel-tax-gain-to-cut-dangerous-pollution.html
French Environment Minister Delphine Batho backed higher taxes on  diesel fuel  to cut pollution that’s
dangerous to health and to reduce demand pressure on refineries.  “It’s inescapable,” Batho told RMC radio today when asked
whether lower taxes paid on diesel compared with gasoline should
be eliminated. “I am favorable. It’s a public health issue.”  Diesel, about 80 percent of the French car-fuel market, has
been taxed less than gasoline for decades because of its use for
trucks and farm vehicles. Carmakers have developed engines that
run on diesel as consumers favored the cheaper fuel. About 73
percent of new cars sold in France last year ran on the fuel,
 figures  from the French automakers’ association show.  Diesel demand gained 7.5 percent last year to 38.1 million
metric tons, compared with a 6.5 percent drop in gasoline to 7.3
million tons,  Union Francaise des Industries Petrolieres  figures
show. France imported 20.5 million tons of the cheaper fuel last
year to meet demand, while exporting 4 million tons of gasoline.  Taxes should change “very gradually,” according to Jean- Louis Schilansky, head of the oil industry lobby. “It should be
done in a determined way over the next five years,” he said.  The diesel  tax rate  makes it 20 cents cheaper than gasoline
for each liter (0.26 gallon), according to the lobby. Making the
rates the same would bring about 8 billion euros ($11 billion)
into state coffers each year based on demand last year, it says.  Exhaust from  diesel engines  causes  lung cancer , the  World
Health Organization  said in June, citing a review of studies. It
is also linked to increased risk of bladder cancer, according to
the International Agency for Research on Cancer, based in Lyon.  The group published the findings after an eight-day review
by a panel of scientists. An earlier review in 1988 classified
diesel engine exhaust as “probably carcinogenic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  