-- FSA Deserves Blame for Missing Libor Rigging, Tyrie Says
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-02-21T10:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/fsa-deserves-blame-for-missing-libor-rigging-tyrie-says.html
The U.K.’s financial regulator is
partly to blame for not detecting efforts by banks it supervised
to rig benchmark  interest rates  for several years, lawmaker
 Andrew Tyrie  said.  The Financial Services Authority didn’t identify or deal
with weak compliance at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  before it and U.S.
authorities fined the bank 290 million pounds ($441 million) for
rigging the  London  interbank offered rate and similar
benchmarks, the Treasury Select Committee led by Tyrie said in a
report released today.  “The systemic rigging of important rates appears to have
been pervasive in the  banking industry  over a long period of
time,” Tyrie said in a statement on the findings. “Serious
regulatory shortcomings also came to light. It is only right
that the FSA has had to shoulder its share of the blame for this
scandal.”  The FSA, which along with U.S. regulators fined Barclays,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and the  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  more than $2.5
billion, has “increased the intensity of our supervision,
including our focus on firms’ control functions and board
oversight,” it said in response to the committee report.  Owen Watkins , a regulatory lawyer at Lewis Silkin LLP in
London said that, while “a large amount of this is politics”
he thought there was “a core of truth.”  Traders, Submitters  “How for instance did the many FSA supervisory visits fail
to spot the close links between traders and rate submitters --
particularly when the two were often in extremely close physical
proximity?” Watkins said. “The answer may lie in the culture
at the time -- light touch regulation, and only looking at
institutions in terms of very narrowly defined issues.”  The regulator’s internal audit department is also reviewing
any contact with Barclays to determine whether the agency missed
warning signs on its Libor activities. The FSA told the
committee the probe is focused on the period from January 2007
until the end of May 2009, and will be completed this quarter.  Adair Turner , the chairman of the FSA, told the committee
in July that Barclays employees who contacted them “weren’t
being entirely honest” when discussing difficulties setting
Libor. Barclays employees talked about “dislocations” in the
benchmark and didn’t say that anyone was submitting false rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  