-- GE Duo’s Seats at Risk as Holders to Vote on Board Limits
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-02-21T21:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/ge-duo-s-seats-at-risk-as-holders-to-vote-on-board-limits.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  must allow
shareholders to vote on a proposal that would limit the terms of
two of its longest-serving board members, the Securities and
Exchange Commission has ruled.  That plan would bar independent  directors  elected from 1998
to 2013 from running again after serving 15 years, according to
correspondence with the SEC in which GE sought to block the
vote. Former  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  Chief Executive Officer  Andrea Jung  and Young & Rubicam Inc. ex-CEO Ann Fudge would be the
first to feel its effects, GE said.  “The proposal is a thinly veiled attempt to question the
competence and business judgment of Ms. Jung and Ms. Fudge, and
to remove them from the board” in violation of SEC rules,
Ronald Mueller, an attorney for Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE
at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, wrote in a letter to regulators.  The messages offer a glimpse of the agenda for GE’s April
24 annual meeting in New Orleans weeks before proxy materials
are mailed. GE received permission to exclude at least five
propositions, including two duplicating a motion limiting
executive pay on which it already intended to allow a vote.  “Andrea Jung and Ann Fudge are outstanding directors and
GE is privileged to have them on our board,”  Seth Martin , a
company spokesman, said today. GE doesn’t comment on its proxy
before it’s distributed, and Jung and Fudge weren’t available to
comment on the shareholder proposal, Martin said.  Shareholder’s Push  Dennis Rocheleau, GE’s retired labor-relations manager,
proposed the board term limits. Rocheleau advanced proposals in
2008 and 2009 that GE said targeted Jung and Fudge, and
criticized them in comments at annual meetings between 2008 and
2012, Mueller wrote in his Dec. 18 letter to the SEC.  Jung, 54, who joined GE’s board in 1998, stepped down as
CEO of Avon last year after a tenure that encompassed slumping
earnings, a foreign-bribery scandal and a takeover attempt.
Fudge, 61, a member since 1999, left Young & Rubicam in 2006
after a stint marked by client losses.  “I harbor no ‘animus’ toward Director Fudge or Director
Jung,” Rocheleau wrote in a Jan. 17 letter to the SEC. “What
my proposal represents is simply an earnest effort to enhance
corporate governance in a seriously underperforming major
corporation.”  GE tumbled 37 percent from the end of 2007 through
yesterday,  trailing  the 3 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. The shares rose 0.2 percent today to $23.26 at the
close in  New York , extending their year-to-date gain to 11
percent to outpace the S&P 500’s 5.4 percent climb.  90 Percent  Jung and Fudge both won election at last year’s annual
meeting with more than 90 percent of the votes cast, including
abstentions, according to a SEC filing in April 2012.  “We do not believe that GE may omit the proposal from its
proxy materials,” Adam Turk, an SEC attorney, wrote GE on Jan.
30 in response to the company’s efforts to bar a vote on term
limits. Florence Harmon, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the SEC’s decisions regarding GE.  GE’s 23-member board is led by Chairman and CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  and has 19 directors who don’t work for the company,
including Jung and Fudge. The longest-serving member is Douglas
Warner, the former JPMorgan & Co. chairman, who was first
elected in 1992. Under the proposal going to a vote, directors
elected in 2014 or later would have a 10-year term limit.  ‘More Complex’  “Over time, relationships among board members get more
intertwined and more complex,” Lev Janashvili, managing
director at corporate-governance researcher GMI Ratings, said in
an interview. “Independence is not an honorific distinction
that cannot be removed once conferred.”  The SEC also denied GE’s request for permission to block an
item from appearing on its proxy statement that would require
two nominees for each board seat, according to a letter on its
website.  “As far as the SEC is concerned, in 99 percent of cases
these letters are where it stops and the company acknowledges it
lost and has to include them,” Robert McCormick, chief policy
officer at  Glass Lewis  & Co, a San Francisco-based proxy
advisory firm, said of the proposals.  GE’s proxy  will include  a shareholder proposal to eliminate
stock option grants and bonuses for executives, limiting
compensation to salary increases linked to annual profits, the
company said in a Dec. 18 letter to the SEC.  Regulators cited that proposal in Jan. 17 and Jan. 23
replies allowing GE to exclude propositions put forth by the
Communications Workers of America Employee Pension Fund and the
AFL-CIO Reserve Fund. Those proposals were similar, GE said.  Nuclear Fuel  The company also won approval to block another item seeking
to require a report on the safety of spent nuclear fuel stored
at GE-designed reactors because two of the three shareholders
proposing it didn’t own sufficient stock, and the last submitted
her proposal after the company’s Nov. 14 deadline.  GE said in an  SEC filing  last week that it reduced the
threshold for shareholders to call a special meeting to 10
percent from 20 percent.  The deadline for shareholders to submit business for
consideration at next year’s meeting is being moved earlier by
more than two months, GE said. Glass Lewis’s McCormick said that
kind of shift isn’t a widespread practice.  “With the advance notice deadline, the further they are in
advance, the more of a burden they create for shareholders,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 