-- GE Sues Whirlpool Over Claims It Fixed Compressor Prices
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-02-21T21:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/ge-sues-whirlpool-over-claims-it-fixed-prices-of-compressors-1-.html
General Electric Co. sued  Whirlpool
Corp. (WHR)  accusing the company of conspiring to fix prices for
refrigerant compressors sold in the U.S. and elsewhere.  GE, in a complaint filed Feb. 15 in federal court in
Louisville,  Kentucky , claims that as early as January 1996
Whirlpool and other defendants including Household Compressors
Holding SpA of Italy restrained competition in the manufacturing
and sale of the compressors, which in turn raised prices for
consumers.  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE “has been a target and a
victim of the conspirators’ cartel,” according to the
complaint. GE seeks unspecified damages, as well as a court
order barring violations of antitrust law.  GE has paid “supra-competitive prices for compressors and
has been deprived of innovation that would have resulted in
increased efficiency, as well as increased sales and profits, in
its sales of refrigerators and other refrigeration equipment,”
according to the complaint.  The devices at issue regulate the compression and expansion
of refrigerant gas, transferring heat and producing a cooling
effect in refrigeration products including household
refrigerators, according to the complaint.  Whirlpool, based in  Benton Harbor , Michigan, makes and
markets major home appliances. Whirlpool’s compressor unit is
named Embraco, according to the complaint, and GE names Embraco
North America as a defendant in the case.  Rosangela Santos, an Embraco spokeswoman, said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement that the company is examining the lawsuit
and “does not believe that it has caused any harm to GE.”  The case is  General Electric Co. (GE)  v. Whirlpool Corp., 13-
cv-00213, Western District of Kentucky (Louisville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  