-- Gerdau Quarterly Profit Misses Estimates on U.S. Sales
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-21T21:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/gerdau-quarterly-profit-misses-estimates-on-u-s-sales.html
Gerdau SA (GGBR4) , Latin America’s largest
steelmaker, reported fourth-quarter profit that plunged 70
percent and missed analysts’ estimates after sales declined at
its North American unit. The company cut its investment plan.  Net income dropped to 131 million reais ($66.8 million)
from 438.8 million reais in the year-earlier period, the Porto
Alegre, Brazil-based company said today in a  statement . Gerdau
was expected to post a 230.6 million-real profit excluding
items, the  average of seven  analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Steelmakers from Brazil to  Europe  are facing declining
profits as excess capacity and higher operating costs erode
margins. Gerdau’s earnings were the lowest in more than three
years and follow the fourth consecutive loss posted by rival
 Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5)  earlier this week.  “The potential recovery in North America remains
blurred,” Brasil Plural CCTVM analysts Renato Antunes and
Aristoteles Nogueira said in a note to clients today.  Net sales declined 1 percent to 8.99 billion reais in the
quarter. The volume of shipments from Gerdau’s North American
unit, which accounts for about a third of revenue, declined 15
percent, while sales volumes in Brazil fell 6 percent.  Reduced Investments  Gerdau, which in November put its expansion plan under
review because of fluctuations in the global economy, said today
that it cut investments for the 2013-2017 period to 8.5 billion
reais. That’s an 18 percent reduction from its previous plan of
10.3 billion reais.  The company’s profit is set to recover this year as
 Brazil ’s growth recovers and the U.S. economy expands, Chief
Executive Officer Andre Gerdau Johannpeter told reporters on a
conference call today.  “The result of the fourth quarter of 2012 doesn’t
represent a trend for the performance of Gerdau in 2013,” he
said. “The positive growth outlook combined with operational
enhancements should improve profitability.”  Gerdau  rose  2.8 percent to 16.14 reais at the close in Sao
Paulo today, the first increase in six days. The stock has
declined 8.9 percent in the past 12 months, less than the 15
percent decline in Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa  index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  