-- Rinehart Coal Mine Draws Environmentalists’ Opposition
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-02-21T04:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/gina-rinehart-coal-mine-draws-opposition-from-environmentalists.html
Gina Rinehart ,  Asia ’s richest woman,
faces opposition from environmentalists who say they filed legal
action to block her plans to build a $10 billion coal mine, port
and rail project in  Australia  with GVK Group.  Coast and Country Association of Qld Inc. challenged the
state government’s proposed approval of what would be the
biggest mine in Queensland, arguing it will damage the
environment and contribute to  climate change , the group said in
an e-mailed release. A copy of the court filing wasn’t
immediately available.  “This mine is another monster for Queensland,” Derec
Davies, a spokesman for Coast and Country, said in the
statement. “Not much is known about its impacts on water.”  The action against the project, majority owned by Indian
billionaire GV Krishna Reddy’s GVK Group, adds to efforts by
environmentalists to disrupt production of coal in Australia,
the world’s biggest source of the commodity.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  last
year defeated a challenge to its Wandoan coal mine in
Queensland, which opponents said threatens the Great Barrier
Reef because the coal will be exported and burned and add to
global warming.  Coast and Country’s lawyers sent a notice of the objection
yesterday to Hancock Coal, according to a copy provided to
 Bloomberg News . Mark Bickerton, a spokesman at Rinehart’s
Hancock Prospecting Pty, which controls Hancock Coal, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment on the
environmentalists’ objections.  Earlier Case  Carmel MacDonald, president of the Land Court of
Queensland, dismissed the objections to Xstrata’s project in
March, saying opponents failed to prove the mine would cause
environmental harm.  Davies said in a phone interview his group’s challenge
differs from the previous attempt because it’s willing to accept
a loss at the lower court and appeal the decision.  “We’re prepared to go as far as we have to,” he said.  The proposed Hancock GVK project will be almost double the
size of Queensland’s current biggest  coal mine  and will produce
about 30 million metric tons of coal a year, Davies said.  GVK agreed in September 2011 to pay $1.26 billion for a 79
percent stake in Hancock Prospecting’s Alpha and Alpha West,
Kevin’s Corner, railway and port projects. Federal and state
approvals for the proposed coal mine helped boost debt funding
and stake talks with investors, the Indian developer said in
October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  