-- Go-Ahead CEO Says U.K. Government Must End Rail-Tender Logjam
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-02-21T10:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/go-ahead-ceo-says-u-k-government-must-end-rail-tender-logjam.html
Go-Ahead Group Plc (GOG) , Britain’s top
rail company by passenger numbers, said the government should
issue a franchising timetable and resume contract awards to
clear a logjam caused by the discredited West Coast tender.  “In the next couple of months they need to set out the
program for the franchising timetable, which franchises are
coming up and when,” Chief Executive Officer  David Brown  said in
a phone interview after reporting sluggish first-half profit.  Contracts that were close to being handed out before the
state-back probe, including Thameslink, a route in southeast
 England  for which Newcastle upon Tyne-based Go-Ahead was a
shortlisted bidder, should go out to tender this year, he said.  Britain’s franchising system, under which companies have
competed for routes since the rail network was privatized in the
1990s, was suspended after flaws were detected in the award of
the West Coast line to  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  ahead of the incumbent,
 Richard Branson ’s Virgin Trains. A report into the system from
Eurostar Group Ltd. Chairman  Richard Brown , published on Jan.
10, recommended that the process resume with some modifications.  Go-Ahead’s net income for the six months ended Dec. 29 was
little changed at 26.9 million pounds ($41 million), it said in
a statement today, with operating profit flat at 51.2 million
pounds and sales 8.1 percent higher at 1.3 billion pounds.  Brown is seeking higher returns from its bus unit as the
franchising holdup clouds the outlook for the rail sector.  Operating income from buses should meet the 100 million-
pound target set for fiscal year 2016 as the company replaces
cash ticketing with pay-in-advance smart cards and keeps costs
down, the CEO said. The division’s operating profit gained 5.4
percent in the first half to 37.1 million pounds.  The stock traded 0.9 percent lower as of 9:59 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  