-- Godo Plans to Cut Costs as Higher Power Bills Hurt Steelmakers
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2013-02-21T01:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/godo-plans-to-cut-costs-as-higher-power-bills-hurt-steelmakers.html
Godo Steel Ltd. (5410) , Japan’s second-
biggest producer of steel from scrap iron, plans to cut costs by
using lower-grade scrap and trimming transport expenses to
counter higher power bills.  The Osaka-based steelmaker aims to save 2 billion yen
($21.4 million) by October 2014, Chief Executive Officer
Katsutoshi Kurikawa said in an interview in  Tokyo .  “While higher costs from electricity bills aren’t an
immediate threat to the industry, the issue could become a
’life-or-death matter’ in the long-term,” said Kurikawa, who
also chairs the Non-Integrated Steel Producers’ Association,
which represent more than 30 operators of electric arc mills
that recycle scrap steel. “We must make efforts to cut costs.”  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) , which supplies Japan’s second-
biggest metropolitan area, is seeking to raise corporate
electricity charges by 19 percent from April. The shutting of
most of Japan’s nuclear reactors after the Fukushima disaster in
March 2011 has forced utilities to turn to higher-cost
alternative energy sources.  Godo Steel owns steelworks in western Japan’s Osaka and
Himeji cities, where  Kansai Electric  supplies electricity, and
Eastern Japan’s Funabashi city, serviced by Tokyo Electric Power
Co., the operator of the Fukushima nuclear plant. Tepco as the
Tokyo-based utility is known, raised corporate electricity rates
by 16.7 percent from April last year before cutting them to 14.9
percent in September.  The steelmaker last month said it will probably earn net
income of 1 billion yen for the financial year ending March 31,
down 59 percent in the same period a year earlier.  Falling Demand  Godo Steel fell 1.6 percent to 181 yen as of 9:17 a.m. on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange, paring its gain this year to 6.4
percent. The stock was 15 percent owned by Nippon Steel Corp. as
of the end of March, before the shareholder merged with Sumitomo
Metal Industries Ltd. to form  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal
Corp. (5401) , according to the company’s website.  The company intends to expand sales in  Asia  outside Japan
as domestic steel demand is forecast to continue falling after
the country’s construction spending almost halved over the past
20 years, Kurikawa said in the Feb. 13 interview. It produces
about 200,000 metric tons to 300,000 tons of billet, semi-
processed steel, a year for exports to countries, including
 Vietnam  and  South Korea , he said.  While the yen’s depreciation would benefit Godo by making
its products more competitive overseas, the company will need to
take into account costs on scrap steel and electricity when it
boosts exports, Kurikawa said. The yen, which last week weakened
as low as 94.46 yen to the dollar, the lowest since May 2010,
traded at 93.77 yen as of 9:23 a.m. in Tokyo.  Japan ’s nine industry groups, including the non-integrated
steelmakers’ association, last month urged the nation’s trade
ministry to take measures, including subsidies and resumption of
idled nuclear plants to alleviate cost increases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  