-- Goodman Plans A$500 Million of Acquisitions to Boost Assets
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-02-21T21:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/goodman-plans-a-500-million-of-acquisitions-to-boost-assets.html
Goodman Group (GMG) , the world’s second-
biggest industrial property manager by market value, plans to
spend A$500 million ($512 million) on acquisitions to boost its
assets over the next year.  The company is also planning to develop as much as A$2.2
billion of projects, which it will own jointly with partners
globally, Chief Executive Officer Greg Goodman said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  “There may be some assets acquired in the U.S., but
primarily in  Asia , Australia and  Europe ,” Goodman said. “It’s
pretty hard to go past Asia for flat out growth and lack of
supply. Asia’s our No. 1 location.”  The company, which managed A$21 billion of properties as of
Dec. 31, announced joint ventures in  Brazil ,  North America  and
 Japan  in the last three months of 2012, helping push
developments to more than A$11 billion around the world. The
growth of e-commerce and a lack of modern industrial properties
will drive demand for space worldwide, broker CBRE Group Inc.
said in a report in December.  Goodman raised A$400 million for its entry into Brazil in
partnership with Sao Paulo-based developer WTorre Properties SA,
and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board invested $400
million in the North American partnership. The Abu Dhabi
Investment Council, a government-controlled  fund manager ,
invested $250 million in the Japanese venture.  ‘Bigger Spade’  “Goodman is playing with a much bigger spade than most of
its peers, with a strong balance sheet, large and active capital
partners, international tenants, and a truly global platform,”
Lou Pirenc, Sydney-based analyst at Morgan Stanley, who has an
overweight rating on the stock, said in an e-mailed report
yesterday. “The market is still underestimating the earnings
growth this can deliver.”  The Sydney-based company reported yesterday a 16 percent
increase in first-half operating  profit  as fees from assets
under management rose and development revenue improved.  The  stock  climbed 32 percent in the past year, twice the 16
percent in the S&P/ASX 200 Index.  In Brazil, Goodman will seek capital partners toward the
end of 2013 to invest in the completed warehouses, worth $1.1
billion, from the venture with WTorre, he said. In Japan, the
company will focus on the $1 billion of developments it’s
undertaking with the Abu Dhabi fund and doesn’t intend to invest
further there, he said.  Partnering Approach  “Our partnering approach with our big capital partners is
still very much alive and well,” Goodman said.  In the U.S., high-quality industrial space accounted for
less than 20 percent of all space as of the third quarter of
2012, while in China and  Australia , new space were pre-committed
or occupied soon after completion, Los Angeles-based CBRE said.  Goodman  forecast  operating earnings of 32.3 cents a share
for the year ending June 30, up 6 percent from the previous
year. The company cited rising rental returns, need for space
from e-commerce and demand for stable yields from global pension
and sovereign wealth funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  