-- Grassley Demands Details on Lew’s NYU Loans Before Vote
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-02-21T05:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/grassley-demands-details-on-lew-s-nyu-loans-before-vote.html
U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley  said
he wants more details on loans Jack Lew received while working
at  New York University  before the Senate Finance Committee votes
on whether to confirm the Treasury secretary-nominee.  Grassley, a committee member, yesterday criticized Lew for
a “lack of knowledge or a poor memory of some of the perks he
received” while working at NYU and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Grassley had
asked Lew to respond in writing to questions about a loan from
NYU that the Iowa Republican said included $1.4 million in 2002,
$748,000 in 2003, $698,000 in 2004 and $673,000 in 2005.  Lew, President  Barack Obama ’s pick to lead the Treasury
Department, was questioned by committee members at a Feb. 13
confirmation hearing and provided additional information in
writing afterward. Grassley called the written answers
“unsatisfactory,” and asked for more information before the
panel votes on sending the nomination to the Senate floor.  White House spokesman  Eric Schultz  said in an e-mail
yesterday that Lew “has been fully responsive to this committee
to an unprecedented degree, providing written responses to 444
questions over the last five days.”  “This follows three separate rounds of questions answered
prior to his hearing, his release to the committee of six years
of tax returns, a 3.5-hour confirmation hearing and his
participation in personal one-on-one meetings with 41 senators
over the course of two weeks,” Schultz said.  China Currency  In the written answers to Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of
Utah obtained by  Bloomberg News , Lew said he would press China
to adopt a “market-determined” exchange rate. Lew said he
would push China to “level the playing field for our workers
and firms, and support a sustained shift to domestic
consumption-led growth in China.”  Lew cited “progress” in China, including a 15 percent
gain in the  yuan  against the dollar in real terms since June
2010 and a decline in the current-account surplus from a peak of
more than 10 percent of gross domestic product to less than 3
percent. Still, he said, “more progress is needed.”  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and finance
committee chairman, has said a vote on Lew’s nomination would
likely occur after the Senate returns from this week’s recess.
It would then go to the full Senate, and Baucus said he expected
Lew to be confirmed.  Lew has also been pressed by Grassley about a personal
investment in a Cayman Islands-based fund. During last week’s
hearing, Lew said that he wasn’t initially aware the fund was in
the Cayman Islands. He also said he lost money when he sold the
holding.  Sean Neary, a spokesman for Baucus, said Lew had “been
open and honest,” and responded to panel members’ questions in
a timely fashion.  “The confirmation process continues to move forward,”
Neary said in an e-mail. “All members are entitled to ask Mr.
Lew follow-up questions.”  Lew, Obama’s former chief of staff and former director of
the White House Office of Management and Budget, will replace
former Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  if confirmed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  