-- Gritty ‘Chorus Line’; Glamorous ‘Medea’ on London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-02-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/gritty-chorus-line-glamorous-medea-on-london-stage.html
Social critique and leotards: It’s a
surprising mix.  The 1975 hit musical “A Chorus Line” has its first major
West End revival at the London Palladium, and the grit at the
heart of the show comes across more clearly than ever.  A group of 28 hopefuls is auditioning to be in the chorus
of an unnamed Broadway musical. Gradually their numbers are
whittled down. Only eight will be chosen.  The battle-scarred wannabes tell their stories, which are
loosely based on real-life interviews, in songs (by Marvin Hamlisch) and monologues.  Sheila (a superb Leigh Zimmerman), impossibly leggy and
tough as nails, reveals cracks in her facade as she tells how a
broken home drove her to the stage in “At the Ballet.”  Cassie (Scarlett Strallen) failed miserably in  California 
and needs a job. Diana (Victoria Hamilton-Barritt in show-
stopping form) tells how she had to fight a spiteful teacher in
“Nothing.”  They’re all battling to become mere faceless members of the
chorus. Under the fixed smiles, they’re all frightened. Their
chosen job market has a habit of chewing them up and spitting
them out. What will they do when they can’t hoof anymore?  As employers cut back around us, those fears will sound
familiar to anyone outside the world of tights and tap shoes.
The critique of the free market is all the sharper for its
subtlety and sugar coating.  Bob Avian, who co-choreographed the original Broadway
production, directs the show (in period 1975 costumes) with
flair. The dancing is fluid, the bare-box stage full of energy.  A couple of the actors aren’t as sparky as their
colleagues, and it feels a mistake for the two-hour show not to
have an interval. Still, the hit tunes work their magic. The
grit is surprising and compelling. Rating: ****.  ENO’s ‘Medea’  There’s another surprise at English National Opera, where
Charpentier’s opera “Medea” receives its first U.K. production,
320 years after its premiere.  It turns out to be a wonderful stage vehicle. (There’s an
excellent 1995 recording with Lorraine Hunt Lieberson which had
already shown the music to be gorgeous.)  The plot is based on the familiar Greek legend. The
sorceress Medea works a terrible vengeance on Jason, her
unfaithful warrior lover. She kills their little sons, even
though she adores them, to punish him.  Mirrored Room  David McVicar  serves the piece up beautifully. He sets the
action during World War II, in a mirrored room within an elegant
rococo palace (sets by Bunny Christie), and incorporates the
four ballet sequences with style.  When Cupid (an excellent Aoife O’Sullivan) arrives for the
Act 2 masque in a large aircraft decorated in red glitter, the
production reaches amusing heights of spectacle.  A few moments don’t quite hit the target. When Medea calls
up demons from hell to assist her revenge, the resulting ballet
of vicious female wraiths fails to generate the expected chills.  Conductor Christian Curnyn doesn’t master all of the
rhythmic complexities of the score, partly because of the small
sound of the reduced orchestra in such a large auditorium.  When Sarah Connolly (Medea) is on stage, none of it
matters. Her powerhouse performance is a marvel of restraint and
release. Katherine Manley (Creusa) and Brindley Sherratt (her
father Creon) offer excellent support too.  If the role of Jason feels a little high for tenor Jeffrey
Francis, he creates a complex portrait of a conflicted man.  Rating: ****.  “A Chorus Line” is at the London Palladium. Information:
 http://www.achoruslinelondon.com  +44-844-412-2957.  “Medea” is at English National Opera. Information:
 http://www.eno.org  or +44-20-7845-9300.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jason Harper 
on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech and  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris
culture.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 