-- Libor-Tied Note Sales Jump as U.S. Investors Expect Rate Rise
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-02-21T18:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/libor-tied-note-sales-jump-as-u-s-investors-expect-rate-rise.html
U.S. investors have bought $272.2
million of structured notes tied to the London interbank offered
rate this month, the most since August, as investors prepare for
the  Federal Reserve  to eventually begin lifting benchmark rates.  Morgan Stanley issued $250 million of two-year notes tied
to three-month U.S. dollar Libor, the largest such offering in
Bloomberg data going back to 2010. The securities, sold Feb. 13,
yield 1.3 percent the first year, then 0.75 percent more than
Libor with a 5 percent annual cap, according to a  prospectus 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  reiterated in January
that it would keep the federal funds effective rate between zero
and 0.25 percent as long as inflation isn’t forecast to rise to
more than 2.5 percent and unemployment stays above 6.5 percent.
The five-year U.S. breakeven rate, which measures expectations
of inflation, has risen to 2.32 percent from 2.07 percent on
Jan. 1.  “I don’t think that most investors are anticipating Libor
will be much higher come two years from now, but many investors
do believe that once the Fed passes the mid-2015 date, that
Libor could rise slowly,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. The
benchmark rate is “very correlated” to dollar Libor, the rate
that banks say they pay to borrow from each other, he said.  Three-month dollar Libor this year has dropped to 0.288
percent from 0.306 percent on Dec. 31. U.S. investors bought
$1.6 billion of notes tied to the benchmark last year, 41
percent less than in 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Changing Yield  All the Libor-tied notes sold this year yield a percentage
above the rate, after paying an initial fixed coupon, Bloomberg
data show. Morgan Stanley leads all banks with $276 million of
sales of such securities, followed by Royal Bank of Canada with
$130.1 million of volume.  Issuance of notes that lock investors into set rates has
declined this year, Bloomberg data show. Banks sold $153.8
million of step-up callable securities in January, half of last
year’s monthly average. The bonds typically have maturities
between 10 and 20 years, with the issuer holding an option to
call them on certain dates.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  