-- Microsoft Joins Oracle as Computing Companies Fight Patent Suits
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-02-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/microsoft-joins-oracle-to-defend-software-patents-against-google.html
The top lawyers for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  say a U.S. debate over rampant patent
litigation could endanger businesses that rely on such legal
protections for their innovative software.  Companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  have said
too many software patents are being used primarily to generate
lawsuits instead of contributing to new products and services.
While agreeing on that point, Microsoft, the world’s biggest
software maker, and Oracle say some demands for change go too
far in calling for strict limits or even the elimination of
patents on software.  “My biggest concern, and the concern of many other
software companies, is that there’s going to be a move to
somehow reduce or diminish protection for software,” Oracle
General Counsel Dorian Daley said in an interview in  Washington 
yesterday. “There doesn’t seem to be any rational reason for
doing that.”  Daley and her counterpart at Microsoft,  Brad Smith , joined
software and manufacturing executives  meeting  yesterday with
lawmakers and congressional staff members to defend patents for
computer programs.  “We have a patent system that has important strengths but
it also has some significant weaknesses,” Smith said in the
same interview. “We need to fix what’s broken but be careful so
we don’t break what’s working. It’s all about striking the right
balance.”  Yesterday’s  Capitol Hill  session was the latest in a series
of gatherings across the country as companies that create, sell
or use software programs debate how Congress or the U.S. Patent
and  Trademark Office  should respond to the rise of patent
litigation.  Serial Lawsuits  Large and small companies are united in their ire at so-
called patent assertion entities, sometimes derided as
“trolls,” that claim to have invented aspects of widely used
technologies like online shopping and file lawsuits seeking
royalties from dozens or even hundreds of companies.  Of the more than 5,600 patent-infringement lawsuits filed
in the U.S. last year, more than 12 percent were filed by just
10 companies over software, according to Bloomberg Law data.  In a Feb. 1 interview, Suzanne Michel, Google’s senior
patent counsel, said there are “fundamental problems with
software patents as they are being allowed today” with too many
that are broad or vaguely worded.  “This is not about opposing all software patents; this is
opposing a certain type of software patent,” she said. “Google
is advocating for really smarter software patents that are good
for innovation.”  Loser Pays  Google, Microsoft and Oracle agree on some approaches, such
as a proposal to make the loser in a patent lawsuit pay the
winner’s legal fees. They also support greater transparency at
the patent office, more clearly identifying the real owner of a
patent and requiring applicants to provide more specific
information about their inventions.  Smith said that, by April 1, Microsoft will  post 
information on the patents it owns and called on other companies
to do the same.  Microsoft, Oracle and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
are among companies saying courts and the patent office are
making progress as they implement a 2011 law that revised
procedures for reviewing patents and curtailed some litigation.  Those proposals alone don’t go far enough to help smaller
companies that can’t afford to wait for patent-law improvements
to work their way through the system, said Alan Schoenbaum,
general counsel of  Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX) , a provider of Web-
based computing.  Extracting Money  “The problem is there are a dozen years of issued patents,
software patents that are in play that are being acquired by
patent assertion entities, and lawsuits are being filed daily
against small businesses with the intent to extract money,”
Schoenbaum said in an interview. “There are patents that never
should have been issued, and the defendants don’t have the money
or adequate resources to defend themselves to take advantage of
the new laws.”  Schoenbaum said Congress needs to exempt end users of
products from liability. Many of the serial lawsuits target
businesses using software or other products, rather than the
developers or manufacturers.  Schoenbaum, whose San Antonio-based company is working on
an open-source platform for the use of remote servers to store
data, said patents do more harm than good.  Vulnerable Projects  “These open source projects are vulnerable to patent
trolls,” he said. “They are the next wave of innovation in our
country.”  Daley, of  Redwood City , California-based Oracle, said
software products should be eligible for legal protection.  “The all-software-should-be-free model doesn’t work when
you are trying to reap a financial benefit,” Daley said.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, which
specializes in  patent law , is considering a case that could
determine when computer programs are eligible for legal
protection.  The patent office is holding meetings on possible changes
to the way it handles applications for software programs, and is
considering rules requiring more disclosure about the “real
party in interest” in patents and applications.  “In a highly innovative industry, it’s natural you’re
going to have litigation,” Daley said. “What we’re trying to
do is eliminate that unreasonable, parasitic litigation and
encourage licensing rather than litigation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  