-- Improved Flu Vaccine Needed for Elderly as Benefit Drops
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-02-21T18:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/improved-flu-vaccine-needed-for-elderly-as-benefit-drops.html
A more effective  flu vaccine  is
needed for the elderly because of their diminished ability to
fight off the illness and increased risk of dying from the
infection, U.S. health authorities said.  The effectiveness of this year’s flu vaccine fell to 56
percent as of this month, down from 62 percent reported last
month by the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in
Atlanta. The shot was least helpful in people 65 and older, who
accounted for more than half of all flu-related
hospitalizations, the most since the 2005 to 2006 flu season, as
well as the largest number of deaths, the CDC  reported  today.  “The older you get, the less potent is your immune
response,”  Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute of
Allergy and  Infectious Diseases , said in a telephone interview.
“This is just a fact of physiological life in the immune
system.”  In those 65 and older, the flu vaccine only offered 27
percent effectiveness, according to today’s  report  from the
Atlanta-based CDC.  Flu and pneumonia were the cause of 9.1 percent of all
deaths in the U.S. for the week ending Feb. 9, down from a high
of 9.9 percent of all deaths the week ending Jan. 19. The  peak 
of the flu season appears to be over in the south and east
regions of the U.S., though the number of new cases has risen in
the west, according to the CDC report.  The vaccine’s low effectiveness among elderly hasn’t
prevented them from being the most highly vaccinated group in
the country. According to the CDC report, 71 percent of people
65 and older were vaccinated as of last month. The CDC
 recommends  vaccinations for all people older than 6 months.  “Better vaccines, especially for seniors, are needed,”
the CDC said in a statement announcing the data.  Improving Vaccines  There are several ways that flu vaccines could be improved
for the elderly, Fauci said. The first is to increase the dose,
boosting the immune response. That could mean a sorer injection
site because of the larger amount of vaccine given, but with
little other negative side effects.  The second is to add an  adjuvant , a substance that boosts a
vaccine’s potency, as is done in  Europe . Some vaccines have
aluminum salts or gels added to them, which stimulates a better
response in the body. Vaccines for hepatitis and human
papillomavirus, or HCV, contain adjuvants, according to the CDC.  The adjuvants can carry toxic side effects, though they are
rare, and haven’t stopped their use overseas, Fauci said.
“There have been some toxic side effects, though not very much
at all because they’ve given tens of millions of times in
Europe,” he said.  The third is to simply design better vaccines.  “Many of us in the field of infectious diseases feel we
haven’t yet optimized the positive potential of the influenza
vaccine as we have other vaccines,” Fauci said. That could mean
better identifying strains of flu to put in the vaccine, or
including more of them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  