-- India Seen Boosting Gold Tax for Second Time to Cut Deficit
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-02-21T12:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/india-seen-boosting-gold-import-duty-second-time-to-cut-deficit.html
India , the world’s biggest gold
buyer, may increase  import taxes  for a second time this year as
it seeks to narrow a widening current-account deficit, curbing
demand for bullion in jewelry and investment.  “There’s a feeling that the government is looking at
increasing the duty again, maybe to 8 percent,” said Bachhraj Bamalwa, chairman of the  All India Gem & Jewellery Trade
Federation . “The industry fears they may re-impose the excise
tax, which was scrapped last year.” The levy is now 6 percent.  India will present its annual budget on Feb. 28. Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram is seeking to curb the spending
deficit, partly by increasing taxes. The government may also
increase import tariffs on cooking oils, according to the
Solvent Extractors’ Association of India. Gold rallied for a
12th year in 2012 as investors and central banks boosted
purchases, forcing India to triple the import duty.  “We’re keeping our fingers crossed as any change will be
bad for the industry,” said Bamalwa. “We’ll be happy if the
status quo is maintained.” A further increase in the levy may
cut imports as much as 20 percent this year from 860 metric tons
in 2012, he said by phone from Kolkata.  D.S. Malik, spokesman at the  finance ministry  in  New Delhi ,
declined to comment on the tax changes today.  Jewelers’ Strike  Gold demand for jewelry and investment in India fell to
864.2 tons in 2012, the second straight year of decline, after
consumption was curbed by a jewelers’ strike for three weeks to
protest a 1 percent excise duty on non-branded ornaments. While
the excise duty was later scrapped, the shutdown cost the
industry about 200 billion rupees ($3.7 billion) in revenue,
according to the jewelers’ federation.  Immediate-delivery bullion fell as much as 0.6 percent to
$1,555.55 an ounce, the lowest price since July 12, and was at
$1,573.37 at 5:31 p.m. in Mumbai. The metal has fallen 6.1
percent this year. Gold for April delivery dropped as much as
1.1 percent to 29,263 rupees per 10 grams on the Multi Commodity
Exchange of India Ltd., the lowest price since July.  About 80 percent of the current-account deficit, the widest
among the biggest emerging economies, is due to gold imports,
according to the  Reserve Bank of India . Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao , who cut the benchmark  interest rate  by 25 basis points
last month to 7.75 percent in the first reduction since April,
has cited budget and current-account deficits among those
constraining further cuts in borrowing costs.  Encourage Smuggling  India should recycle gold scrap, impose export obligations
on bulk purchasers and take “fiscal measures” to curb imports
and domestic demand, a panel set up by the central bank to study
issues related to imports and companies lending against the
metal said in a report this month.  “By increasing the duty you are going to encourage
smuggling,” Monal Thakkar, president of Amrapali Group, an
importer, said by phone from Ahmedabad. “India will either
remain number one or number two importer.”  Buying gold is considered auspicious in India during
religious festivals and weddings. The festivals start in August
and end in November, and are followed by the wedding season.  Imports surged 62 percent to 255 tons in the fourth quarter
of 2012 on expectations of higher  import duties  and on demand
for marriages and festivals, the World Gold Council said Feb.
14. Purchases jumped 33 percent to 80 tons in January as traders
rushed to beat the tax increase, Bamalwa said.  “You cannot drive away a habit that has been there for
decades together,” said Chirag Mehta,  fund manager  at  Quantum
Asset Management Co. . “You have to get people off the obsession
by getting gold consumption” into products such as exchange-
traded funds, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  