-- ING Australia May Sell Record $2.1 Billion in Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-22T06:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/ing-australia-may-sell-record-2-1-billion-mortgage-backed-bonds.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Australian unit may
sell as much as A$2 billion ($2.05 billion) in bonds backed by
home loans this year, the most since it began issuing the
securities in 2010.  ING Bank (Australia) Ltd., the Dutch financial firm’s only
online banking unit outside  Europe , will raise the cash through
two offerings to fund loans in the A$1.1 trillion home mortgage
market, Chief Executive Officer Vaughn Richtor said.  Australia’s fifth-largest home lender, which trades under
the ING Direct brand in the country, is turning to mortgage-
backed securities to diversify away from deposits and wholesale
funding. Costs for the bonds have dropped to the lowest since
the global financial crisis as investors favor higher-yielding
assets amid the lowest financial debt spreads in more than four
years.  “For a bank that is focused on mortgages like us, it is a
way of diversifying our funding,” Richtor, 57, said in an
interview in Sydney yesterday. “We would hope to do a couple of
issues this year between A$500 million to A$1 billion each.”  ING Bank  Australia ’s deposits now make up the largest
proportion of its funding. The lender has A$26 billion in
deposits, according to data on its website.  The bank has raised A$4.25 billion from mortgage-backed
bonds since October 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It issued A$1.8 billion of the securities in 2012,
the most in a calendar year.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s largest
lender, today priced the biggest tranche of its almost A$2.54
billion sale of mortgage bonds at 80 basis points more than the
bank bill swap rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the tightest spread on similar-maturity RMBS since
November 2007, the data show.  Mix Maturity  Banks are mixing their funding sources and tenure after the
global financial crisis choked the wholesale term debt market.
The top Australian banks’ reliance on wholesale funding markets
has fallen to 40 percent from more than half three years ago as
households save at close to the highest rate in a quarter
century, Reserve Bank of Australia data show.  “You also want diversity in maturity of funding,” Richtor
said. Mortgage-backed securities tend to carry a three- to five-
year tenure, while most term deposits mature in three to 12
months, according to central bank figures.  Home Loans  The increase in savings has reduced demand for mortgages,
with home loans outstanding expanding at the weakest pace since
1977 in December, central bank data show. Home-loan approvals
fell in December for a third month and the proportion of first-
home buyers slumped to the lowest in more than eight years, the
country’s statistics bureau said on Feb. 11.  “There isn’t any sign of a pickup,” Richtor said.
“Mortgage demand will continue to remain weak. Since the
financial crisis people are being a lot more conservative.”  Richtor started the Australian online bank in 1999 and
remained with it till 2006. He returned to the role last year
after stints abroad including as head of ING’s banking
operations in Asia.  ING is  selling assets  after receiving a 10 billion-euro
($13.3 billion) bailout by the Dutch state in 2008 following a
plunge in the value of subprime mortgages held by its U.S. unit.
It sold its U.S. online bank in 2011 and offloaded its Canadian
and U.K. units last year. Besides Australia, it now has Internet
banks in  France ,  Germany ,  Italy  and Spain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  