-- Linn to Buy Berry for $2.42 Billion to Increase Crude
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-02-21T21:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/linn-energy-to-buy-berry-for-2-42-billion-to-increase-liquids.html
Linn Energy LLC (LINE) , which buys older
oil and natural gas fields, agreed to purchase  Berry Petroleum
Co. (BRY)  for $2.42 billion in stock to increase its proved reserves
by 34 percent.  Berry shareholders will get 1.25 shares of publicly traded
 LinnCo LLC (LNCO) , a corporation whose only assets are units of Linn
Energy, according to a joint statement released today. That
values Berry at $46.24 a share, a 20 percent premium to
yesterday’s closing price. LinnCo will sell the Berry assets to
Linn Energy in exchange for additional partnership units.  Berry’s reserves are 75 percent oil, which increases Linn’s
exposure to liquids, which are more profitable than natural gas.
The deal is the biggest oil and gas purchase announced this year
and the largest ever for Linn, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Last year, the company announced four deals, valued
at a total of $2.6 billion.  The “deal makes sense given Berry’s portfolio,” Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. analysts wrote today in a note to clients.
The acquisition adds long-lived assets with slow decline rates,
including fields in  California , to Linn’s holdings, the note
said. Tudor Pickering rates Berry shares at a hold.  Linn, the first publicly traded independent oil and natural
gas limited liability company, was formed in 2003 by Michael C. Linn and private-equity firm Quantum Energy Partners.  $4.3 Billion  Linn Energy, which has a tax-advantaged structure similar
to a master-limited partnership, created LinnCo in an initial
public offering Oct. 12. LinnCo is a corporation, a structure
that allows Linn to attract capital from pension funds and other
investors who might shy away from a partnership.  Linn will pay $4.3 billion for Berry, including the
assumption of debt, the Houston-based company said.  Berry climbed 19 percent to $46.02 at the close in  New
York . Linn Energy increased 2.8 percent to $37.68. LinnCo rose
5.4 percent to $39.  Citigroup Inc. acted as LinnCo’s financial adviser. Credit
Suisse Group AG advised Berry.  Latham & Watkins LLP acted as Linn and LinnCo’s legal
adviser. Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP acted as a legal
adviser to the conflicts committee of Linn’s board. Locke Lord
LLP acted as legal adviser to the conflicts committee of the
LinnCo board. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz acted as Berry’s
legal adviser.  Greenhill & Co. Inc. provided a fairness opinion to the
conflicts committee of Linn’s board. Evercore Partners provided
a fairness opinion to the conflicts committee of the LinnCo
board.  The deal includes a $83.7 million termination fee,
according to a filing from Berry today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  