-- Insider Sales Reach 2-Year High as S&P 500 Nears Record
-- B y   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-02-21T17:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/insider-sales-reach-2-year-high-as-s-p-500-nears-record.html
Corporate executives are taking
advantage of near-record U.S. stock prices by selling shares in
their companies at the fastest pace in two years.  There were about 12 stock-sale announcements over the past
three months for every purchase by insiders at  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  companies, the highest ratio since January 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Pavilion Global
Markets. Whenever the ratio exceeded 11 in the past, the
benchmark index declined 5.9 percent on average in the next six
months, according to Pavilion, a Montreal-based trading firm.  Confidence in equities from individual investors may soften
the blow from insider sales this time, according to Pavilion’s
 Pierre Lapointe , head of global strategy and research. Rather
than signaling the market has reached a peak, the transactions
may reflect aging executives and board members seeking to lock
in profits from a four-year rally before they retire, Damon
Vickers & Co. said.  “These middle-aged executives, a lot of them, have waited
some 13 years for their assets to see the light of day,” Damon
Vickers, chief investment officer of the Seattle-based broker,
said in a Feb. 14 phone interview. “They’ve had to endure a
tremendous amount of volatility. And if you’re 61 years old and
the majority of your net worth is tied up in your company’s
stock, you may be inclined to liquefy some of that, just from a
standpoint that you’re nearing retirement.”  Double Average  The ratio of sales versus purchases by chief executives,
directors and senior officers at S&P 500 companies is more than
twice the average ratio of 5.4 over the past 10 years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and Pavilion. In the months after
the ratio was last at this level, the  benchmark index  retreated
as much as 19 percent from April to October of 2011.  “You have continuing conservatism and credence in people’s
personal financial transactions, which means a low level of
stock ownership,”  Michael Holland , chairman and founder of New
York-based Holland & Co., said in a Feb. 15 phone interview. His
firm oversees assets of more than $4 billion. “It’s just one
more reflection that people are continuing to be careful,
cynical and skeptical about the market.”  Stock sales have been led by insiders at companies from
 Dollar General Corp. (DG) , the largest U.S. dollar-store chain, and
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, who unloaded
more than $5.3 billion worth of shares in each of their
companies in the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Other big sellers were from Microsoft Corp., with
$2.4 billion, and  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , with more than $3
billion in sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Budget Concerns  Executives may be reacting to concerns about slower
economic growth triggered by the increase in payroll taxes and
possible government spending cuts as the debate over the  federal
budget  rages in  Washington , according to  Philip Orlando , chief
equity strategist at Federated Investors, which has about $380
billion in assets under management.  “Washington starts merging with  Wall Street  and Main
Street at this point, and these are the things that are weighing
on these folks’ minds,” New York-based Orlando said in a Feb.
19 phone interview. “You’ve had this terrific run in stocks to
start the year and you’ve got insider selling disproportionately
swamping buying. Are we due for a pullback at some point here
over the next month or two? The answer’s probably yes.”  Share Sales  Executives at 153 companies in the S&P 500 unloaded shares
between Feb. 11 and Feb. 15, with announcements of sales
outnumbering buys by 17 to 1.  Among the biggest transactions last week were a $65.2
million sale by Google Inc.’s 39-year-old Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Page , a $40.1 million disposal by News Corp.’s 81-
year-old Chairman and CEO  Rupert Murdoch  and a $34.2 million
sale from American Express Co. chief  Kenneth Chenault , who is
61. Nolan Archibald, the 69-year-old chairman of Stanley Black &
Decker Inc. who plans to leave his post next month, unloaded
$29.7 million in shares last week and Amphenol Corp. Chairman
Martin Hans Loeffler, 68, sold $27.5 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt , 57, announced plans to sell
as many as 3.2 million shares in the operator of the world’s
most-popular search engine. The planned share sales, worth about
$2.5 billion, represent about 42 percent of Schmidt’s holdings.
The share sales are for Schmidt’s individual asset
diversification and liquidity,  Mountain View , California-based
Google said in a Feb. 8 filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  ‘Not Buying’  “Insiders are not buying the current rally,” Pavilion’s
Lapointe wrote in a Feb. 11 research note. “The recent gains
have given them reason to sell their own stock. History tells us
that high insider selling is usually followed by disappointing
 S&P 500   returns  in the following months.”  Still, Lapointe wrote, “insider transactions do not move
markets, large inflows do” and stocks should be supported over
the short term by individual investors pumping money into
equities.  Investors deposited $37 billion into equity funds in
January, the most since 2004, after pulling almost $300 billion
out of stock funds since the market bottomed, estimates from the
Washington-based Investment Company Institute show.  The S&P 500 has rallied more than 6 percent in 2013 and
this week climbed to within 2.3 percent of its record reached in
October 2007. The index has more than doubled since bottoming in
March 2009 as the  Federal Reserve  conducted three rounds of bond
buying to boost economic growth. The S&P 500 tumbled 1.2 percent
yesterday, its biggest drop since November, as minutes from the
Fed’s last meeting spurred concern the central bank was
considering curtailing the stimulus efforts.  Earnings Season  Earnings topped estimates at 71 percent of the 413
companies in the S&P 500 that have  released earnings  so far in
the reporting season, with about 66 percent topping sales
expectations.  High insider-selling levels tend to occur near the end of
earnings season since executives aren’t allowed to buy or sell
stock ahead of announcements, said  Ben Silverman , director of
research at Seattle-based InsiderScore.com. Sales of restricted
stock awards at the beginning of the year may also be adding to
the tally, he said.  “In general, insiders don’t buy the rally anyway,”
Silverman added. “People sell for a number of reasons. You can
only buy for one. The selling is not predictive in that
respect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Pringle in  New York  at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  