-- Interbolsa Clients May Be Stuck With Fabricato, Cordoba Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-02-21T21:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/interbolsa-clients-may-be-stuck-with-fabricato-cordoba-says.html
About 600 clients of the seized
Colombian financial firm Interbolsa SA who made loans secured by
shares of textile-maker Fabricato SA may be stuck with the stock
next week as investors default on their debts, according to the
head of the country’s stock exchange.  The investors who borrowed the money against their
Fabricato shares probably won’t pay back the loans or make
margin calls when the stock opens March 1 for the first time in
three months, exchange Chief Executive Officer Juan Pablo Cordoba said. Fabricato plunged 21 percent on Nov. 16, prompting
the exchange to suspend trading.  “It’s very likely that 100 percent of the loans will be
defaulted on March 1,” Cordoba told reporters today at a press
conference at the Bogota-based exchange, Bolsa de Valores de
 Colombia  SA. “Those who borrowed must pay it back, if not with
the money they owe then with the Fabricato shares.”  Fabricato had been Colombia’s biggest publicly traded
textile maker by market value prior to its share-price plunge. A
report released by the Medellin-based company earlier this week
stated that the value of the shares may be 55 pesos or less, a
24 percent discount to where they last changed hands in
November.  Interbolsa, also based in Bogota, was seized by the
Colombian government in January and is now being liquidated. Its
brokerage firm, which was the country’s biggest, collapsed last
year after a failed attempt to finance a control bid for
Fabricato by a group of activist traders, according to Pablo
Munoz, the Colombian official overseeing the liquidation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  