-- TIPS Trail Conventional Bonds Before Consumer Price Data
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-21T06:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/tips-trail-conventional-bonds-before-consumer-price-data.html
U.S. inflation-protected securities
lagged behind conventional Treasuries by the most in 14 months
before a government report today economists said will show costs
in the economy are in check.  Investors in Treasury Inflation Protected Securities have
lost 0.7 percent this month, equivalent to a 12 percent decline
at an annual rate, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. So-called nominal securities are delivering a 1 percent
annualized decline. It was the steepest underperformance for
TIPS since December 2011. The U.S. is scheduled to sell $9
billion of 30-year TIPS today.  “Inflation’s not worrisome,” said Kei Katayama, who buys
non-yen debt in  Tokyo  for Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which
manages the equivalent of $53 billion and is a unit of  Japan ’s
second-largest brokerage. “It may increase eventually, but the
current mix of slow growth and relatively high unemployment
means there’s not much pressure for inflation.”  U.S. 10-year rates were little changed today at 2 percent
as of 6:42 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
data. The price of the 2 percent security due in February 2023
was 100.  Japan’s 10-year rate declined 1/2 basis point to 0.735
percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The nation’s
sovereign debt market has gained 0.2 percent this month, or 3.8
percent annualized, the Bank of America data show.  U.S. Inflation  U.S. consumer costs probably rose 0.1 percent in January
from the month before, after being unchanged in December,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists before the
Labor Department report at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington .  Prices excluding food and energy climbed 0.2 percent,
following a 0.1 percent increase, based on economists’
responses.  Annual inflation slowed to 1.6 percent from 1.7 percent,
the survey shows. The figure was as high as 14.8 percent in
1980.  Sales of  previously owned  U.S. homes eased in January, and
a measure of the economic outlook for three to six months
climbed, reports today will show, based on the economists’
forecasts.  The  U.S. economy  will expand 1.8 percent in 2013, versus
2.2 percent in 2012, based on Bloomberg analyst surveys. The
 unemployment rate  was 7.9 percent in January, versus the average
of 6 percent for the past 20 years.  The  Federal Reserve  and  Fidelity Investments  both warned
this week that the central bank’s unprecedented efforts to spur
the economy risk sending costs higher.  Several policy makers said the Fed should be ready to vary
the pace of its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, according
to the minutes of the central bank’s Jan. 29-30 meeting released
yesterday in Washington.  Costs, Risks  The minutes said “many participants” expressed concern
about “potential costs and risks arising from further asset
purchases.” Several discussed “possible complications” that
additional purchases could have as the Fed begins to end the
policy, and a few mentioned inflation risks.  The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s decision in January to adopt an
inflation target of 2 percent adds to the odds that costs will
rise, according to Boston-based Fidelity, which oversees $1.67
trillion.  “We have reason to believe that the Fed is likely to stay
very accommodative for some time and that Japan is now taking a
page from the U.S. Fed and stepping up its monetary stimulus,”
Jurrien Timmer, co-manager of Fidelity Global Strategies Fund,
wrote on the company’s  website  Feb. 18. The policies may create
an “inflation scare,” the report said.  Fund Gains  ProShares UltraShort TIPS (TPS)  exchange-traded  fund , which bets
against U.S. inflation-protected debt, has gained 2.7 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It fell 13
percent in 2012. The  fund  seeks investment results that
correspond to twice the inverse of the daily performance of an
index of TIPS.  Thirty-year TIPS  yielded  0.58 percent ahead of today’s
auction, versus 0.479 percent at the last  sale  of the securities
in October.  The Treasury is also scheduled to announce today the sizes
of three note sales scheduled for next week.  The U.S. will probably auction $35 billion of two-year debt
on Feb. 25, the same amount of five-year notes the following day
and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Feb. 27, according
to Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory company based in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  In a sign of demand for inflation insurance among some
investors, 10-year TIPS yielded minus 0.56 percent. The  yield 
has been negative for almost 13 months.  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and same-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, was 2.55 percentage points.
The average over the past decade is about 2.2 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  