-- Lira Weakens to Year-Low as Fed Signals Slowing Stimulus
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-02-21T11:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/lira-weakens-to-year-low-as-fed-signals-slowing-stimulus.html
The lira slumped to its weakest
level this year after the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled it may
consider slowing the pace of asset purchases, cutting risk
appetite for emerging-market assets.  The Turkish currency wiped out gains this year and headed
for its biggest weekly depreciation in nine months. All emerging
market currencies in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa 
retreated against the dollar today.  Several participants at the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
Jan. 29-30 meeting “emphasized that the committee should be
prepared to vary the pace of asset purchases, either in response
to changes in the economic outlook or as its evaluation of the
efficacy and costs of such purchases evolved,” according to the
minutes of the gathering released yesterday.  “The move can be observed across the emerging-market
universe,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank
AG, said in e-mailed comments. “I would attribute this to the
FOMC minutes which signaled that the Fed might end quantitative
easing sooner than many had expected.”  The lira fell 0.6 percent to 1.7936 per dollar at 1:34 p.m.
in Istanbul, declining for a fourth day this week as the Turkish
central bank reduced  interest rates  for a second month, sending
 yields  on the benchmark lira bonds to a record low at
yesterday’s close in Istanbul.  The yields on two-year notes rose 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 5.66 percent.  The central bank trimmed its overnight borrowing and
lending rates by 25 basis points to 4.5 percent and 8.5 percent,
respectively, two days ago after reducing them by the same
amount in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  