-- Lira Debt Goes Global With German, Russian Sales: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2013-02-21T14:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/lira-debt-goes-global-with-german-russian-sales-turkey-credit.html
OAO Sberbank (SBER) ,  Russia ’s largest
lender, and Germany’s Rentenbank are vying to become the second
foreign issuer of lira-denominated debt after the Turkish
currency’s volatility fell to the lowest in more than 25 years.  The three-month measure of price swings tumbled to 4.42
percent on Jan. 15, the lowest since 1987, helped by Turkish
central bank Governor Erdem Basci’s use of interest rates to
control capital flows and defend the lira. Volatility was at 4.7
percent today, down from more than 14 percent at the beginning
of 2012. The yield on benchmark  two-year  lira debt tumbled 52
basis points this year, the third-biggest slide among 18 major
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  Sberbank and Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank’s bond-sale
plans come as Basci resists government pressure to sacrifice his
inflation goal by lowering  interest rates  to help  Turkey  become
one of the world’s 10 biggest economies within a decade. The
central bank left its benchmark rate unchanged on Feb. 19 and in
an accompanying statement focused on the need to slow lending,
stem capital inflows and preserve financial stability.  “Issuing lira debt was something inconceivable a few years
ago,” Ugursel Onder, an Istanbul-based fixed-income analyst at
Is Investment Securities, Turkey’s largest broker by trading
volume, said yesterday by phone. “This trend shows how investor
confidence in the currency has gone up.”  Russian Lenders  VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest bank, sold its second
lira bond this month, issuing 300 million liras ($167.6 million)
of two-year debt. Sberbank is meeting investors in  London  this
week to sell bonds in the currency, a person with knowledge of
the plans, who asked not to be identified because details are
private, said Feb. 19. Rentenbank sold 125 million liras of
five-year local-currency bonds at a yield of 5.73 percent,
according to a person with knowledge of the deal.  “Emergence of local-currency corporate-debt markets is
increasing,” Sergey Dergachev, a senior portfolio manager at
Union Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt , said by e-mail
yesterday. “Banks like Sberbank may want to diversify their
currency funding mix further, especially if they expect the lira
to be stable this year.”.  The Turkish lira will end the year little changed at 1.78
to the dollar, according to the median estimate of 22 economists
in a Bloomberg  survey . The currency traded down 0.6 percent at
1.7934 at 4:40 p.m. today in Istanbul, losing 0.5 percent so far
this year.  Lira Assets  Sberbank, controlled by the Russian government, bought
Istanbul-based Denizbank AS from Belgium’s  Dexia SA (DEXB)  last year
for $3.53 billion. It will be cheaper for Sberbank, with its
higher  credit rating , to get funding and pass it to Denizbank
for general corporate purposes, according to Dergachev.  “Sberbank may also be doing this sale because it wants to
fund the lira-denominated assets of its Turkish unit
Denizbank,” Alexander Sklemin, deputy head of credit research
at Raiffeisen Bank International AG in Vienna, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  The Russian lender is rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors
Service, two steps above Denizbank. It’s ranked BBB by  Fitch
Ratings , one step higher than Denizbank.  Foreign Investors  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , the Turkish lender part-owned by  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , sold 1 billion liras of five-year lira debt on Jan. 30 at
7.5 percent to investors in the U.S., Europe and Asia, with
demand three times the amount offered, it said in an e-mailed
statement. The bond traded at 7.2 percent today, yielding 111
basis points more than Turkish debt maturing in March 2017.  “Sberbank seems to be following the successful placement
of Akbank’s lira bonds,” Dergachev said.  Turkey’s five-year credit-default swaps climbed three basis
points to 138 today, compared with 147 for Russia and 170 for
South Africa. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or cash if a borrower fails to
adhere to its debt agreements.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Turkish debt rather
than U.S. Treasuries rose nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 203 today, compared with the emerging-market average
of 275, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified Index.  Sberbank’s bond sales may encourage other Turkish banks
with better-rated foreign parents to sell lira debt, including
ING Turkey or  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , part-owned by Spain’s
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argenta SA (BBVA) , according to Is Investment’s
Onder.  “This could well mark the start of a new trend” of
companies in one emerging market selling debt denominated in the
currency of another, Dergachev said. “It offers good
diversification.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  