-- Iran Lifts Output, Upgrades Atomic Technology Before Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-02-21T19:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/iran-lifts-production-upgrades-atomic-technology-before-meeting.html
Iran rolled out new atomic
technology and boosted its output of enriched uranium that world
powers are concerned may eventually be used for nuclear weapons,
according to the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  Iran’s total production of medium-enriched uranium rose to
280 kilograms (617 pounds) from 232.8 kilograms reported in
November, the IAEA said today in a 12-page restricted report.
Iran has converted or is in the process of converting 103
kilograms, or 37 percent of the stockpile, into reactor fuel,
which Iran has declared is for producing medical isotopes.  “The agency continues to verify the non-diversion of
declared nuclear material at the nuclear facilities,” the
Vienna-based IAEA said. “The agency is unable to provide
credible assurance about the absence of undeclared nuclear
material and activities in Iran, and therefore to conclude that
all material in Iran is in peaceful activities.”  Iran will meet with the so-called P5+1 group --  China ,
 France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. -- in Astana,
 Kazakhstan  on Feb. 26 to resume negotiations over the atomic
work. The P5+1 will make a significant new offer to Iran,
diplomats from those countries have said. Israel hasn’t ruled
out military strikes to prevent the Islamic Republic from
gaining nuclear weapons capacity.  Israeli premier  Benjamin Netanyahu  said after the IAEA
report that Iran is “today closer than ever to attaining
enriched material for a nuclear weapon,” according to a text
message from his office.  Bomb Requirements  About 175 kilograms of 20 percent-enriched uranium, or 630
kilograms of low-enriched uranium, if further purified, could
yield the quantity of weapons-grade uranium needed to produce a
bomb, according to the London-based Verification Research,
Training and Information Center, a non-governmental observer to
the IAEA that’s funded by European governments.  Iran began installing new advanced centrifuges at its
Natanz facility on Feb. 6, according to the report. The
machines, which Iran hadn’t begun feeding with material, can
enrich more uranium in less time.  “This is the first time that centrifuges more advanced
than the IR-1 have been installed” in fuel-enrichment plants,
the IAEA said.  Iran  also installed and began experimental use of
two new kinds of advanced centrifuges, the IR-6 and IR6s, at a
research and development laboratory, it said.  Unhindered Access  The IAEA and Iran are reassessing how their negotiations
over wider checks on suspected nuclear facilities will continue,
two senior international officials said on the condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the talks. Inspectors
want guarantees of unhindered access while Iran, with concerns
over the security of its facilities, seeks a time limit to the
investigation, they said.  The number of centrifuges, fast-spinning machines that
purify the heavy metal, installed at Iran’s fuel-fabrication
plant in Natanz, about 300 kilometers (186 miles) south of
Tehran, rose to about 12,280 from about 10,000 in November,
according to the IAEA.  Machines installed at the Fordo facility, which was built
clandestinely into the side of a mountain, fell to about 2,710
from about 2,784 in November. That enrichment facility has drawn
particular attention from  Israel  because it would be difficult
to destroy in an air strike.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  