-- Iraqi Crude Exports Rose in January for First Time Since October
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-02-21T11:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/iraqi-crude-exports-rose-in-january-for-first-time-since-october.html
Iraq ’s crude oil exports rose in
January for the first monthly gain since October, according to
the marketing unit of the OPEC member state’s Oil Ministry.  Iraqi shipments increased last month to 73.1 million
barrels, or an average of 2.35 million barrels a day, compared
with 72.8 million barrels, or 2.34 million barrels a day, in
December, the State Oil Marketing Organization said in a
statement on its website. The country generated $7.67 billion in
revenue from January crude sales at an average price of $104.92
a barrel, according to the SOMO statement.  Iraq, the largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after Saudi Arabia, shipped 64.9 million
barrels by sea last month from the southern terminal of Basra
and exported 8.2 million barrels from the northern hub of Kirkuk
through a pipeline to the Turkish port of Ceyhan, SOMO said.
Total exports rose to 81.3 million barrels in October before
declining in November and December, it said.  The Middle Eastern nation holds the world’s fifth-largest
crude reserves, according to data from  BP Plc (BP/)  that include
Canadian oil sands. The government depends on crude sales for
money to rebuild the economy after decades of war and sanctions.
It has awarded energy-exploration licenses to companies such as
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , BP Plc and  Total SA (FP)  since the U.S.-led
invasion of 2003.  Iraq’s average crude output dropped to 3.2 million barrels
a day in January from 3.3 million barrels a day the previous
month, according to a Jan. 31 Oil Ministry statement. The
decrease in output resulted from bad weather, technical faults,
sabotage and a halt in exports of much as 250,000 barrels a day
from the semi-autonomous Kurdish region of northern Iraq, the
ministry said at the time.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  DNO International ASA (DNO)  and  Genel Energy
Plc (GENL)  are among companies caught in a dispute between Iraq’s
central government and the Kurdistan Regional Government over
production contracts, territorial claims and the sharing of oil
revenue. Tensions have deepened in recent months, with armed
clashes in the disputed Kirkuk area in November and a suspension
since December in exports of Kurdish oil through the central
government’s pipeline network.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  