-- Irish Will Be ‘Looked After’ as Bank Refund Chased, Noonan Says
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-02-21T14:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/irish-will-be-looked-after-as-bank-refund-chased-noonan-says.html
Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan says  Germany  and  France  have got his back.  Noonan is seeking as much as 30 billion euros ($39.6
billion) from  Europe ’s new rescue funds as a refund for the
money it spent on the recapitalizing its surviving banks. German
Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Francois Hollande
called Ireland a special case.  That phrase is “shorthand,” Noonan said in an interview
with Francine Lacqua and Guy Johnson on Bloomberg Television in
 London  today. The message is “we realized that there was a very
heavy imposition put on you, so you’ll be looked after.”  Noonan’s comments come two weeks after Ireland’s government
secured a deal to stretch out the cost of rescuing the former
Anglo Irish Bank Corp., which he said removed a “millstone” from
taxpayers. Now, Noonan wants back the money it put into the
remainder of the banking system, mainly  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) 
and Bank of Ireland Plc, after a real estate bubble collapsed in
2008. He said the banks won’t need new capital.  “While some of it was our own fault, a lot of the action
was taken at the direction of the European Central Bank to
prevent contagion spreading to the European banking system,”
Noonan said. “As Ronald Reagan used to say, ‘we took one for the
team.’”  Debt Plans  Irish bonds slumped in September after finance chiefs from
Germany, the Netherlands and  Finland  excluded “legacy assets”
from their rescue facility’s responsibility.  After a late afternoon phone call between Irish Prime
Minister Enda Kenny and Merkel said Oct. 21 that Ireland is a
“special case,” without elaborating what that might mean.
Hollande used the same phrase a day later.  Ireland sought an international aid package in 2010 as the
country came close to bankruptcy under the weight of rescuing
its financial system.  Noonan said the International Monetary Fund is prepared to
“hold our hand” as we exit the program at the end of the year.
The government aims to sell a 10-year bond in the first half of
this year, as part of a campaign to qualify for the ECB bond-
buying program as a “backstop,” Noonan said.  “I don’t think we’d apply to avail of it,” he said. “We’d
apply to use it as a backstop so that we could access the
market, so that lenders would know that it’s there.”  Anglo Irish  On the restructuring of the Anglo Irish debt, Noonan said
there is “no suggestion” that the agreement will be unwound. He
also said he wasn’t surprised by the comments on the deal by ECB
Governing Council member Jens Weidmann. The Bundesbank President
said the transaction on the Irish promissory notes comes close
to contravening a ban on the monetary financing of governments.  Discussions “had been going on for several months” and the
deal couldn’t have happened unless agreed by all ECB council
members including Weidmann, Noonan said.  “They didn’t challenge the fact that it was done and that
it was in accordance with the treaty,” he said. “No rules were
broken.”  The yield on Ireland’s bonds maturing in October 2020 rose
7 basis points to 3.72 percent. Ireland raised 500 million euro
from the sale of 3-month Treasury bills earlier today, at an
average yield of 24 basis points, an increase of four basis
points on its last bill auction in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net  