-- ICL Workers Plan Protests Opposing Potash Corp. Sale
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-02-21T15:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/israel-chemicals-workers-plan-protests-against-potash-corp-sale.html
Employees at  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) 
plan to protest a proposed takeover by  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. , in what would be the Middle East’s biggest
acquisition, the head of a workers committee said today.  “We are protesting against the intention of the government
to approve a merger with Potash,” Armond Lankry, chairman of
the workers committee at Dead Sea Works Ltd. a unit of Israel
Chemicals, said in a phone interview with Bloomberg today. “If
the deal goes through, workers will shut down all plants.”  The demonstrations come as Calcalist reported today that
Potash Corp. is prepared to pay more than $20 billion for
control of the company and that officials met in the past week
with  Israel  Corp., which holds  a controlling stake  in Israel
Chemicals. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu met on Oct. 31 with
Potash Chief Executive Officer Bill Doyle about a possible
merger with the company in which it already has a 13.84 percent
stake. The government can block takeover bids of the country’s
second-largest company by market value by using its so-called
golden share, allowing the state to prevent a takeover to
protect natural resources.  Around 5,000 workers from the country’s 10th-largest
private sector employer will demonstrate at major intersections
in the country’s southern Negev district to oppose the sale,
Lankry said. Workers are concerned a merger would lead to job
losses as the company’s extraction of minerals from the Dead Sea
to make potash and fertilizers is transferred to Jordan’s  Arab
Potash Co. (APOT)  in which the Canadian company has a stake.  ‘Disastrous’ Deal  “ICL is not engaged in any negotiations with Potash Corp.
or any other company regarding this matter,” Israel Chemicals
said in an e-mailed statement today. “To the extent that any
dialogue exists regarding the merger between the companies, it
has occurred between the Government of Israel and Potash Corp.”  Lankry said the initiative has the support of members of
parliament and citizens of the Negev region, in which the plants
are located. Earlier this month Labor party head Shelly Yachimovich said in a Facebook posting the sale of ICL to Potash
would be “disastrous”.  “The company’s success in global markets is possibly the
reason driving Potash Corporation’s interest in acquiring ICL.”
said Neta Schoener, a spokeswoman for ICL. “In the event that
any interested company turns to ICL, management will act in the
best interests of  the company, including the employees of the
company.”  Boaz Stembler, a spokesman for Israel’s Ministry of Finance
said today by phone there are no negotiations with Potash Corp.
at the moment and Treasury officials did not meet with their
representatives in the past week. Elad Cohen, a spokesman for
 Israel Corp. (ILCO)  had no immediate comment on the Calcalist report
today.  Israel Chemicals dropped 2.1 percent, the most since Dec.
31, to 48.08 shekels at the close in Tel Aviv today. Controlling
stakeholder Israel Corp. declined 0.8 percent and the TA-25
benchmark index fell 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  