-- Mississippi Seen by U.S. at Barge-Limiting Levels in 2013
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-02-21T20:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/mississippi-seen-by-u-s-at-barge-limiting-levels-in-2013.html
The Missouri and upper Mississippi
rivers have a greater chance of returning to drought-depleted
levels because of dry soil and low reservoirs, forecasters said,
signaling fresh limits for barges on the busiest U.S. waterway.  The rivers “will have to have greater-than-normal” rain
to avoid repeating near-record low levels this year, Steve Buan,
a hydrologist at the National Weather Service, said today at a
congressional staff briefing. “We are going to have to have
rain in spring and fall, so we don’t have a situation like we
had last year.”  Low river levels at the end of 2012 triggered by the
nation’s worst drought in more than 70 years forced barge
operators such as AEP River Operations LLC to reduce cargoes to
navigate in shallow areas of the Mississippi. To keep barge
traffic moving, the Army Corps of Engineers removed rocky
outcroppings south of St. Louis, deepening the channel by about
2 feet.  Excavating the rocks is “into its final stages,” said
Chandra Pathak, an hydrologist for the Corps.  While the river emergency has eased, government scientists
say the longterm impact of the 2012 drought could lead to lower
water levels this year. The drought left soils drier across the
upper Midwest, Buan said. As a result, most rain that falls in
the coming months will be sucked up by crops and plants, he
said. In addition, six of the Corps’ reservoirs are below normal
and the Great Lakes are below historic averages, Pathak said.  NOAA Outlook  Buan said in a typical year, there is a 30 percent chance
of water falling as low as it did at the end of 2012 on the
Mississippi. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration’s outlook for this year puts that chance at 40
percent on the Mississippi and 50 percent for the Missouri,
which flows into the Mississippi at St. Louis.  In a separate report, the U.S. Climate Prediction Center
said  drought conditions  may improve in the next three months
across parts of the Midwest, including Iowa, Minnesota and
Missouri.  Dryness is expected to persist through the Great Plains
from Nebraska to Texas and spread through most of California,
according to the College Park, Maryland-based center’s seasonal
outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  