-- Hitachi Construction Restores China Plant Operations
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-02-21T06:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/hitachi-construction-restores-china-plant-operations-amid-growth.html
Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (6305) ,
the world’s third-biggest maker of building equipment, has
restored operations in China after shuttering its plant there
for half a month last year as the economy cooled.  The excavator plant, in the eastern province of Anhui, is
gradually increasing production since the end of 2012 as demand
for small diggers used in housing recovers, President Yuichi Tsujimoto said in an interview from the company’s Tokyo
headquarters on Feb. 18. The factory now operates five days a
week after its partial shutdown cut production to as low as 25
percent of capacity, he said.  “We expect demand will recover at a moderate pace rather
than the V-shaped rebound we saw in the past when demand came
back from declines,” Tsujimoto said in the interview. “The
company will need to monitor the market for the next two weeks
to gauge how strong demand will be in the post Lunar New Year
period,” a peak season for construction equipment, he said.  Sales in  China  may grow more than 10 percent for the year
starting in April because of spending on stimulus measures and
infrastructure that Tsujimoto says will spur industry demand
beginning in China’s summer season.  Hitachi Construction Machinery shut the Hefei plant in
August for two weeks a month as construction activity slowed --
the first time the plant has closed for more than a week since
it was set up in 1995. Total retail sales of construction
equipment in China, the world’s biggest market, slid about 19
percent in 2012 to $32.3 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.　　  “Important Market”  “China will remain an important market because there are
no other places with such large demand,” Tsujimoto said.
“Still, we expect a tough fight with existing rivals and local
suppliers,” he said, referring to global suppliers including
 Komatsu Ltd. (6301) ,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , Sany Heavy Industries Co. of
China and  Doosan Infracore Co. (042670)  of  South Korea .  Hitachi Construction Machinery fell 3.4 percent to 2,115
yen at the close in Tokyo trading, paring its gain to 18 percent
since Jan. 1.  Hitachi’s efforts to strengthen marketing in China,
including training workers in after-sales service and sending
staff to dealers in regions where positioning is weaker, will
pay off next fiscal year when demand picks up, Tsujimoto said.  Production of small-sized diggers weighing 6 metric tons to
12 tons has returned to “usual” levels, while output of larger
excavators used in coal mining remains low after declines in the
commodity price, according to Tsujimoto.  Komatsu expects industry demand in the Asian nation to grow
by 5 percent to 10 percent in the 12 months beginning April 1,
Chief Executive Officer Kunio Noji said Feb. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  