-- Italian Election Can’t Produce Both Stability and Reform
-- B y   M e g a n   G r e e n e
-- 2013-02-21T00:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/italian-election-can-t-produce-both-stability-and-reform.html
Next week’s parliamentary election
in Italy is a make-or-break vote for the country, which for
several years has been teetering on the brink of a fiscal
crisis.  If Italians choose a government that won’t push ahead with
economic reform, or rolls back recent changes that were designed
to make the economy more competitive, the country’s ability to
repay its debt will be in question.  That would be terrible news for Italy and the euro area as
a whole, which might not be willing or able to bail out its
third-largest economy. With days to go before the vote on Feb.
24-25, only this much is certain about the outcome: The next
government in Rome may be stable or reformist by Italian
standards, but it will not be both.  An  average  of the latest opinion polls, which weren’t
permitted after the week up to Feb. 8, put Pier Luigi Bersani’s
center-left coalition in the lead, its margin over the center-
right People of Freedom, led by Silvio Berlusconi, dwindling to
fewer than five percentage points. Bersani should win the lower
house, but you cannot rule out a Berlusconi upset -- already a
three-time prime minister, he seems to have the political lives
of a cat.  Market Backlash  A Berlusconi-led victory in the Chamber of Deputies would
result in an immediate market backlash. “Il Cavaliere” (the
Knight), as Berlusconi is known, has a terrible track record for
implementing the kinds of structural changes to the economy that
Italy needs in order to boost growth and stabilize its mountain
of public debt. Investors would immediately start to question
whether Italy’s  127 percent  debt-to-gross-domestic-product ratio
is sustainable. They would dump Italian bonds, potentially
forcing the government into a bailout.  A center-left victory in the Chamber of Deputies still
looks more likely. Bersani’s coalition may have scored only an
average 35 percent in the polls before Feb. 8, but under Italy’s
election rules the party that attracts the most votes nationwide
will get more than 50 percent of the seats in the lower house.  The composition of the upper house -- the Senate -- is much
less clear, because there the majority-securing bonus for the
winner is distributed not nationwide, but by  region . And who
controls the Senate matters, because it holds as much power as
the Chamber of Deputies. Any law other than the budget can be
drawn up in either house, and must be passed by both. A failure
to control both houses in Italy can therefore mean gridlock and
has led to the downfall of some governments.  Based on the (admittedly now out-of-date) polling data, it
seems virtually impossible for the center-right to win a
majority in the Senate. There is a chance that Bersani will win
an outright majority in the upper house, too, though much will
hinge on results in the Lombardy region, where the two
traditional political groupings appear to be in a  dead heat . To
put it in U.S. terms, Lombardy is the Ohio of Italy’s election.  A victory for Bersani’s coalition in both chambers could
make the process of making and implementing government decisions
faster and easier. Italy has a history of political
fragmentation and instability, averaging just less than a
government a year since World War II. A coalition of a few like-
minded parties could boost government effectiveness and
stability.  Reform Doubts  However, even if a Bersani-led center-left government
proved long-lived, it probably wouldn’t pass the reforms that
are needed to make Italy more competitive. Bersani’s Democratic
Party has close links with the country’s biggest labor union,
the Italian General Confederation of Labor, which opposes many
efforts to open up Italy’s labor market. Furthermore, his
biggest potential coalition partner on the left -- Nichi Vendola’s Left Ecology Liberty party -- has talked about
reversing the structural reforms that Prime Minister Mario Monti’s government of technocrats managed to pass.  The new government’s commitment to reform will be heavily
scrutinized by investors, who will start to worry as soon as it
appears that the process has stalled. A half-hearted agenda of
changes to Italy’s labor and product markets would bode poorly
for the economy. Structural reforms undermine growth in the
short run before they eventually boost it. If implementation is
drip-fed, the pain will stretch over more years than necessary
and the boost to growth will be delayed.  For the bond markets and Italy’s economy alike, the best
available election outcome would see the center-left failing to
win an outright majority in the Senate and being forced, as a
result, to pair with Monti’s centrist coalition. Monti’s
participation in the new government would help to reassure
investors, Italy’s euro-area partners and the European Central
Bank that structural reform will stay on the menu.  Even a government with Monti won’t be cause for too much
celebration, however, because it is only positive for Italy if
the government can last. The more -- and more diverse -- parties
there are in a governing coalition, the greater the opportunity
for disagreement.  Monti and Vendola have diametrically opposed views on
labor-market reform, the most important area where Italy needs
to change. At times during the election campaign, the two men
have declared that they will not work with each other. Monti is
also at odds with some of the Democratic Party’s more left-wing
politicians. Infighting and horse trading may result in a
political impasse and topple the government.  Better Monti  This is an election in which the most politically likely
outcomes are suboptimal. Voters will have to choose between a
potentially stable government with insufficient commitment to
reform, and a more pro-reform coalition with a greater
likelihood of collapsing. I don’t envy Italians their choice,
but of the two options a broader coalition involving Monti is
preferable.  That’s because Italy has to change for its economy to grow,
and there is a mechanism that might be able to keep the
government together longer than the Italian average -- fear of
the bond market.  At the first sign of a government collapse, investors would
drive up Italy’s borrowing costs, forcing politicians either to
risk pushing the country into a bailout program or to resolve
their differences quickly. Snap elections are a euro cent a
dozen in recent Italian history, but the potential cost of
triggering one is much higher in the current environment.  Fear of incurring that cost may just be enough to keep a
fractious coalition government together for long enough to
deliver the changes that Italy’s economy so badly needs.  (Megan Greene is a Bloomberg View columnist and chief
economist at Maverick Intelligence. She is also a senior fellow
at the Atlantic Council in Washington. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Megan Greene at  megan@maverickintelligence.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 