-- Lithium Air Battery Gives IBM Hope of Power Without Fires
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-02-21T15:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/lithium-air-battery-gives-ibm-hope-of-power-without-fires.html
Everyone who’s held a smartphone to
the ear or watched a movie with a laptop balanced on their knees
knows the devices get hot. Most are unaware the same battery
technology is widely used in electric cars and has made few
notable advances in a decade.  Rechargeable lithium-ion batteries became costly for
 General Motors Co. (GM)  after they caught fire in its plug-in Volt
car during safety tests in 2011. They grounded  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
newest Dreamliner airplane in January.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  plans to build a
prototype next year of an alternative it calls “lithium air”
that would mark a big step forward by packing in more storage
capacity. While improving the technology depends on chemical
processes that take longer to perfect than the systems that
brought cheap electronics, finding a solution to the
shortcomings of batteries has the potential to revolutionize
everything from transportation to hand-held gadgets.  “We picked the path with the biggest risks and the biggest
rewards,” Spike Narayan, science and technology director at IBM
Research in San Jose,  California , said in an interview. “This
is a moonshot.”  Risk of fires sparked by lithium-ion batteries is what
grounded Boeing’s most advanced plane, and the company is said
to be meeting with regulators Feb. 22 to propose ways to address
the issue.  The power packs designed for electric cars use a different
design that means excess heat isn’t an issue, said Aaron Chew,
an analyst at Maxim Group LLC. His concern is that there’s no
good way to increase the size or expand production profitably to
make a car battery with the capacity needed for a practical
vehicle.  Technology Needed  “Lithium-ion has been around for decades, and if there was
an obvious cost reduction by scaling up we would have seen it by
now,” Chew said in an interview from New York. “It’s highly
likely the common battery in the next generation of electric
vehicles won’t be lithium-ion.”  Engineers handle the heat of lithium-ion batteries with
cooling systems and safety shut-off systems, as  Tesla Motors
Inc. (TSLA)  has done in its vehicles. The bigger problem is that the
power density in the current generation of batteries is too low
-- they can’t bottle up enough power for drivers to feel
comfortable they’ll always reach their destination.  IBM’s Work  For IBM, its effort to build a better battery began in 2009
at an annual meeting it hosts with government agencies and
engineers. The “lithium-air” concept relies on the electricity
released when the metal reacts with oxygen in the atmosphere. If
it works on a commercial scale, it would provide as much energy
per weight of the battery as a gallon of gasoline in as little
as five years, Narayan said.  The first step was for scientists to demonstrate the
technology can store and release power through 10 charges. Now
they’re pushing the unit to work over hundreds of cycles, and
build a prototype. That would require further improvements in
the materials used for the cathodes, anodes and electrolytes,
which form the guts of batteries, Narayan said.  “We could see a radical advance if our prototype excites a
manufacturer with a compatible technology,” Narayan says.
“We’ll have a prototype ready next year, and then with our
partners we’ll look at the engineering timeline. Five to 10
years is a reasonable time to commercialization.”  IBM is not alone. Researchers at universities, government
laboratories and auto companies are also vying to produce the
next-generation battery.  Rival Projects  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG on Jan.
24 announced plans for lithium-air batteries. Scientists at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology are working on a product
using carbon nanotubes replacing lithium-ion. Seeo, a start-up
backed by billionaire Vinod Khosla, is building lithium-ion
units that use a lighter, dry electrolyte instead of liquid.  There’s skepticism whether any of them can succeed.
Laboratories working on batteries have failed to replicate the
successes they’ve had with semiconductors in multiplying
efficiencies.  That’s because storing electricity is a chemical process
where improvements come slowly, unlike the efforts to scale up
efficiencies in manufacturing electronics, said Tom Gage, who
led production of the Tesla drivetrain at AC Propulsion Ltd.  “Moore’s Law doesn’t apply to batteries,” said Gage. It
may take another 10 years to 20 years before the industry can
produce an electric vehicle with the range and flexibility
consumers expect, he said.  Lithium’s Dominance  Until then, proponents of an oil-free auto industry will be
stuck with incremental advances in lithium-ion batteries. Tesla
says the technology is good enough for now. It already boasts
the longest range of any all-electric vehicle in production.  “We can already achieve 300 miles,” Christina Ra, a
spokeswoman for Silicon Valley’s only carmaker. “This is
sufficient for the majority of the market.”  Tesla acknowledges the shortcomings of electric vehicles
for longer trips, and said that few of their customers are
ordering the low-cost, small battery packs.  “I think for a long distance trip right now, depending
upon where you are in the country, a little bit of extra
planning is needed,” Chairman Elon Musk said yesterday on a
conference call with investors. “More people are ordering the
larger battery pack than we thought.”  Tesla missed its goal of producing 5,000 of its $57,000
Model S electric sedans in 2012. Competitors including General
Motors Co.’s Chevrolet Volt and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Leaf have
also missed targets.  Government Targets  It’s a frustration for governments seeking a replacement
for internal-combustion engines to reduce greenhouse-gas
emissions and reliance on fossil fuels.  President  Barack Obama  and Premier Wen Jiabao are set to
miss targets they set for higher U.S. and Chinese electric
vehicle sales by 2015. Just one in 600 car sales were electric
in the $2 trillion global market last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  President Obama in 2009 set a goal of 1 million electric
vehicles on U.S. roads by 2015. With fewer than 50,000 sold to
date, that figure appears out of reach, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. China’s sales of 13,000 EVs by the end of
last year mean the country probably won’t meet a target of
500,000 EVs on the road by 2015.  Storage issues are the main reason EV sales are falling
short of optimistic growth forecasts, said Amy Smith, global
head of clean technology investment banking at Jefferies & Co.
in San Francisco. Early adopters are driving Teslas and other
high-end electric cars, while the mass market is waiting on the
sideline for the technology to improve.  ‘Range Anxiety’  “Higher costs, lack of substantial infrastructure and
range anxiety are all issues for consumers,” Smith said.
“There’s a belief that new and different materials, beyond
lithium ion, could provide a more substantial leap forward.”  The current storage technology will probably be supplanted
eventually, said Kevin Landis, co-founder of the San Francisco-
based technology fund Firsthand Capital Management Inc.  “Lithium-ion is what we have now but probably not what
we’ll have in the future,” he said.  The technology will “need an upgrade.” if only because of
the size the batteries take up in cars, including the vehicle he
drives from Fisker Automotive Inc. “It’s a battery-
transportation device with a little room left for me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  