-- J&J’s Toxicologist Says Metal From Recalled Hip Harmless
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/j-j-s-toxicologist-says-metal-from-recalled-hip-harmless.html
A Montana man suing  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s DePuy unit over his recalled hip implant wasn’t harmed
by the chromium and cobalt debris that entered his tissues and
bloodstream, a toxicologist told a jury.  Dennis J. Paustenbach testified yesterday on J&J’s behalf
at the first of 10,000 lawsuits to go to trial over the ASR
hips, which the company recalled in August 2010. In the case,
Loren Kransky, 65, claims the hip implant was defectively
designed and J&J failed to warn of the risks.  “I believe that the cobalt and chromium from the ASR
implant did not cause or worsen Mr. Kransky’s systemic health
problems,” Paustenbach told jurors in state court in Los
Angeles. Kransky’s chromium levels were “of insignificant
health risk, basically of no health risk.”  Kransky, a retired prison guard, testified earlier that he
believed the metal debris was poisoning him. He had a metal cup
planted in his hip, and a ball placed atop his femur rotated in
the cup. J&J’s lawyers claim the elevated levels of metal in
Kransky’s body can be traced to conditions including diabetes,
high blood pressure and cholesterol, strokes and kidney cancer.
They claim he has diseased blood vessels throughout his body.  J&J, the world’s biggest seller of health-care products,
recalled the hips in August 2010 after saying at least 12
percent failed. Since then, the rate has climbed, reaching 40
percent in  Australia . Analysts say it could cost New Brunswick,
New Jersey-based J&J billions of dollars to resolve the cases.  $5 Million  Paustenbach said his firm ChemRisk Inc. has billed DePuy at
least $5 million over the past 18 months. He was part of a team
of 40 people who spent thousands of hours studying medical
literature and found virtually no research on the effects of
cobalt prior to the ASR recall.  “What systemic health effects have you found?” J&J
attorney Alexander Calfo asked Paustenbach.  “I saw none,” Paustenbach said.  “Was Mr. Kransky poisoned by the ASR hip?” Calfo asked.  “Absolutely not,” Paustenbach said.  He said he also found no evidence of an increased cancer
risk. He said the presence of cobalt is “not an issue to be
concerned about at concentrations observed in patients with
implants.”  Jurors were shown a January publication from the Mayo
Clinic in Rochester,  Minnesota , which said that “elevated
chromium and cobalt concentrations may indicate implant wear,
but they are not indications of toxicity.”  Anemia Patients  Paustenbach described an examination by his firm of
clinical studies from the 1950s of anemia patients given varying
doses of cobalt. His firm created a formula to convert the
dosages to blood level readings.  “In the blood, we found that there were virtually no
adverse effects in the people who had levels up to 300 parts per
billion,” Paustenbach said. Kransky’s highest cobalt reading
was 57 parts per billion.  Paustenbach also described a study he conducted of five men
and five women who were given dosages of over-the-counter cobalt
over 30 days. They showed no adverse effects, he said, although
the men reached blood levels of 32 parts per billion and the
women hit 91 parts per billion, he said. The unpublished study
has been submitted for peer review, he said.  Paustenbach also said that cobalt stimulates the growth of
red blood cells. Kransky was chronically deficient in red blood
cells, which was further evidence that the cobalt ions weren’t
affecting him, the witness said.  “There is no apparent response” to the cobalt levels, he
said.  ‘Go-To Guy’  On cross-examination by Kransky attorney Brian Panish,
Paustenbach reacted angrily when asked if he had been referred
to as the “go-to guy for industry.”  “That’s ridiculous,” Paustenbach said. He then
acknowledged he had been described in that manner.  In an attempt to depict Paustenbach as biased in favor of
industry, Panish read a list of dozens of multinational
corporations for which Paustenbach has conducted chemical
research. His work, paid for by the companies, has been used to
attempt to undermine concerns about exposure to carcinogens such
as asbestos and benzene.  Paustenbach was questioned extensively about his firm’s
role in a 1997 article published in the Journal of Occupational
and Environmental Medicine under the names of two Chinese
scientists. The article reversed an earlier study by one of the
scientists that found a significant association between chromium
in drinking water and higher rates of cancer in rural  China .  In 2006, the journal retracted the 1997 article because it
failed to disclose that the paper was written by his company,
Paustenbach said. His firm had been retained by companies
accused of being responsible for chromium pollution.  J&J began presenting its defense case Feb. 20, after
Kransky’s lawyers rested. The trial began Jan. 25.  The case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maurice Possley in Los Angeles Superior Court at
 mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  