-- J&J Jury Reaches No Verdict After Fourth Day in Mesh Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-22T22:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/j-j-jury-rehears-testimony-of-woman-suing-over-vaginal-mesh-1-.html
A New Jersey jury failed to reach a
verdict in its fourth day of deliberation over a lawsuit
claiming  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Ethicon unit defectively designed a
vaginal mesh implant and failed to warn properly of the risks.  Jurors will return on Feb. 25 to weigh the case of Linda
Gross, 47, a South Dakota nurse whose lawsuit is the first of
2,100 to go to trial over claims that Ethicon’s Gynecare Prolift
injured women. The panel of six women and three men began
deliberating on Feb. 19 in state court in Atlantic City.  Gross had 18 operations after her mesh was implanted to
shore up pelvic muscles. The Prolift, made of a polypropylene
mesh, was inserted through an incision in the vagina.  J&J, the world’s biggest seller of health-care products,
claims the Prolift is safe and effective, and it warned of the
risks. In August, J&J stopped selling four mesh devices in the
U.S., including the Prolift. The company, based in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey , said in June that it would end sales
worldwide because of the products’ lack of commercial viability,
and not based on their safety and effectiveness.  Gross is seeking $3.38 million for lost earnings and past
and future medical expenses. She also is asking for damages for
pain and suffering.  Superior Court Judge Carol Higbee hasn’t ruled yet whether
Gross can seek punitive damages if jurors award her compensatory
damages. New Jersey caps punitive damages at five times
compensatory damages or $350,000, whichever is higher.  The trial began on Jan. 10.  The case is Gross v. Gynecare Inc., Atl-L-6966-10, Superior
Court of Atlantic County, New Jersey (Atlantic City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Atlantic City , New Jersey, at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  