-- CIFI Holdings Markets First Dollar Bonds From China This Month
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-21T05:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/japan-australia-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swaps-show.html
CIFI Holdings Group Co. (884)  is marketing
dollar-denominated bonds that would be the first sale in the
U.S. currency by a Chinese company this month. Bond risk in  Asia 
was unchanged.  The Hong Kong-listed developer of Chinese homes and offices
is considering pricing five-year bonds in the low-to-mid 11
percent range, according to a person familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified because the details are private.
Japan’s Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Co. also plans to sell
dollar notes, a separate person said. The cost of insuring
corporate debt from non-payment in Asia was unchanged, according
to  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  prices.  CIFI Holdings, which is based in  Shanghai , would be the
first Chinese issuer to sell securities in the U.S. currency
since Hainan Airlines Co. raised $500 million at the end of
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China  stopped
short of imposing fresh measures to control price rises
yesterday while urging local authorities to “decisively” curb
real-estate speculation.  Standard & Poor’s  said earlier
yesterday the outlook for the country’s real-estate industry had
improved.  “CIFI has some trust loans to repay, plus all developers
are looking to expand in 2013,” according to Agnes Wong, a Hong
Kong-based credit analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “This is just
opportunistic as the market is still sort of open.”  The builder plans to use proceeds from the bonds to
refinance existing debt, acquire new projects or land, develop
existing projects in China and for general corporate purposes,
or just for the latter, according to a person with knowledge of
the details.  Japan Offerings  Mitsubishi UFJ Lease is marketing five-year bonds at about
145 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, a
separate person said. Japanese companies have sold $3.15 billion
of dollar debt this week, the most since the five-day period
ending Jan. 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 108 basis points
as of 8:25 a.m. in  Hong Kong , according to Credit Agricole
prices. The benchmark has fallen 5.4 basis points this year,
according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index increased 2 basis points to
124 as of 9:11 a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
measure is set to pare its drop this year to 35 basis points,
according to prices from CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index climbed 1.5 to 114.5 as
of 11:08 a.m. in Sydney, according to  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
prices. The benchmark has ranged from 111.6 to 127.5 this year,
according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  