-- Jose Berenguer Said to Replace Berquo as JPMorgan’s Brazil CEO
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-02-21T23:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/jose-berenguer-said-to-replace-berquo-as-jpmorgan-s-brazil-ceo.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  named Jose de Menezes Berenguer Neto, once a contender to run Banco Santander
SA’s Brazil unit, to succeed Claudio Berquo as head of its own
business there, said two people with knowledge of the move.  Berenguer will relinquish the money-management role he has
held since March at JPMorgan’s private-equity and hedge-fund
unit, Gavea Investimentos Ltda., said the people, who asked to
not be identified because the appointment wasn’t announced.
Gavea was founded by former Brazil central banker Arminio Fraga.  Berenguer, who previously led  Banco Santander Brasil (BSBR) ’s
retail, asset-management and private banking businesses, will
become chief executive officer of a JPMorgan unit that ranks as
Brazil’s 15th-largest bank by assets, with 32 billion reais
($16.2 billion). Berquo was named to the CEO post in November
2009, overseeing the operation with about 700 employees.  A JPMorgan spokesman declined to comment on the moves, and
there was no response to calls and e-mails to Berquo and
Berenguer. Brazilian columnists Sonia Racy, from Estado de S.
Paulo, and Lauro Jardim, from Veja, reported Berenguer’s
appointment earlier today.  Berenguer, who had prior experience in  investment banking 
and corporate finance, took on Santander Brasil’s retail
business in March 2011 in what was supposed to be a step toward
replacing then-CEO Fabio Barbosa, people familiar with the
matter said last year. That plan was later abandoned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  