-- Bank of America, JPMorgan Win Fontainebleau Loan Appeal
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-02-21T18:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/jpmorgan-bank-of-america-win-case-on-fontainebleau-loan-refusal.html
Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other lenders justifiably refused additional
loans to an “ambitious” casino development by Fontainebleau
Las Vegas LLC, as the company had breached a credit agreement
governing the revolving loans, a U.S. appeals court said.  The casino company sued the lenders for $3 billion in 2009,
saying they refused to provide $800 million in funding for the
development. Fontainebleau hadn’t abided by conditions it
undertook to fulfill before the banks would increase their
revolving loans from $150 million, the appeal judges ruled
yesterday in Atlanta.  Fontainebleau, whose corporate parent owns a hotel on 22
acres of Miami Beach,  Florida , needed the money to complete a
$2.4 billion casino-hotel being built in Las Vegas. The company
and affiliates filed for bankruptcy in Miami in 2009, and
billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  bought the unfinished Las Vegas
project for about $150 million in 2010. The appeals court wound
up reviewing two U.S. District Court decisions from Florida on
what they termed “a contract dispute.”  “This case presents more fallout from the failure of the
ambitious Fontainebleau development in Las Vegas,” the appeals
judges said in their ruling. “After careful review, and having
had the benefit of oral argument, we affirm both rulings by the
district court.”  ‘Fully Drawn’  The dispute between Fontainebleau and the banks hinged on
the interpretation of the term “fully drawn” in the loan
documents, the judges said. When Bank of America, as agent for
the loans, said the request for funds didn’t comply with the
agreement, Fontainebleau said it did. The project collapsed
after the lenders declared a default, and the company filed the
lawsuit alleging breach of contract.  Finding the contract terms “ambiguous,” the judges said
they couldn’t by law conclude that the lenders “broke their
promise to fund the borrowers,” as Fontainebleau argued.  Alvin Goldstein, a lawyer for the trustee handling the
bankruptcy, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on the ruling. Jason Jones, a lawyer for Fontainebleau
Las Vegas, said he wasn’t involved in the appeal.  The case is Fontainebleau Las Vegas LLC v. Bank of America,
11-10468, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit
(Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  