-- Judge Refuses to Recuse Herself From Alleged Hacker’s Cas
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-02-21T22:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/judge-refuses-to-recuse-herself-from-alleged-hacker-s-cas.html
A U.S. judge in  Manhattan  handling
the case of a hacker accused of ransacking a Texas-based
intelligence firm refused to recuse herself after the defendant
said her husband could be a victim of the alleged intrusion.  U.S. District Judge Loretta Preska rejected a request by
Jeremy Hammond, who identified himself as a member of the
hacking group called AntiSec, that she remove herself from the
case on the grounds that her husband, Thomas Kavaler, a partner
at  law firm  Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, was a victim of the
hack of Strategic Forecasting Inc., or Stratfor, a global
intelligence firm in Austin,  Texas .  “Defendant has failed to carry his substantial burden of
showing that a reasonable observer, with knowledge and
understanding of the relevant facts, would entertain significant
doubt that justice would be done absent recusal,” Preska said
in a ruling today.  At a hearing earlier today, Hammond lawyer Elizabeth Fink
argued that Preska may be biased in favor of prosecutors because
the intrusion may have affected her husband and because some
clients that Cahill Gordon represents in unrelated matters may
also have been victims of the hacks attributed by the government
to Hammond.  “The issue here is the appearance of partiality,” Fink
told Preska. “It’s your honor’s call. This is a very close
case. If you feel because of your relationship with your
husband, you’ll recuse yourself, and if you don’t, you don’t.”  FBI Investigation  Preska said in her ruling that the prosecutors said an
investigation by the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation has
determined that the only item of Kavaler’s obtained during the
Stratfor hack was his publicly available law firm e-mail
address. She said today her husband also stated he was a client
of Stratfor for a two-week trial period and never supplied the
company with his personal credit card information.  “The public interest mandates that judges not be
intimidated out of abundance of caution into granting
disqualification matters,” Preska wrote.  The judge said Fink failed to draw a link between the
Stratfor hack and and the interest of Cahill Gordon and its
clients.  “The defendant’s motion and the accompanying exhibits are
replete with conclusory, hearsay allegations pertaining to Mr.
Kavaler’s status as a victim of the Stratfor hack,” she said.
“Defendant’s submissions are devoid of reliable evidence in
support of the breadth to which this court’s personal
involvement in this case is allegedly implicated.”  Employee E-Mails  Hammond and his co-conspirators are accused of stealing
employee e-mails and account information for about 860,000
subscribers or clients of Stratfor. Prosecutors say Hammond also
stole information from about 60,000 credit card users and used
some of the data to make more than $700,000 in unauthorized
charges. He pleaded not guilty to the charges.  The defendants are described by the U.S. as being members
of a loose confederation of hackers from the groups LulzSec,
Internet Feds and Anonymous. Hammond, of  Chicago , is the only
defendant charged by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
U.S. custody.  Preska set the next court hearing for April 10.  The case is U.S. v. Hammond, 12-cr-185, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  