-- Junk-Bond Volatility Gains in Split With Stocks: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-02-21T16:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/junk-bond-volatility-gains-in-split-with-stocks-credit-markets.html
Price  swings  in junk bonds are
widening, diverging from stocks that are the least volatile in
more than five years as concern mounts that the eight-month
rally in the debt is coming to an end.  A measure of 30-day volatility in  relative yields  of U.S.
speculative-grade corporate bonds almost doubled to 20 last week
from a record-low of 10.5 at the end of December, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 32 percent
decline this year in the  VIX index , a benchmark for expected
stock-market volatility, to 12.3 on Feb. 19, the lowest since
April 2007.  Wider price swings and waning demand has suppressed junk-
bond sales as investors, earning yields near last month’s
unprecedented low of 6.4 percent, brace for the potential of
rising interest rates that can erode the value of the
securities. Federal Reserve minutes released yesterday showed
policy makers divided over Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s bond-
buying program that is holding down interest-rate benchmarks.  “You do have some catalysts for volatility in credit that
may be a little less dramatic for equities,” said Stephen Antczak, a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.
“The sensitivity to rising interest rates has a very big impact
in total returns in credit.”  Issuance Cools  Speculative-grade borrowers sold 34 percent less debt in
the U.S. in the two weeks ended Feb. 15 compared with the
previous two weeks, Bloomberg data show.  Junk bonds, which gained 11.7 percent in the eight months
ended Jan. 31, are up 0.2 percent this month, the lowest return
since losing 1.2 percent in May, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. The performance is showing how unstable the
market is becoming at current prices, said Oleg Melentyev, a
credit strategist at the bank.  The average junk-bond price has declined 1 cent from the
high of 105.9 cents on the dollar reached Jan. 25, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. The continued gains
needed to maintain demand for junk bonds “would imply pushing
the market valuations further beyond any reasonable levels, thus
undoing the very reason for being aggressive in buying risk at
these levels,” New York-based Melentyev wrote in a Feb. 8
report. That’s “an unstable combination indeed,” he said.  Credit Gauges  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Clear Channel (CCMO)  Communications
Inc. plans to sell $500 million of bonds to help repay a term
loan maturing next year. The market for corporate borrowing
through short-term IOUs contracted to the lowest level of 2013.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose for a
second day, climbing 0.7 basis point to a mid-price of 88.2
basis points as of 11:16 a.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index, tied to 125
companies with investment-grade ratings, increased 4.1 to 115.1.  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of New York-based Morgan Stanley are the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, accounting for 7.2 percent of the volume of
trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Clear Channel  The biggest financial brokerage raised $4.5 billion
yesterday in its second benchmark-size corporate bond deal this
year. Its $2.5 billion of 3.75 percent, 10-year securities
climbed 0.4 cent from the issue price to 100 cents on the dollar
at 11:09 a.m. in New York, Trace data show.  Clear Channel, the radio and billboard company controlled
by Bain Capital Partners LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP after
a 2008 buyout, intends to issue so-called priority guarantee
notes due 2021 that are “fully and unconditionally” backed by
the parent company and all “existing and future wholly-owned
domestic restricted subsidiaries,” San Antonio-based Clear
Channel said today in a statement.  Proceeds from the bond sale will be used to help pay off
the $847 million of loans outstanding under its term loan A
facility maturing in July 2014, the company said. Clear Channel
has more than $10 billion of debt maturing in 2016, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Commercial Paper  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
fell $22.4 billion to $1.063 trillion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the fifth straight drop, the Federal Reserve
said today on its website. That’s the longest stretch of
declines since the period ended Oct. 24 and the least since the
market touched $1.058 trillion Dec. 19.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  The measure of swings in  relative yields  of U.S.
speculative-grade corporate bonds averaged 20 in the 30 days
ended Feb. 8, up from 10.5 on Dec. 31, according to Barclays Plc
index data compiled by Bloomberg. The volatility gauge declined
to 16 basis points on Feb. 20, the data show.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
 VIX (VIX) , a benchmark for expected stock-market volatility, plunged
35 percent in the two days ended Jan. 2, to 14.7, as U.S.
legislators averted tax increases that risked pushing the nation
back into a recession. It continued falling as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index posted its best start to a year since 1997.  Funds Pulled  “Volatility in credit has indeed been somewhat higher than
in equities on a relative basis,” Bank of America’s Melentyev
said in an e-mail.  Yields on the dollar-denominated notes have increased 12
basis points to 6.53 percent yesterday since reaching the record
low on Jan. 25 as concern mounted that the debt will lose value
when U.S. Treasuries rise. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose
0.6 percent during the same period.  Investors yanked $1.4 billion from U.S. high-yield bond
funds in the first week of February as  Treasury yields  rose from
record lows to the highest levels in 10 months, eroding the
debt’s value, according to data compiled by Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and Bloomberg.  Greater Sensitivity  That follows the $20.9 billion of deposits into the funds
last year as the Fed held benchmark borrowing rates at about
zero in an attempt to galvanize an economy still recovering from
the credit crisis. Investors pumped $37 billion into equity
funds in January, the most since 2004, estimates from the
Washington-based Investment Company Institute show.  “The higher quality of high-yield is now super-sensitive
to interest rates,” said Matt Duch, who helps manage $12
billion in assets under management at Calvert Investments Inc.
“Often your road map is past events, and I don’t think we have
much to go on with high-yield right now.”  Average modified duration on the $452.2 billion of BB rated
bonds in a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index rose to an
average 5.4 years Jan. 6, the highest since 2007. Duration is a
gauge of debt’s sensitivity to increasing interest rates.  Investors from Loomis Sayles & Co.’s Dan Fuss to Oaktree
Capital Management LP’s Howard Marks have said prices on junk
bonds are too high.  Fuss, whose Loomis Sayles Bond Fund beat 98 percent of its
peers in the past three years, said last month that the debt is
as “overbought as I’ve ever seen it,” while Oaktree’s Marks
told clients in a January memo that “this is a time for
caution.”  Fed Debate  Several Federal Reserve policy makers said last month that
the central bank should be ready to vary the pace of their $85
billion in monthly bond purchases, according to the minutes
released yesterday. That showed policy makers were divided about
the strategy behind Bernanke’s program of buying bonds until
there is “substantial” improvement in a U.S. labor market.  The officials “emphasized that the committee should be
prepared to vary the pace of asset purchases, either in response
to changes in the economic outlook or as its evaluation of the
efficacy and costs of such purchases evolved,” according to the
minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Jan. 29-30
meeting released yesterday in Washington.  Borrowers sold $5 billion of junk bonds last week, the
lowest weekly issuance of the year, because of “volatility in
the secondary market and waning investor demand, evidenced by
back-to-back mutual fund outflows,” JPMorgan credit strategists
led by Peter Acciavatti wrote in a Feb. 15 report.  The $16.5 billion of issuance in the two weeks ended Feb.
15 comes after $22.2 billion of the debt sales in the previous
two weeks, Bloomberg data show.  “High-yield bonds will remain vulnerable to a sharp
increase in Treasury yields,” the strategists said in the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  