-- Kasich Siphons Ohio Turnpike Cash at Lowest Yields: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-02-21T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/kasich-siphons-ohio-turnpike-cash-at-lowest-yields-muni-credit.html
Ohio needs $1 billion to cover
transportation projects and doesn’t plan to raise fuel taxes to
pay for the work. Governor  John Kasich ’s solution: have the Ohio
Turnpike, whose bonds are trading at record-low yields, supply
the funds.  Kasich, a first-term Republican who had considered leasing
the 241-mile (388-kilometer) highway to raise as much as $4
billion over 50 years, instead wants the toll road to borrow $1
billion in 2013 and $500 million in about five years to pay for
the work. Lawmakers are considering allowing the proposed bond
sales as U.S. states seek ways to pay for needed infrastructure.  Officials in the Kasich administration call the plan
“conservative” and  Fitch Ratings  said in a Jan. 4 report it
probably wouldn’t affect grades on existing toll-road debt.
Opponents, including the former Republican executive director of
the  Ohio  Turnpike Commission, counter that it’s a bad idea to
triple the agency’s debt to pay for work beyond the turnpike.  “This is highway robbery,” Gary Suhadolnik, who ran the
commission from 2003 to 2008, said by telephone. “It makes no
sense to me why people who are paying their own way through a
toll should now have to pay, in effect, a surcharge -- higher
toll rates -- to pay to improve someone else’s road.”  Transportation Wins  Yet now would be an opportune time to borrow.
Transportation securities returned 5.8 percent over the 12
months through Feb. 19, including interest and price
appreciation, according to Barclays Capital data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with about 4.9 percent for the $3.7
trillion municipal market.  “Let’s try to move it as quickly as we can,” Kasich told
lawmakers in urging support for the proposal during a Feb. 19
speech. “We have a window out there of cheap money.”  The highway’s revenue and bonds are also gaining.  Ohio toll receipts reached a record $252.5 million in 2012,
up from $231 million in 2011, according to the commission. Total
liabilities as of Dec. 31 were $623.3 million, including $566.3
million of revenue bonds payable, the agency said.  A tax-exempt turnpike revenue bond maturing in February
2019 traded Feb. 7 at an average yield of 1.11 percent, the
lowest ever for the insured debt, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That was about 0.2 percentage point more than benchmark
AAA municipals with a similar maturity. The bond, which traded
at an average yield of about 1.79 percent Dec. 14, is rated AA
by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, both third-highest.  Lower Priority  It is contemplated that investors in some of the new debt
would have lower priority for repayment than current
bondholders, and those additional securities would be structured
to provide for a rating level of A, according a Dec. 12 study
for the state by KPMG Corporate Finance LLC.  The main investor concerns will be how much debt is issued,
flexibility to raise tolls as needed and whether traffic and
revenue projections are sufficient, said  Paul Brennan  of Nuveen
Asset Management in  Chicago . The firm oversees more than $90
billion in municipals, including turnpike bonds.  Kasich has proposed limiting toll increases at the rate of
inflation for 10 years, or about 2.7 percent a year, and at 10
percent every decade after that. Under the current version of
the bill, the commission would retain the ability to set toll
rates as needed to make debt payments. Democrats are seeking a
guarantee that a specific portion of the proposed bond proceeds
would be spent on projects in northern Ohio, near the toll road.  Revenue Transfers  Some toll roads in the U.S. allow revenue transfers to
local or state governments, including the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority, which makes annual payments to the state’s
Transportation Trust Fund Authority to finance Transportation
Department and New Jersey Transit projects, according to a
February 2012 report by Moody’s Investors Service called
“Milking the Cash Cow.”  Toll roads that allow similar transfers have “materially
weaker financial profiles” with higher debt ratios than
turnpikes that don’t allow such payments, the report concluded.  The Ohio commission can handle the additional debt
proposed, and about $70 million of the proceeds would be used to
replace the 58-year-old toll road’s original concrete base,
allowing the work to be done in 25 years instead of 40,
Executive Director Richard Hodges said.  “We’re very confident that the governor’s proposal is
creative but conservative,” Hodges said by telephone.  Diluted Stream  Even so, there are concerns that using toll revenue to back
debt for non-turnpike projects may be dilutive for current bonds
and diminish surpluses, said Howard Cure, director of municipal
research for Evercore Wealth Management LLC in  New York .  “When you start diluting the revenue stream and using it
for capital programs away from its core mission, I think then
you start questioning the soundness of the security,” Cure said
by telephone. “It puts pressure on the security.”  A prominent example of a toll road borrowing to pay for
state transportation projects is in  Pennsylvania , where a law
passed by the legislature and signed by former Democratic
Governor  Ed Rendell  in 2007 requires annual payments from the
Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission to the state Transportation
Department in lieu of a long-term lease.  The Pennsylvania commission has transferred $3.6 billion to
the state since then, borrowing about $4.2 billion to make the
payments, Carl DeFebo, a spokesman, said by e-mail.  ‘At Risk’  The commission is “drowning in debt” and “its very
existence is at risk” because of the required payments, Jack Wagner, a former Pennsylvania auditor general, said in a January
2012  statement . The agency’s long-term debt has more than
doubled to $7.3 billion under the law, Wagner said.  While the Pennsylvania agency regards Wagner’s assertion as
“a gross exaggeration,” it supports a proposal by Republican
Governor Tom Corbett to end the payments in 10 years instead of
2057 as called for in the law, DeFebo said by telephone.  If Ohio or any other state wants to pay to improve a road
or bridge, it should charge the users of that transportation
asset instead of using proceeds from turnpike debt, said Robert Poole, director of transportation policy at the Los Angeles-
based Reason Foundation, which promotes libertarian views. Other
states will be tempted to follow Kasich’s lead, Poole said.  “It’s like a pot of gold sitting there, so politically
speaking, I wouldn’t be surprised to see other proposals like
this,” Poole said by telephone. “I think it’s a wrong path to
go down, but that doesn’t mean politicians won’t do it.”  Booze Bonds  Kasich, who also backed a plan to sell $1.5 billion in
bonds backed by state liquor profits last month to fund a
private economic-development entity, said the issue is solving
problems and not the additional borrowing.  “We don’t like debt, but there are times in which you can
appropriately move your value forward to give you significant
advantages in the short term,” Kasich said at a Dec. 14 news
briefing in Columbus to unveil his turnpike proposal.  In municipal trading yesterday, the average yield on top-
rated securities maturing in 10 years  rose  to 1.88 percent, the
highest since Aug. 23, from 1.85 percent the day before,
Bloomberg valuation data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  