-- Kingfisher Profit to Meet Estimates; France Sales Fall Eases
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-02-21T08:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/kingfisher-predicts-profit-at-consensus-after-u-k-sales-decline.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF) , Europe’s largest
home-improvement chain, said adjusted annual profit will match
analysts’ expectations after reporting a sales decline in
 France , its biggest market, that eased in the fourth quarter.  Sales at French stores open at least a year fell 2.4
percent in the 14 weeks ended Feb. 2, the London-based retailer
said in a statement today. That was less than the median
estimate of ten analysts of a 4 percent decline. Sales in the
U.K. and Ireland declined 5.8 percent on the same basis, missing
the median estimate of a 4.5 percent decline, and compares with
a 3.8 percent fall in the previous quarter.  Analysts expect annual adjusted pretax profit of 715
million pounds ($1.08 billion), the retailer said. Kingfisher,
which owns the B&Q chain in the U.K. and Castorama outlets
across  Europe , is sourcing more products directly from
manufacturers and buying common items for all its overseas
outlets to reduce costs and maintain profits even as DIY
spending falls.  “In line with consensus, profits should be seen as a
positive,” Warwick Okines, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said in
a report. He has a hold recommendation on the stock. The fourth-
quarter figures offer “relief but uncertainty remains.”  The shares fell 0.65 percent percent to 276.5 pence by 8:45
a.m. in  London  trading. The stock has fallen 2.8 percent in the
year to date.  ’Tough Year’  “We have had a tough fourth quarter, ending what has been
a tough year impacted by unfavourable foreign exchange,
particularly poor weather in the U.K. and weaker  consumer
confidence  in our major markets,” Chief Executive Officer Ian Cheshire said in a statement.  Kingfisher said profitability fell in its two largest
markets, France and the U.K., as it sold less and offered more
promotions to lure shoppers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  