-- Kirkwood Adds Clever Men’s Shoes to Stiletto Line
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2013-02-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/kirkwood-adds-clever-men-s-shoes-to-stiletto-line.html
Impossibly high heels, exotic
fabrics, glistening metal and weird shapes make Nicholas Kirkwood’s creations for women closer to works of art than to
shoes. They are priced accordingly, routinely hitting four
figures.  He launched his women’s line in 2005 and just unveiled his
first collection for men.  Ranging from $520 to $950, most of the shoes are in some
variation of black leather and wouldn’t look out of place with a
suit.  When we met in his buzzy downtown showroom, the 32-year-old
German-born, London-based designer was wearing an unstructured
blazer over a crewneck sweater, jeans and a pair of beat-up
Balenciaga sneakers.  Tarmy: What are some of the challenges of designing for
men, as opposed to women?  Kirkwood: You can’t be as inventive with men’s shoes. Guys
like to understand that it’s a lace up or it’s a Chelsea boot,
whereas women are very open to abnormal shapes.  With men’s shoes, it’s more about subtleties and little
details.  Tarmy: Why are men’s shoes so much cheaper than women’s
shoes?  Kirkwood: I wish I knew. No, seriously. There’s still a lot
of work that goes into them -- sometimes more work than goes
into women’s shoes.  Price Limit  Tarmy: Are men simply unwilling to pay more?  Kirkwood: There’s a price limit on what guys want to pay.
Even I probably wouldn’t feel comfortable spending much more
than 500 pounds for shoes I know I’m going to trash down the
line.  If it’s something special, like  Berluti  lace-ups or
something bespoke, I can understand spending on that.  Tarmy: Do you collect shoes for yourself?  Kirkwood: I’m my worst customer. I typically wear the same
pair of shoes every day. I buy shoes, wear them until they’re
dead, and then I buy another pair.  I normally only have about three pairs, but now I’ve made
all the samples in my size, so I’ll have quite a few more.  Tarmy: Your women’s shoes are insanely high. Have you ever
tried to walk in a five-inch heel?  Five-Inch Heels  Kirkwood: Yes. I tried to walk around in them, and it was
impossible until I was told how to do it: Just imagine you’re
tiptoeing, and walk on the front of your feet -- don’t try to
use the heel.  Then it was quite a lot easier, but I wouldn’t try to do it
every day. I guess women condition themselves.  Tarmy: I’d have thought once you tried it, you wouldn’t
design 5-inch heels anymore.  Kirkwood: Absolutely not. Sometimes girls even ask, “Can
you make them higher?”  I’m like, “Okay, sure!”  Tarmy: Do you worry about structural stability when shoes
reach a certain height?  Kirkwood: They do a test at the heel factory to see how
many tons or whatever it takes to bend it or snap it. It’s
almost like a car test -- I never even knew that they did it.  I thought you just make the shoe and keep your fingers
crossed.  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and  Greg Evans 
on  TV .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in  New York :  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 