-- KKR Said to Offer $3.68 Billion for Gardner Denver
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-02-22T21:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/kkr-co-said-to-offer-75-a-share-for-gardner-denver.html
KKR & Co. offered about $3.68
billion for  Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI) , the industrial equipment maker
that’s courted takeover interest from at least eight firms since
October, said a person familiar with the matter. The stock rose.  The New York-based buyout firm offered $75 a share, 11
percent higher than yesterday’s closing price, said the person,
who asked not to be named as the process is private. Gardner
Denver, which had hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to review
options, won’t comment on the process, Chief Executive Officer
Michael Larsen said today on a conference call about earnings.  A deal would mark a victory for investor ValueAct Holdings
LP, which urged a sale after the July departure of former CEO
Barry Pennypacker sparked an 8.6 percent share drop. After
saying Oct. 25 that it was studying alternatives including a
sale, Gardner Denver has seen talks collapse with rival  SPX
Corp. (SPW)  and private-equity firms Onex Corp., TPG Capital and
Advent International Corp.  “We actually felt as though the clock was sort of ticking
on this acquisition,” William Bremer, a New York-based analyst
at Maxim Group LLC who cut his rating on Gardner Denver shares
to hold yesterday, said in a telephone interview. “That being
said, we’ve got a fantastic company here that is definitely top
tier in their space, not just in products but also
distribution.”  The  shares  rose 5 percent to $70.84 at the close in  New
York . Gardner Denver has gained 3.4 percent this year,
underperforming the 11 percent gain in the  Standard & Poor’s 400
Industrials Index. (S4INDU)   Activist Investor  Gardner Denver, based in Wayne,  Pennsylvania , makes
compressors, pumps and other products for industries including
manufacturing and energy exploration.  ValueAct said today that it supports a sale of the company
at the $75-a-share price KKR offered. The bid is 44 percent more
than Gardner Denver’s close on July 26, the day the investor
sent a letter to the company advocating a takeover as “the most
effective way to deliver maximum value to shareholders.”  The KKR bid “should be considered a successful culmination
of Gardner Denver’s sale process and a wonderful result for all
shareholders,” Greg Spivy, a partner at ValueAct, said in a
statement today.  ValueAct held a 5.1 percent stake in the company as of
Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Beat  Earlier today, Gardner Denver reported fourth-quarter
profit that  beat  analysts’ estimates. Excluding costs such as
severance and expenses for the company’s review of strategic
alternatives, Gardner Denver earned $1.49 a share, compared with
the $1.34 average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  CEO Larsen said that management wouldn’t field questions
from analysts and investors about the exploration of strategic
options during the conference call.  “We anticipate providing an update on the outcome when our
board has determined a definitive course of action,” he said.  In addition to SPX, Onex, TPG and Advent, other suitors for
Gardner Denver have included private-equity firms CCMP Capital
Advisors LLC, Bain Capital LLC and Blackstone Group LP.  SPX planned to offer about $85 a share, though the
discussions collapsed in part because SPX couldn’t get the terms
it wanted on a loan. That compared with earlier ones from
private-equity firms of about $73 to $75 a share, people
familiar with the matter have said.  SPX walked away from takeover talks in December because its
shareholders didn’t support the deal, people with knowledge of
the situation said at the time. Gardner Denver then got back in
touch with private-equity firms that had expressed interest and
had sought bids for about $78 a share, people have said.  Due Diligence  Two bidders walked away from the process because Gardner
Denver was slow to assist them with due diligence, people with
knowledge of the matter said this week. A joint offer by Onex
and TPG and a separate proposal from Advent were withdrawn in
part because the firms wanted more information and more time to
study the company than management would allow, said one of the
people.  It’s still possible that Gardner Denver could see more
bids, although an offer higher than $78 a share is unlikely,
Bremer of Maxim Group said.  “Having a company that is put on the block, that wants to
be sold, you never know who is coming in late in the game,” he
said. “There’s always some late horses to the race.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  