-- NATO Weighs Expanded Afghan Forces to Increase Confidence
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-02-21T18:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/nato-weighs-expanded-afghan-forces-to-increase-confidence.html
NATO officials are considering
proposals to sustain  Afghanistan ’s military forces at 352,000
troops after 2016 to boost the confidence of the country’s
officials as the U.S. and its allies reduce their presence.  In addition to maintaining more Afghan forces than
previously planned, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is
working to improve the operations of Afghanistan’s defense and
interior ministries, a NATO official said today in Brussels.  Senior Afghan officials, concerned that the withdrawal of
U.S. and allied forces from the country could lead to chaos, may
lose their commitment to govern and continue the fight against
the Taliban, according to the official, who asked not to be
identified discussing the alliance’s deliberations.  “I have confidence that we’ll be able to finance Afghan
security forces of that size,” NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said today at a news conference at the alliance
headquarters in Brussels.  Paying for Afghanistan’s security isn’t just a NATO
responsibility, Rasmussen said. “This is a responsibility for
the international community.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration had been
considering plans that would reduce the size of Afghanistan’s
military to about 230,000 troops sometime after 2015.  Democratic Senators  Carl Levin  of  Michigan  and  Jack Reed  of
 Rhode Island , wrote to Tom Donilon, Obama’s national security
adviser, on Jan. 8, asking that the U.S. commit to keep the
Afghan military at 350,000. That size “will be necessary for
the success of the mission, i.e., to prevent Afghanistan from
once again becoming a safe haven for al-Qaeda,” they said in
the letter.  U.S. Funds  The U.S. heavily subsidizes Afghanistan’s military. While
the U.S. spent about $11.2 billion on the Afghan National
Security Forces in fiscal 2012, the Obama administration
requested $5.75 billion for the current fiscal year, according
to the  Congressional Research Service .  At the NATO summit in  Chicago  in May, Afghanistan and the
alliance agreed that after 2017 the Afghan military will shrink
to a force of 228,500 with an estimated annual budget of $4.1
billion, according to a White House statement.  Obama has announced plans to withdraw 34,000 of the 66,000
U.S. troops from Afghanistan by this time next year. Most of the
rest will depart by end of 2014, leaving a small force for
training and advising missions if the U.S. and Afghanistan can
reach agreement to do so.  Withdrawal Timetable  U.S. troop levels will fall to 60,500 by May, with further
reductions to 52,500 by November and to 33,000 by February 2014,
a White House official said, speaking on condition of anonymity
to discuss military planning.  Other NATO countries have been weighing their own troop
reduction plans since the U.S. announced its withdrawal and
haven’t yet made decisions, the NATO official said.  Countries also are weighing their post-2014 participation
in Afghanistan, including training military forces as well as
helping Afghan ministries in their functioning, the official
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Brussels at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  