-- Neptune Buys Into Foreign-Listed African Miners to Reduce Risks
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-02-21T17:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/neptune-buys-into-foreign-listed-african-miners-to-reduce-risks.html
Neptune Investment Management Ltd.
increased its holding of foreign-listed African mining companies
to tap into less-liquid, growing markets, while limiting
exposure to South African metals producers, Shelley McKeaveney,
manager of Neptune Africa Fund, said.  Neptune has recently added companies, including  Sierra
Leone ’s  Sierra Rutile Ltd. (SRX) , London Mining Plc, the second-
largest iron-ore producer in the country, and  Kenmare Resources
Plc (KMR) , a miner operating on the north-east coast of Mozambique,
“partly to reflect a more positive view on the materials
sector,” McKeaveney told a meeting of investors in London
today.  About 50 workers died last year in violence related to a
series of illegal strikes that shut mines and curbed production
in Africa’s largest economy. The violence peaked on Aug. 16,
when police killed 34 protesters at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana
platinum mine in the North West province.  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  had a six-week strike last year in which four
people died and 120,000 ounces of metal were lost.  “We haven’t had much exposure to the large-cap South
African mines since the first quarter of last year,” McKeaveney
said. “With the trouble on the Impala mine in February last
year, we’ve gotten a bit spooked. The South African mining
sector is perhaps not the best place for us to be right now.”  Neptune looks for “very strong production growth,” rather
than betting on the metals price and expansion projects are
under way at Sierra Rutile, London Mining and Kenmare, she said.  ‘Mining Friendly’  “Even if the iron ore price goes absolutely nowhere this
year, London Mining is going to treble its production,”
McKeaveney said.  Sierra Leone is “exceptionally mining friendly,” with the
country having completed “peaceful elections” last year, she
said.  Kenmare shares have rallied 15 percent this year, while
London Mining rose 7.4 percent and Sierra Rutile added 5.3
percent. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has retreated 0.4
percent in the period.  Buying into foreign-listed African companies reduces
“foreign exchange risks,” McKeaveney said. “It also means
that we can get exposure to countries that don’t have  stock
exchanges  or that have stock exchanges that aren’t liquid or
accessible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  