-- New York Gets a Marathon This Weekend for 1,500 in Central Park
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-02-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/new-york-gets-a-marathon-this-weekend-for-1-500-in-central-park.html
New York’s Central Park will host a
marathon this weekend with a field one-thirtieth the size of the
city’s biggest annual foot race, which was canceled three months
ago in the aftermath of  Hurricane Sandy  amid a groundswell of
criticism.  As many as 1,500 runners will participate in the inaugural
Central Park Marathon on Feb. 24, running  five loops  in the park
before ending near Tavern on the Green, not far from the
traditional finish line of the New York City Marathon that goes
through all five city boroughs.  Unlike the NYC Marathon that’s organized by the not-for-
profit  New York Road Runners  and was expected to draw 47,000
runners from around the world in November, the new race is put
on by  NYCRuns , a two-year-old closely held business that also
hosts marathons in Brooklyn and Yonkers, New York.  “Living in New York, there’s been this real push toward
local stuff, boutique architecture firms or locally sourced food
at restaurants,” said NYCRuns spokesman David Alm. “NYRR is
great. It’s like the big box of running companies. It’s huge,
it’s a wonderful experience, it’s epic. NYCRuns is not trying to
compete with that. It’s trying to be a boutique.”  Steve Lastoe, 40, began NYCRuns.com as a free online
calendar for New York runners. He then noticed a market for
timing and race-management services and later decided to
organize his own events, incorporating in January 2011.  With fewer than 10 staff members, most part-time, NYCRuns
also organizes several five- and 10-kilometer races and will
hold a half-marathon in  Central Park  during the longer race. The
marathon entry fee is $95, so 1,500 fee-paying runners would
bring in $142,500 in revenue.  Marathon Canceled  The NYC Marathon, by comparison, would have cost from $216
to $347 to enter. NYRR took in $54 million in revenue in the
fiscal year ending March 2011, including $26.8 million in entry
fees, according to a tax filing.  The Nov. 4 NYC Marathon was canceled two days before being
run amid complaints from people including city officials such as
Comptroller John C. Liu, Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn and
Manhattan Borough President Scott M. Stringer. They said it
would have drained hurricane recovery resources and offended
those affected by the storm, which killed 41 people in the city
and left 4.8 million in the region without power.  NYCRuns sought to expand its permit for the Nov. 18
Brooklyn Marathon in Prospect Park to 1,000-2,500 from an
original field of 500. It was turned down by the city because
the area was being used for post-storm emergency vehicles.  Lora Vaccaro, a 36-year-old from  Manhattan  who’s run two
NYCRuns races, said in a telephone interview that their smaller
size means fewer headaches for runners.  ‘Honestly Race’  “After the whole New York City Marathon debacle it would
have been nice to register for something and roll up and run
your race instead of jumping through hoops,” Vaccaro said, also
mentioning a website breakdown this week that forced the Chicago
Marathon to suspend online registration. “Sometimes getting
into these more well-known races is like an event in itself.”  Vaccaro said the NYCRuns events also allow her “a lot more
room to honestly race.”  Alm, for example, placed eighth of 262 finishers in the
2011 Brooklyn Marathon, completing the 26.2-mile (42.2-
kilometer) event in 2 hours, 59 minutes, 13 seconds. That time
would have made him the 982nd finisher in the NYC Marathon two
weeks earlier.  First Marathon  Each NYC Marathon, which began in 1970 on a Central Park-
only course with 127 entrants, brings complaints from some local
runners who say the race has gotten too big and too focused on
luring the world’s most talented marathoners.  “That’s what I love about what NYCRuns is doing right
now,” said Mary Wittenberg, president and chief executive
officer of NYRR. “There’s a real need and opportunity in this
city, where there’s so much passion for running, to have
experiences in smaller fields and then to run in big spectacles,
too.”  Lastoe said he’d like to move the Central Park race to a
warmer month -- a high of 43 degrees Fahrenheit (6 degrees
Celsius) is forecast for the event. He also said he wants to
make the NYCRuns races more competitive, and hopes to someday
take them out of parks and onto  New York ’s streets, a strategy
that might not appeal to some of his company’s current clients.  “He’s done a really nice job of being nimble and able to
provide a variety of different offerings,” Wittenberg said.
“He’ll have that interesting balancing act as he grows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  