-- Nigerian Forces Surround Kidnappers of French Tourists
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-02-21T13:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/nigerian-security-forces-surround-kidnappers-of-french-tourists.html
Nigerian security forces have
surrounded the kidnappers of seven French tourists in the
northeast of the country and are working to free the hostages, a
security official in Borno state said.  Members of the Nigerian army and police Joint Task Force
found the group in an area between Dikwa and Ngala, about 780
kilometers (485 miles) northeast of the capital, Abuja, the
official said by phone today from Maiduguri, the state capital.
He declined to be identified because he’s not authorized to
speak to the media about the operation.  The tourists, including four children, were seized on Feb.
19 at the village of Dabanga in neighboring Cameroon before
being taken across the border. French security forces have
helped Cameroonian authorities hunt for the abductors, said Awah
Fonka Augustine, governor of Cameroon’s Far North Region.  BFMTV, a French broadcaster, reported earlier today that
the hostages had been released, citing unidentified people in
the Cameroonian military. Cameroonian authorities have yet to
confirm that information, Defense Ministry spokesman Didier
Badjeck said in a phone interview from Yaounde, the capital.  Cameroon government spokesman Issa Tchiroma declined to
comment on the Nigerian operation.  “It’s a top state secret to discuss in detail security
cooperation between nations,” he said in an interview in the
capital, Yaounde.  Family Members  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , the French utility that’s building a liquid
natural gas project in southern Cameroon, said the kidnapped
tourists include one of its employees and family members.  Their abductions came a day after an Islamist group in
Nigeria claimed responsibility for taking seven foreigners
hostage at a construction site in the northeastern state of
Bauchi.  Jamaatu Ansarul Muslimina Fi Biladissudan, or “Vanguards
for the Protection of Muslims in the Land of the Blacks,” said
it took the hostages as a response to “the transgressions and
atrocities done to the religion of Allah” by European nations
in countries including  Mali  and  Afghanistan .  France  has about 4,000 troops in Mali, where it intervened
to fight Islamists and rebel forces to restore state control
over a nation that vies with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-biggest
gold producer. Fighting between French special forces and
Islamist militants is now in the “final phase” and France will
start withdrawing troops in a few weeks, Defense Minister Jean-
Yves Le Drian said yesterday.  French Engineer  Ansaru, as the group is known, also claimed responsibility
for the Dec. 20 kidnapping of French engineer Francis Colump
from his home in the northern Nigerian city of Katsina.  The government of Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer, has
been battling Boko Haram, another militant Islamist group that
has carried out gun and bomb attacks in the north and Abuja
which killed hundreds of people since 2009.  Separately, Nigerian authorities said yesterday they had
arrested three people suspected of being members of an Iran-
linked terror cell planning attacks on U.S. and Israeli targets
in Lagos, the country’s commercial capital.  The group had been gathering information on the Lagos
offices of the U.S. Agency for International Development, Haifa-
based ZIM Integrated Shipping Services Ltd. and the Jewish
Cultural Center, said Marilyn Ogar, spokeswoman for the
Department of State Services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  