-- Nordic Power Price Drops After Temperatures Climb, Carbon Falls
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-02-21T09:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/nordic-power-price-drops-after-temperatures-climb-carbon-falls.html
Nordic electricity for next quarter
fell after  weather forecasts  indicated lower demand and carbon
prices declined.  The benchmark Nordic next-quarter contract fell as much as
0.8 percent to 35.90 euros ($47.38) a megawatt-hour on Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc.’s energy exchange in Oslo and was at 36.05 euros
at 10:20 a.m.  Temperatures in  Norway  will average minus 1.5 degrees
Celsius (29 Fahrenheit) through March 3, up from an earlier
forecast of minus 2.1 degrees, MetraWeather data using the ECMWF
model show. Higher temperatures damp the demand for electric
heating.  EU carbon permits for December declined as much as 3.2
percent to 4.82 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . Emission prices can influence generation
costs at coal-and gas-fed plants. German power for baseload
delivery next quarter retreated as much as 0.4 percent to 37.10
euros a megawatt-hour, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Carbon prices need to rise to 15 or 20 euros per ton in
order to have the intended impact, requiring a permanent
withdrawal of permits” to fix a glut, Magnus Reitersjoe, head
of financial trading at Bixia AB,  Sweden ’s fourth-largest power
trading company, said today in an e-mailed statement.  The European Parliament’s environment committee approved
measures to tackle the oversupply in a vote on Feb. 19. Prices
in the world’s largest cap-and-trade program fell to a record
2.81 euros a metric ton on Jan. 24 as the financial crisis hurt
industrial production and cut demand from industry for emission
permits. The surplus of allowances is almost half of the average
annual pollution limit in the system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  