-- NWR Reports Fourth-Quarter Loss on Low Coal Prices, Poor Demand
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-02-21T07:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/nwr-reports-fourth-quarter-loss-on-low-coal-prices-poor-demand.html
New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the biggest
producer of coking coal in the Czech Republic, reported a
fourth-quarter loss as prices of the commodity fell and an
economic slump forced steelmakers to cut production.  The net loss in the three months through December was 48.6
million euros ($64.5 million), compared with 8.8 million-euro
profit reported a year earlier, the Amsterdam-registered company
said today in a statement. That missed the median estimate of
nine analysts for a 35 million-euro loss in a Bloomberg survey.  Europe’s debt crisis has damped demand for coking coal as
steelmakers such as  ArcelorMittal (MT)  brace for slowing economic
growth. NWR reduced its full-year sales target in October as
global metallurgical-coal prices have tumbled on a manufacturing
slowdown in  China .  “2012 was a tough year for NWR,” Chairman Gareth Penny
said in the statement. “The ongoing macroeconomic uncertainties
in Europe as well as the slowdown in  Asia  have affected business
sentiment and this had a knock-on impact on steel markets and
associated raw materials including coking coal.”  NWR expects coking coal prices to continue improving during
2013 after a “slight” up-tick in the first quarter this year
as significant volumes of less competitive global coking coal
supply went off line in 2012 and projects that would have
brought new supplies on stream in the long-term were delayed or
abandoned, the company said in the statement.  Business Plan  Over the next five years, NWR plans to reposition the
business to become “ Europe ’s leading miner and marketer of
coking coal,” it said. By 2017, NWR plans to double the
European coking coal sales to 10 million tons per year, it said.  NWR also plans to expand the company’s sales
“opportunistically” to western Europe, while retaining  Central
Europe  as NWR’s core market, it said.  Fourth-quarter revenue fell 27 percent to 286.6 million
euros, the company said. The miner posted an operating loss of
40.8 million euros, after a 40.7 million-euro profit a year
earlier.  NWR sees 2013 coal production target at 10 to 11 million
tons and coke production target of 800 kilotons.  The average coal price fell 24 percent last year and 13
percent in the fourth quarter, according to Erste Bank AG
analyst Petr Bartek. Volumes of coal sold fell 4.4 percent last
year, he said in a Feb. 15 note.  NWR owns four mines and two coking facilities in the  Czech
Republic  and sells to customers in central Europe, including the
Czech unit of ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker.  The company is reviewing its plan for the Debiensko mine in
Poland where it encountered unexpected technical difficulties.
 Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA (JSW) , Poland’s largest coal producer,
is looking at the Debiensko project, Chief Executive Officer
Jaroslaw Zagorowski said on Feb. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  