-- Obama to Press Abe on Opening Japan to U.S. Automakers
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-02-22T15:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/obama-to-press-abe-on-opening-japan-to-u-s-automakers.html
President  Barack Obama  won’t back
off demands that Japan ease barriers for U.S. automakers before
joining negotiations for a regional Pacific trade agreement when
he meets today with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, White
House aides said.  A more open market for companies such as  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC remains “an important
pre-condition” to Japan’s potential entry into a proposed trade
pact known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, said Mike Froman,
Obama’s deputy national security adviser for international
economic affairs.  The partnership “is intended to be a comprehensive,
ambitious, high-standard, 21st-century trade agreement,” Froman
said on a conference call with reporters. “And anybody who
joins TPP would be expected to sign on to that goal.”  Trade and security issues will be prime topics for the two
leaders at their White House meeting. Abe, whose Liberal
Democratic Party won a landslide victory in December’s general
election, arrived in Washington last night. He is seeking to
bolster the U.S.-Japan alliance as China’s growing economic and
military clout has led to disputes over territory and North
Korea shows no signs of easing its nuclear ambitions.  The Trans-Pacific Partnership is being negotiated among the
U.S. and 10 other Pacific nations with the aim of bringing down
tariffs, strengthening patent protection and allowing greater
access to government contracts.  Automaker Pressure  Froman said he expected the two leaders to “review the
status” of consultations about Japan’s interest and the U.S.
insistence that all participants meet the standards for lowering
trade barriers to be part of the accord.  Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s president of the Americas, urged Obama
to use the meeting to press Abe to open the Japanese auto market
and refrain from weakening the yen.  Obama should “send a clear message that any future trade
policy with Japan must ensure a level playing field and not come
at the expense of American workers,” Hinrichs told workers
yesterday at an engine plant in Brook Park, Ohio.  Less than 4 percent of  auto sales  in Japan last year were
brands from companies based outside the country, Hinrichs said.  Abe, 58, has said he won’t join negotiations on the TPP if
Japan is required to abolish tariffs across the board.  Currency Issue  Another concern for U.S. companies is the slide in Japan’s
currency. The yen set a record with 12 weeks of consecutive
declines against the dollar and has tumbled 14 percent from mid-
November. The currency strengthened 0.5 percent to 93.11 per
dollar at 5 p.m. yesterday in New York.  Froman declined to say whether the two leaders would
discuss currency valuations at their meeting.  Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, is struggling to
escape three quarters of contraction through December and 15
years of falling prices. Abe has pushed the central bank to be
more aggressive in combating deflation, and will replace the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  governor and his two deputies next month.  Investors are cheering Abe’s policies. The  Nikkei (NKY)  225 Stock
Average is up about 24 percent in three months, the largest gain
in 18 global stock market indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  Both countries are trying to enhance defense cooperation.
Japan’s conflict with China over uninhabited islands has fueled
concerns among American officials that the feud might escalate.
In dealing with North Korea, Abe and Obama are seeking stronger
global sanctions against North Korea for its most recent nuclear
test.  U.S. Strategy  Japan is “a key pillar of the president’s Asia rebalancing
strategy,” said Daniel Russel, senior director for Asia on the
White House’s National Security Council. The two leaders “will
certainly be discussing” North Korea’s “provocative” actions.  Obama will welcome hearing Abe’s assessment of the dispute
with China over the islands, Russel said.  Tensions have risen around the islands known as Senkaku in
Japan and Diaoyu in China where ships and planes from both sides
have tailed one another for months. Japan accused China of using
weapons-targeting radar last month on a Japanese destroyer and
helicopter in nearby waters.  China expressed “strong dissatisfaction” today with
remarks Abe made in an interview with the Washington Post. Abe
said China has a “deeply ingrained” need to spar with Japan
and others over territories and that Chinese education
emphasized “anti-Japanese sentiment” and patriotism, according
to the Post.  China’s Reaction  Abe’s remarks “distort facts, attack and defame China and
stir up confrontations between the two countries,” Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing today in Beijing,
according to a translation from the official Xinhua News Agency.
China has made “strong representations” with Japan, he said.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters in
Tokyo that the Post “did not quote what the prime minister said
accurately.”  The uninhabited islands lie in an area of the East China
Sea rich in fish, oil and natural gas. Japan’s purchase of three
of the islands in September prompted violent protests in China
that damaged Japanese businesses.  Another issue under discussion will be energy. Abe will ask
Obama to allow exports of shale gas to Japan, which is grappling
with soaring energy costs after the country’s reactors were
closed after the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster.  Surging output from shale fields has depressed the cost of
U.S. gas to about 20 percent of Asian prices. The U.S. has only
approved one export plant for shipments to countries without a
free-trade agreement.  Froman declined to say whether the U.S. would approve a
request for gas exports to Japan. The Department of Energy is
reviewing applications for gas exports and that process isn’t
finished, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Washington at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  