-- Hochtief Said to Revive Airports Sale With Deutsche Help
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-02-21T14:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/hochtief-said-to-revive-airports-sale-with-deutsche-help.html
Hochtief AG (HOT) , Germany’s largest
builder, is reviving the sale of its airport-operating business
and has invited potential buyers to submit offers, according to
three people familiar with the matter.  Hochtief, based in Essen, is working with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
on the sale, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the process is private. The invitation calls for
indicative offers by the end of March, according to two of the
people.  Last year, Hochtief shelved a sale of the airports unit for
a second time after failing to get the price it wanted amid a
struggling European economy. During that auction, bidders
including  Vinci (DG)  SA,  Europe ’s biggest builder, and  China ’s HNA
Group, offered more than 1 billion euros ($1.32 billion) for the
unit, while Hochtief valued it at as much as 1.6 billion euros,
people familiar with the process said at the time.  Shares surged 2.1 percent in less than five minutes after
Bloomberg News first report Hochtief’s plans. That increase
helped them recoup some of their losses today. They were down
0.82 percent at 54.53 at 3:42 p.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the
company at 4.2 billion euros.  Six Airports  Hochtief owns stakes in six airports serving cities
including Hamburg, Dusseldorf, Budapest and Tirana. Fraport AG,
the owner of the Frankfurt airport, also said in August 2011
that it and RREEF had submitted a bid for the non-German airport
assets. Fraport spokesman Robert Payne declined to comment on
whether the company will participate in the process.  The German construction company plans to invite indicative
offers from bidders including Fraport and Deutsche Bank’s  RREEF
investment (GRNDGLB)  unit, Global Infrastructure Partners and  Allianz SE (ALV) ’s
investment arm, which teamed up last time, as well as the
operators of the Shanghai and Singapore Changi airports, said
one of the people.  Hochtief spokesman Bernd Puetter says the company is aware
of “speculation in the market” and cannot comment. Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank declined to comment.
Tim Oliver Ambrosius, a Frankfurt-based spokesman for RREEF
declined to comment. Allianz spokeswoman Stefanie Rupp-
Menedetter declined to comment. Officials at GIP and the
Singapore and Shanghai airports couldn’t be immediately reached
for comment.  ‘Very Attrractive’  Hochtief Chief Financial Officer Peter Sassenfeld, who used
to run the global mergers and acquisitions activities at  Bayer
AG (BAYN) , said in November that the company is considering selling the
airports individually.  “Some of Hochtief’s airports, like Dusseldorf, Hamburg or
Sydney, are very attractive for investors, while others, like
Budapest and Athens, clearly are not,´´ Norbert Kretlow, an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said. ‘‘The price paid
for the airports in  Portugal  shows there is good appetite for
airports at the moment.´´  Vinci SA, Europe’s biggest builder, in December agreed to
buy airport operator ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA for 3.1
billion euros. The transaction values the target at 15.25 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to data collected by Bloomberg.  Hochtief is majority owned by Spanish builder Actividades
de Construccion y Servicios SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  