-- Oil Drops to Lowest Level This Year as U.S. Supply Rises
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-02-21T21:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/oil-declines-to-one-month-low-after-u-s-inventories-adva.html
West  Texas  Intermediate oil in  New
York  fell to the lowest level this year as a government report
showed that U.S. crude stockpiles climbed to the highest level
since July.  Futures dropped 2.5 percent after the Energy Information
Administration said that  supplies  rose 4.14 million barrels last
week to 376.4 million. A 2-million-barrel gain was projected,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Production jumped to the most
in more than 20 years. Markets also declined after the  Federal
Reserve  signaled that it may consider slowing the pace of asset
purchases, according to minutes of the Jan. 29-30 meeting,
released yesterday.  “We’re awash in crude at the moment and it doesn’t look
like that will change anytime soon,” said Adam Wise, who helps
manage a $6 billion oil and gas bond portfolio as a managing
director at Manulife Asset Management in  Boston . “The
significant increase in U.S. output is having a global impact.
Plans to bring foreign oil here are being reassessed, making
additional barrels available in other markets.”  WTI oil for April delivery dropped $2.38 to $92.84 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Dec. 31. It was the biggest decline since Nov. 20. The volume of
all futures traded was 14 percent above the 100-day average at
4:18 p.m.  Brent Premium  Brent crude  for April settlement fell $2.07, or 1.8
percent, to end the session at $113.53 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the lowest settlement
since Jan. 28. Volume was 45 percent above the 100-day average.  The European benchmark grade traded at a $20.69 premium to
WTI futures, up from $20.38 yesterday. The gap expanded to
$23.18 on Feb. 8, the widest since Nov. 26.  Oil’s decline accelerated after futures dropped below the
50-day moving average for the first time since Dec. 18,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Some investors use the
average as a signal to buy or sell contracts.  The EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, released
its inventory report a day later than usual because of the
Presidents Day holiday on Feb. 18.  U.S.  crude production  rose to 7.12 million barrels a day in
the week ended Feb. 15, the most since August 1992, the EIA
report showed. Output has gained 22 of the last 24 weeks as the
combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, has unlocked supplies trapped in shale formations in
states including  North Dakota , Texas and  Oklahoma .  Cushing Supply  Crude stockpiles at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point
for New York futures, climbed 417,000 barrels to 50.7 million
barrels last week, the EIA said. Supplies at the hub rose to a
record 51.9 million barrels in the week ended Jan. 11.  Refineries operated at 82.9 percent of capacity last week,
the lowest level since March. Units are often idled for
maintenance in February as attention shifts away from heating
oil and before gasoline use rises.  “The fundamentals are reasserting themselves,” said
Julius Walker, the global energy markets strategist at UBS
Securities LLC in New York. “The market will be getting looser
this quarter. Production in the U.S. and elsewhere is growing
strongly and that’s feeding through into higher inventories.”  Several Fed policy makers said the central bank should be
ready to vary the pace of its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases, according to the minutes released late yesterday. The
debt buying, known as quantitative easing, aim to keep long-term
rates low and support economic growth.  Fed Minutes  “The Fed minutes yesterday were certainly spooky for
commodity markets,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist
at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion. “They signal that quantitative easing may have an
end point. This undermines a major support of the market.”  Commodities also declined as the dollar climbed against
major currencies, curbing the appeal of dollar-denominated raw
materials as an investment. The U.S. currency rose as much as
0.9 percent against the euro to the highest level since Jan. 10.  “We’re looking at a weaker, more volatile market, in the
months ahead,” Wise said.  Western governments will revise their offer to  Iran  at
talks on the country’s nuclear work next week, according to
 France ’s Foreign Ministry. Stalled multilateral negotiations on
the Islamic republic’s nuclear work are scheduled to resume in
 Kazakhstan  on Feb. 26. The last round of talks between Iran and
world powers, held in Moscow in June, failed to yield results.  “We will make an updated offer that will contain new
substantive elements,” the French Foreign Ministry said in an
e-mail.  Nuclear Claims  The U.S. and its allies say Iran may seek to make an atomic
bomb, while the Islamic republic says developments are for
civilian purposes. Sanctions aimed at stopping the program have
hindered its ability to export oil. Iran pumped 2.6 million
barrels a day in January, the lowest level since 1990, according
to a Bloomberg survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 547,175
contracts as of 4:18 p.m. It totaled 708,948 contracts
yesterday, 35 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.64 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 