-- Lombard Odier Mulls New Emerging Debt Fund as Currencies Rally
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-02-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/lombard-odier-mulls-new-emerging-debt-fund-as-currencies-rally.html
Lombard Odier Investment Management,
which oversees about $200 billion globally, is considering
starting a new fund that will buy local debt in developing
nations after their currencies surged to a 17-month high.  The Geneva-based money manager will favor securities that
are less vulnerable to inflation, including those with either
shorter maturities or floating interest rates, according to
Deputy Global Chief Investment Officer Stephane Monier. Price
pressures in emerging economies are rising, he said, as monetary
easing in advanced nations fuels investment in higher-yielding
assets.  Bond funds dedicated to developing markets attracted $1.1
billion of inflows in the week ended Feb. 13, after taking in
$1.3 billion in the previous week, Morgan Stanley said in a Feb.
15 report, citing data from research firm EPFR Global. The
JPMorgan ELMI+ Index of emerging-market currencies has rallied
almost 9 percent from a five-month low in June and touched the
highest level since September 2011 this month.  “Over the long run, their currencies have to appreciate,”
Monier said in a Feb. 20 interview in Hong Kong. “We are trying
to study the possibility of making a fund that will buy
emerging-market local currency but with less duration
exposure.”  The plan may include investing “more in monetary
instruments, short-term floating-rate notes, and maybe
inflation-protected securities when they are available,” he
said.  Luring Investors  The relatively high yields on emerging-market debt are also
attracting investors. The JPMorgan GBI-EM Global Diversified
Composite Index puts the average yield on local-currency bonds
at 5.47 percent, versus 0.73 percent for Japan’s 10-year
government notes, 1.6 percent in  Germany  and 1.98 percent for
the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The JPMorgan ELMI+ currencies index has gained 0.1 percent
since the Group of 20 nations pledged in a Feb. 16 statement not
to “target our exchange rates for competitive purposes,” while
refraining from singling out Japan for weakening its currency.
The yen has weakened 7.9 percent against the dollar this year as
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called for unlimited money printing to
spur growth. Central banks in the U.S. and  Europe  have also
eased monetary policy.  “The central banks of the developed world are pumping as
much money as they can to prop up their own economies,” said
Monier. Some of that cash was re-invested in  emerging markets ,
he said.  Curb Swings  Those inflows will drive developing-nation currencies
higher even as policy makers intervene to narrow fluctuations,
according to Monier.  Taiwan ’s central bank said last month that it would
intervene in the market should “irregular factors,” such as
large fund flows, cause excessive volatility.  Brazil  sold
reverse currency-swap contracts Feb. 15 for the second time this
month to contain the real’s appreciation.  “Typically, central banks and governments would intervene
when the speed of appreciation is such that it doesn’t allow the
economy to readjust to a new level,” said Monier.  Inflation in Asia and the Middle East will be 4 percent and
4.2 percent in 2013, respectively, according to median forecasts
in Bloomberg surveys. Consumer prices at the Group of 10 nations
including the U.S.,  Japan  and some European nations will climb
1.6 percent, according to separate surveys.  Investors should be aware of the risk of rising private
debt levels in emerging markets as price pressures increase,
said Monier.  “Where we see a large dichotomy of the world right now is
on the inflation front,” he said. “It’s quite striking, in
Europe, with the exception of the U.K. at the time, we don’t see
any inflationary pressure. But when you travel to the emerging
markets, the Middle East or Asia, you see buildings are propping
up in every corner. From a global perspective, what I’m a little
bit worried about is inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  