-- Monsanto, Gilead, TWX, Autodesk: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-02-21T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/monsanto-gilead-twx-autodesk-intellectual-property.html
Brazilian farmer groups are opposing
a contract that  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest seed company,
is offering farmers to end a dispute over royalty payments on
its genetically modified soybean seeds.  Monsanto is trying to resolve uncertainty over its ability
to collect fees on its new  Intacta  soybeans, which the St.
Louis-based company is scheduled to start selling in  Brazil 
during the next growing season.  The contract would waive royalties on Roundup Ready soy, an
older technology, this year and next. In return, farmers would
forgo claims in a patent dispute and pay royalties on seeds not
yet on the market. The future payments are opposed by the
 Brazilian National Agriculture Federation , a group of farming
associations also known as CNA.  “We reject the individual contracts offered by Monsanto,”
Katia Abreu, the head of CNA, said Feb. 19 in an e-mailed
statement. “We expect Monsanto to take back the contracts that
are already signed and present a new document.”  “We are working to understand CNA’s concerns,” Kelli
Powers, a Monsanto spokeswoman, said yesterday in a phone
interview.  The Parana State Federation of Agriculture, known as FAEP,
also said it opposed the agreement. Glauber Silveira, head of
Brazil’s soybean growers association, said farmers shouldn’t
sign and should continue pursuing royalty claims in court.  “We believe producers are being tricked into signing a
contract that will get them trapped to Monsanto for every new
technology,” Silveira said yesterday in a phone interview from
Cuiaba, in the state of Mato Grosso.  Growers who sign the contract won’t pay a technology fee in
the current and subsequent growing seasons on soybean seeds that
are genetically modified to tolerate glyphosate herbicide,
Monsanto said in a statement last month. The herbicide is
marketed by Monsanto as  Roundup . Farmers who sign will waive the
right to try recouping royalties previously paid.  The agreement would resolve claims by growers that the
patent on the original Roundup Ready soybeans expired in 2010,
ending their obligation to pay Monsanto royalties on the seeds.
Monsanto argues that Brazilian law extends the patent to late
2014.  The company’s Intacta seeds are engineered to produce an
insecticide while also tolerating Roundup.  Monsanto suspended royalty collections in Brazil for two
months last year after a court ordered a halt in Mato Grosso.
The company has told investors not to count on any revenue from
Brazilian soybeans this year. A forecast made Jan. 8 for profit
in the current fiscal year excluded an estimated 20 cents to 25
cents a share of earnings from soybean sales in the country.  Gilead Settles HIV Drug Patent Dispute With Teva to Avoid Trial  Teva Pharmaceuticals and  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  agreed to
settle a patent dispute over Viread, a treatment for HIV
infection and chronic Hepatitis B, avoiding a trial that was
scheduled to start yesterday, Gilead said.  Teva will be permitted to begin sales of a generic version
of  Viread  on Dec. 15, 2017, Gilead said in a statement
distributed by  Business Wire .  “We believe strongly in the validity of our  intellectual
property ,” John Milligan, Gilead’s president, said in the
statement. “This settlement, however, removes some uncertainty
and minimizes further distraction.”  Gilead, based in Foster City, California, sued Teva in 2008
and again in 2010, claiming that Teva’s applications to the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  to make drugs to treat HIV
infections in adults infringed four of its patents. The trial in
New York has been adjourned until the completion of the
settlement agreement, Gilead said.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva, Israel, had said in court
papers that Gilead’s patents were invalid and therefore couldn’t
be infringed.  The case is Gilead Sciences v.  Teva Pharmaceuticals (TEVA)  USA,
10-01796, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Oscilla Gets U.S. Patent on Wave-Action Energy Generation  Oscilla Power Inc., a Utah manufacturer of motors and
generators, received a U.S. patent on a method and device for
 harvesting energy from ocean waves .  Patent 8,378,513, issued Feb. 19, covers a device comprised
of a buoy and an element made from materials in which
magnetization causes changes in their shape or dimension. The
buoy, which is partially submerged, will continuously exert a
varying force on that element during normal wave action,
according to the patent.  Oscilla said that devices made using this technology “are
expected to have relatively low  capital costs  and very good
survivability during strong storms.”  The Salt Lake City-based company applied for the patent in
May 2011.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Time Warner’s DC Comics Blocks U.K. ‘Batsman’ Application  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s DC Comics Unit has persuaded the U.K.’s
Intellectual Property Office to block a sporting goods’
company’s “Batsman” trademark registration, the U.K.’s
Telegraph newspaper  reported .  The office’s hearing officer agreed with the comic book
company that “Batsman” sounded too much like “Batman,” a
character featured in a series of DC Comics, according to the
newspaper.  Adelphoi Ltd. of London, which mainly sells cricket-related
goods, had sought to register the mark for a wide range of
products, according to the Guardian.  Python Users in Uproar Over Our Holdings’ ‘Python’ Application  Users of the  Python programming languag e and open-source
software are objecting to a European trademark application field
by a U.K.-based cloud services company, the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper  reported .  They are objecting to Our Holdings’ application to register
the “Python” name for use with the cloud services if offers
through the python.co.uk website, according to the newspaper.  The  Python Software Foundation , which supports the Python
programming language, made a request in a  blog posting  that
those who use the product in the European Union write a letter
about their concerns that can be forwarded to the foundation’s
trademark counsel, the Guardian reported.  Van Lindberg , chairman of the Python Software Foundation’s
board of directors, told the newspaper that economic downturns
in 2009 left his organization without the budget to complete
European trademark registration.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Autodesk, Microsoft, Adobe File Infringement Suits in Siberia  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  have
filed copyright infringement suits in a Siberian court against
several local companies, the Russian Legal Information Agency
known as RAPSI  reported .  The suits, filed in the Krasnoyarsk Territory Commercial
Court, are related to unauthorized software that turned up in
routine inspections by  law enforcement , according to RAPSI.  Among the entities sued is a tire-repair company, RAPSI
reported.  The software companies are seeking money damages, according
to RAPSI.  Court Refuses to Halt Software Distribution by CBS CNET Unit  A federal court in  Los Angeles  has refused the request made
by a Greek media entrepreneur to halt the distribution of file-
sharing software by a  CBS Corp. (CBS)  unit.  Alkiviades David and others sued CBS Interactive in federal
court in Los Angeles in November 2011, claiming that the
distribution of peer-to-peer file-sharing software by the CBS
CNEET unit induced copyright infringement.  In a Feb. 19 order, U.S. District Judge Dale S. Fischer
rejected David’s request. She said there was no evidence that
the continuing distribution of the software had the object of
“promoting its use to infringe copyrights”  She ruled that the only solid evidence of inducement
“comes from reviews that were published decades ago.”  She found that an order against the software distribution
wasn’t in the public interest and that the plaintiffs’ goal
“goes far beyond stopping actual infringement” and “extends
instead to silencing public discussion of P2P technologies.”  The case is David v. CBS Interactive Inc., 2:11-cv-09437-
DSF-JC, U.S. District Court, Central District of California.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Obama to Increase Diplomatic Pressure Against Trade-Secret Theft  The U.S. will put diplomatic pressure on countries
implicated in thefts of  trade secrets  and seek stronger
international enforcement of intellectual-property protections,
according to a government report released yesterday.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration pledged to share
more intelligence with companies about the countries involved in
economic espionage and methods used to steal corporate
information, and to study the need for stronger U.S. laws
against trade-secret theft.  It comes a day after the computer-security firm Mandiant
Corp. said in a report that the Chinese army is probably the
source of hacking attacks against at least 141 companies
worldwide since 2006.  The trade-secret strategy looks at more than computer-based
theft. It says the pace of economic espionage is accelerating
through recruitment of current and former employees of
companies, as well as cyber intrusions against U.S. businesses,
law firms, universities and financial institutions.  While it doesn’t single out China, yesterday’s report cites
examples of economic espionage in which corporate secrets were
passed to Chinese institutions.  “Trade secret theft threatens American businesses,
undermines national security, and places the security of the
 U.S. economy  in jeopardy,” the document says. “These acts also
diminish U.S. export prospects around the globe and put American
jobs at risk.”  The administration will intensify efforts to apply
diplomatic pressure on countries “where there are regular
incidents of trade secret theft” and press them to strengthen
enforcement action, according to the strategy document. In trade
negotiations, the U.S. will seek agreements for other countries
to provide protections for corporate secrets similar to those in
U.S. law.  The Director of National Intelligence will oversee
increased sharing of U.S. intelligence on trade-secret theft
with the private sector, including information on foreign
governments involved in espionage and the types of technology
targeted, the document says.  The administration will promote voluntary industry best
practices on protecting intellectual property, and the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation is expanding efforts to fight computer
intrusions involving trade-secret theft, according to the
administration’s strategy.  The separate cybersecurity report released yesterday said
computer intrusions from China, mainly directed at U.S.
companies, were carried out by a group that is “likely
government sponsored” and is similar “in its mission,
capabilities, and resources” to a unit of the  People’s
Liberation Army .  A spokesman for China’s Foreign Ministry, Hong Lei, denied
any military involvement and said his department is opposed to
computer hacking and has been a victim of attacks itself.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 