-- Monti’s Austerity Pushes Italy Toward Parliamentary Upheaval
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-22T10:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/monti-s-austerity-pushes-italians-toward-parliamentary-upheaval.html
Elisa Dalbosco says she lost her job
when it came time for her former employer, a refugee shelter in
northern Italy, to either offer her a permanent contract or let
her go.  “I have a college degree and it would have cost too
much,” said Dalbosco, who at 26 is now unemployed and poised to
vote for self-described populist Beppe Grillo in elections on
Feb. 24 and Feb. 25.  Dalbasco’s disappointment shows why Italy is braced for its
biggest political upheaval since 1994. Dalbosco, whose ballot
five years ago went to an ally of front-runner Pier Luigi Bersani, won’t vote for anyone tied to incumbent Mario Monti
because she says his austerity policies in a shrinking economy
put the interests of banks ahead of everyone else’s.  Monti, a divisive figure at home, is celebrated abroad for
replacing a discredited Silvio Berlusconi 15 months ago and
calming the European sovereign debt crisis. While some of his
European counterparts say Monti deserves a second term as head
of government -- and steward of Italy’s $2.6 trillion of debt
load -- voters may push the nation away from his rigor that has
driven financial-market gains.  “The fear remains that the general election produces a
significant no-confidence vote on the current austerity plan and
the need to reform further,” Raj Badiani, principal IHS Global
Insight economist for Italy, said in a research report this
week. “This could spark an immediate spike in bond yields in
the aftermath of the election.”  ‘Major Challenge’  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is advising clients to bet
against Italian bank debt. JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Alex White predicted yesterday in a research report that Grillo would
be “a big winner” in the election and his voters will “pose a
major policy challenge” for the next government. Riccardo
Barbieri, of Mizuho International Plc in London, cited Italian
comic Claudio Bisio who said on state-broadcaster RAI this month
that voters have the leaders they deserve.  “Italy does not need to change its politicians, it needs
to replace its voters,” Barbieri said, paraphrasing Bisio.
“The latest press reports echo that message as they suggest”
Grillo is gaining ground, said Barbieri, chief European
economist, in a research note published today.  Italian stocks have lagged behind European benchmarks this
year as the campaign progressed. Italy’s  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)   slipped 
1.6 percent this year through yesterday, while the Stoxx Europe
600 Index advanced 1.9 percent. Last year, the Italian index
gained 7.8 percent as the Stoxx Europe climbed 14 percent.  Swing Regions  Bersani, who polls show is the likely winner in the lower
house, needs to win in the Senate races in the swing regions of
Lombardy, Campania and Sicily to gain control of the government.
If he falls short in the upper house, he and Monti have said
they may form a coalition. Berlusconi is seeking to overcome a
deficit in opinion polls to steal the victory from Bersani,
while Grillo has embraced the role of spoiler and has said his
goal is to send Italy back to the polls as soon as possible.  Investors prospered during Monti’s tenure as his tax
increases deepened the fourth recession since 2001 and helped
push  unemployment  to a 13-year high of 11.2 percent. Monti, an
economics professor and former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. adviser,
has handed bondholders returns of  28 percent  since Nov. 16,
2011, when he was named premier by President Giorgio Napolitano.  Bonds Gain  Italian 10-year bonds rose today, sending the yield down 2
basis points to 4.47 percent at 11:10 a.m. in Rome, even as the
European Commission said the recession was worse than expected.  Italy’s economy will shrink 1 percent this year after a 2.2
percent decline in 2012, the Brussels-based commission said
today in revised forecasts. That’s deeper than the 0.5 percent
contraction it predicted in November. Unemployment will probably
reach 12 percent, the commission said.  With the backing of 80 percent of lawmakers, including
Bersani’s party and Berlusconi’s allies, Monti succeeded in
implementing budget rigor. He imposed 20 billion euros ($26
billion) of austerity measures and raised the retirement age. He
says he fell short in his bid to deregulate the labor market to
encourage hiring.  “There were forces on both sides of the spectrum against
this strategy, especially the Left,” Monti said yesterday in a
televised interview on Canale 5, according to newswire Ansa.  Monti remains under attack from both Grillo, a 64-year-old
former comic, and a resurgent Berlusconi.  Anti-Austerity Push  The push against EU-imposed austerity has animated the
electorate in the campaign’s closing month and sapped strength
from Monti and Bersani, who have emphasized its importance.
Grillo, wrapping up a 73-stop tour of Italy today in Rome, has
filled city squares. Berlusconi has garnered headlines with a
pitch to turn back Monti’s policies.  Monti has “annoyed a lot of people,” said Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $180 million at Glendevon King Asset
Management in London.  Since the campaign began in December, Bersani lost support
in opinion polls. The 61-year-old former communist and ex-
industry minister struggled to galvanize voters as Berlusconi
did with a proposal to hand out tax refunds of more than $5
billion in cash as his first act in office.  Bersani’s career as a politician has also hurt him with
voters looking to rattle established interests. Cologero La
Placa, a 51-year-old retired veteran of the Afganistan war, and
Silvano Saba, a 45-year-old worker at an arms maker, are
deserting Bersani’s Democratic Party, or PD, for Grillo.  Opinion Polls  The leader had 33.8 percent support in an SWG Institute
survey published Feb. 8, when a two-week poll blackout began,
down 1.1 percentage points from Jan. 9. Berlusconi gained 2.5
percentage points to 27.8 percent over the same period, while
Grillo rose 2.9 points to 18.8 percent. Monti, running fourth,
slipped 0.4 points to 13.4 percent, according to SWG.  Bersani is running against two experienced showmen in
Grillo and Berlusconi, and his spread-the-wealth campaign has
paled next to the appeals of the performers. Bersani talks about
the need for budget rigor and respect for rules, while
Berlusconi, standing trial on charges of paying for sex with a
minor, promises tax amnesties and a tougher negotiation stance
against German demands for balanced budgets.  Grillo, who embraces the term populist, tells crowds at his
two-a-day rallies that Italy must institute stipends of 900
euros for the unemployed and cut the work week to 20 hours.
Italy’s debt should be renegotiated, and all lawmakers must be
swept out, he says. Grillo, who isn’t running himself due to a
manslaughter conviction in the 1980s, chose the candidates of
his 5 Star Movement in what he called an online primary.  “He’s the only one singing out of tune,” La Placa, the
ex-soldier, said in an interview in the mountain town of Bolzano
in northern Italy after Grillo spoke to a rally of about 2,000
people. Grillo wants “to bring normal people into an abnormal
world, that is, our parliament.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  