-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Extends Biggest Slide in Three Months
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-02-21T07:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/top-oil-market-news-crude-extends-biggest-slide-in-three-months.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Drops a Second Day, Extending Biggest Slide in Three Months  West Texas Intermediate oil dropped for a second day,
extending the biggest decline in three months. U.S. crude
stockpiles gained for the sixth week in seven, according to the
American Petroleum Institute.  China’s Crude, Gasoline, Diesel, Kerosene Inventory (Table)  The following table shows China’s commercial crude,
gasoline, diesel and kerosene inventory levels in millions of
metric tons, calculated by  Bloomberg News  from percentage-change
data released by China Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals and the
official Xinhua News Agency each month. China OGP stopped
reporting volumes in July 2010.  China Oil Stockpiles Fall; Diesel Supply at Seven-Month High (1)  China’s commercial crude inventories at the end of January
dropped to the lowest level in 10 months and diesel stockpiles
climbed to the highest since June as the nation boosted oil
processing to a record.  World Powers to Extend New Nuclear Offer to Iran, Diplomat Says  The five United Nations Security Council permanent members
and  Germany  will make a new offer to Iran to resolve the dispute
about its nuclear program in talks next week, a Western diplomat
said.  Oil Inventories Rose Last Week as Gasoline Supply Fell, API Says  Oil supplies rose 2.96 million barrels to 372.5 million
last week, the  American Petroleum Institute  said.  Ethanol Gains on Gasoline as Prices Tumble Most Since November  Ethanol gained for a second day against gasoline as prices
for the motor fuel plunged the most since November and as
biofuel producers tempered output.  Gasoline Futures Slide the Most in Three Months as Crude Drops  Gasoline futures fell the most in three months, deepening
losses as crude tumbled on speculation that a large commodity
hedge fund was forced to liquidate.  New York Gasoline Weakens on Cargoes Set to Add to Stockpiles  Gasoline weakened for the first time in four days in  New
York  as tankers carrying fuel from Europe were set to arrive in
the region, adding to supplies.  Natural Gas Supplies Declined Less Than Average, Forecasts Show  Natural gas inventories declined by less than average last
week as mild weather reduced demand for the heating fuel,
analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  Natural Gas Gains for Second Day on Forecasts of Colder Weather  Natural gas futures climbed for a second day in New York on
forecasts of below-normal temperatures that would boost demand
for the heating fuel.  Natural Gas Futures Fluctuate Amid Forecasts of Colder Weather  Natural gas futures fluctuated in New York amid forecasts
of below-normal temperatures that would boost demand for the
heating fuel.  Natural Gas Futures Fluctuate Amid Forecasts of Colder Weather  Natural gas futures fluctuated in New York amid forecasts
of below-normal temperatures that would boost demand for the
heating fuel.  Natural Gas Advances for Second Day on Cold Weather Outlook  Natural gas futures climbed for a second day in New York on
forecasts of below-normal temperatures that would boost demand
for the heating fuel.  API Snapshot: U.S. Crude-Oil Inventories Rose 2.96 Mln Barrels  The following table is a summary of the latest Weekly
Statistical Bulletin from the American Petroleum Institute. *T  OPEC  Highest OPEC Buffer Since 2011 No Brake on Price: Energy Markets  OPEC’s biggest cushion of unused production capacity in two
years is doing little to restrain prices, as threats to supplies
from  Algeria  to Iran undermine the confidence that surplus crude
usually creates.  Highest OPEC Buffer Since 2011 No Brake on Price: Energy Markets  OPEC’s biggest cushion of unused production capacity in two
years is doing little to restrain prices, as threats to supplies
from Algeria to Iran undermine the confidence that surplus crude
usually creates.  Tanker Rates Gain as Charters Seen Increasing While OPEC Cuts  Rates to charter the largest  oil tankers  on their busiest
trade route gained the most this year as increased bookings
curbed the glut of vessels.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Exxon Joliet Plant Has Process Upset, Causing Flaring: Filing  Joliet, Illinois plant flares after process upset in flare
stack, according to filing with the U.S. National Response
Center.  Bangchak Sees Daily Output of About 105,000-110,000 Bbl in 2013  Co. expects avg. refining margin of $7 a barrel in 2013, it
says in statement.  Exxon Plans Baton Rouge Plant Work to Take Higher-Sulfur Crudes  Exxon Mobil Corp. plans to modify sulfur recovery
facilities next year at its Baton Rouge refinery in Louisiana to
allow the plant to process higher-sulfur crude and gasoil,
according to filings with state regulators.  California Gasoline Stocks Fall 2.5% Last Week, State Says  State-blend gasoline supplies dropped to 6.757m bbls in
week ended Feb. 15.  HollyFrontier Navajo Refinery Unit Startup Said to Be Delayed  HollyFrontier Corp. has delayed the startup of a fluid
catalytic cracker and alkylation unit at the Navajo oil refinery
in  New Mexico  to perform additional repairs, a person familiar
with the work said.  Motiva Port Arthur Conducting Planned Work on Catalytic Cracker  Motiva Enterprises LLC shut fluid catalytic cracker at  Port
Arthur , Texas, refinery for planned maintenance  Phillips 66 Reports Flaring at Wood River Refinery Feb. 19  Phillips 66 flared gases including sulfur dioxide at its
Wood River oil refinery at 330 am local time yesterday after a
compressor tripped, according to a filing with the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency.  Bahrain Refinery Shuts for Planned Maintenance, Al-Watan Reports  The shutdown started on Feb. 14 and will take five weeks,
Al-Watan newspaper said, citing a statement from Bahrain
Petroleum Co., or Bapco.  BP Has Emissions at Prudhoe Bay Oilfield Plant: NRC Filing  BP has leak of natural gas liquids from a flange during
maintenance at Prudhoe Bay Oilfield in  Arkansas , according NRC
filing.  Gulf Gasoline Extends Longest Winning Streak Since ’02 on Motiva  U.S. Gulf Coast gasoline strengthened for ninth consecutive
day, extending its winning streak to the longest since 2002 as
Motiva Enterprises LLC was said to shut a unit at its Port
Arthur, Texas, plant.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  California Diesel Jumps to Four-Month High as Supplies Decline  Spot diesel in California strengthened to the highest level
against futures in more than four months after the state
reported stockpiles of the fuel dropped to a six-month low.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Rise 2.6 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  rose 2.6 percent to 8.85 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  New York Gasoline Weakens on Cargoes Set to Add to Stockpiles  Gasoline weakened for the first time in four days in New
York as tankers carrying fuel from Europe were set to arrive in
the region, adding to supplies.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  WTI Oil Falls Most in Three Months on Fund Selling Speculation  West Texas Intermediate tumbled the most in three months
following declines in metals on speculation that a commodity
fund is selling positions.  TXU Default Path Emerges in Gas Hedge Decline: Corporate Finance  Contracts tied to natural gas prices that protect KKR &
Co.’s Energy Future Holdings Corp. from losses selling
electricity are disappearing, paving the way for secured lenders
to seize its assets in a potential bankruptcy.  Abe Will Ask Obama for Shale Exports as Japan’s Gas Bill Soars  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will ask U.S. President
 Barack Obama  to allow shale gas exports as the world’s third-
largest economy grapples with soaring energy costs after 2011’s
nuclear disaster closed reactors.  Oil Inventories Climb for Fifth Week in Survey: Energy Markets  U.S. oil supplies probably rose for a fifth week, the
longest streak of advances since May, as output climbed to a 20-
year high and limits to the Seaway pipeline curbed the flow out
of a key storage hub, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Enron-Era Ruling May Yield $1.6 Billion Refund in California (2)  California energy regulators said that a preliminary ruling
by a U.S. agency may bring as much as $1.6 billion in refunds
for consumers harmed during the state’s electricity crisis more
than a decade ago.  BP Witness May Help Halliburton Avoid Blame in Gulf Spill Trial  Halliburton Co. may escape paying billions of dollars in
damages for its role in the biggest offshore  oil spill  in U.S.
history thanks to statements by a witness for codefendant BP
Plc.  BP Wins Approval to Cut Potential Spill Fine by $3.4 Billion  BP Plc won approval of an agreement for the U.S. government
to not count 810,000 barrels of oil captured before they became
part of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico spill, reducing the potential
maximum fine under the  Clean Water Act  by $3.4 billion.  Lithium Air Battery Gives IBM Hope of Power Without Fire: Energy  Everyone who’s held a smartphone to the ear or watched a
movie with a laptop balanced on their knees knows the devices
get hot. Most are unaware the same battery technology is widely
used in electric cars and has made few notable advances in a
decade.  Woodside Talking With Companies in Canada on Gas Partnership (2)  Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s second-biggest oil
producer, said it’s in talks with companies for a potential
partnership to enter Canada’s natural gas industry to tap rising
Asian demand.  Chesapeake Absolves CEO in Internal Probe of Gas-Well Loans (2)  Chesapeake Energy Corp. exonerated co-founder and outgoing
Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  for privately borrowing
hundreds of millions of dollars from some of the company’s
biggest financiers.  OTHER MARKETS  Asia Stocks Drop With Commodities on China Property, Fed Minutes  Asian stocks tumbled from an 18- month high and commodities
fell as China called for property curbs and  Federal Reserve 
minutes showed policy makers advocating more flexibility in
economic stimulus. Gold declined to a seven-month low and South
Korea’s won weakened.  Dollar Index Reaches 3-Month High on Recovery Signs; Pound Drops  The  Dollar Index  rose to a three- month high before the
release of U.S. leading indicators and a regional manufacturing
gauge that may add to evidence a recovery in the world’s largest
economy is gathering pace.  No Panic in Volatility Options as Rhetoric Amplifies: Currencies  As  New Zealand  joins more than a dozen nations decrying the
strength of their currencies, gauges of price swings show no
panic in the more than $4 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange
market.  Asian Stocks Tumble, Led by China, on Fed, China Tightening Woes  Asian stocks plunged, with a gauge of Chinese companies in
Hong Kong erasing the year’s gains, amid concern the Federal
Reserve may scale back U.S. economic stimulus and as China
ordered increased property curbs.  S&P 500 Retreats Most Since November as Fed Minutes Show Debate  U.S. stocks fell from five-year highs, giving the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index its biggest decline since November, as
minutes from the Federal Reserve’s last meeting showed a debate
over further stimulus action.  Egypt Wheat Buyer Replaced as Nomani Heralded for Food Stability  Egypt’s ouster of Nomani Nomani as buyer of more than 5
million metric tons of wheat a year on world markets put a
spotlight on a role that brought stability to the task of
feeding the nation’s 80 million people.  Corn Below $6 Seen as Farmers Plant Most Since 1936: Commodities  From South Dakota to  Ohio , farmers are preparing to plant
the most corn in almost eight decades after drought ruined
record U.S. harvests predicted by the government.  Obama Rated at 3-Year High in U.S. Poll as Republicans at Bottom  President Barack Obama enters the latest budget showdown
with Congress with his highest job- approval rating in three
years and public support for his economic message, while his
Republican opponents’ popularity stands at a record low.  Florida Republican Scott Backs Obama Medicaid Growth in Reversal  Florida Governor  Rick Scott  supports expanding Medicaid in
his state under President Barack Obama’s health-care law, at
least while the federal government pays for it, a reversal of
the Republican’s previous position.  SPORTS  Del Piero Commits to Second A-League Soccer Season With Sydney  Alessandro Del Piero will stay in Australian soccer’s A-
League after the World Cup-winning Italian forward took up the
option of a second season with Sydney FC.  AC Milan’s Defense Blunts Barcelona in 2-0 Champions League Win  AC Milan’s defensive effort carried the Italian team to a
surprise 2-0 victory against Barcelona in their Champions League
soccer round-of-16 opener.  Spain’s Retailers Reboot to Pull Tourists From Shore to Store  Tourists come to Spain for sun and sights. Retailers are
working to also put shopping on the map.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       94.51  -0.71  -0.7  Nymex    April
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    114.96  -0.64  -0.6    Ice    April
Gasoil ($/Ton)         984.50  -6.50  -0.7    Ice    April
Gasoline (c/Gal)       303.40  -2.55  -0.8  Nymex    March
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.26  -0.02  -0.5  Nymex    March
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    115.18  -0.26  -0.2    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            314.60  -1.03  -0.3  Nymex    March
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            81.15  +0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,578.00  -1.6
MSCI World Index     1,403.69  -0.4
Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  