-- More Inflation Is the Cure for the Fed’s Impotence
-- B y   R y a n   A v e n t
-- 2013-02-21T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/more-inflation-is-the-cure-for-the-fed-s-impotence.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve has all but
exhausted its most powerful weapon: the ability to lower short-
term interest rates. If it wants ammo to fight the next economic
slump, it will have to give up its obsession with ultralow
inflation.  Once, not so long ago, Americans thought their central bank
near omnipotent. As economist  Paul Krugman   put it  in 1997, the
U.S. unemployment rate would be what then Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  wanted it to be, “plus or minus a random error
reflecting that he is not quite God.” With the Fed’s short-term
 interest-rate   target  at 5.5 percent, the central bank had plenty
of room to cut rates if it wanted to boost markets and stimulate
the economy. It did just that when financial troubles struck in
1998, keeping the boom roaring for two more years.  Today, no such intervention is possible. The Fed quickly
slashed its interest-rate target to near zero during the crisis
of late 2008. Since then, it has been pinned against what
economists ominously call the “zero lower bound,” forced to
confront the most challenging economic period since the
Depression without its monetary tool of choice.  The policy paralysis might look like a stroke of bad luck
stemming from a once-in-a-century downturn. In fact, the
groundwork for the zero-rate crisis was laid in the early 1980s,
when then Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker  proved that a determined
central bank could whip runaway inflation by raising interest
rates. Inflation has been on a steady path downward ever since,
toward the 2 percent figure central bankers seem to judge as the
highest prudent rate.  Side Effect  The steady disinflation -- a welcome development in many
ways -- had a side effect: the corresponding compression of
market interest rates. With the inflation of the 1970s gone,
lenders didn’t need to charge high rates to compensate for the
fact that the money they got back couldn’t buy nearly as much as
the money they lent. The interest-rate target needed to keep
inflation in check also declined, from as high as 20 percent in
the Volcker era to less than 7 percent in the 2000s.  On the flip side, the Fed had to bring interest rates lower
to combat economic slumps. The Fed’s target rate, which had
never dropped below 5.75 percent in the 1980s, sank below 3
percent in the 1990s and hit 1 percent during the “jobless
recovery” of the early 2000s. By squeezing inflation, the Fed
was venturing closer to the dread zero lower bound. When the
2008 recession struck, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  had less
room to respond to the downturn than any chairman in half a
century.  Monetary policy  isn’t entirely powerless at the zero lower
bound. Since late 2008, the Fed has purchased  trillions of
dollars  in Treasury and mortgage securities to cut borrowing
costs and raise asset prices. It is also aiming to boost growth
by promising to keep its interest rate low until the recovery is
well-established. In December it set precise guidelines -- an
unemployment rate of 6.5 percent and short-run inflation
expectations of about 2.5 percent -- to help markets understand
when rates might eventually rise. These nontraditional moves
greatly reduced the odds of damaging deflation and nudged
economic growth and employment higher than they otherwise would
have been.  Still, the Fed has done less than it would have liked due
to its mistrust of such unconventional policies. The economist
 Jeremy Stein , a member of the Fed Board of Governors, laid out
the potential risks in a speech last October. “The bar for the
use of nontraditional policies is higher than for traditional
policies,” Stein said. “If the federal funds rate were at 3
percent, we would have, in my view, an open-and-shut case for
reducing it.”  Worrying Prospect  That’s a worrying prospect. For a generation, the Fed has
been the economy’s great stabilizing force, largely succeeding
in keeping unemployment as low as is consistent with dormant
inflation. If the Fed lacks the confidence it once had, then
Americans must either get used to deeper recessions and slower
recoveries or count on fiscal policy -- higher levels of
 government spending  and lower tax rates -- to take over much of
the job of recession-fighting. Given the government’s heavy debt
burden and gridlock in  Washington , neither option seems
particularly attractive.  So how can the Fed get its mojo back? It might seem wise to
raise rates sooner rather than later. Problem is, with the
economy still running below its potential, higher rates would
choke off recovery and worsen unemployment -- much as they did
in Japan when that country’s central bank  sought to get up  off
the zero bound in 2006. The Fed’s commitment to hold rates down
as long as inflation behaves demonstrates its commitment to
avoid a repeat of  Japan ’s mistake.  A better option would be for the Fed to rethink how much
inflation it’s willing to accept. Allowing a bit more would
bring down the “real,” or inflation-adjusted, interest rate -- a
change that has the same stimulating effect as a lower target
rate. An economy growing fast enough to generate rising
inflation would be prepared for the moderating impact of rate
increases sooner, ideally well before the next recession
strikes. Perhaps most important, by accepting a period of
inflation comfortably above the miserly 2 percent level, the Fed
would create room for rates to top out at a level that provides
more of a safety cushion above the zero lower bound. When the
next recession struck, it would be prepared.  A burst of inflation isn’t without potential costs. Those
who remember the 1970s and 1980s may worry that prices will
spiral ever upward, sapping consumer purchasing power, eroding
savings and contributing to economic stagnation. But these
threats should be manageable if the Fed keeps inflation
expectations under control by providing precise communication
about its policy goals. It could change its official inflation
target to, say, 3 percent or 4 percent. Or it could shift to a
new goal altogether, such as stable growth in the cash value of
national income -- an approach known as nominal gross domestic
product targeting. This would allow for more flexibility while
reassuring the public that policy wouldn’t run out of control.  Right Direction  The Fed is already moving in the right direction. Its
current approach to raising interest rates -- promising to
maintain stimulus until unemployment and inflation hit pre-
defined thresholds -- is designed to give it the flexibility to
accept above-target inflation for a short period while
maintaining longer-run inflation expectations at 2 percent.  But time is running out. Over the past 150 years, the
average economic expansion has lasted just 42 months, a
milestone the current recovery has already passed. If the Fed
doesn’t want to face the next recession with an empty quiver, it
must accept that there are worse things in life than moderate
inflation.  (Ryan Avent is economics correspondent at The Economist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ryan Avent at  ryanavent@economist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 