-- Bovespa Extends Longest Slump in Nine Months as Petrobras Sinks
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-02-21T22:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/most-brazilian-stocks-decline-as-drop-in-commodities-saps-vale.html
The  Bovespa index  declined for a
seventh day, extending its longest rout in nine months, as
commodities dropped and signs of global economic weakness
reduced prospects for  Brazil ’s exports.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  was the biggest contributor to the
gauge’s decline as oil futures dropped. Oil producer OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA surged in late trading, helping
to pare losses on the index. State-run lender  Banco do Brasil SA 
rallied as quarterly profit beat estimates. Gerdau SA rose as
the steelmaker said in an earnings conference call that it
expects profitability to improve this year.  The Bovespa dropped less than 0.1 percent to 56,154.68 at
the close of trading in Sao Paulo, as 49 stocks fell while 18
advanced. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
fell 1.6 percent. Producers of raw materials  account  for 23
percent of the  Bovespa. (IBOV)   “The short-term trend is more negative,” Felipe Rocha, an
analyst at brokerage Omar Camargo, said by phone from Curitiba,
Brazil. “I don’t see a lot of positives in the short term that
could push the Bovespa higher.”  Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is known, dropped 1.7
percent to 17.32 reais. Oil tumbled to the lowest level this
year as euro-area services and manufacturing contracted in
February at a faster pace than economists forecast and
applications for  unemployment benefits  in the U.S. rose for the
first time in three weeks.  Gerdau advanced 2.8 percent to 16.14 reais. OGX jumped 12
percent to 3.60 reais after earlier falling as much as 3.4
percent, leading an advance in companies controlled by
billionaire  Eike Batista . LLX Logistica SA gained 3.7 percent to
1.94 reais.  Bank Profit  Banco do Brasil rose 4.1 percent to 25.29 reais.  Latin
America ’s largest lender by assets reported fourth-quarter
adjusted profit of 3.18 billion reais, compared with analysts’
average estimate of 2.63 billion reais.  Brazil’s benchmark index may rally 25 percent to reach
70,000 for the first time since April 2011, according to Joaquim Levy, the head of Banco Bradesco SA’s asset management unit.  “Maybe the worst is behind us,” Levy said in an interview
at his office in Sao Paulo today, without giving a time frame
for his 70,000 forecast. “We could see better growth figures in
the fourth quarter, and also in the first quarter. In this
scenario, you’d see earnings improving, giving support to the
stock market.”  Bovespa Valuation  The real weakened 0.6 percent to 1.9728 per dollar. Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said today there is no need to take
additional measures to intervene in the  currency markets .
Brazil’s central bank expects inflation to exceed the mid-point
of its target range for a fourth straight year in 2013, Carlos
Hamilton, the central bank’s director for economic policy, told
reporters in  Belo Horizonte  today.  The Bovespa has  dropped  7.9 percent this year amid concerns
inflation will curb growth, which compares with a gain of 5.4
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a 0.3 percent
loss in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. The Brazilian gauge
trades at 10.9 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next
four quarters, compared with 10.4 for the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trading volume of stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 8.25 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with with a daily average of 7.42 billion reais this
year through Feb. 19, according to data compiled by the
 exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  