-- Tourmaline Soars as Reserves Spark Merger Talk
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-21T21:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/tourmaline-soars-as-reserves-spark-merger-talk-corporate-canada.html
Tourmaline Oil Corp. (TOU)  is the best
performing Canadian energy stock over the past year as a surge
in natural gas reserves fuels speculation Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Rose  has created another takeover target.  Tourmaline, based in Calgary, has risen 39 percent in the
12 months through yesterday and 10 percent this year after it
announced on Feb. 12 reserves soared 61 percent in 2012. The
stores of gas may attract bids from companies behind proposals
for liquefied natural gas exports from Canada’s Pacific coast,
said investors such as John O’Connell, chief executive officer
of Davis Rea Ltd.  “There’s no question Shell or other major international
players would be definitely interested in buying the company,”
said O’Connell, who helps manage C$600 million ($589 million)
including Tourmaline shares at Davis Rea. LNG backers such as
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  need decades of gas to supply terminals,
O’Connell said by phone on Feb. 15 from Toronto.  Rose “has a track record of having been acquired, not
because he puts the company up for sale, but because people
realize he’s created wonderful assets that are meaningful and he
owns the infrastructure,” O’Connell said.  Tourmaline’s stock performance tops Canadian energy
companies valued at more than $5 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Rose, who is Tourmaline’s third-largest
 shareholder  with a 6 percent stake, previously sold two
companies for premiums above 30 percent.  Previous Deals  Shell paid C$5.27 billion in 2008 for Duvernay Oil Corp., a
company Rose founded, the C$83-a-share price amounting to a 42
percent premium to the stock before the deal was announced.
Berkley Petroleum Corp., another company run by Rose, was
acquired by  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  for $777 million in 2001.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Shell proposed projects near Kitimat,
British Columbia, to liquefy gas for export to  Asia , where
buyers pay about  five times  North American gas prices, according
to figures compiled by Bloomberg.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , which has
said it’s considering a liquid natural gas terminal, would need
more reserves than it will acquire by buying  Celtic Exploration
Ltd. (CLT) , O’Connell said. That deal is slated to close Feb. 26.  Kirsten Smart, a spokeswoman for Shell, declined to comment
in a phone interview yesterday on Tourmaline being a possible
takeover target for the company. Kimberly Brasington, a
spokeswoman for Exxon, and Lloyd Avram, a Chevron spokesman,
also declined in e-mails to comment yesterday.  Sustainable Reserves  Scott Kirker, Tourmaline’s secretary and general counsel,
declined to comment yesterday when reached by phone, citing
restrictions communicating with media while the company markets
an equity financing deal. Tourmaline announced a bought-deal
financing of about C$203 million yesterday, to temporarily pay
down debt and fund its  capital spending  for 2013.  “When you look at what Exxon’s been doing, what Shell’s
been doing, what Chevron’s talking about, overall the
sustainable big reserves companies have been bid up as this news
has come out,” including Tourmaline, said Brandon Snow, who
helps manage about C$6 billion at CI Investments Inc. in
Toronto, including Tourmaline shares. Rose’s past company sales
are lifting Tourmaline’s stock, Snow said by phone on Feb. 15.  Tourmaline reported proved and probable reserves of the
equivalent of 438 million barrels of oil at the end of 2012, a
61 percent increase from a year earlier. The reserves are worth
C$4.3 billion at future prices, Tourmaline said on Feb. 12. That
sent  the stock  to a record close of C$36.35 on Feb. 13.  Bought Bargain  The company beat its output target of the equivalent of
70,000 barrels a day to end 2012, and yesterday boosted its
target for 2013 by 6 percent to average 80,000 barrels a day,
lifting its  capital budget  to C$740 million from C$650 million.  “Their updates on reserves and production are exceeding
the market, consistently,” David Neuhauser, who helps oversee
$100 million at Livermore Partners Inc. in Northbrook,  Illinois ,
including Tourmaline shares, said by phone on Feb. 15.  Rose formed Tourmaline in 2008, as North American gas
prices were plummeting from a high of $13.577 per million
British thermal units. Tourmaline, whose energy production is  88
percent gas , grew as the heating and power-plant fuel fell to a
decade low of $1.907 in April before rising to $3.276 on Feb.
19.  Tourmaline bought low-cost acreage for a bargain, while
others struggled with high-cost “legacy” output, Snow said.  “In half the time, they’ve gotten to twice the size of
Duvernay and it’s the exact same management,” said Jeffrey Fiell, an analyst at Integral Wealth Securities Ltd. in Calgary.
Tourmaline  plans to  grow output to the equivalent of 130,636
barrels a day by 2017, according to its website.  Largest Landowner  The company is the largest landowner, with 1.1 million
acres, in the Deep Basin area, a stretch in west-central  Alberta 
where Tourmaline can drill into as many as 15 layers of gas-
soaked rock to increase production, the  website  says. The
company says it controls operating costs by owning pipelines and
gas processing plants.  For every dollar spent on finding, developing and acquiring
gas, Tourmaline will generate 2.25 times the  cash flow ,
according to forecasts from the company’s Feb. 12 statement.  The so-called recycle ratio, an industry measure of
efficiency, is “probably in the top 10 percent” of lowest-cost
Canadian producers, Fiell said in a phone interview yesterday.  At the company’s northeast British Columbia Montney Shale
development, its break-even gas price is C$1.12 per thousand
cubic feet for new wells, according to Tourmaline’s website.
Tourmaline forecast C$3.86 gas at the western Canadian hub,
AECO, for 2013.  Premium Valuation  “They’ve been preparing for this type of market and
building the company to survive in a $3 gas world,” Snow said.  Companies proposing LNG terminals are planning pipelines to
the coast to connect with gas supply from shale fields,
including the Montney.  Tourmaline rose 1.3 percent to C$34.84 at 4.20 p.m. today
in Toronto, giving it a market value of C$6.09 billion.  Tourmaline’s premium stock price may limit bidders to Exxon
or Shell, Fiell said. “When you get to Tourmaline’s size, $6
billion plus, it’s going to take a very large company and if
they want to do that on an accretive basis, they would have to
pay cash,” he said.  Tourmaline is the most expensive energy stock after
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , relative to its earnings, trading at 344
times its trailing 12-month average per-share profit, according
to figures compiled by Bloomberg. It’s trading at 22 times the
benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index on a price-
earnings basis and 16 times the energy sub-index,  data  compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Debt Increase  The company, which went public with a C$228 million initial
public offering in 2010, has always appeared expensive, Snow
said. The company’s delivery of production ahead of schedule
means “it wasn’t as expensive as everyone thought,” he said.  The stock may fall if Tourmaline’s debt rises and
“spending gets out of control,” Fiell said. Tourmaline ended
2012 with total debt at 1.7 times its forecast 2013 cash flow,
according to Fiell’s estimates, higher than the company’s policy
to limit debt to one times cash flow. Yesterday’s equity
financing, greater than the boost to 2013 spending, should allow
Tourmaline to reduce its debt levels, Fiell said.  A rise in gas prices may boost Tourmaline further,
Neuhauser said. “They’re doing everything right and if they can
get help on the commodity front, I think the stock could break
$40 and keep breaking out to new highs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  