-- Outlook Still Unclear on ECB, ESM Challenge: German Court
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-02-21T08:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/outlook-still-unclear-on-ecb-esm-challenge-german-court.html
Germany ’s top constitutional court
hasn’t decided how to proceed on challenges to the nation’s role
in the European Stability Mechanism or the  European Central
Bank ’s bond-buying announcement.  While the suits are on a list of disputes the Federal
Constitutional Court intends to decide this year, no hearing has
been yet been scheduled, Chief Justice Andreas Vosskuhle told
reporters at a press reception in Karlsruhe yesterday.  “This is quite a big tale,” Vosskuhle said. “We’ll have
to see how to handle it, that’s not quite clear yet.”  In a preliminary ruling in September, the court cleared the
way for the permanent euro-area rescue fund and the European
Union’s fiscal pact, rejecting bids to halt German ratification
of the 500 billion-euro ($663 billion) backstop, while imposing
some conditions on its use. Under the court’s procedural laws,
the judges still have to render a final ruling over the issues.  Plaintiffs have since added more challenges against the
ECB’s Outright Monetary Transactions program aimed at buying
 government bonds  if necessary. A week before the September
ruling, ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced the central bank
was ready to buy unlimited quantities of short-dated government
bonds of nations signed up to rescues from the ESM or European
Financial Stability Facility.  While rejecting a last-minute request for an emergency
injunction over the Draghi announcement, the court said at the
time it would review a challenge to the ECB bond-buying programs
during additional hearings in the cases.  The cases are BVerfG, 2 BvR 1390/12 et al.  -- Editors: Christopher Scinta, Peter Chapman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Karlsruhe via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  