-- How to Curb Chinese Cyberattacks
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/how-to-curb-chinese-cyberattacks.html
Although the word  China  doesn’t
appear in the title of the  “Strategy to Mitigate the Theft of
U.S. Trade Secrets”  that the White House introduced Feb. 20, it
was written between the lines in bold type.  And that’s a good thing: The recent escalation in Chinese
cyberattacks against U.S. targets is a threat to businesses and
to the stability of diplomatic relations. It illustrates why
Congress must take stronger action to bolster defenses against
digital intrusions, and why the rules of cyberwarfare must
evolve out of their current state of dangerous ambiguity into
something approaching international norms. And the White House’s
newly assertive stance is a welcome start.  The administration’s initiative follows the Feb. 19 release
of a  study  by the computer-security company Mandiant Corp. on a
group of Chinese hackers ( profiled  by Bloomberg Businessweek
last August) that had infiltrated 141 companies in 20 industries
and stolen “hundreds of terabytes of data” since 2006.
Mandiant’s extensive investigations into the attacks suggest
close links, if not an exact match, to Unit 61398 of the Chinese
People’s Liberation Army, based in  Shanghai .  Alarmingly, some of the attacks weren’t aimed at stealing
corporate secrets. They targeted the industrial-control systems
that operate critical American infrastructure, such as power
grids and gas pipelines. One infiltration that Mandiant noted,
first  reported  in September 2012, took aim at Telvent Canada
Ltd., which provides software that enables energy companies to
access their systems remotely. The perpetrators were able to
plant malware and steal files before being detected.  First Step  The first step in mitigating this threat is for Congress to
pass mandatory cybersecurity standards for companies that
operate critical infrastructure, to be overseen by the
Department of  Homeland Security . As we’ve argued before, these
standards should be applied in ways that maximize flexibility
and harness competitive energy. Many of them are simply common
sense, such as requiring employees to change their passwords
frequently,  restrict ing new applications, and keeping up with
security updates and software patches. Tax incentives might also
help ensure companies in critical fields continually upgrade
their ability to detect intrusions. Those that don’t endanger
not just their bottom line, but all of us.  An executive order signed by President  Barack Obama  last
week took steps in the right direction by expanding information-
sharing between the government and the private sector,
bolstering privacy provisions and ordering the creation of a
cybersecurity framework for addressing such risks. It was better
than nothing, but addressing the cybersecurity threat more
substantively requires Congress to act.  The five-pronged program rolled out Feb. 20 builds on that
effort. It starts with turning U.S. diplomacy up to 11 on
cybertheft with China and other trading partners, including
through the use of “trade policy tools” -- a veiled reference
that could encompass sanctions. And it seeks to promote
voluntary best practices by private industry, boost domestic  law
enforcement , strengthen domestic legislation and increase public
awareness.  As the line blurs between espionage, militant hostility and
outright warfare in cyberspace, though, the U.S. needs to work
toward creating international standards of acceptable behavior.  That process will be painfully slow, given endemic mistrust
and competing values. (Look at how even allies such as the U.S.
and the European Union argue over Internet privacy rules.) China
is itself a target for official and unofficial cyberintrusions
originating in the U.S. The U.S. government doesn’t practice
corporate espionage, but it has demonstrated in  Iran  that its
ability to disrupt critical infrastructure isn’t hypothetical.  Path Forward  A  path forward  might start with more cooperation on
stopping cyberactivity that almost all states agree are harmful
(child pornography and human trafficking, for example). It could
move to a greater exchange of information about threats
emanating from criminal groups and terrorists and eventually
toward sharing national cyberwar doctrines.  In recently defining “critical infrastructure” in its
executive order, the Obama administration also created a basis
for discussions on setting bounds for the use of cyberattacks.
In this realm, Cold War analogies can be useful up to a point --
the U.S. and the U.S.S.R., for instance, devised some ground
rules for espionage, and both climbed a steep nuclear-strategy
 learning curve . A hotline between cybercommands, along the lines
of the Cold War nuclear model, could be a valuable first step,
especially in preventing unintentional escalations.  Ultimately, as cybersecurity expert  James Lewis  has  argued ,
the goal should be to fully apply international law,
particularly the laws of armed conflict, to cyberspace.
Countries such as China and  Russia  need to accept real-world
responsibility for any virtual activity that originates within
their territories, state-sponsored or not.  Getting them to do so won’t be easy. But the White House’s
increasingly aggressive commitment to this issue is a good way
to start keeping them honest.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 