-- Peanut Corp. of America Officials Charged Over Salmonella
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-02-21T23:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/peanut-corp-of-america-executives-indicted-over-salmonella-1-.html
Four former officials of the Peanut
Corp. of America were indicted by the U.S. over the sale of
salmonella-tainted peanut products that sparked national outrage
in 2009 after being tied to nine deaths.  Stewart Parnell, president of the now liquidated Peanut
Corp., was charged along with three managers in a 76 count
indictment unsealed yesterday in federal court in Albany,
Georgia. He’s charged with conspiracy, wire fraud and
introduction of adulterated food into interstate commerce with
intent to defraud or mislead.  “It was part of the conspiracy that the defendants and
others shipped and caused to be shipped peanut products before
receiving the results of microbiological testing performed on
said products,” according to the 52-page indictment.  The charges were filed four years after the salmonella
outbreak set off a political firestorm in Washington. The recall
sparked by Peanut Corp., one largest in the U.S., took more than
800 products made with peanuts off the shelves including
cookies, crackers and cereal. Congress called Parnell to testify
while President  Barack Obama  urged a “complete review” of the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration because it failed to prevent
contamination of peanut butter linked to the nine deaths and
more than 700 illnesses.  Processing Plants  Closely held Peanut Corp., based in Lynchburg, Virginia,
filed for bankruptcy in 2009 after the outbreak was traced to
its processing plants in Georgia and Texas. Dead rodents and
droppings were found near a production area, according to the
Texas Department of State Health Services.  “When food or drug manufacturers lie and cut corners, they
put all of us at risk,” Stuart Delery, who heads the Justice
Department’s civil division, said at a news conference today in
Washington.  Also named in the indictment are Michael Parnell, a vice
president in charge of sales, Samuel Lightsey, an operations
manager, and Mary Wilkerson, a quality assurance manager.  Daniel Kilgore, operations manager of Peanut Corp.’s plant
in Blakely, Georgia, pleaded guilty yesterday to charges
including conspiracy, fraud and introduction of adulterated
products, according to prosecutors.  Food Companies  Kilgore conspired with the Parnells and Lightsey in a
scheme to manufacture and ship salmonella-contaminated peanuts
and peanut products to customers, including family-owned
businesses and global food companies, according to the
indictment. The customers aren’t identified by name in the
indictment.  Prosecutors said that even when laboratory testing revealed
the presence of salmonella in products at the Blakely facility,
the conspirators failed to alert their customers. They also
fabricated documents that showed the products were free of
pathogens when no tests had been conducted or lab results tested
positive for salmonella, according to the indictment.  Wilkerson, along with Stewart Parnell and Lightsey, are
accused of trying to mislead inspectors from the FDA
Administration who visited the plant on multiple occasions while
investigating the salmonella outbreak.  Lawyers for Stewart Parnell said as the case develops “it
will become apparent that the FDA was in regular contact with
PCA about its food handling policy and was well aware of its
salmonella testing protocols.”  No Intent  It will also be clear that Parnell “never intentionally
shipped or intentionally caused to be shipped any tainted food
products capable of harming PCA’s customers,” according to a
statement from Tom Bondurant and William Gust of Gentry Locke
Rakes & Moore LLP.  Lawyers for the other defendants couldn’t be immediately
identified.  Internal company e-mails released by a House subcommittee
in 2009 showed Stewart Parnell feared losses tied to salmonella.
After some products tested positive for salmonella in one lab,
no bacteria were found in re-testing and Parnell told Lightsey
to “turn them loose.”  On Jan. 19, 2009, the week after the company recalled bulk
peanut butter and peanut paste made at its Georgia plant,
Parnell pleaded with an FDA official to let the company ship raw
peanuts from the Georgia plant to the company’s Texas plant,
according to another e-mail message. A truckload had been
shipped the previous week.  Peanut Money  “Obviously we are not shipping any peanut butter products
affected by the recall but desperately at least need to turn the
Raw Peanuts on our floor into money,” according to the e-mail.
“We have other raw peanuts on our floor that we would like to
do the same with … This is material that would be cooked/further
processed by us in our Texas facility and tested afterwards as
all our products are.”  Sally Greenberg, executive director of the National
Consumers League, a Washington-based advocacy group, said she
was gratified that the Justice Department took action against
the officials.  “When food manufacturers choose to disregard food safety
rules, ignore evidence that their products are dangerous and as
a result consumers become ill and even die, they should be held
responsible in a court of law,” Greenberg said in an e-mailed
statement.  Michael Moore, U.S. attorney in Georgia, said the
investigation took time because of its complexity, as well as
the alleged obstruction by the company’s executives.  “We count on people who are supplying food to be honest
when we have an emergency like this,” Moore told reporters
today in Washington. “When they don’t, that obviously makes law
enforcement’s job and the health agencies job more difficult.”  Moore said his office has been in contact with lawyers for
the individuals indicted and expects them to appear in court
within the next week. No arrests were made.  The case is U.S. v. Parnell, 13-cr-00012, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of Georgia (Albany).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  