-- Pentagon Weapons Buyer Vows to Keep Contractors Informed
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-21T20:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/pentagon-weapons-buyer-vows-to-keep-contractors-informed.html
The Pentagon’s top weapons buyer
directed program managers to keep defense companies and academic
institutions apprised of plans to implement automatic U.S.
spending cuts that are about to take effect.  “It is important to keep industry informed” and
“involved in our decision-making to the maximum extent
possible, particularly when ongoing or upcoming contract awards
may be affected,” Frank Kendall, undersecretary for
acquisition, said today in a memo.  While Kendall said “there is still hope” that the
automatic cuts will be averted, he said “engaging in this
dialogue will allow industry to more productively make their own
internal business plans.”  Unless lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  can agree on an
alternative, the across-the-board spending reductions, known as
sequestration, will begin March 1. About half the cuts will
affect defense spending, requiring about $46 billion in
reductions in the seven remaining months of this fiscal year and
about $500 billion over a decade.  The Pentagon and military services also face the financial
constraints of a stopgap fiscal 2013 spending measure that
expires March 27 and may be extended for the year.  The measure, which extended fiscal 2012 funding,
concentrates money in weapons accounts and is less than what the
Pentagon says is needed in accounts that pay for troop training,
maintenance and readiness.  Wrong Places  The co-called continuing resolution “has the money in the
wrong places,” Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale said yesterday.
“There are too many dollars in the investment accounts and too
few in operations and maintenance.”  Hale told reporters that if sequestration happens, “I
don’t anticipate that we will cancel many, if any contracts,
because we’d incur substantial costs.”  “We will not pick up options” and “we may not start or
delay starting new contracts, but I wouldn’t expect that we will
terminate existing contracts,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  