-- Petrom to Invest EU400 Million to Boost Output, CEO Says
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-02-21T14:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/petrom-to-invest-eu400-million-to-boost-output-ceo-says.html
OMV Petrom SA (SNP) ,  Romania ’s biggest oil
company, will invest 400 million euros ($527 million) in the
next two years to boost output from nine existing domestic oil
and gas fields, the company’s top executive said.  The Bucharest-based company, majority owned by  OMV AG (OMV) , has
begun preparing two fields for increased output and will have
three more ready for extra production by year-end, said Chief
Executive Officer Mariana Gheorghe. She declined to say when
Petrom will begin work on improving the remaining four fields.  “We plan to have five of the nine projects in the
implementation phase by the end of this year and the investment
amount includes the entire process, including the production,”
Gheorghe said in an interview in Bucharest today.  Petrom plans to invest more than 1 billion euros ($1.33
billion) in 2013, mostly in exploration and production, as it
seeks to focus on field redevelopment projects to mitigate and
stabilize declining output. It’s also searching for resources in
the Black Sea, where it announced last year a potentially
significant discovery in the Neptun block, together with  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)   Petrom’s 2012 oil and natural-gas production totaled
183,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, down 2 percent from a
year earlier, according to its earnings statement released
today.  Austria’s OMV said last February that the Domino-1 well,
operated together with the Exxon unit, encountered 70.7 meters
of net gas pay that resulted in a preliminary estimate of
accumulation ranging from 1.5 to 3 trillion cubic feet (42 to 84
billion cubic meters).  Seismic Studies  Drilling operations started at the end of 2011 and the
total depth of the well is estimated to be more than 3,000
meters below sea level.  “We plan to complete three-dimensional seismic studies of
the Domino well by the end of this year so we can start
interpreting these data with a clear purpose of better
understanding the well and also discover other exploration
targets,” Gheorghe said.  Exxon and Petrom, together with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , have
also won a production-sharing agreement for Ukraine’s Skifske
oil and gas field on the Black Sea shelf, located near Neptun.
The companies still need to agree with the Kiev-based government
on the terms of a contract.  “We hope to complete discussions with Ukraine this year,
that’s the objective, but it takes two to tango,” Gheorghe
said.  Petrom may also team up with  Repsol SA (REP) , Spain’s largest oil
producer, for exploration on Romania, Jurnalul National, a
Romanian newspaper, reported yesterday citing unidentified
people in the energy industry.  Mariana Gheorghe said she won’t comment on the report as
Petrom will announce any new partnership should it happen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  