-- Philippine Peso Declines Most in Two Weeks on Fed Easing Debate
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-02-21T08:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/philippine-peso-falls-most-in-three-weeks-on-fed-easing-debate.html
The peso fell by the most in three
weeks after Federal Reserve minutes showed there is a debate
about its bond-buying program that boosts the supply of dollars.
Local-currency  government bonds  advanced.  Several Fed policy makers said the monetary authority
should be ready to vary the pace of the $85 billion of debt
purchases a month, according to minutes of the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s Jan. 29-30 meeting released yesterday. Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor  Amando Tetangco  reiterated this
week authorities are prepared to implement more measures to curb
capital inflows.  “There’s speculation the Fed may start looking at ending
monetary easing sooner than previously indicated,” said
 Jonathan Ravelas , Manila-based chief market strategist at BDO
Unibank Inc., the nation’s largest lender.  The peso declined 0.1 percent to 40.71 per dollar at the
close in  Manila , the most since Feb. 5, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose five
basis points to 3.9 percent.  There is room to further refine the central bank’s special-
deposit accounts to make sure they are used as a liquidity
management tool and not an investment outlet, Tetangco said on
Feb. 15. The central bank cut the rate it pays on about $42
billion in the special accounts to 3 percent from more than 3.5
on Jan. 24, which has resulted in inflows into sovereign debt.  The yield on the 4.125 percent peso bonds due November 2017
fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.33
percent, the lowest level since the debt was sold in November,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  