-- Pinterest Valued at $2.5 Billion Following Investment by Valiant
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-02-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/pinterest-gets-200-million-in-funding-at-2-5-billion-valuation.html
Pinterest Inc., an online bulletin
board where members share photos of clothing, food and art,
raised $200 million in a financing round that values the company
at $2.5 billion.  The funding was led by Valiant Capital Management, San
Francisco-based Pinterest said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. Existing investors Andreessen Horowitz, Bessemer
Venture Partners and FirstMark Capital also contributed.  Pinterest is now worth more than publicly traded Internet
companies  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , Yelp Inc. and Pandora Media Inc., even
though it has yet to generate revenue. The number of unique
users is growing at more than 300 percent from a year earlier,
leading to increased interest from investors, said Rick Heitzmann, a partner at FirstMark in  New York  and board observer
for Pinterest.  “We think we’ll build a really big business in discovering
and curating all the things people love in their lives,”
Heitzmann said in an interview. “It’s really resonating with
people.”  The investment makes Pinterest one of the most valuable
venture-backed Internet companies. Twitter Inc., the
microblogging service, was valued at about $9 billion after
early employees sold shares to a fund managed by BlackRock Inc.,
three people with knowledge of the matter said last month.
Dropbox Inc., a file-sharing service, raised money in late 2011
at a $4 billion valuation, while room-sharing site Airbnb Inc.
was raising capital at a valuation of about $2.5 billion late
last year, people familiar with the matter said in October.  Virtual Pinboard  Pinterest operates a social-networking website where users
can collect and share photos on the Internet by pinning them to
a virtual bulletin board. Users can re-pin others’ finds, which
include recipes, wedding dresses, party ideas and creative
educational tips. The company will use the capital to build its
service, including developing new technology and recruiting top
engineers, designers and businesspeople.  In May, the company raised $100 million in a financing
round that valued it at about $1.5 billion, a person with
knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , is an investor
in Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  