-- Poland Rating Outlook Raised to Positive at Fitch on Budget
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-02-21T16:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/poland-debt-rating-outlook-raised-to-positive-at-fitch-on-budget.html
Poland ’s debt-rating outlook was
raised to positive from stable by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the
country’s narrowing budget deficit, stabilizing government debt
and economic-growth outlook.  Fitch kept Poland’s foreign-currency debt grade at A-, the
fourth-lowest investment level, it said in a statement today.
The positive outlook indicates an upgrade is more likely than a
downgrade or the rating being left unchanged.  “Poland has a solid track record of resilience to the
eurozone debt crisis, despite strong economic and financial
links with Western Europe,” Fitch said in its statement.
“Medium-term growth prospects are healthy, despite an expected
slowdown in 2013 to 1.6 percent on the back of subdued domestic
demand. Polish exporters are well placed to take advantage of
the eurozone recovery, and to make inroads into new, more
dynamic markets.”  The  budget deficit  narrowed by about 4.5 percentage points
of gross domestic product since 2010 to an estimated 3.4 percent
last year, based on European Union standards, Fitch said. It
expects the gap to shrink to 3.2 percent this year and 2.7
percent in 2014.  Upgrade Equivalent  “Fitch’s decision today can be treated de facto as a
ratings upgrade, in light of the global economic situation,”
Deputy Finance Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk was quoted as saying
today in Warsaw by PAP newswire. “Its impact on our debt-
service costs will become visible in the years to come.”  The zloty strengthened to 4.1574 per euro at 4:45 p.m. in
Warsaw, compared with 4.1675 before Fitch’s announcement and
reversing losses to gain 0.1 percent from yesterday. The yield
on the 10-year government bond dropped 6 basis points to 3.9857
percent.  In almost half the instances, yields on  government bonds 
fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s suggests they
should climb, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on 314
upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going back as far as
the 1970s. When S&P downgraded the U.S. government in August,
Treasury yields fell to records.  Debt Reassurance  “This comes as a surprise as their tone has been fairly
cautious,” Esther Law, a director of emerging-markets strategy
at  Societe Generale  in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note today.
“This outlook should also offer reassurance for Polish
government debt holders, who are worried about positioning
becoming heavier these days.”  Law said she expects “more positive outlook change to
come, especially by Moody’s around April.”  Moody’s Investors Service is “continuing to maintain a
stable outlook on the sovereign’s A2 rating,” Jaime Reusche, a
New York-based analyst at the company, said in an e-mail today
responding to questions by Bloomberg. Poland’s “external
finances,” including the current account deficit, limit
“upward momentum on the rating,” he said.  Fitch said a ratings upgrade could result from continued
progress with fiscal consolidation that puts the public debt
ratio on “a clear downward path,” along with a “material
reduction” in external debt ratios, according to today’s
statement.  Public debt  will fall to 54.5 percent of GDP in 2014 from a
peak of 56.4 percent in 2011, according to the ratings company.  Poland’s A- rating puts it on par with euro-area members
Italy and Slovenia.  Poland’s outlook could revert to stable in case of a
“pronounced fiscal loosening” or “weak” economic
performance, resulting “either from external or domestic
shocks,” Fitch said in its statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;  Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  