-- Previously Owned U.S. Home Sales Climb to 4.92 Million
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-02-21T21:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/previously-owned-u-s-home-sales-climb-to-4-92-million.html
Sales of  previously owned  homes
increased in January and an index of leading indicators climbed
for a second month as the rebound in housing helped to broaden
the U.S. expansion.  Purchases of existing houses rose 0.4 percent to a 4.92
million annual rate, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington . A gauge of the economic
outlook for the next three to six months advanced 0.2 percent
after a 0.5 percent December gain, according to the New York-
based Conference Board.  Improving home sales combined with dwindling inventory
spurred the biggest advance in property values since 2005,
helping mend household finances. The gain in housing, the
industry that was at the center of the financial crisis, may
help consumers overcome an increase in the payroll tax and
rising gasoline prices that pose a risk to spending.  “The economy has legs,” said  John Silvia , chief economist
at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in Charlotte,  North Carolina , a
unit of the largest U.S. mortgage lender. “A lot of people are
much more confident. Housing has picked up, and I think it’s
sustainable.”  Stocks fell, following the biggest drop since November for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after minutes of the Federal
Reserve’s last meeting that were issued yesterday signaled
policy makers may consider slowing the pace of asset purchases.
The  S&P 500  fell 0.6 percent to 1,502.42 at the close in  New
York .  Other Reports  Other figures todays showed jobless claims climbed last
week, consumer prices were unchanged in January and
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region unexpectedly contracted
in February for a second month.  News today out of  Europe  indicated the region is still
struggling. Services and manufacturing in the euro area
contracted at a faster pace in February, a report showed.  In the U.S., rising gasoline prices are compounding the
damage done by the two percentage-point increase in the  payroll
tax , causing Americans to remain pessimistic about the economic
 outlook  in February.  The gap between positive and negative expectations was
minus 7 this month, unchanged from January’s three-month low,
according to the Bloomberg Comfort Index. By contrast, the
measure reflecting present conditions for the week ended Feb. 17
rose to minus 33.4, the highest reading this year, from minus
35.9 in the previous seven-day period.  Survey Results  The median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected the January pace of existing home sales at 4.9
million. Estimates ranged from 4.7 million to 5.1 million. The
prior month’s pace was revised to 4.9 million from a previously
reported 4.94 million.  The number of previously owned homes  on the market  fell 4.9
percent to 1.74 million, the fewest since December 1999, today’s
report from the Realtors’ group showed. At the current sales
pace, it would take 4.2 months to sell those houses, the fewest
since April 2005.  “Inventory has increasingly become the story of the
housing market,”  Lawrence Yun , NAR chief economist, said in a
news conference as the figures were released. “We do expect
some relief in inventories as the spring season comes around.”
He also said that “only the homebuilders can truly relieve the
inventory” shortage.  PulteGroup (PHM) ,  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  and  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI) , the top
three U.S. homebuilders by market value, said orders rose in the
most recently reported quarter. A report yesterday from the
Commerce Department showed single-family home starts increased
in January to the highest level since July 2008.  Construction’s Impact  Gains in construction will probably ripple out to other
parts of the economy.  “If housing starts really do pick up as we expect and the
economy picks up as we expect, I think what you’ll see is pretty
good growth in the residential business” Gregory Hayes, chief
financial officer at  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , said at a Feb. 7
conference. The Hartford, Connecticut-based company’s products
include Carrier air conditioners and Otis elevators.  Tight supply and growing demand are helping firm property
values. The median price of an existing home rose to $173,600
last month, up 12.3 percent from January 2012, the real-estate
agents’ report today showed. It marked the biggest 12-month
increase since November 2005.  Fewer Delinquencies  Rising prices may be helping struggling homeowners find
buyers. Home loans that were more than 90 days behind in
payments or in the foreclosure process fell to 6.78 percent of
mortgages in the third quarter, the lowest level since 2008,
from 7.03 percent in the previous three months, the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  said in a report today. The rate was 7.73
percent a year earlier.  The improvement in the economic outlook is not only driven
by housing. Six of the 10 indicators in the leading economic
index contributed to the increase last month, led by stock
prices and the spread between the federal funds rate and the
yield on 10-year Treasury notes, today’s report showed.  “The indicators point to an underlying economy that
remains relatively sound but sluggish,”  Ken Goldstein , an
economist at the Conference Board, said in a statement. “The
biggest positive factor is housing.”  Applications for  unemployment benefits  rose for the first
time in three weeks, returning to levels seen prior to the
holiday period and indicating little change in the pace of
firings. Jobless claims increased by 20,000 to 362,000 in the
week ended Feb. 16, the Labor Department reported.  Little Inflation  The cost of living was little changed in January for a
second month as a drop in energy costs offset gains in clothing,
hotel rates and airline fares, another report from the Labor
Department showed. Over the past 12 months, the consumer-price
index increased 1.6 percent, the smallest year-over-year gain
since July.  The news today on the manufacturing front was less
positive. Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region unexpectedly
contracted in February for a second month, according to data
from the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Philadelphia. The bank’s
general economic  index  dropped to minus 12.5, the lowest reading
since June, from minus 5.8 in January. Readings lower than zero
signal contraction in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania ,
southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  The reading followed New York Fed data released last week
that showed factory activity rebounded after six months of
contraction, raising prospects that factories could contribute
to expansion this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  