-- Proust’s Lover Writes Hit About Cucumber Girl: Paris Arts
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-02-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/proust-s-lover-writes-hit-about-cucumber-girl-paris-arts.html
Have you ever wondered what became
of Rodolfo, the penniless poet in Puccini’s opera “La Boheme,”
after the death of his beloved Mimi?  Well, he gave up writing poetry and became a bureaucrat,
eventually being promoted to superintendent of Les Halles,
Paris’s main food market.  Or so we’re told in Reynaldo Hahn’s 1923 operetta
“Ciboulette,” one of the big hits of the roaring twenties. After
a long period of neglect, it’s making a comeback at the Opera
Comique.  Hahn (1875-1947) was born in  Venezuela , moved to Paris as a
child and studied with Jules Massenet. He became his
generation’s answer to the German Jacob Eberst, better known as
Jacques Offenbach, half a century earlier -- the epitome of
Parisian wit and sophisticated entertainment a la francaise.  He was also the lover and lifelong friend of Marcel Proust,
who immortalized him as Henri de Reveillon in his early novel
“Jean Santeuil.”  Hahn was an unashamed traditionalist. While other operettas
of his time used foxtrot and jazz rhythms, he reverted to the
waltzes, romantic duets and grand finales of the 19th century.  The absurd plot of “Ciboulette” could have come straight
from an Offenbach opera bouffe.  Ciboulette, French for “chives,” is a sort of operetta
Lulu. The little farm girl, who comes to Paris to sell her goods
at Les Halles, has no less than eight fiances in the banlieue
yet lusts after the handsome, mentally negligible Vicomte
Antonin de Mourmelon.  Love Cabbage  A clairvoyant tells her that she’ll find her true love in a
pile of cabbage, draw him away from a woman who suddenly turns
white, and receive his proposal in a tambourine. Naturally, the
conditions are, one after the other, met, and Ciboulette and
Antonin are going to live happily ever after.  Rodolphe Duparquet, Mimi’s ex, plays the role of
Ciboulette’s Svengali. He transforms her into a singer with a
Spanish stage name: “I know Antonin. The day you’re famous,
he’ll be at your feet.”  The best things in the production at the  Opera Comique  are
the gorgeous costumes (David Belugou) and the sets of Act I and
II (Bernard Fau) evoking the old Halles and the Paris banlieue
before it was ruined by developers.  Act III, mostly played in front of the curtain, is a let-
down.  Drag Humor  Unfortunately, director Michel Fau broadens the play’s
faux-naif humor: He appears in drag and croaks the aria of the
Comtesse de Castiglione, one of the Second Empire’s great
socialites.  The audience is encouraged to sing along with two of the
catchiest tunes -- Ciboulette’s hymn to lilies of the valley and
her waltz song in the finale. The first-nighters seemed to like
it.  Before the music started, a 94-year-old lady took a curtain
call: Geori Boue had been a star of the house and had sung the
first Ciboulette at the Opera Comique in 1953. Nobody in the
cast can hold a candle to her.  Julie Fuchs, who last year won the title of the “revelation
lyrique de l’annee,” charms us with her fresh voice; as for her
acting, there is room for improvement. Jean-Francois Lapointe is
a suave Duparquet.  The weak links are Julien Behr’s thinnish Antonin and the
unsubtle Orchestre symphonique de l’Opera de Toulon, conducted
by Laurence Equilbey.  During the intermission, do visit -- or better still, have
a coupe de champagne in -- the Grand Foyer with its splendid
Belle Epoque murals, marble busts and ormolu chandeliers, each
holding 116 bulbs: The Opera Comique was the first European
theater fully equipped with electricity.  The foyer has recently been restored with the support of
the  World Monuments Fund  in New York.  Rating: **½.  “Ciboulette” runs at the Opera Comique through Feb. 26.
Information:  http://www.opera-comique.com .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jason Harper 
on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech and  Warwick Thompson  on U.K.
theater.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 