-- Stevens Says 3% Rate Working, Aussie Intervention Bar High
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-22T01:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/rba-s-stevens-sees-good-deal-of-rate-stimulus-in-pipeline.html
Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor
 Glenn Stevens  endorsed the current level of  interest rates  and
said he’d need to be confident the currency is “seriously
overvalued” before considering intervention to weaken it.  “There is a good deal of interest rate stimulus in the
pipeline,” he said today in semiannual testimony to a
parliamentary panel in Canberra. “It is having an effect.”  The local currency and bond yields rose as Stevens said an
overnight cash rate target at 3 percent is appropriate. The RBA
chief reiterated that rate cuts are more likely than increases
as he aims to rebalance a two-speed economy where mining regions
in the north and west thrive while manufacturers, builders and
retailers in the south and east struggle.  The so-called Aussie’s almost 60 percent climb in the past
four years has hurt exporters. While rate settings aren’t
seeking a particular  exchange rate  response, “they are being
set with a recognition of the exchange rate’s effect on the
economy,” he said.  “The other tool that may be available is, of course,
intervention, and I think the truth is that the power of forces
at work here, you need to be pretty confident that it’s
seriously overvalued or that the market’s behaving in some quite
irrational way before you would launch a large-scale
intervention,” Stevens said in response to a lawmaker’s
question. “It’s somewhat too high, but we’re not talking 50
percent or something like that.”  Zero Rates  Along with the New Zealand, Canadian, Swedish and other
currencies, the Aussie has strengthened as nations such as the
U.S.,  Japan  and the U.K. reduce rates to near-zero and undertake
quantitative easing to boost their economies.  Two days ago,  New Zealand  central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said the monetary authority is prepared to step in to
smooth peaks in the nation’s currency, even as he recognized
that it would be unable to determine the kiwi’s level. Policy
makers from  South Korea  to the  Philippines  are weighing curbs to
capital inflows.  Norway ’s central bank said it was ready to cut
rates to counter the krone’s strength and  Peru ’s government said
it’s prepared to boost dollar purchases to weaken the sol.  Weaker Outlook  The RBA lowered its growth and inflation forecasts this
month and has indicated a willingness to support demand in an
economy where mining investment is predicted to crest this year.
It reduced the benchmark rate in December to 3 percent, matching
a half-century low set in 2009, as it seeks to boost industries
including residential construction, before holding this month.  The central bank will alter rates if required in the months
leading up to a September election, the RBA governor said.  “Stevens’ comments are very firmly focused on what a
strong currency means for inflation rather than including any
threat of action,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency
strategist in Sydney at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “The tone of his
prepared comments indicate no great urgency to cut rates in the
near term.”  The Australian dollar climbed for the first time in three
days. It rose as much as 0.6 percent to $1.0308, before trading
at $1.0288 as of 12:33 p.m. in Sydney, from $1.0245 yesterday in
 New York .  Yields on three-year  government bonds  advanced to 2.86
percent, from 2.82 percent before Stevens started his testimony.
The rate is climbing for a fifth month, heading for the longest
stretch of increases since August 2009.  Mining Peak  “The economy will be adjusting to the peak of the mining
boom and some other areas of demand will have room to grow more
quickly than they have in recent years,” Stevens said. “This
transition will not necessarily be seamless - these things
seldom are - but there are reasonable prospects of it occurring
over time.”  The RBA predicts a softer  labor market  this year as hiring
demand from resource companies cools amid focus on reducing
costs.  Iluka Resources Ltd. (ILU) , the world’s biggest zircon
producer,  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) , the nation’s biggest electricity
retailer, and Telstra Corp., its biggest phone company,
yesterday announced a total 1,200 job cuts.  “Putting all that together, while growth was probably
about trend in 2012 as a whole, our sense is that the economy
has entered 2013 at a pace a little below that,” Stevens said.
“We have been inclined to think that the near-term outlook
could be for more of the same, but things are likely to
strengthen further out.”  Tame Inflation  The RBA, in a quarterly policy statement released Feb. 8,
predicted “below trend” 2013 growth of about 2.5 percent,
compared with around 2.75 percent forecast in November. Consumer
prices will rise 3 percent in the year to June 2013, compared
with the 3.25 percent increase it had forecast three months
earlier.  “The high exchange rate has lowered prices for tradable
goods and services and so helped to hold down measures of
inflation over the past couple of years,” Stevens said.  Investors are pricing in a 39 percent chance Stevens will
reduce rates by a quarter point to 2.75 percent at the meeting
next month, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show. That would
follow 175 basis points of cuts over the past 16 months.  “At least at the moment, my sense is that the appropriate
interest rate for the economy’s circumstances is in fact the
pretty low one we have,” Stevens said in response to questions
from lawmakers. “Not because we face an emergency, but because
we face other forces of a more slowly evolving nature.”  Mining Boom  The economy is struggling under the sustained strength of
the nation’s currency, which has remained above parity with the
 U.S. dollar  for almost eight months, the longest stretch since
it was freely floated in 1983. The central bank has expressed
concern at the divide between the trajectories of the currency
and the terms of trade, referring to a gauge of export prices
relative to import prices, that tend to track each other.  The terms of trade ended last year about 17 percent lower
than their record high reached in the third quarter of 2011; in
contrast, the currency advanced 7.6 percent over the period.  Stevens acknowledged that companies exposed to
international competition are under “acute pressure,” when
discussing means available to cope with the currency. He said
the local dollar is “a bit on the high side” and he’s
surprised it hasn’t come down, though history suggests the
market will bring it lower.  “The governor’s comments this morning imply that there is
a lot of stimulus already in the pipeline and didn’t seem to be
any rush there for the governor to do anything on policy anytime
soon,”  Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief economist
in Australia, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
“The currency is reacting to that. Perhaps there is a scope to
see the cash rate unchanged for few months in fact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  