-- Treat Millionaires Like They’re Billionaires
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-02-21T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/treat-millionaires-like-they-re-billionaires.html
The U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to
decide whether it violates free speech to bar you from donating
more than $117,000 every two years to your favorite political
candidates and national party committees.  Wait, you say, I thought I already could. Didn’t the
Supreme Court already allow unlimited contributions by super-
PACs in the  Citizens United  case? In the answer to your poignant
question lies a fascinating constitutional tale of pride and
principle.  Technically speaking, the Supreme Court hasn’t (at least
not yet) struck down limits on individuals’ collective
contributions to the party committees or to the candidates of
their choice. Federal laws that trace back to those upheld by
the Supreme Court in a 1976  case  limited individual
contributions to a specific candidate to $2,500 a year and total
contributions to all federal candidates to $46,200 over two
years; together with a $70,800 aggregate national committee
donation limit, the law established the $117,000 ceiling. It is
this aggregate limit, not the $2,500-a-customer base level, that
the Supreme Court agreed to review.  In Citizens United, by contrast, the Supreme Court lifted
limits on corporate contributions for so-called uncoordinated
advocacy, in which a political-action committee supports a
candidate without formally dealing with his or her campaign.
This holding didn’t apply to limits on contributions to specific
campaigns or national committees.  Conservative Bind  The challenge to the aggregate limits, in a  case  brought by
political activist Shaun McCutcheon and the Republican National
Committee against the Federal Election Commission, puts the
court’s conservatives in a bind. As a matter of principle, they
almost certainly want to strike down the limits. The 1976 ruling
depended on the paradoxical twin assertions that money is speech
but campaign contributions can nevertheless be limited.  Free-speech absolutists and the Republican-appointed judges
who love them have long pointed out the absurdity of this
position. Finding the aggregate contribution limit
unconstitutional would strike a blow for First Amendment
consistency. If campaign expenditures are considered speech, so
should the donations that pay for them.  As a matter of pragmatic politics, however, the
conservative justices should feel pretty nervous about
announcing that it is now lawful for the rich to spread their
wealth across an unlimited number of candidates.  The purpose of the aggregate limit -- and its
constitutional justification -- has always been to avoid the
appearance of corruption in our politics while affording an
opportunity to circumvent the anticorruption policy. Officially
stating that this is no longer a constitutional concern would
expose the conservatives to the criticism that they are handing
our government over to the plutocrats.  The precedent of Citizens United makes the conservatives’
quandary even worse. From President  Barack Obama  on down,
liberals excoriated the Supreme Court for activism that not
coincidentally served the moneyed interests more likely to
support Republicans. Similar criticism would certainly follow an
activist holding in the McCutcheon case.  A signal of conservative concern about this criticism can
be found in the opinion of George W. Bush-appointee Janice
Rogers Brown, one of the most conservative judges in the
country, in the U.S. District Court case now on appeal to the
high court. She recited the standard conservative view that “if
anything is clear, it is that contributing a large amount of
money does not ipso facto implicate the government’s
anticorruption interest.” And she acknowledged that Citizens
United held that large contributions didn’t implicate
corruption, at least when they were to be spent in an
uncoordinated fashion.  Cautious Act  Rather than following that logic to the conclusion that the
limits must fall, Brown upheld them. This cautious act avoided
getting ahead of the Supreme Court by refusing to prognosticate
on what its decision might be. Brown’s caution reflects a worry
about the negative public reception of Citizens United.  The conservatives’ troubles won’t be over if they uphold
the aggregate limit, because they will still be subject to the
charge of absurdism. In a world where I can make unlimited
contributions to a super-PAC, what difference does it make if I
can’t also funnel unlimited contributions to multiple candidates
or to national committees? The only way for the court to
distinguish the two situations is to insist that the super-PACs’
uncoordinated advocacy is categorically different from the
coordinated efforts of national parties.  After the 2012 election, it is hard to see how anyone could
make this claim with a straight face. Acting within the law,
super-PACS rented space in the same buildings as official
campaigns, hired former campaign officials and magically matched
their advertising strategies to those of the candidates. And
while the biggest super-PAC users, such as casino billionaire
 Sheldon Adelson , posted poor results in the election, they
certainly affected its dynamics. Remember how Adelson kept  Newt
Gingrich  in the Republican primary race for months after his
other sources of funding had dried up?  Faced with this dilemma of following principle and being
condemned as political, or acting out of political caution and
being ridiculed as hypocrites, the conservative justices may
simply decide to go with their gut. Maybe they should consider a
novel argument in favor of striking down the aggregate limit.  At present, you have to be a billionaire, or close to it,
to start your own personal super-PAC and put tens or hundreds of
millions into it. This seems unfair to the mere decamillionaires
who might want to contribute a few lousy million without putting
their funds into a super-PAC controlled by someone else.
Striking down the aggregate limits will help put them on an
equal footing. Equal justice for millionaires. It has a certain
ring to it.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard University and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 