-- Rebar Futures Fall for Second Day on China Property Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-21T02:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/rebar-futures-fall-for-second-day-on-china-property-curbs.html
Steel reinforcement-bar futures in
Shanghai fell for a second day as the Chinese government moved
to curb property speculation, reducing demand for the building
material.  Rebar for delivery in October fell by as much as 2.1
percent to 4,082  yuan  ($653) a metric ton on the Shanghai
Futures Exchange, before trading at 4,093 yuan at 10:02 a.m.
local time. The contract has dropped 4.3 percent this week as
investors returned to the market after the Lunar New Year
holiday.  Premier Wen Jiabao called on local authorities to
“decisively” cut real estate speculation and rein in prices
that surged the most in two years last month.  “We think some targeted measures regarding the property
sector could be implemented as early as April for a few large
cities if sales and prices continue to rise rapidly,” Wang Tao,
chief China economist at UBS AG in Hong Kong and a former
International Monetary Fund researcher, said in an e-mailed
report today.  The average spot  price  for rebar was little changed at
3,881 yuan yesterday and has gained 2.4 percent this week,
according to Beijing Antaike data. Spot  iron ore  at Tianjin port
rose 0.6 percent to $158.90 a dry ton yesterday, according to
The Steel Index Ltd., extending this week’s advance to 2.5
percent.  Cities that have had “excessively fast” price gains
should promptly impose home-purchase restrictions if they’ve not
done so already, according to a statement released yesterday
after a State Council meeting headed by Wen. Provincial capitals
and municipalities reporting directly to the central government
should also publish annual price control targets to keep new-
home costs “basically stable,” according to the statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  