-- Twin Bombs Show India Vulnerable 4 Years After Mumbai Siege
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-02-22T09:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/three-blasts-in-india-s-hyderabad-kill-as-many-as-15-people.html
India ’s deadliest bombing in almost
two years killed 16 people in Hyderabad, revealing the country’s
vulnerability to attack and posing the latest test for a home
minister already under fire for his handling of terrorism.  The twin devices attached to bicycles which exploded during
the evening rush hour yesterday in the southern city also
wounded 117 people. Two other bombs were found nearby and
defused, police said. The Indian government said it had received
intelligence that militants were planning an attack somewhere
and had passed the information to police forces nationwide 48
hours before the explosions. It didn’t specify a target.
Opposition parties accused the government of failing to act on
the warning.  India has suffered nine terrorist attacks since November
2008 when the government pledged to improve policing and
intelligence gathering after Pakistani gunmen killed 166 people
during a three-day siege of the country’s financial capital,
Mumbai. Hyderabad, India’s sixth-largest city, is home to
offices of  Google Inc.  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   “In the absence of specific intelligence inputs” India
remains unable to check militant groups, said N. Manoharan, an
analyst at the Vivekananda International Foundation, a New
Delhi-based policy research group. “Local police are not
trained or equipped well enough to meet this kind of threat.”  Bloody Streets  Opposition from India’s states stalled progress in setting
up a national counter-terrorism agency last year, as regional
leaders said it would usurp the powers of police under their
command. Then Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram proposed the
new unit after visiting the U.S. National Counterterrorism
Center in the wake of the attack on Mumbai.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh condemned the bombings as a
“dastardly attack” in a statement issued yesterday. Singh
appealed to people to remain calm and vowed that “the guilty
will not go unpunished.”  The blasts were the worst in India since July 2011, when 25
people were killed in Mumbai as three bombs ripped through the
city.  The first explosion yesterday occurred at 7 p.m. One of the
bombs exploded at a bus stop and another near a movie theater.
Television channels including the CNN-IBN network broadcast
pictures of smashed shop fronts, blood-splattered streets and
police attempting to protect the blast sites. Officials had
earlier said there were three devices.  Bomb Hallmarks  Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde told reporters it was too
early to say who might be responsible. While intelligence
agencies had warned there may be an attack, there was no
information that Hyderabad would be targeted, he said. No one
has claimed responsibility for the bombings.  Shinde Feb. 20 issued a statement expressing regret over
comments he had made linking Hindu groups and terrorism. The
main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party had said it would protest
his statements in parliament, possibly disrupting the budget
session that began yesterday. Shinde said his remarks had been
misinterpreted.  Hyderabad was bombed twice in 2007, with more than 50
people killed. While police initially blamed Muslim militants
for both attacks, at least one -- at the city’s most prominent
mosque, the Mecca Masjid -- has since been linked to far-right
Hindu fundamentalist groups by security agencies.  The attacks yesterday in Hyderabad have the hallmarks of
the Islamic militant group Indian Mujahideen, Manoharan said.
The group emerged in 2008 when it claimed responsibility for a
series of bomb attacks in major cities, including New Delhi,
Jaipur and Ahmedabad.  Gujarat Riots  “This kind of communally sensitive place, the use of
detonators and timers, the pattern of the bombings and the fact
that bombs were placed on cycles point the finger toward Indian
Mujahideen,” Manoharan said.  While the militant group may get support from guerrilla
movements in  Pakistan , it is an Indian network comprising men
who were radicalized by anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat state in
2002, according to a study by a government-backed research body
in New Delhi, the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses.  Under interrogation by Delhi police, four alleged members
of Indian Mujahideen gave details of a 2012 operation to scout
for targets in the Dilkhush Nagar neighborhood of Hyderabad
where yesterday’s bombings took place, according to a police
 press release  issued Oct. 26.  Statehood Demand  The explosions yesterday triggered a high alert across
Andhra Pradesh and in other areas of the country, including
Mumbai.  Hyderabad, with a population of nearly 7 million people, is
the capital of Andhra Pradesh and has emerged as one of the
country’s key economic hubs for the pharmaceutical and
technology industries. Yet beneath the modern exterior is a city
that has long been a crucible for Hindu-Muslim violence.  Politics in Hyderabad have also been roiled in the last two
years by resurgent demands for the creation of a new state to be
carved from northern districts of Andhra Pradesh. While the
statehood movement has sparked violent clashes with police it
has largely been pursued through political protest and is far
removed from the separatist struggles for independence in the
country’s northeast or Kashmir.  Since coming to power in 2004, Singh’s Congress party-led
government has been criticized by opposition parties for failing
to detect attacks and protect citizens. Congress faces a general
election in just over a year.  In August last year, four explosions occurred in less than
an hour in the western city of Pune, injuring one person. In
September 2011, a bomb hidden in a briefcase exploded outside
the Delhi High Court, killing 13 and injuring 80 people.  Cricket Match  Chidambaram, who took over as India’s top internal security
official after the 2008 attack on Mumbai and is now finance
minister, said in 2011 the country’s states employed an extra
90,000 police officers following the siege. Still, 600,000
vacancies remained, he said, positions that would not be filled
for another seven years at the current rate of recruitment.  India is short of police, deploying an officer for every
1,037 residents, compared with a global average of one per 333
citizens, Human Rights Watch said in a 2009 report. Ill-trained
officers typically are on call 24 hours.  Australia ’s cricket team is in India for a four-Test series
that begins today in Chennai, with the second match to be played
in Hyderabad starting on March 2.  “We’re aware of the tragic incident in Hyderabad,” Philip
Pope, senior public affairs manager for Cricket Australia, said
in a statement. “The safety of the squad is of paramount
importance” and the Australian team is liaising with the Indian
cricket officials, local authorities and the Australian High
Commission.  “To date, we have no information to suggest there is any
threat to the team in Chennai as a result of this incident,”
Pope said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  