-- Three Men Guilty of Plotting U.K. Suicide Terror Attack
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-02-21T14:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/three-men-guilty-of-plotting-u-k-suicide-terror-attack.html
Three British men were found guilty
of planning a U.K. terror attack meant to be more devastating
than the 2005 bombings of London buses and trains, which they
tried to fund by posing as charity workers and trading currency.  Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid, 27, and Ashik Ali, 27, were
found guilty today of 12 terror-related offenses between Dec.
25, 2010, and Sept. 19, 2011, by a jury at Woolwich Crown Court.  The men, who planned attacks with eight backpack bombs to
destroy multiple targets, traveled to  Pakistan  and recorded
suicide videos before their arrest in September 2011,
prosecution lawyers said in documents for the trial.  The trio posed as workers for the  Muslim Aid charity 
collecting money on the streets of Birmingham to fund the
attack, Brian Altman, the prosecuting lawyer, said in court
filings. The men then bet around 14,500 pounds ($22,100) on
foreign exchange trades in an effort to increase the funds
available for the attack, according to prosecutors. They
eventually lost more than 9,000 pounds.  The men “abused the name of Muslim Aid without our
knowledge,” the charity said in a press release. “We would
like to reiterate that Muslim Aid is a victim of this fraudulent
activity.”  All three men, from Birmingham in northern  England , were
described as being central figures in the plot that resulted in
11 men and one woman being arrested in 2011. Judge Richard Henriques told them to expect life sentences in court today,
police said. The trial lasted four months and no sentencing
hearing has been scheduled.  Surveillance Operation  “No one should underestimate the seriousness of what these
men were plotting,” Marcus Beale, of the West Midlands Police,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The surveillance operation, according to police the largest
U.K. terrorist investigation since 2006, secretly recorded
conversations in which the men said the attack would be
“another 9/11,” as “revenge for everything,” prosecutors
said in court documents.  “We were able to intervene at an early stage before there
was any serious risk to public safety,” Beale said. “But, had
they been able to continue with their plans, the consequences
could have been worse than the London bombings of 2005.”  The men were also caught comparing themselves to characters
from the “ Four Lions ,” a British satirical film released in
2010 which follows the escapades of four would-be terrorists in
northern England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  