-- Republicans Seeking Better Returns Reject Kingmaker Rove
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T a c k e t t
-- 2013-02-21T05:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/republicans-seeking-better-returns-reject-kingmaker-rove.html
For more than a decade, Republicans
have looked to Karl Rove for the solution. Now, a growing number
see him as the problem.  Rove, 62, has put his imprimatur and donor money behind the
Conservative Victory Project, formed to choose more electable
Republican candidates and avoid such defeats as those of Todd Akin in Missouri and  Richard Mourdock  in Indiana, two races the
party was banking on winning as part of expanding its U.S.
Senate caucus.  That has drawn fire from numerous party activists, former
U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , and even businessman  Donald Trump , all of whom say Rove shouldn’t try to play kingmaker.  “I am unalterably opposed to a bunch of billionaires
financing a boss to pick candidates in 50 states,” Gingrich
wrote in a Human Events article published yesterday. “No one
person is smart enough nor do they have the moral right to buy
nominations across the country,” added Gingrich, whose 2012 bid
for the Republican presidential nomination was aided by $21.5
million in donations from casino mogul  Sheldon Adelson  and his
family to a friendly super-political action committee.  The fight between Rove and other Republican officials and
activists is a proxy for the larger issues the party faces as
its traditional apparatus wanes in campaigns dominated by
independent groups and big-dollar donors.  Diminished Party  “The advent of super-PACs has been at the expense of the
two-party system,” said Terry Holt, a Republican adviser to
House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio . “In the current context,
where the party isn’t as strong and big-donor influence can go
its own way, you just have fewer ways for the party to stay
broad.”  Rove is “responding to his experience and to the very real
need for the party to be more competitive again,” Holt said.  The rift comes as party officials are working to build
unity, become more competitive in statewide and national races
and avoid confrontation with the anti-tax  Tea Party  supporters
who provide an animated activist base even as many of their
candidates alienate voters.  “This dust-up is the latest skirmish in the never-ending
war between GOP pragmatists and purists,” said  Jack Pitney , a
professor of political science at  Claremont McKenna College .  Avoid Incompetence  “The Conservative Victory Project wants to avoid the
nomination of incompetent candidates, even if that means
supporting a less conservative candidate over a more
conservative candidate,” said Pitney. “Its critics see it as
an effort to purge strong conservatives from the party.”  For Rove, it’s a rare moment where criticism is coming from
fellow Republicans rather than Democrats.  He became a target for partisan attacks after serving as
the principal strategist for President  George W. Bush ’s rise in
Texas politics and two presidential victories. In 2010, Rove
helped organize two of the most active independent political
organizations -- bankrolled by unlimited funding from largely
secret donors -- in a further effort to shape elections and
expand the  Republican Party ’s influence.  American Crossroads and Crossroads Grassroots Policy
Strategies spent a combined $175.7 million on the 2012
elections, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group that tracks campaign spending.
The Crossroads groups backed the unsuccessful presidential bid
of Republican  Mitt Romney , lost 10 of 12 targeted Senate races,
and were defeated in four of nine House seats.  Hide Record  Brent Bozell, chairman of ForAmerica, a grassroots group
that promotes limited government and Christian values, said Rove
“blamed Akin and Mourdock, anything to hide his record, which
is just beyond abysmal. We are saying we are not going to put up
with this. He is not going to tell conservatives what to think
and not going to pick our candidates.”  Akin and Mourdock both lost to Democrats they had been
favored to defeat after making controversial comments about
rape.  Bozell and others cited a study by the Sunlight Foundation,
a Washington group that tracks political money, that found the
American Crossroads groups had a success ratio of 1.29 percent
of “$103,595,960 spent in the general election and ending in
the desired result.”  Best Candidates  Rove declined an interview request. Jonathan Collegio, a
spokesman for the Conservative Victory Project and American
Crossroads, said the groups had “come to the conclusion that we
need to increase the caliber of candidates running for office in
Republican primaries, and our goal is to elect the most
conservative candidates in primaries who can win” general
election contests against Democrats.  “We have made absolutely clear we are not trying to pick a
fight with the Tea Party,” Collegio said. “We are simply
trying to pick the best candidates available.”  That’s not how David Bossie, president of  Citizens United ,
a Washington-based group that says it is “dedicated to
restoring our government to citizens’ control,” sees it.  “I like it that voters get to decide,” Bossie said. “I
think Rove is trying to defend himself and deflect from his
failure. I hear from donors. I hear from grassroots people
across the country who are offended by the very fact that  Karl
Rove  thinks he knows best.”  “If American Crossroads has done a great job, why create
some new entity with the name conservative in it?” Bossie
asked. “So everybody thinks it’s good because it is from a
conservative outfit?”  Governor’s Rebuke  Rove earned a rebuke from a leading Republican office-
holder when the Conservative Victory Project indicated he would
oppose U.S. Representative Steve King of  Iowa  should the
Republican who is a favorite of Tea Party activists make a bid
for the Senate seat Democratic incumbent  Tom Harkin  is giving up
in the 2014 election.  Iowa Governor Terry Branstad, also a Republican, said Rove
should leave the primary to Iowans.  Tim Albrecht, Branstad’s spokesman, said the governor
“believes Karl Rove received his message, which is that
meddling in the Iowa primary would be counter-productive to his
efforts, and that Iowa Republicans will be making this
decision.”  Collegio said he had no information on any talks between
Rove and Branstad.  “It sounds like somebody from D.C. and outside of states
and congressional districts is trying to make decisions for a
local area as to what’s best for that local area, as if they
know what is best,” said Jenny Beth Martin, a co-founder of Tea
Party Patriots, which is based in Woodstock,  Georgia , and says
it has about 1,000 active local coordinators around the country.  ’Local Control’  “That’s the antithesis of what our movement stands for,”
she said. “We want local control. We want to choose our own
nominees. We don’t want consultants from Washington D.C. coming
in and telling us who they deem the most winnable candidates.”  The controversy prompted Trump to declare in one of many
anti-Rove messages on Twitter: “I don’t like bullies. I am not
going to stand around and watch @KarlRove target the Tea Party.
Karl Rove gave us  Barack Obama . Loser.”  John Weaver , the chief strategist for the 2012 presidential
campaign of  Jon Huntsman , the former Republican governor of
Utah, said his party is missing a larger point about policy.  “At the end of the day policy is politics,” Weaver said.
“It’s kind of the self-appointment process that people don’t
like but at the end of the day primary fights should be over
policy differences. To single out candidates and single out
grass roots and spend more from sources not disclosed is not a
healthy thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Tackett in Washington at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  