-- Rothschild Says ‘Huge Protest Vote’ May Remove Some of Board
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-02-21T13:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/rothschild-expects-huge-protest-vote-at-london-meeting-on-bumi.html
Nathaniel Rothschild said a “huge
protest vote” from  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  minority investors for his bid to
oust most of the board will probably mean some directors are
replaced rather than the landslide victory he had anticipated.  “Last week it would have been a landslide vote in our
favor,” Rothschild, 41, said in a Bloomberg TV interview with
Francine Lacqua. “There’s a very good chance we’ll get some
representation on the board. It’s unlikely we’ll get none.”  The plans by the financier, locked in a battle for control
with Indonesia’s Bakrie family, were dealt a blow Feb. 18 when
Rosan Roeslani, an associate of the Bakries, sold shares that
had been excluded from today’s vote. Rothschild, scion of a
centuries-old banking dynasty, is asking investors to back his
proposals to replace 12 of Bumi’s 14 directors, including Chief
Executive Officer Nick Von Schirnding and Chairman Samin Tan.  The sale of a stake “is a very big event in this story,”
said Rothschild, who set up the Indonesian coal venture with the
Bakries in 2010 and accuses management of failing investors.  Roeslani sold about 24.2 million Bumi shares, removing the
U.K. Takeover Panel’s objection that the stake could be wielded
in concert with the Bakries, and increasing the amount of votes
Rothschild would need to win at today’s shareholder meeting. The
financier’s support among minorities is four-to-one, he said.  Separation Key  Bumi, which slumped 69 percent last year in London trading
as both sides fought for control of the company’s coal assets,
climbed 2.3 percent to 388 pence as of 12:45 p.m. in the city.  The stock surged a record 39 percent on Oct. 11 after the
Bakries offered to buy back the assets and effectively dissolve
the $3 billion deal with Rothschild that created the company. It
also rose 10 percent last week, to a nine-month high, after they
agreed to pay a $50 million deposit under separation terms.  “The separation is key,” Richard Knights, an analyst at
Liberum Capital Ltd., said before the meeting. “You can’t do
that under Nat’s proposal because the Bakries won’t buy it.”  Rothschild said today that he would keep pressuring Bumi’s
board to recover lost value for investors should he lose.  Shareholders of Bumi, which urged a rejection of his plans,
began the meeting at 11 a.m. at London’s Armoury House, home to
the Honourable Artillery, Britain’s oldest army regiment.  Julian Horn-Smith, Bumi’s deputy chairman, held the chair
at the meeting, telling shareholders it wasn’t appropriate for
Tan to do so because of the personal nature of the dispute.
Horn-Smith called for “polite” and “civil” proceedings.  Speaking from the floor, Rothschild said the protest vote
he expected from the meeting would be “unprecedented” in the
U.K. It was important that some common ground emerge from the
meeting and that the day’s events mark a new start for the
company. Rothschild said he would remain a shareholder for “as
long as it takes” to get the right management in place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  