-- Rupee Yield Warms Union Bancaire to EBRD Offshore
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-02-22T05:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/rupee-yield-warms-union-bancaire-to-ebrd-offshore-india-credit.html
Foreign borrowers are issuing a
record amount of rupee bonds offshore as the Indian government’s
biggest economic growth push in a decade gives global funds
confidence to seek higher yields in the currency.  The European Bank for Reconstruction & Development and the
 Inter-American Development Bank  were among sellers of 21.4
billion rupees ($392 million) in such securities in 2013, 166
percent of last year’s total and a record start to a year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. EBRD sold 8.75 billion
rupees of one-year notes on Jan. 17 at 5.25 percent, compared
with 3 percent for its similar Brazilian real paper.  The so-called synthetic debt is settled in foreign
currencies and allows investors to profit from rupee interest
rates without obtaining permits to buy bonds onshore. The EBRD
notes share the London-based lender’s AAA status, while  India ’s
sovereign debt is ranked the lowest investment grade by  Standard
& Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  “It’s mainly the rating that attracts investors to local-
currency issues by supranationals; AAA rating exposure to an
emerging-market currency,” Zsolt Papp, a Zurich-based senior
economist and investment specialist at Union Bancaire Privee,
which manages $2 billion of assets, said in a Feb. 19 e-mail.
“Regarding Indian bonds, often foreign investors do not have
the necessary license to participate in the auctions, or cannot
be bothered to go through the process of applying for one.”  ‘Catch-up Potential’  Asia ’s local-currency debt returned 4.2 percent in the past
year, led by an 11.3 percent gain in India, while the region’s
dollar-denominated bonds earned 9.3 percent, indexes compiled by
HSBC Holdings Plc show. India’s 10-year sovereign notes yield
7.81 percent and offer a  premium  of 583 basis points over
similar maturity  U.S. Treasuries , 624 more than German bonds and
262 above Spanish notes.  “Emerging-market local-currency bonds have lagged other
emerging-market sovereign and corporate bonds in the last two
years, and offer potential to catch up, as well as a higher
yield than U.S. or euro-zone treasuries,” Papp said, adding
that Union Bancaire Privee will consider buying rupee-debt sold
by supranational, or multilateral, issuers.  The EBRD also issued an additional 1.5 billion rupees of an
existing note due in June 2014 on Feb. 7, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The securities are settled in dollars.  ‘Positive View’  The lender swapped the rupees into dollars, according to
Isabelle Laurent, the London-based deputy treasurer and head of
funding at the EBRD. Loans for the  development bank  are mainly
in the U.S. currency and euros, she said.  “We issue in exotic currencies for which there is strong
investor demand,” Laurent said in a Feb. 13 telephone
interview. “This generally reflects a positive view from fund
managers in the relevant currency and the economy.”  Bond risk in India has fallen every month since September,
when Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  started unveiling policy
changes aimed at reviving an economy growing at the slowest pace
in a decade, and improving public finances. The government cut
taxes on overseas corporate debt, reduced energy subsidies and
allowed more foreign investment in industries including aviation
and retail. The measures came after Fitch and S&P warned the
nation’s ratings may be downgraded to junk.  Default Risk  The cost to insure  State Bank of India (SBIN) ’s debt, considered a
proxy for the sovereign, for five years against non-payment fell
25 basis points this year to 201, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Overseas holdings of rupee-denominated bonds sold by
India’s government and companies touched an all-time high of
$33.7 billion this month, exchange data show. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch recommends investors buy the notes as concerns
about the currency wane.  The rupee has rebounded 5.3 percent from a record low of
57.3275 touched June 22. It advanced 0.1 percent to 54.4350 per
dollar today, while the yield on the 8.15 percent sovereign note
was little changed at 7.81 percent.  Credit Agricole  CIB sold 107 million rupees of 6.15 percent
five-year securities on Feb. 13, its first ever sale in the
Asian currency. The notes are settled in dollars.  ‘Outlook Improving’  “We believe that the outlook for the rupee is improving,”
analysts at Credit Agricole, including Hong Kong-based Mitul Kotecha, wrote in a Feb. 20 research report. “The rupee is
among the top performers over the next few months in our three-
and 12-month carry-adjusted grid.”  A carry grid entails the purchase of currencies that pay
relatively high  interest rates , and the concurrent sale of
currencies that have low interest rates, at pre-set intervals.  Dollar-based investors will earn 10.9 percent including
interest by holding rupees until the end of this year, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey and prevailing
deposit rates. That would be the highest in Asia and rank second
globally, following  Argentina ’s 21.8 percent. The  Mexican peso 
will earn 7.6 percent and  South Korea ’s won 6.8 percent.  While the yield on rupee-denominated debt is attractive to
investors, the currency is hostage to global sentiment,
according to TD Securities Inc., which arranged a sale of
synthetic debt for the EBRD on Feb. 7. Six-month implied
volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used
to price options, was 9.88 percent today, the highest in Asia
after the Japanese yen.  ‘Duration Risk’  “There has been an uptick in terms of private banking
interest in the  Indian rupee , and the fact that these deals are
reasonably short-dated and carry less duration risk certainly
helps as well,” Sameer Rehman, vice president, fixed income
origination and syndication, at TD Securities, said Feb. 15 by
telephone from  London . “India’s recent pledge to foreign
investment reforms certainly signaled to the global investment
community that they are committed to liquidity and free market
practices.”  India’s government last month raised the cap on foreign
purchases of the nation’s bonds by $10 billion to $75 billion.
The capital markets regulator received bids worth 781.8 billion
rupees from overseas investors for 666.7 billion rupees of
permits to purchase bonds offered at a Feb. 20 auction,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  “The rupee is discounting market distrust for the
government” as well as downgrade risks, Cristian Maggio, a
senior emerging-markets strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  in
London, said in a Feb. 14 e-mail. “With the improvement of the
macro picture and the reform agenda being pursued, the positives
will outweigh the negative factors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  