-- Russia Winter Grains and Export Outlook Seen Aided by Weather
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-02-21T06:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/russia-winter-grains-and-export-outlook-seen-aided-by-weather.html
Russian winter grains may be in
better condition than estimated last month by the government
because of warm weather in southern areas, putting the nation on
track to boost cereal exports in the coming season.  Winter-crop losses will cover 9.2 percent of the sown area,
according to the median estimate of 10 analysts and grain
producers surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with the Jan. 31
projection of 9.5 percent by the Federal Hydrometeorology and
Environmental Monitoring Service, or Roshydromet. It puts the
multiyear average at about 8.5 percent.  Russia ’s grain harvest in the current season begun July 1
fell 25 percent from a year earlier by Feb. 13 after a drought
hurt crops, according to Agriculture Ministry figures. Exports
were a record 27.2 million metric tons in the prior season.
Domestic prices at all-time highs and falling cereal stockpiles
may force the country to scrap a duty on grain imports.  “I do not think at this point the crop will be as bad as
last year,” Dan Hofstad, a London-based risk-management
consultant at INTL FCStone Inc., said by e-mail. “As of now, I
would predict wheat exports at roughly 15 million to 16 million
tons.”  Russia will ship 10.5 million tons of wheat this season,
according to U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.
Deliveries of all grains in the next season may be at least 15
million tons if the harvest comes to 95 million tons,
Agriculture Minister Nikolai Fedorov said Jan. 31.  Reduced Inventories  The current season’s grain exports from Russia were about
13.7 million tons by Feb. 13, the ministry’s figures showed.
Stocks held by leading agricultural producers and millers fell
about 29 percent from a year earlier to 22.6 million tons by
Feb. 1, according to government statistics.  Temperatures in Krasnodar, Russia’s biggest grain-growing
region by crop size, were above freezing on most days in January
and reached 15.1 degrees Celsius (59.2 degrees Fahrenheit) on
Jan. 22. This month they were as high as 16.2 degrees Celsius on
Feb. 7, according to figures from the national weather center.  The beneficial temperatures helped grains germinate and
emerge at spots that looked dead on the eve of the winter crop’s
dormancy period in early December, Oleg Sukhanov, an analyst at
the Institute for Agricultural Market Studies, said by phone
from Moscow.  Rostov, Stavropol  Weather was “abnormally warm” in the Southern and North
Caucasus federal districts, which include the main grain-growing
regions of Krasnodar, Rostov and Stavropol, Alexander Frolov,
head of Roshydromet, said Feb. 14. The three regions accounted
for 28 percent of this season’s national crop after harvesting
19.8 million tons of grain, government figures show.  The share of all winter crops that are weaker than average
or failed to germinate dropped to about 10 percent to 12 percent
in the Southern district and to 3 percent to 5 percent in the
North Caucasus district, Igor Pavensky, head of the analytical
department at ZAO Rusagrotrans, Russia’s biggest rail carrier of
grains, said by phone from Moscow. That compared with about 16
percent in both areas in December, he said.  Russian winter crops still face weather risks before spring
sowing starts in March. There is a “very high” probability
that frosts will return in the Southern and North Caucasus
districts this month or in March, according to Frolov. Parts of
the Volga Federal District and areas in the southeast portion of
European Russia are at risk from drought this year after local
soils became drier in 2012, he said.  Weather Center  The Volga district, which accounted for about 20 percent of
the national harvest, may have less wheat this year because of
weaker winter crops in the Saratov, Samara, Ulyanovsk, Penza,
Mordovia and Tatarstan areas, according to weather-center
figures.  Farmers in the Volga district will probably have to replant
winter wheat on 1.5 percent of the sown area, said Anna
Strashnaya, head of the center’s agrometeorological-forecast
department. While more than 10 percent of seeds failed to
germinate on a further 35 percent of fields sown with wheat in
the area, no reseeding is required there, she said. A year
earlier, crops meeting that standard of weakness covered just 14
percent of the district’s sown area, she said.  Wheat touched a seven-month low of $7.225 a bushel on Feb.
13 on the Chicago Board of Trade amid speculation rains will aid
crops in the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter of the grain.
Prices reached a four-year high of $9.4725 in July, lifted by
the worst U.S. drought since the 1930s.  Wheat for delivery in May fell 0.4 percent to $7.4225 a
bushel at 6:18 a.m. London time. Prices are down 4.6 percent
this year.  Winter-crop losses in Russia, which are above average, and
poor winter crops in the U.S. will help support global wheat
price in the first half, FCStone’s Hofstad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  