-- Russian Scientists Battle Meteor Speculators With Reward Offer
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-02-21T14:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/russian-scientists-battle-meteor-speculators-with-reward-offer.html
Russian scientists escalated their
hunt for meteor fragments from last week’s explosion over the
Urals region by offering market rates in a bid to deter
speculators.  The Russian Academy of Sciences and the State University of
Chelyabinsk, where the blast occurred, are offering rewards for
certifiable meteorites, the two groups  said  in a statement.  The amount of the reward depends on the size of the piece
and may exceed “the average market price,” Olga Schapina, a
spokeswoman for the university, said by phone. Uncertified
meteorites are being advertised on the Internet for as much as
500,000 rubles ($16,500).  The Feb. 15 blast over the Chelyabinsk region, home to 3.6
million people, was the largest of its kind since the Tunguska
event flattened more than 800 square miles (2,100 square
kilometers) of remote Siberian forest in 1908. The Chelyabinsk
meteor was about 17 meters in diameter and weighed about 10,000
tons before it hit the Earth’s atmosphere and exploded with the
force of about 33 Hiroshima nuclear bombs, according to the U.S.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration.  Hundreds of thousands of fragments may be scattered over
hundreds of kilometers, ranging in size from 1 millimeter to
several centimeters, Victor Grokhovsky, a member of the
academy’s meteor committee, said by phone.  Fraud Probes  “The more we collect the more we’ll learn,” Grokhovsky
said. Some of the biggest pieces will probably never be found,
though, because they fell deep into the taiga, he said.  Scientists from Urals Federal University in the regional
capital Yekaterinburg found the first 53 fragments near
Chebarkul Lake, about 80 kilometers west of Chelyabinsk, on Feb.
16-17, according to a statement from the school.  Police in Chelyabinsk are investigating sales of alleged
meteor pieces via websites by anonymous people for possible
fraud, the local unit of the  Interior Ministry  said Feb. 18.  At least 26 meteor pieces were being offered on one Russian
website, Avito.ru, the country’s largest online classified
advertising company, at 6 p.m. Moscow time today. Prices ranged
from 500 rubles to 50,000 rubles.  One of those vendors, who identified himself as Denis
Smirnov, said he recovered about 30 fragments in a snow field 20
kilometers from downtown Chelyabinsk and won’t participate in
the reward program because he doesn’t trust officials.  “They could take months doing the certification process
and then simply steal my find,” Smirnov said by phone from
Chelyabinsk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in  St. Petersburg  at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  