-- S&P Blessing Cairn Left M&T Bank With a Crumbling Pile of Losses
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-02-21T22:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/s-p-blessing-cairn-left-m-t-bank-with-a-crumbling-pile-of-losses.html
In March 2007,  Standard & Poor’s 
rated $773 million of the Cairn Mezzanine III collateralized
debt obligation AAA. The deal crumbled after the rating company
began cutting the rankings on bonds contained in the deal three
months later.  The CDO, underwritten by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and overseen by asset manager Cairn Capital Ltd., is one of
dozens of transactions named in the U.S.  Justice Department ’s
Feb. 4 lawsuit accusing the world’s largest credit-rating firm
of deliberately misstating the risks of mortgage bonds as it
sought to keep its share of the booming business of repackaging
home loans for sale as securities.  M&T Bank (MTB) , established in 1856 as Manufacturers and Traders
Bank, lost $50 million investing in the most creditworthy
portion of the Cairn CDO, according to the Justice Department’s
complaint filed in federal court in Los Angeles. The Buffalo,
New York-based  lender  was one of the financial institutions
misled as S&P “devised, participated in, and executed a scheme
to defraud investors,” according to the complaint.  The U.S. is seeking penalties against S&P and its  New York- 
based parent, McGraw-Hill Cos., that may amount to more than $5
billion, based on losses suffered by federally insured firms.  Ed Sweeney , an S&P spokesman in  New York , declined to
comment, as did Zoe Watt of Holloway & Associates, a spokeswoman
for Cairn Capital in  London .  More Losses  M&T, with $83 billion in assets, had deposits of $65.6
billion as of Dec. 31, according to a regulatory filing. The
Federal Deposit Insurance Co. oversees the fund that protects
accounts of as much as $250,000 against  bank failures .  In addition to the Cairn deal, M&T lost $80 million on a
CDO called Gemstone VII issued in February 2007, according to
the government’s lawsuit. M&T sued Deutsche Bank AG, the
underwriter of the Gemstone deal, after the transaction
defaulted in April 2008. The bank said last year it settled the
case and received $55 million.  “On the one hand, it’s gratifying to see the government
take action against one of the key enablers of the transactions
that sparked the financial crisis,” Bob Wilmers, the chairman
and chief executive of M&T, said in a Feb. 8 e-mail to Bloomberg
View columnist  Jonathan Weil . “Rather than sounding a timely
alarm, the  credit rating agencies  were part of the problem, and
we cannot allow organizations that got so many important things
so wrong for so long to continue unchallenged.”  Lawyers Needed  Wilmers was responding to a question about the banks that
underwrote CDOs being listed among defrauded investors on deals
they arranged.  Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. are included as
defrauded investors in the government’s lawsuit.  “When you consider all the investors that ended up with
worthless CDOs because they relied on AAA ratings, it’s hard for
me to figure out why the Wall Street banks show up on this list
so frequently,” Wilmers wrote. “I guess you have to be a
lawyer to fully understand their case.”  Subprime-bond issuance peaked at $465 billion in 2005,
rising from less than $54 billion in 2000, while bonds tied to
so-called Alt-A loans granted to borrowers who often provided no
documentation of their incomes, financed investment properties
or accepted risky loan features, reached as high as $365 billion
in 2006.  CLO Comeback  CDOs pool assets such as mortgage bonds and package them
into new securities with varying risks in which revenue from the
underlying bonds or loans are used to pay investors.  While CDOs backed by mortgage bonds haven’t returned, the
U.S. market for collateralized loan obligations, which are CDOs
composed of speculative-grade company loans, more than
quadrupled to $55.4 billion in 2012.  Cairn Capital, a London-based asset manager overseeing
$22.8 billion, this week sold the first European collateralized
loan obligation since 2011, where issuance of the deals remains
stunted. Sales of U.S. CLOs peaked at $91.1 billion in 2007
before credit markets froze in 2008.  The Cairn Mezzanine offering mentioned in the federal
lawsuit was composed primarily of subprime securities issued
during 2005 and 2006, when issuance of home-loan bonds without
government backing surged to records, according to the
complaint. About $1.2 trillion of the debt was sold each of
those years, up from $136 billion in 2000, according to data
compiled by newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. Sales slumped to
$707 billion in 2007, before freezing completely in 2008.  Rating Change  About 41 percent of the $1.78 billion Cairn CDO was
composed of subprime home loans bonds rated BBB or lower,
according to the Justice Department lawsuit. BBB is the lowest
tier of investment grade on the rater’s scale.  On June 28, 2007, S&P “authorized immediate large-scale
negative rating actions on non-prime RMBS,” according to the
government complaint.  The transaction’s completion was contingent upon receiving
top-rankings from S&P and  Moody’s Investors Service (MCO) , according
to a prospectus dated March 28 2007. S&P said in a Feb. 4
statement that all of its CDOs cited by the Justice Department
received the same ratings from a competitor.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill, 13-00779, U.S. District
Court, Central District of  California  ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  