-- Sanderson Says Furloughing Inspectors May Shut Operations
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-02-21T19:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/sanderson-says-furloughing-inspectors-may-shut-operations.html
Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , the third-
largest U.S. chicken processor, said the removal of food-safety
inspectors because of federal budget cuts set to go into effect
next week would disrupt its operations.  The company is prohibited by law from operating poultry-
processing plants without the presence of federal inspectors and
would have to shut plants in their absence, Laurel, Mississippi-
based Sanderson said in a  filing  today.  The closing of plants owned by Sanderson, a supplier to
grocery chains Kroger Co. and Supervalu Inc., would be one of
the effects of the automatic U.S. federal budget cuts set to
begin March 1 unless President  Barack Obama  and Congress work
out a deal to avoid or postpone them.  “Without proper notice, that would be a terrible situation
for us,” Joe Sanderson Jr., the company’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said today on a call with analysts to discuss
fiscal first-quarter  earnings .  The USDA is considering furloughing inspectors for 15 days
as part of automatic U.S.  federal budget  cuts, known as
sequestration. The move could spur the “first widespread
shortage” of meat, poultry and egg products in generations,
according to a  letter  sent to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack on Feb. 11 by three dozen trade groups from across the
country.  Mortality Rates  A 15-day furlough resulting from the cuts could cost more
than $10 billion in production losses and industry workers could
lose more than $400 million in wages, Vilsack said in a Feb. 5
letter to Senator Barbara Mikulski, chairwoman of the
appropriations committee.  The USDA is responsible for the safety of meat, eggs and
poultry products with about 8,400 personnel inspecting the
nation’s 6,300 slaughterhouses and processing plants. The U.S.
Food and Drug Administration handles other products that account
for about 80 percent of the U.S. food supply.  Sanderson said live chickens would likely experience
“significantly higher mortality” because of higher weights,
and the company’s inability to process chickens at plants for an
extended period “would materially disrupt” operations and
product delivery.  The possible cuts also may change the delivery and cash-
settlement mechanisms of some livestock and dairy products
traded in  Chicago , the CME Group Inc. said in a  statement  on its
website yesterday.  The cuts could disrupt USDA reports used in the daily
calculation of the CME feeder cattle and lean hog indexes and
monthly calculations used to determine settlement prices for
dairy futures products, according to the statement.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and  JBS SA (JBSS3) ’s  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. (PPC)  unit
are the two largest U.S. chicken processors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  