-- Colombia Names Second Ever Woman to Central Bank Board
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-02-21T14:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/santos-names-maiguashca-to-colombian-central-bank-board.html
Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos today named Deputy Finance Minister Ana Fernanda Maiguashca as the second woman ever to serve on the central
bank’s seven-member policy committee. He also named Adolfo
Meisel, head of the central bank’s regional branch in Cartagena,
to the board.  Maiguashca, 38, has already spent 11 years at Banco de la
Republica, after joining as an intern in 1995 while studying
economics at Bogota’s University of the Andes. She argues that
the bank should pursue a range of goals beyond a simple focus on
consumer prices.  “You don’t need to put anything above inflation to worry
about other things,” Maiguashca said in a Feb. 12 interview in
her office at the Finance Ministry. “You can walk and chew gum
at the same time.”  Maiguashca will probably side with Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas  in arguing for a pro-growth monetary policy,
said  Camilo Perez , head analyst at  Banco de Bogota SA. (BOGOTA)  The
central bank will cut its benchmark  interest rate  a quarter
point for the sixth time since June at its policy meeting
tomorrow, to 3.75 percent, according to 23 of 26 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Since she’s coming from the government, she’ll probably
have a dovish stance at least at the beginning,” Perez said in
a telephone interview.  Maiguashca won’t take part in the bank’s policy meeting
tomorrow, she said in a telephone interview today.  ’Hawkish’ Side  Alejandro Reyes, head analyst at Ultrabursatiles SA
brokerage, who worked for eight years at the central bank, said
Meisel will probably align with bank governor Jose Dario Uribe
on the “hawkish” side of the bank’s board.  Yields on the government’s benchmark peso-denominated
bonds due in 2024 plunged four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 4.98 percent at 9:44 a.m. in Bogota, the lowest level
since the bonds were issued in 2009.  At the  Finance Ministry , Maiguashca helped engineer a
decline in the Andean nation’s borrowing costs by promoting a
 tax cut  on foreigners’ profits on local bonds to 14 percent from
33 percent, a measure that Congress approved in December. The
resulting boost in demand for the bonds helped bring down
yields.  She has an MBA from  Columbia University  in  New York , with
the central bank funding her studies from 2000-2002.  Like Governor Uribe, and Brazilian central bank President
Alexandre Tombini, Meisel has a doctorate in economics from the
 University of Illinois  at Urbana-Champaign. He also studied at
 Yale University  and the University of Kiel,  Germany , according
to the central bank.  Strong Peso  Financial stability should be one of the central bank’s
main concerns, as policy makers pursue sustainable long-term
growth, Maiguashca said. She also said that Colombia has a
“problem” with its strong peso, which is destroying installed
capacity by making imports cheaper and exports more expensive.  She has also worked for Colombia’s market regulator, and as
chief economist for AFP Porvenir, a local pension fund
controlled by billionaire  Luis Carlos Sarmiento ’s Grupo Aval.  “She knows the financial markets very well, and the
transmission mechanisms of monetary policy in these markets.
She’s pragmatic, and orthodox,” central bank co-director Juan
Pablo Zarate said today in a telephone interview. “Adolfo knows
a lot about the regional economy, and economic history.”  They will replace outgoing co-directors Juan Jose
Echavarria and Fernando Tenjo, who left the bank after its
January policy meeting.  Maiguashca is the first woman to serve on the bank’s board
since Maria Mercedes Cuellar from 1991-1996.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  