-- Scotland Joins WWF, SSE in 2030 Carbon Goal Call to Spur Wind
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-02-21T13:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/scotland-joins-wwf-sse-in-2030-carbon-goal-call-to-spur-wind.html
The Scottish government joined
utilities, charities and churches urging Britain to impose a
carbon target on the power industry, the broadest call yet from
groups seeking to guide debate on legislation in Parliament.  The U.K.’s lack of a target is risking offshore wind jobs,
investment and economic growth, Scottish Energy Minister Fergus Ewing said today in a statement. WWF led 35 organizations from
 SSE Plc (SSE)  to Oxfam Feb. 20 asking the U.K. to include the target
in an Energy Bill being scrutinized by lawmakers in London.  The comments add pressure to the Conservative-led
administration to pass an amendment adding the target to
legislation, which is designed to spur 110 billion pounds ($167
billion) of investment in new power generation. Companies
including  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  said the lack of a target
would increase the risk of committing to long-term investments.  “The U.K. government must make clear their ongoing support
for offshore wind and emulate the Scottish government’s approach
by setting a 2030 electricity decarbonization target now,”
Ewing said.  Scotland  outlined a goal last month to reduce emissions
from electricity by more than four-fifths to 50 grams of carbon
dioxide a kilowatt-hour.  Ewing also cited findings by Cambridge Econometrics that
U.K. gross domestic product will be 20 billion pounds or 0.8
percent higher in 2030 if wind power is deployed rather than
natural gas in new power stations.  Legislation Due  The bill amendment, backed by lawmakers in the rival Labour
and Liberal Democrat parties and some Conservatives, seeks to
introduce a target by April 2014. Under current plans, a
decision on whether to adopt such a goal won’t be made until
2016, after the deadline for the next election.  The amendment will be debated and voted on when the bill
returns to the House of Commons for consideration after being
marked up by committees. That’s due to happen in the next few
weeks.  “This is exactly the sort of long-term signal that
investors are looking for if we want to attract the billions of
pounds of investment needed to strengthen the U.K.’s position as
an industrial leader in green technologies,” David Nussbaum,
chief executive of WWF in the U.K., said in Feb. 20 statement.
Dong Energy A/S, Triodos Bank NV and the Methodist Church in
Britain were among its other signatories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  