-- Seriously Delinquent U.S. Mortgages Fall to Four-Year Low
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-03-25T22:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/serious-u-s-mortgage-delinquencies-fall-to-four-year-low.html
(Corrects time period in second paragraph of story
published Feb. 21.)  Seriously delinquent U.S. mortgages
fell to the lowest level since 2008 as  employment  improved and
recovering housing demand enabled struggling borrowers to sell
without losing money.  Home loans that were  90 days  or more behind or in the
foreclosure process fell to 6.78 percent of mortgages in the
fourth quarter from 7.03 percent in the previous three months,
the Mortgage Bankers Association said in a report today. The
rate was 7.73 percent a year earlier.  Delinquent borrowers are catching up on payments or finding
alternatives to foreclosure as the U.S. economy improves, easing
a threat to the housing recovery. The unemployment  rate  was 7.9
percent in January, the fifth straight month below 8 percent. A
tight  supply  of homes on the market is driving up prices and
helping struggling owners find buyers.  “There’s definite movement in the right direction,”
Michael Fratantoni, the trade group’s vice president of research
and economics, said in a phone interview from Dallas. “We’re
not back to normal yet, regardless of how you define that.”  Foreclosure starts fell to 0.7 percent of all loans during
the quarter, half of what they were at the peak of the crisis in
2009. A “normal rate” before foreclosures swelled was about
0.5 percent, Fratantoni said.  The share of mortgages in  foreclosure  fell to 3.74 percent
from 4.07 percent the previous quarter, the biggest drop in the
association’s records.  Rising Prices  The median  price  of a home sold in January rose 12 percent
to $173,600, the biggest year-over-year  gain  since November
2005, the National Association of Realtors reported today. Sales
increased 0.4 percent from the prior month. Distressed sales
accounted for 23 percent of the total, down from 35 percent a
year ago.  “Together, the fall in foreclosure starts and the
foreclosure inventory and the rise in the number of non-
distressed home sales are encouraging signs of a housing market
returning to health,” Paul Diggle, property economist with
Capital Economics Ltd. in London, wrote in a note to clients.  Rising prices helped 1.9 million underwater U.S. homeowners
-- people who owe more on their mortgage than their homes are
worth -- get back to positive territory, according to a report
today by Zillow Inc. Almost 1 million more owners will return to
positive equity this year as home prices rise, the Seattle-based
real estate sales service said.  Foreclosure Alternative  Higher prices provide homeowners struggling to pay their
mortgage an alternative to foreclosure, said Jay Brinkmann,
chief economist of the Mortgage Bankers Association.  “Chances are, as home prices go up, they can simply
sell,” Brinkmann said in a telephone interview.  Even with rising prices, an estimated 13.8 million
homeowners with a mortgage owed a collective $1 trillion more
than their homes were worth at the end of 2012, Zillow said.  The broad U.S. mortgage  delinquency rate  -- the share of
mortgages at least one month late -- dropped to 7.09 percent in
the fourth quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis from 7.4
percent in the previous three months, the Mortgage Bankers
Association said.  Many homes with the worst quality loans and borrowers
already have been sold or lost to foreclosure, lowering the rate
of new delinquencies, according to Brian Lancaster, co-head of
structured transactions analytics risk and strategy at RBS
Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  Loan ‘Burnout’  “While declining delinquencies and foreclosures are
definitely helped by stronger housing and job markets, more
cynically they are also the result of what we in the residential
securities business call ‘burnout,’” Lancaster said in an e-
mail.  New York, New Jersey and Connecticut had increases in total
past-due rates during the quarter, as more homeowners fell
behind after Superstorm Sandy struck the region Oct. 29,
Brinkmann said.  Foreclosures take longer to process in those three states,
which require judicial review, delaying the recovery compared
with states such as  Arizona  and California that have a speedier
non-judicial process, Fratantoni said.  “The crisis persisted about three years longer in judicial
states,” he said.  Florida, a judicial state, had the highest rate of
seriously delinquent loans, with 15.9 percent of mortgages at
least 90 days late or in foreclosure. New Jersey was next at
13.2 percent, followed by 11.3 percent in Nevada, 9.83 percent
in New York and 9.52 percent in Illinois.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  