-- Ships Leaking $37 Billion Reflect Eisenhower’s Warning
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-02-21T01:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/ships-leaking-37-billion-reflect-eisenhower-s-warning.html
Navy Secretary Ray Mabus confronted
a tough choice in the competition to develop a small, speedy and
adaptable ship to patrol close to shore in politically turbulent
waters from the  Persian Gulf  to the  South China Sea .  When opposing bids from teams led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
and  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  came in for less than the Pentagon projected,
Mabus made a costly and unusual decision: Build both versions of
the Littoral Combat Ship -- a conventional steel-hulled vessel
and a sharp-angled aluminum alternative that has been compared
to a “Star Trek” spaceship.  The 2010 decision guaranteed jobs in shipyards building the
two designs and ensured political support from the communities
and defense contractors that benefit. It also has added at least
$400 million in taxpayer costs to support and maintain dual sets
of ships over their lifespan, according to the Navy’s estimate.  As the Pentagon faces $500 billion in spending cuts over a
decade that are set to begin March 1, the $37 billion program to
design and build Littoral Combat Ships may become a target for
reductions that would take business from Lockheed and Austal.  “The ships are costing too much,” Norman Polmar, a naval
analyst and author, said in an interview. “The support costs
are ridiculous with two different designs.”  The Littoral Combat Ship -- derided by critics inside the
Navy as the “Little Crappy Ship” -- reflects the enduring
influence of the “military-industrial complex” that President
 Dwight D. Eisenhower  warned against in his 1961 farewell
address. It is an example of a troubled project that has sailed
on with the support of a military seeking the most advanced war-fighting equipment possible, companies eager to build it and
politicians hungry for the jobs created.  Lockheed, Austal  “Pruning the LCS program severely probably would be a
likely first step” if the Pentagon cuts take full effect, and
that would be a setback for both prime contractors, said Stuart Slade, a naval analyst for Forecast International Inc. of
Newtown, Connecticut.  “For Lockheed, it would be a blow, but one they could
accommodate” as the world’s largest defense contractor, Slade
said in an interview. For Austal, based in  Australia , “their
eyes would be seriously watering. They would be losing a very
substantial portion of their U.S. naval workload.”  The estimated price to build each Littoral Combat Ship has
doubled to $440 million. Cracks and corrosion plagued the first
completed vessels. The Pentagon’s chief weapons tester has cited
flaws with the ship’s guns, said its helicopter isn’t powerful
enough to tow mine-hunting equipment and questioned whether it
could carry on its mission after being hit in combat.  ‘Attractive Target’  Even the number of Littoral Combat Ships the Navy needs was
cast into doubt last month, when a report to Congress by the
service lowered the fleet requirement to 52 vessels from 55,
citing a reduced requirement for a naval presence around Africa.  “You look at the LCS and all the problems it’s had and
what appears to be a limited upside -- that certainly looks like
an attractive target for cuts” in a time of pressure to reduce
Pentagon spending, said Ben Freeman, a national security
investigator at the  Project on Government Oversight , a watchdog
group in  Washington .  Proposed after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the
Littoral Combat Ship is intended to replace vessels such as
aging frigates in littoral waters, meaning shallow seas close to
shore. It is supposed to perform missions such as destroying
mines, hunting submarines, interdicting drugs and providing
humanitarian relief. The idea is to outfit the ships with easily
swapped equipment suited to the task at hand.  “This is the future of the U.S. Navy surface fleet,” said
Christopher Preble, a defense analyst at the  Cato Institute  in
Washington. “We need to get this right or it could be pretty
ugly.”  ‘Green Water’  As the USS Freedom, the first Littoral Combat Ship to go on
extended deployment, prepares to leave  San Diego  for  Singapore 
next month, the Navy defends the vessel as an essential element
of its future fleet.  “It’s going to do the mission that small combatants have
always done,” Navy Undersecretary Robert Work said at a
conference last month of the Surface Navy Association. “You’re
going to see a Navy that goes into the green water and really
dominates.”  The ship is small -- two of the vessels could fit end to
end alongside an  aircraft carrier  with room to spare -- and
fast. It can travel at 40 knots, compared with about 29 knots
for a frigate.  Klingon Styling  Lockheed, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , makes one version in
partnership with Marinette Marine Corp., a subsidiary of
Fincantieri SpA, based in Trieste, Italy. Their steel-bodied
ships, which include the Freedom, are built at Marinette’s yard
in Marinette,  Wisconsin .  The other is made by Austal, based in Henderson, Australia,
in partnership with  Falls Church , Virginia-based  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD)  Their ships are built at Austal’s yard in Mobile,
 Alabama .  Austal’s version is made of lighter-weight aluminum, saving
on fuel costs while making the ship more vulnerable to fire
damage if hit by a missile or torpedo. Austal says its LCS is
equipped with advanced fire-protection equipment. The ship’s
trimaran design draws the “Star Trek” comparisons.  “When that thing comes into port, everyone says, ‘What the
hell is that?’” Work said at the Surface Navy Association
conference in Arlington, Virginia. “It looks like the Klingon
Bird of Prey.”  Building Faster  Rear Admiral  James Murdoch , who oversees the design and
procurement of the Littoral Combat Ship, provided the estimate
that building both versions will add about $400 million in
operating and maintenance costs. He said in an interview that
Mabus made the decision to go with both partly because that
would get the ships built faster, at a rate of four a year
rather than the two a year that one bidder could produce. Each
team is building 10 ships through 2015.  The Navy also says the build-them-both strategy saved money
compared with an earlier acquisition plan that called for
picking a winner and then conducting another round of bidding to
choose a shipyard that would build at least five vessels in an
effort to extend competition.  The Navy’s strategy forces the contractors to stay focused
on reducing costs, according to Joe North, vice president of
Littoral Ship Systems for Lockheed Martin.  “It obviously keeps anybody on the competitive edge”
because the Navy could still decide to eliminate one team for
future rounds, he said.  Winning Support  The everyone-wins approach has ensured continued support
for the LCS in Washington from two contractors with political
influence. Lockheed Martin’s political action committee gave
$3.2 million for federal campaigns in 2011-2012, and General
Dynamics’ committee gave $1.8 million.  The strategy also has guaranteed backing from the
communities that benefit.  The shipyard in Marinette, Wisconsin, where the Lockheed
version is produced, has increased its workforce to 1,400, from
about 800 in 2009, because of the LCS, said Charles Goddard,
chief executive officer of Marinette Marine Corp.  Amid vacant storefronts in Marinette, a visitor found
business is booming at the Main Street Electric Tattoo Company,
where shop manager Jerris Freis counts shipyard workers among
the clientele.  “This is our slow season and we hardly are able to close
the door and take a day off,” he said.  Before the LCS, “there was almost an air of depression
among the people, high unemployment,” said U.S. Representative
Reid Ribble, who represents the area. “The whole demeanor of
the city is different. The real estate market is positive.”  ‘Major Boost’  As an example of efforts to protect the LCS, Ribble, a
Republican, tried unsuccessfully in May to talk the Republican-led House Armed Services Committee out of requesting reports
that will more closely examine the ship’s progress.  In Mobile, work on the other version of the ship also
enjoys strong support.  It’s been “more than a shot in the arm,” said U.S.
Representative Jo Bonner, a Republican who represents the area
in south Alabama. “It’s really been a major boost at a time
when the country’s economy was struggling.”  Critics such as Preble of the  Cato Institute , which
advocates for limited government, said such political pressures
warp the Pentagon’s procurement decisions.  “Military spending should not be a jobs program,” he
said. “These ships should be built if they are essential to
national security, not to employ people.”  Not ‘Survivable’  The USS Freedom had a crack as long as six inches through
its hull that had to be repaired. Austal’s first ship, the USS
Independence, suffered from what the Navy described as
“aggressive” corrosion in the propulsion area, partly the
result of the marriage of steel water jets and an aluminum hull.
Murdoch said the problem is “largely solved,” at an additional
cost of about $500,000 per ship.  Then there’s the persistent debate over how vulnerable the
Littoral Combat Ship may be to attack.  The vessel “is not expected to be survivable in that it is
not expected to maintain mission capability after taking a
significant hit in a hostile combat environment,”  Michael Gilmore , the Pentagon’s chief of weapons testing, said in a
January report.  Navy officials say the LCS has sufficient defenses to
perform its missions while working in tandem with the rest of a
battle group.  “These ships are designed for speed,” Rear Admiral Tom
Eccles, deputy commander for naval systems engineering at the
Naval Sea Systems Command, said at the Surface Navy Association
conference. “They’re designed to be in the fight and then get
out of the fight when it’s required.”  Speed ‘Irrelevant’  Polmar, the naval analyst, said that may not be enough.  “Speed is irrelevant to threats today because of aircraft,
missiles and torpedoes,” he said. “When you’re going faster,
you’re putting more noise in the water and they’re going to find
you.”  Even at an increased cost, the Littoral Combat Ship is a
cheaper alternative to the destroyers and cruisers that make up
the majority of the surface combatant fleet.  “The Navy can still buy three of the ships for the price
of a guided-missile destroyer,” said Work, the Navy
undersecretary, in a draft paper on the history of the LCS
circulated by the Naval War College.  That makes the LCS significant in meeting the Navy’s goal
of a fleet with 306 ships, up from the current 288, even as
older vessels are retired. The LCS would make up about 17
percent of the Navy’s future fleet, and more than a third of all
surface combatants.  ‘Strategically Unwise’  The size of the Navy fleet has long been a topic of
political debate. In last year’s presidential campaign,
Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  faulted President  Barack Obama 
for letting it shrink to the smallest number of ships since
1916. Obama retorted that “we also have fewer horses and
bayonets, because the nature of our military’s changed.”  Already there are signs the Littoral Combat Ship may face
increasing scrutiny as competition grows more intense for
declining defense funds. The House-Senate conference report on
the defense authorization measure for this fiscal year includes
the provisions opposed by Representative Ribble of Wisconsin.  Congress requested  updates from the Navy on the ship and
the development of the modules tailored for different missions,
and it asked the U.S. comptroller general to review the legality
of the Navy’s decision to accept the first two vessels.  Critics such as Bryan McGrath, a retired naval officer who
advised Romney’s campaign, have already made their judgment on
the ships.  “My problem is they’re strategically unwise,” said
McGrath, director of consulting at Delex Systems Inc. in
Herndon, Virginia. “They’re too expensive to be built in
numbers, and they don’t pack enough combat punch.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Marinette, Wisconsin, at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  