-- Simpson Thacher, Skadden, Kirkland: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-21T21:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/simpson-thacher-skadden-kirkland-business-of-law.html
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is
representing  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  on its agreement to buy  OfficeMax
Inc. (OMX)  for $1.17 billion in a bid to revive a retailer that has
been losing sales to online rivals and  Staples Inc. (SPLS) , the largest
U.S. office-supplies chain.  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is advising
OfficeMax. Dechert LLP is antitrust counsel to OfficeMax.
Kirkland & Ellis LLP represents the board of directors and the
transaction committee of the board of Office Depot.  Simpson Thacher corporate partner Mario Ponce is leading
the team. Additional partners include Eric Swedenburg, mergers
and acquisitions; Brian Robbins, executive compensation and
employee benefits; Kevin Arquit, Aimee Goldstein and Matthew
Reilly, antitrust/competition; Rise Norman, capital markets and
securities; James Cross, credit; and John Creed, tax.  The Skadden team includes partners Margaret Brown, mergers
and acquisitions; Cliff Gross, tax; Matthew Kipp, litigation;
Seth Jacobson, banking;  David Schwartz , labor and employment;
Bruce Goldner, intellectual property and technology; and Meryl Chae, real estate transactions.  The Kirkland team includes partners Neil Eggleston, Thomas Christopher and Michael Brueck.  Dechert’s Washington-based partners Paul T. Denis and James
A. Fishkin are leading the firm’s antitrust team.  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP is advising J. P. Morgan
Securities LLC as financial adviser to OfficeMax. The Davis Polk
corporate team includes partner Leonard Kreynin.  The merger will combine companies with  revenue  of about $18
billion, compared with Staples’ more than $24 billion in sales
last year. The company may accelerate the closing or selling of
hundreds of stores after Starboard Value LP, an activist fund
that became Office Depot’s largest  shareholder  in September,
pushed for expense reductions.  For more, click here.  Moves  Former General Counsel for  Mexico ’s  Central Bank  Joins  Jones Day   Hector Tinoco, former general counsel for Mexico’s Central
Bank, joined Jones Day’s Mexico City office as a partner in the
banking and finance practice.  “Legal and financial markets are changing rapidly. At
Jones Day we strive to provide our clients with the best
possible advice to address these changes. The addition of Hector
to our firm is a true testament to this fact,” Fernando de
Ovando, partner-in-charge of Jones Day’s Mexico City office,
said in a statement.  While acting as general counsel, Tinoco also was Secretary
to the Board of Governors of the Mexican Central Bank and to the
Mexican Exchange Rate Commission, the firm said. He advised on
the constitutional reform granting autonomy to the Mexican
Central Bank, the passage of its current statute and on the
issuance of the 3/2012 Circular that compiles, standardizes, and
systematizes the applicable regulations for commercial banks and
development banks, Jones Day said in a statement.  Prior to his general counsel position, Tinoco was director
of central banking regulations, adviser to the Board of
Governors and Comptroller at the Mexican Central Bank; vice
president of regulation at the National Banking and Securities
Commission; and member of the Board of Governors of the Mexican
Institute for the Protection of Bank Savings, the firm said.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 38 offices
throughout the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Debevoise Hires Co-Head of Global Infrastructure and PPP Group  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP hired Douglas B. Buchanan in its
 New York  office as counsel and co-head of the firm’s global
infrastructure and project finance group. Buchanan, formerly a
senior partner at Canadian law firm Davis LLP, led the
infrastructure and public-private partnerships group there.  Buchanan will grow Debevoise’s global project development
and project finance practice, in the areas of infrastructure and
public-private partnerships and secondarily in the areas of
natural resources and energy, the firm said.  “The need for massive investment in public infrastructure
and its importance to the global economy is well documented. The
addition of Douglas Buchanan to our team underscores Debevoise’s
commitment to developing a robust PPP practice that can meet the
growing and evolving needs of clients in this rapidly expanding
market,” Ivan E. Mattei, Debevoise partner and co-head of the
firm’s global infrastructure and project finance group, said in
a statement. Buchanan, who has 29 years of experience in
infrastructure, natural resources and energy, and project
finance matters, was the national managing partner at Davis for
two terms.  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP has over 650 lawyers at eight
national and international offices.  Litigator Robert Connolly Joins DLA Piper in Philadelphia  DLA Piper LLP hired Robert Connolly, former chief of the
Middle Atlantic Office of the U.S.  Justice Department ’s
antitrust division, as counsel in the firm’s Philadelphia
litigation practice.  At the Justice Department, Connolly led national and
international white collar crime investigations in the areas of
antitrust, fraud and obstruction of justice, the firm said. He
led a four-year graphite electrodes international cartel grand
jury investigation that resulted in seven corporate and three
individual convictions and approximately $437 million in fines,
the firm said.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in 30 countries throughout the
Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the  Middle East .  Two Partners Join Pepper Hamilton From Ballard Spahr  Pepper Hamilton LLP hired Gina Maisto Smith and Leslie
Marie Gomez in the firm’s white collar litigation and
investigations practice group. Smith and Gomez previously were
with Ballard Spahr LLP, where they represented colleges,
universities, K-12 public and private schools, religious
organizations, corporations and nonprofit institutions in the
institutions’ response to sexual misconduct, the firm said.
Their practices include internal investigations and crisis
management, the development of policy and procedures,
coordination of systems and practices, and training and
education for compliance with state, local and federal law and
regulations, the firm said.  Smith spent nearly two decades in the Philadelphia District
Attorney’s office as a child abuse, sex crimes and homicide
prosecutor and educator. Gomez spent 14 years in the
Philadelphia District Attorney’s Office, most recently as the
chief of the Juvenile Unit.  Pepper Hamilton has more than 500 lawyers nationally. Gary
Veron Joins Hogan Lovells’ Government Regulatory Practice Hogan
Lovells LLP hired Gary Veron in its government regulatory
practice as a partner in the Washington office. Veron joins from
Sidley Austin LLP, where he was of counsel in the food and drug
practice.  Veron focuses his practice on food and drug law with an
emphasis on the intersection of regulatory law and intellectual
property law for pharmaceutical and biotechnology products, the
firm said.  Hogan Lovells has more than 2,400 lawyers at 43 offices in
Europe, Asia, the Middle East and the U.S.  Video  SAC’s Cohen ‘Baffling’ in 2011 Deposition, Bowe Says  Michael Bowe, a lawyer with Kasowitz Benson Torres &
Friedman LLP who deposed SAC Capital Advisors LP founder  Steven
Cohen  in 2011, talks about the Cohen’s testimony and the
Securities and Exchange Administration’s case against former
portfolio manager Matthew Martoma.  Bowe speaks with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers.”  Click here to link to video.  Litigation  J.C. Penney Wanted Stewart to Break Macy’s Pact, Lawyer Says  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  tried to convince  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia (MSO)  Inc. to break its contract with  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and to
coerce the second-largest U.S. department-store chain not to
enforce its rights under the pact, Macy’s lawyer Theodore M. Grossman said at the start of a trial over the agreement today.  J.C. Penney Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson  wanted to
“supplant Macy’s” as an exclusive seller of Martha Stewart-
branded products in categories such as bedding and cookware,
Grossman, an attorney with Jones Day representing Macy’s, told
New York state Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey K. Oing in
 Manhattan .  “We weren’t coerced,” Grossman said. “We’re here to
protect our rights. Rights that we paid for, rights that we
worked for, rights that we took tremendous risks for.”  Macy’s sued New York-based  Martha Stewart  Living in January
2012 to stop it from proceeding with an agreement announced with
J.C. Penney the previous month. Cincinnati-based Macy’s filed
suit against J.C. Penney in the same court eight months later,
seeking to block it from proceeding with the Martha Stewart
pact.  The cases have been combined and opening arguments began
yesterday in a non-jury trial before Oing that is scheduled to
last through March 8.  “This is a contractual dispute,” Lex Suvanto, a spokesman
for Martha Stewart Living, said in a statement after Grossman’s
opening arguments. “But in 70 minutes of talking they never
showed the judge any term in the contract that was breached.
They just told a fancy story. We are pleased to hear from so
many people including Macy’s how increasingly valuable the
Martha Stewart brand is.”  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, and Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  News  Chesapeake Absolves CEO in Internal Probe of Gas-Well Loans  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  exonerated co-founder and outgoing
Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  for privately borrowing
hundreds of millions of dollars from some of the company’s
biggest financiers, after an investigation by the law firm Locke
Lord LLP and the board’s audit committee.  The review found no intentional misconduct on the part of
McClendon, the Oklahoma City-based oil and natural gas explorer
said in a statement yesterday. The findings, announced three
weeks after McClendon agreed to resign from the company he led
for almost a quarter century, was the culmination of a 10-month
probe by the board into the CEO’s use of minority stakes in
Chesapeake-owned wells as collateral for private loans.  The  investigation  involved more than 50 interviews with
executives from Chesapeake and other companies, according to the
statement. The transactions reviewed included McClendon’s
borrowings from EIG Global Energy Partners LLC, a private-equity
firm that bought preferred shares in two Chesapeake subsidiaries
in 2011 and 2012.  Chesapeake has been  selling  oilfields, cutting jobs,
reducing drilling and postponing debt reduction to plug a cash-
flow shortfall triggered by a plunge in the price of natural
gas, which accounts for 80 percent of the company’s output.
Chesapeake lost as much as  43 percent  of its market value last
year as the gas slump was compounded by collapsing investor
confidence in McClendon’s leadership.  McClendon, 53, agreed on Jan. 29 to retire effective April
1, citing “philosophical differences” with the board that he
didn’t detail. His grip on power at what was once the pre-
eminent U.S. gas producer began to slip last year when the board
inquiry commenced in April and he was deposed as chairman in
June.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  