-- Singapore Companies Brace for Labor Curbs After Protest: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-02-21T09:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/singapore-companies-brace-for-labor-curbs-after-protest-economy.html
Singapore  will probably force
companies to further reduce their reliance on foreign labor in
the 2013 budget, after a public backlash against the influx of
workers led to the biggest demonstration in more than a decade.  Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  may cut the ratio
of overseas workers companies are allowed to hire, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG. To counter any  labor shortfall , there
may also be incentives to boost productivity, economists at
Citigroup Inc. and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. said ahead of
the Feb. 25 budget presentation.  Thousands gathered in a rare political protest on Feb. 16,
signaling concerns that foreigners are taking jobs from locals
and driving up housing costs haven’t abated even after Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong tightened hiring rules in recent years.
Lee has warned that the labor curbs will slow economic growth,
while rising costs are bedeviling businesses such as The King
Louis restaurant, where all the full-time waiters are
foreigners.  “I’m worried every time the budget comes around,” said
Sebastian Teow, marketing manager at the medieval-themed
restaurant. Teow is already struggling to fill positions at the
outlet and coping with higher taxes for hiring overseas workers
in recent years, he said. “We are really hoping there won’t be
higher levies as they are eating into the profits.”  Growth Slows  Singapore’s economy grew 1.2 percent in 2012, the least in
three years. The island is in a “new phase” of growth where it
must adjust to a smaller pace of expansion, and hiring
constraints are among the reasons for last year’s slowdown, the
prime minister has said. The government forecasts growth of 1
percent to 3 percent this year.  “The ongoing challenge of sluggish growth coupled with a
high-cost environment remains a hurdle to both businesses and
workers alike,” said  Selena Ling , an economist at Oversea-
Chinese Banking in Singapore. The budget “needs to strike a
balance between economic restructuring vis-a-vis manpower
constraints and cost issues on the ground,” she said.  A report tomorrow may show the economy grew an annualized 2
percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 from the previous three
months, faster than an initial estimate of 1.8 percent,
according to the median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  Elsewhere in  Asia  today,  Hong Kong ’s jobless rate rose to
3.4 percent last month, while in  Europe , purchasing managers
indices for the region showed a deepening contraction in
manufacturing and services in February. The U.S. will release
consumer price data for January, while economists predict a
separate report will show jobless claims rose in the week
through Feb. 16.  Wage Supplements  Lee’s ruling party is facing weakening support in the
island that it has governed for more than five decades. The
rising number of foreigners has contributed to competition for
jobs, congested public transportation and surging home prices.
The resulting public discontent contributed to record opposition
gains in the 2011 general election, and caused Lee’s party to
lose a parliament seat in a January by-election.  Last week’s demonstration was against a population policy
that may see the number of people on the island rise to 6.9
million by 2030 from 5.3 million now. Lawmakers from Lee’s party
endorsed a white paper earlier this month that outlined
proposals to allow more foreigners through 2030 to boost the
workforce.  Tough Times  The white paper predicted total workforce growth will ease
to 1 percent to 2 percent annually through 2020, compared with
an average rate of 3.3 percent per annum in the last three
decades. The projections are “tough” for businesses, said Ho
Meng Kit, chief executive officer of the  Singapore Business
Federation , which represents more than 18,000 companies.  In 2012, the government cut the proportion of foreign
workers that companies can hire, and increased levies for
employing them. An Association of Small and Medium Enterprises
survey last year showed more than eight in 10 companies are
facing manpower shortages.  Under current limits, employers in the  construction
industry  can hire as many as seven foreigners for every local
worker, compared with a ratio of 1.5 for manufacturers and 0.8
for services companies. Monthly levies that companies have to
pay for such workers may be as much as S$650 ($524) per employee
in construction, S$550 in services and S$500 in manufacturing.  Worker Strike  SMRT Corp. (MRT) , the island’s biggest subway operator, said in
January that its profitability in the next 12 months will
deteriorate in part as staff costs “significantly increase.”
Dozens of SMRT’s bus drivers from  China  held Singapore’s first
strike in 26 years in November over a wage dispute.  Unit labor costs rose 6.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, Statistics Department data show. They may climb
3 percent to 4 percent in 2013, the central bank said in
October.  “The likely continued pressure on wage costs will be
negative for offshore and marine companies, domestic transport
operators and exporters,” Sanjay Mookim and Kwee Hong Ching,
research analysts at Credit Suisse, said in a research note.  Shanmugaratnam may also announce more assistance for the
poor and bigger wage supplements for low-income earners when he
presents the budget to Parliament next week, according to
Citigroup economist Kit Wei Zheng.  Singapore’s income inequality as measured by the Gini
coefficient widened last year, according to the Statistics
Department. Inflation averaged 4.6 percent in 2012 and the
island is the third-most expensive Asian city to live in and the
sixth globally, according to an Economist Intelligence Unit
ranking published this month.  Last year, the government said it will make permanent a
program to provide cash, utility rebates and medical funds for
elderly and low-income households.  “Helping the lower-income segment of the society is likely
to remain on the top of the lists as Singapore strives to be an
inclusive society,” Francis Tan and Jimmy Koh, analysts at
 United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB) , wrote in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  