-- Solars Lead ADR Drop on PBOC Withdrawals: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-02-21T22:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/solars-lead-adr-drop-on-pboc-withdrawals-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  traded in New York
slumped, pushing the benchmark index to an 11-week low, on
concern moves by central banks to limit stimulus globally will
stifle a recovery in the world’s second-largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  slid 1.2 percent to
93.28 yesterday, falling for a fifth day in the longest stretch
of declines since September.  Trina Solar Ltd.  dropped the most
in three months as Reuters reported that European Union nations
approved a plan to register Chinese solar panels, citing
unidentified EU diplomats.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. , China’s biggest
real estate information website, slipped to a 2013 low and Qihoo
360 Technology Co. sank the most since December.  The People’s Bank of China drained a record 910 billion
yuan ($146 billion) out of the financial system this week, as
Premier  Wen Jiabao  ordered cities to take steps to rein in the
property market after prices rose the most in two years in
January. The China-US gauge, poised for its  worst month  since
May, fell 1.1 percent Feb. 20 after Federal Reserve minutes
showed division over asset buying known as quantitative easing.  “The market is worried about tightening policies,”
 Michael Ding , the lead manager of the China Region Fund at U.S.
Global Investors Inc., which oversees $2.2 billion, said by e-
mail from San Antonio, Texas. “Profit-taking is happening as we
have not heard much about any new stimulus. You also have the
Fed talking about an exit from quantitative easing and China’s
central bank worrying about inflation.”  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., tumbled for a third day,
losing 1.4 percent to a 10-week low of $38.51 in New York. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  retreated 0.6 percent to 1,502.42,
the lowest level in more than two weeks.  European Plan  Trina Solar, the world’s third-biggest maker of solar
panels, sank 9.3 percent to $4.50 in New York, the steepest drop
since Nov. 14. Changzhou, China-based Trina has lost 13 percent
this month after surging 80 percent in January and December.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. , the world’s biggest
silicon-based solar panel maker by capacity, slipped 6.3 percent
to $2.98, the biggest loss in six weeks. Xinyu, China-based  LDK
Solar Co.  retreated 6 percent to $1.74, trimming its rally this
year to 21 percent.  European Union member states have approved a plan to
register solar panels imported from China, which would allow
duties to be imposed on imported China solar components if their
selling prices were found to be below cost, Reuters  reported 
Feb. 20, citing unidentified EU diplomats. John Clancy, the
European Commission’s trade spokesman, confirmed by e-mail
yesterday that companies in the bloc had requested that imports
of solar components from China be subject to registration.  ‘Unnecessary’ Taxes  The step indicated “an escalation to the trade war,”
 Aaron Chew , a New York-based senior analyst at Maxim Group LLC
said by e-mail yesterday. “The solar sector was being carried
up along with the markets. It’s no coincidence that the broader
market taking it on the chin for two days in a row and the solar
sector has reversed swiftly and sharply.”  Suntech Power Holdings Co. , the world’s biggest panel
maker, sent a statement to China’s Global Times yesterday
opposing what it called “unnecessary” solar taxes, the
Beijing-based newspaper  reported . The EU opened a probe in
September into whether Chinese manufacturers of solar panels are
selling them in the 27-nation bloc below cost, a practice known
as dumping.  Suntech, based in China’s Jiangsu province, fell 4.7
percent to $1.43, taking its loss this year to 6.5 percent.  Sina, Renren  Soufun, based in Beijing, declined for a third day,
dropping 4.6 percent to $24.7, the lowest price since Dec. 28.
Trading volume on its American depositary receipts was 1.8 times
the daily average over the past three months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. E-House China Holdings Ltd., a property
brokerage company based in Shanghai, lost 3.2 percent to $4.47,
retreating for a fourth day.  Sina Corp. , the biggest Twitter-like Weibo service provider
in China, retreated 2.8 percent to $54.8 after jumping 5.4
percent on Feb. 20. Registered users for Sina’s Weibo rose 73
percent from a year earlier to 503 million by the end of 2012,
Chief Executive Officer  Charles Chao  said on a conference call
on Feb. 19.  Renren Inc. , the Beijing-based real-name social media
website owner, sank 4.1 percent to $3.02, the lowest on record.  Vipshop Slumps  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. , an online discounter of branded
fashion, sank 3 percent to a two-week low of $22.65, paring its
advance in 2013 to 27 percent. The Guangzhou-based company
posted a fourth-quarter net income of $6.3 million after the
close of U.S. trading, following a net loss of $63.5 million a
year earlier. Sales for the three months almost tripled to
$299.6 million. Vipshop also said it plans a secondary offering
of as much as $120 million of shares.  Qihoo, owner of China’s most-used web browser, based in
Beijing, slumped 4.7 percent to $31.13, the biggest slide since
Dec. 5. The company is scheduled to release earnings for the
three months through December on March 5.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  slid 2.2 percent to
11,426.22 yesterday, erasing its gains this year, while the
Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares dropped 3
percent to 2,325.95, the steepest retreat since November 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  