-- Solid Energy N.Z. in Talks With Bankers as Losses, Debts Mount
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-02-21T04:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/solid-energy-n-z-in-talks-with-bankers-as-losses-debts-mount.html
Solid Energy New Zealand Ltd., the
government-owned coal miner whose shares may be offered for sale
in the next five years, is seeking support from its bankers as
debt rises and its income shrinks.  “We are in discussions with our banks and Treasury on the
debt and equity support required for future operations of the
business,” Chairman Mark Ford said in a statement. “The
company is carrying substantial debt and the half-year result
will record a significant loss.”  Prime Minister John Key expects to raise at least NZ$5
billion ($4.2 billion) over the next three to four years by
selling as much as 49 percent stakes in Solid Energy and other
power companies, and by reducing the government’s stake in Air
New Zealand Ltd. Earlier this week he told reporters Solid
Energy may not be ready for sale in the near term.  “The position of the state-owned enterprise has continued
to deteriorate despite the restructuring that has already taken
place,” Finance Minister  Bill English  said in an e-mailed
statement. “World coal prices have dropped significantly, which
has contributed to the deteriorating financial position.”  Global coal prices fell as low as $140 a metric ton in
September from $224 in June, the company said. It has closed
mines and fired workers to reduce costs, and is working on a
plan to provide a sustainable business, Ford said.  More restructuring may be required, State-Owned Enterprises
Minister Tony Ryall said in English’s statement, without
providing details, adding that the company’s debt stands at
NZ$389 million and it’s making losses.  Solid Energy reported a NZ$40.9 million loss in the year
ended June 30, including a NZ$110 million asset write-down.
Chief Executive Officer Don Elder resigned earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  