-- South Africa Stocks Drop Most in 5 Months: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-02-21T12:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/south-africa-stocks-drop-most-in-5-months-johannesburg-mover.html
South Africa’s stocks gauge fell the
most in almost five months as mining companies slumped on
concern comments from the U.S. Federal Reserve and China
signalled lower demand for commodities.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  dropped 1.5 percent to
39,834.92 by 1:51 p.m. in Johannesburg, the biggest intraday
plunge since Sept 26. The  mining index  retreated 3.4 percent,
the most since October 2011. The main gauge has slid 2.1 percent
this week, set for the biggest weekly decline since May.  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, called on local
authorities to curb real-estate speculation and rein in the
property market, according to a statement yesterday. The Federal
Reserve may consider slowing the pace of asset purchases,
according to minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Jan
29-30 meeting released yesterday in  Washington .  “Nobody knows what is going to happen after the minutes,
whether they are going to pull the plug or not,” Jesse Van Rensburg, an equity sales trader at Johannesburg-based
Renaissance Bjm Securities Pty Ltd., said in a phone interview
today. “Metal prices are down. There are some downbeat comments
from  China .”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of raw materials slumped
to a three-week low as prices of metals including copper and
platinum tumbled. Metals and other commodities accounted for 53
percent of South Africa’s exports in 2012, according to
government data.  The All-Share index is poised to close below the 40,000
mark for the first time since Jan. 22, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  