-- Spain’s Graft Scandals Reach Palace as King’s Adviser Testifies
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-02-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/spain-s-graft-scandals-reach-palace-as-king-s-adviser-testifies.html
The graft allegations roiling the
Spanish elite may edge closer to the head of state, King Juan Carlos, when his son-in-law and a senior palace official testify
in court on corruption charges.  Inaki Urdangarin, a former Olympic handball player married
to Princess Cristina, is due to answer questions in Mallorca
tomorrow as part of a private prosecution where he has been
named as an official suspect on six counts including fraud,
embezzlement and money laundering, a court spokeswoman said.
Magistrates on the tourist island will also question Carlos
Garcia Revenga, the princess’s personal secretary, who is also a
suspect, she said.  The corruption investigation follows a year of missteps
that have tarnished the 75-year-old king’s reputation and broken
a taboo that prevented Spanish media from reporting on his
private life. In April, the monarch apologized to his people
after a trip to Botswana came to light when he fell and broke
his hip.  El Confidencial  newspaper said he was on an elephant
hunt with a friend, Corinna zu Sayn-Wittgenstein.  “They’ve been so over-protected,” Juan Pan-Montojo, a
professor of contemporary history at Madrid’s Autonomous
University, said in an interview yesterday. “It makes the shock
all the greater when we discover these god-like, Olympian
figures go hunting in Botswana” at a time of national hardship.  A spokesman for the king declined to comment. The Royal
Household also speaks for Princess Cristina and Revenga.
Urdangarin’s lawyer, Marius Pascual Vives, didn’t respond to a
message left with his assistant requesting comment.  German Aristocrat  Clean Hands, the Madrid-based public workers union that
filed a private prosecution against Urdangarin, will ask the
court to name Princess Cristina as a suspect and may request
that Sayn-Wittgenstein, a German aristocrat, is called as a
witness, Miguel Bernad, general secretary of the group, said in
an interview yesterday.  The allegations against the king’s son-in-law stem from his
involvement in the non-profit Noos Institute aimed at making
Spanish companies more competitive. The institute, where
Urdangarin was chairman, won 5.8 million euros ($7.7 million) of
contracts from the regional governments of Valencia and the
Balearic Islands between 2004 and 2007 without participating in
a competitive tender,  ABC newspaper  reported last year.  E-mails from Urdangarin  that his former partner Diego
Torres supplied to magistrates in Mallorca, refer to meetings
the king allegedly attended to help secure financial support for
his son-in-law’s commercial projects, El Pais newspaper reported
this week.  Princess’s Secretary  The documents, published on the newspaper’s website, show
the involvement of Revenga, the princess’s secretary, as
treasurer of the institute, as well as correspondence from Sayn-
Wittgenstein about a possible job for Urdangarin and describe
Princess Cristina’s involvement in business negotiations.  “Torres said that she had knowledge and participated in
all decisions,” Bernad said, referring to Torres’s private
testimony to magistrates last week. The judge has turned down
three previous requests to make the princess a suspect, he
added.  Being named as a suspect does not mean that Revenga has
been charged and the king will take no action over the
accusations until his advisers have assessed his testimony, the
Royal Household said Jan. 30.  The allegations against Urdangarin come as corruption
allegations have dominated the political agenda. El Mundo
newspaper reported last month that the former treasurer of the
governing  People’s Party , Luis Barcenas, handed out illegal cash
payments to senior officials over more than a decade. Barcenas’s
lawyer, Alfonso Trallero, declined to comment on the accusations
when contacted by Bloomberg.  Corruption Penalties  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has denied a report by El Pais
that he received more than 250,000 euros from Barcenas and this
week announced he’ll seek tougher penalties for those convicted
of corruption charges.  Spain ’s 35-year-old democracy which has been battered by a
five-year economic slump that has sent unemployment to a record
26 percent, according to Madrid-based lawyer Jorge Trias
Sagnier. The government failed to meet its budget-deficit
commitments with the European Union last year even after cutting
spending on health and education and raising taxes, Rajoy said
this week.  King Juan Carlos led Spain through the transition to
democracy after the death of dictator  Francisco Franco  and
cemented Spaniards newly acquired rights when he faced down a
military coup in 1981. Now he’s become a symbol of the decay of
those democratic institutions, said Trias Sagnier, a former PP
lawmaker who said he knew of officials receiving cash payments
when he worked with the party.  ‘Old, Sick’  “The king was the undisputed leader and source of
inspiration for many years,” Trias said in an interview last
month. “But now he’s old and sick and he can’t inspire.”  As well as the broken hip suffered last year, the king had
a 90-minute hip replacement operation in November. He will have
an operation on a herniated disc in his back on March 3 at
hospital in  Madrid , the Royal Household said in a statement
yesterday.  The scandal may force Juan Carlos to step aside in favor of
his son Prince Felipe or even jeopardize the handover. Juan
Carlos’s grandfather, Alfonso XIII, was forced to abdicate by
Republicans in 1931 and his father spent much of his life in
exile while the country was ruled by Franco.  Pere Navarro, leader of the Catalan Socialist Party, this
week called on Juan Carlos to abdicate while Gaspar Llamazares,
a lawmaker with the United Left, called for the monarchy to be
abolished in favor of a third Spanish Republic.  “The king is hanging on to prevent Felipe being exposed,”
Pan-Montojo said. “I don’t know how much longer he’ll be able
to last, even physically. He’s getting really worn down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  