-- Sports Direct Gains as Sales Accelerate on New Brands, Web
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-02-21T09:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/sports-direct-sales-accelerate-as-online-premium-brands-surge.html
Sports Direct International Plc (SPD) , the
U.K.’s biggest sporting-goods retailer, gained the most in four
months in London trading after revenue rose more than analysts
expected on premium lifestyle products and online sales.  Sales for the 13 weeks ended Jan. 27 advanced 21 percent to
589.5 million pounds ($895.7 million), the Mansfield, England-
based retailer said today in a statement. That was more than the
median estimate of 12 percent growth, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The stock rose as much as 7 percent.  The 400-store U.K chain, which sells brands like Dunlop,
Slazenger and Lonsdale at discounted prices, said it is
“certain” it will reach a full-year  profit  target for
underlying earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 270 million pounds. The retailer has added
brands to its premium division, like the purchase of Flannels
Group last year, and is extending its distribution center to
account for growing e-commerce demand.  “The investment in stock and continued improvements online
are two of the reasons why  Sports Direct ’s sales growth is, once
again, miles above expectations,” said Jonathan Pritchard, an
analyst at Oriel Securities who recommends buying the shares.
“The move towards emphasizing ’good, better, best’ product is
working, as shoppers are trading up.”  The stock rose as high as 444.9 pence for the biggest gain
in intraday trading since Oct. 4. It was up 4.4 percent at 9:03
a.m., extending the advance this year to 12 percent.  “The group’s strong performance continued during the third
quarter, primarily driven by our Sports Retail division,
including online,” Chief Executive Officer Dave Forsey said in
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  