-- Straumann Fourth-Quarter Sales Miss Estimates on Europe, Japan
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-02-21T06:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/straumann-fourth-quarter-sales-miss-estimates-on-europe-japan.html
-  Straumann Holding AG (STMN) , the world’s
biggest maker of dental implants, reported fourth-quarter
revenue that missed analysts’ estimates due to sluggish sales in
 Europe  and  Japan  and the end of a distribution agreement.  Sales fell 4.4 percent to 167.8 million Swiss francs
($180.4 million), the Basel, Switzerland-based company said
today in a statement. The figure was below the 173.5 million-
franc average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Straumann proposed a dividend for 2012 of 3.75 francs, unchanged
from a year earlier.  The company announced a change of chief executive officer
on Jan. 4 as it seeks growth amid the market slump. It
introduced a cost-cutting plan along with third-quarter earnings
Oct. 30 that includes eliminating 150 jobs by early 2013. Rival
 Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  reported a decline in sales during the
quarter and said it expects the market to remain challenging
this year.  “With softer sales and our cost base geared for growth,
our margins dropped to a level that requires rigorous cost
management at all levels and a new style of resolute
leadership,” Gilbert Achermann, Straumann’s chairman and
interim CEO, said in a statement. Marco Gadola, who previously
was chief financial officer and head of operations at Straumann
between 2006 and 2008, will take over from former CEO Beat Spalinger in April, the company has said.  Margin Goal  For the year, revenue was 686.3 million francs. The margin
for earnings before interest and taxes was 14.5 percent,
excluding one-time items. Straumann had forecast an Ebit margin
on the same level as the first half of the year at 14.7 percent,
excluding restructuring costs.  The company said Oct. 18 it would no longer distribute
 Align Technology Inc. (ALGN) ’s iTero oral scanners because it didn’t
want to be in the hardware-distribution business. The scanners
are used to design implants.  For 2013, Straumann said it expects to face “continuing
constraints” in Europe while  North America ,  China  and  Brazil 
should perform well. The company said it aims to deliver
improved profit levels this year even if the market remains
sluggish and targets a “return to solid growth and a
significantly higher operating margin” in the mid-term.  Straumann shares closed yesterday at 126.70 Swiss francs in
Zurich, giving a market value of 1.99 billion francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  