-- Structured Note Value Disclosure Examined by Europe Regulators
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-02-21T11:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/structured-note-value-disclosure-examined-by-europe-regulators.html
Regulators in  Europe  are discussing
whether issuers of structured notes should be forced to disclose
to investors the value of the securities, which package debt
with derivatives.  The European Securities and Markets Authority, set up in
2011 to harmonize regulations for financial markets across the
27-nation European Union, could introduce new rules by 2015,
according to Paris-based spokesman David Cliffe.  Structured notes offer customized bets to investors and are
under scrutiny from regulators in the U.S. and Europe because of
their complexity and lack of transparency. The value of
securities is lower than the issue price to account for costs
including underwriting fees, hedging costs and expenses to
create and market the notes.  “Extra disclosure is always welcomed by investors and this
way they can compare the real value of notes,” said Chiara Fornarola, a manager of structured products at Banca IMI SpA,
the investment banking unit of  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s
second-biggest lender.  Italy’s stock-market regulator, Consob, introduced
disclosure rules for its national market in March 2009,
requiring intermediaries to explain the fair value of the bond
and derivatives components of the securities and the costs
associated with them.  Any new European regulations would be included in an update
of Europe’s Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, which is
being reviewed by EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  as part of a wider overhaul of the securities industry.
Mifid II is expected to come into force in 2015, Cliffe said.  SEC Rules  In the U.S., the Securities and Exchange Commission plans
to require banks to disclose the estimated initial value of
notes, including how they arrived at prices for the bond and
derivatives components, according to a report from securities
law firm  Morrison & Foerster LLP .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bank of America Corp. and Royal
Bank of Canada started publishing their estimates in
prospectuses in anticipation of new rules.  In Europe, any new guidelines for structured notes will be
agreed upon between ESMA and the 27 national financial
regulators in the EU, and would apply equally across the
continent, Cliffe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  