-- Suning to Spend $3.5 Billion in China Online Push
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/suning-to-spend-3-5-billion-in-china-online-push.html
Suning Appliance Co. (002004) ,  China ’s
biggest electronics retailer, will spend 22 billion  yuan  ($3.52
billion) on logistics by the end of 2015 as it expands online
operations and offers new products such as cosmetics.  The  retailer  is making the investments to be less reliant
on its traditional electronics business, Vice Chairman Sun Weimin said in an interview in Nanjing, in eastern China,
yesterday.  Suning is diversifying to tap online shoppers and add new
products after reporting a 29 percent drop in profit for the six
months ended in June. The company faced a weaker Chinese economy
and price battles with rivals  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding
Ltd. (493)  and 360buy Jingdong Inc. last year.  “We need to cater to and invest in where the future
consumer spending channels will be,” Sun said, declining to
specify how the new strategy will affect profit this year.  By adding new lines such as baby products and cosmetics the
company is pushing toward a model similar to U.S. retailers  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , a goal Chairman Zhang
Jindong first talked about in March. The retailer is also
looking to expand offerings to customer such as financing and
after-sales services, he told reporters in Nanjing yesterday.  Online Retailers  Gome and Suning are making a bigger push to draw web
shoppers. China’s online-retail transactions are projected to
more than double to 2.57 trillion yuan by 2015 from 1.22
trillion yuan last year, according to Analysys International, a
Beijing-based researcher.  The two companies were hurt by intense competition after
online retailer 360buy triggered a price war in August. Suning
and Gome pledged to cut prices after Liu Qiangdong, chairman of
360buy, announced that all major appliances on its website would
be at least 10 percent cheaper than those sold by the store
operators.  Suning, which is changing its name to Suning Commerce Group
Co., is in talks with the government over getting a license to
lease wireless spectrum from existing carriers, Sun said
yesterday. It may get the license as early as in the second half
of the year, he said.  Obtaining the license would not only help sales of mobile
handsets and electronics, it would also boost sales of its
content offerings for mobile phones, Sun said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  