-- Susan Carroll, Morgan Stanley Bank’s Operating Chief, Dies at 50
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-02-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/susan-carroll-morgan-stanley-bank-s-operating-chief-dies-at-50.html
Susan E. Carroll, who helped lead
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  Bank for eight years, when its assets rose almost
15-fold, has died. She was 50.  She died on Feb. 18, according to a memo sent to Morgan
Stanley employees from Colm Kelleher, head of the firm’s
investment bank division, and Eric Heaton, president of Morgan
Stanley Bank. Carroll died at New York Presbyterian Hospital of
an autoimmune liver disease, according to Sandra Noonan, a
spokeswoman for the bank.  Carroll was named a managing director at Morgan Stanley,
owner of the world’s largest brokerage, in 2009. She helped run
the firm’s Salt Lake City-based bank since 2004, a period when 
its assets increased to $80.5 billion from $5.4 billion, and was 
its chief operating officer.  Morgan Stanley Bank is one of the company’s two banking
units and holds the majority of the firm’s customer deposits and
makes corporate loans. Morgan Stanley became a bank holding
company in 2008 in the midst of the financial crisis and
collected more deposits from retail investors with the creation
of a joint venture with Citigroup Inc.’s Smith Barney unit.  “She brought exceptional judgment and a strong sense of
humor to her work, and she was sought after by colleagues for
her counsel and sage advice,” Kelleher and Heaton said in the
memo sent on Feb. 20. “She will be greatly missed.”  Susan Elizabeth Carroll was born on April 8, 1962, in
Springfield,  Massachusetts , to Richard Paul Carroll, an
engineer, and the late Mary Ann Carroll. She earned a bachelor’s
degree in business administration from the University of Notre
Dame in South Bend,  Indiana .  Focus Changes  She wanted to become a chemical engineer when she entered
Notre Dame, her father said yesterday in an interview. She later
switched to a business major and took summer classes to catch
up.  Carroll began her career at the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. in 1986 as a bank examiner in the regulator’s Boston
region. She rose to field officer supervisor and in 1996 was
named deputy director of the San Francisco region, which covered
11 states, according to a  press release  at the time.  She joined Morgan Stanley in Salt Lake City in 2004 and
relocated to New York in 2007. Carroll was able to bring
different teams within the bank together, Kelleher and Heaton
wrote in the memo. That skill came in part from her playing
field hockey at Notre Dame, her father said. She is a member of
Notre Dame’s all-time field hockey  roster .  “I think the team experience served her well through her
career,” Richard Carroll said. “She was direct, upfront, and
could be trusted.”  In addition to her father, Carroll, who lived in  Brooklyn ,
New York, is survived by two sisters, Virginia A. Mann and
Patricia N. Carroll, according to a  death notice  in the New York
Times. A brother, Richard G. Carroll, predeceased her.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  