-- Swiss Bank Reyl Opens London Office Targeting Wealthy Non-Doms
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-02-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/swiss-bank-reyl-opens-london-office-targeting-wealthy-non-doms.html
Reyl Group, the Geneva-based private
bank and asset manager, opened an office in  London  to market
funds and advisory services to wealthy non-domiciled U.K.
residents from the Middle East,  Russia  and central Asia.  “It fits very much within our strategy of chasing global
entrepreneurs,” Francois Reyl, chief executive officer of the
firm founded in 1973 by his father Dominique Reyl, said in an
interview at his office on Rue du Rhone, Geneva’s priciest
shopping street.  Reyl Group plans to increase U.K. assets under management
fivefold to 500 million pounds ($761 million) within five years.
The business will be run by Ladislas Safyurtlu, who previously
worked in London for Pictet & Cie. and Morgan Stanley. He hopes
to encourage clients to invest in Reyl-branded funds and bespoke
structured products.  Britain exempts wealthy non-domiciled residents from taxes
on income outside the country in return for paying an annual fee
of 30,000 pounds, or 50,000 pounds for longer-term residents.
That benefit encourages affluent individuals to spend at least
part of the year in London,  Europe ’s biggest financial center.  Reyl Group increased its worldwide assets under management
by more than 60 percent to 7.3 billion Swiss francs ($7.8
billion) last year, after opening a Zurich-based unit for tax-
declared Americans and an office in Lugano, Switzerland.  The firm is countering lower profitability in traditional
private banking and portfolio management by generating income
from family office and corporate-advisory services, according to
the CEO, a former mergers and acquisitions and private-equity
banker with Credit Suisse First Boston in London.  Reyl Group plans to report its full 2012 results in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  