-- Swiss Stocks Slide Most in Four Months on Fed Minutes
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-02-21T16:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/swiss-stocks-decline-as-federal-reserve-debates-stimulus.html
Swiss stocks  tumbled the most in
almost four months amid concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will
consider scaling back stimulus measures and as euro-area
services and manufacturing contracted.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  led banks lower, falling the most in
more than two weeks. Swatch Group AG and Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA dropped more than 1 percent.  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  rose to
a 4 1/2-year high as the world’s second-biggest reinsurer said
it will return about $2.8 billion to shareholders after lower
natural catastrophe claims.  The Swiss Market Index slid 1.6 percent to 7,505.71 at the
close of trading in Zurich, retreating from the highest level
since May 2008. The benchmark measure has still jumped  10
percent (SMI)  this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise
budget and the Swiss franc depreciated against the euro. The
broader Swiss Performance Index fell 1.5 percent today.  “If they feel that they can step back from the stimulus it
suggests that the economy is stronger than maybe they thought it
was going to be,” Daniel Morris, a global strategist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , said on Bloomberg Television
with Francine Lacqua, referring to the Fed. “In the short term
it might hurt the markets a bit because you’re losing a bit of
that liquidity.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 24 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Minutes  Fed officials continued to debate whether monetary easing
risks fueling inflation or asset-price bubbles, minutes of the
Jan. 29-30 policy meeting released after the close of European
markets yesterday showed. Several participants “emphasized that
the committee should be prepared to vary the pace of asset
purchases, either in response to changes in the economic outlook
or as its evaluation of the efficacy and costs of such purchases
evolved,” according to the minutes.  Euro-area services and manufacturing shrank at a faster
pace than economists forecast in February. A  composite index 
based on a survey of  purchasing managers  fell to 47.3 from 48.6
in January, London-based Markit Economics said today. Economists
had forecast a result of 49, according to the median of 22
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction.  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic index 
dropped to minus 12.5 this month, the lowest reading since June,
from minus 5.8 in January. Readings lower than zero signal
contraction in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern
 New Jersey  and  Delaware . The median forecast of 58 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected an increase to 1.  U.S. jobless-benefit claims increased by 20,000 to 362,000
last week, exceeding forecasts, Labor Department data showed.  Banks Fall  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank, sank 4
percent to 26.24 francs, snapping a three-day rally. UBS AG
declined 2.2 percent to 14.98 francs. A gauge of lenders was the
second-worst performer among 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, sliding 2.5 percent.  Swatch (UHR) , the largest maker of Swiss timepieces, fell 1.2
percent to 525.50 francs and Richemont, the owner of the Cartier
brand, lost 2.7 percent to 74.55 francs, the biggest decline in
two weeks.  Exports of Swiss watches rose 11 percent in January from a
year earlier, while shipments to  China  sank 9.9 percent and
those to the U.S. dropped 7 percent, according to the Federation
of the Swiss Watch Industry.  Transocean Declines  Transocean Ltd., the world’s biggest offshore-rig
contractor, retreated 4 percent to 49.10 francs, the lowest
level since Jan. 10. West Texas Intermediate oil in  New York 
fell to a six-week low as an industry report showed that U.S.
crude supplies increased to the highest level since December.  Swiss Re gained 2.5 percent to 75.65 francs, the highest
level since June 2008. Investors will receive a special  dividend 
of 4 francs a share, plus an ordinary dividend of 3.50 francs.
That exceeded the average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg for a total payout of 6.21 francs a share. Fourth-
quarter net income was $795 million, exceeding the average
analyst estimate of $240.3 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  