-- U.K. Shale Will Fail to Unleash U.S.-Style Price Drop
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-02-22T16:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/u-k-shale-gas-will-fail-to-unleash-u-s-style-collapse-in-price.html
(Corrects price drop in fifth paragraph of story published
Feb. 21.)  The U.K.’s efforts to build a shale
gas industry will fail to unleash the decline in prices that has
benefited U.S. fuel consumers as its cost of extraction will be
too high and output too slow, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  “The cost of shale gas extraction in the U.K. is likely to
be significantly higher than in the U.S., and the rate of
exploitation insufficient to offset the decline in conventional
gas production, meaning market prices will continue to be set by
imported gas,” the London-based researcher said today.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne plans tax
breaks to spur shale development after a boom in the industry in
the U.S. saw the nation become the world’s biggest gas producer.
Britain in December lifted a ban on hydraulic fracturing, the
technique used to tap fuel from shale rock, and imposed safety
controls after drilling triggered minor earthquakes in 2011.  “We don’t want British businesses and families to be left
behind as gas prices tumble on the other side of the Atlantic,”
Osborne said in his Autumn statement to parliament in December.
His plans placed Britain ahead of efforts in other parts of
 Europe , where some countries hesitated to endorse the technique
known as fracking because of concerns it pollutes water.  Prices in the U.S. fell to $1.80 per million British
thermal units in March 2012 from a record $12 in 2008 and are
trading at about $3.40, according to BNEF. U.K. gas costs are
about $10 because of reliance on higher-price imports.  New Dawn  “Shale gas might seem to offer a new dawn of low energy
prices for the U.K.,” Guy Turner, BNEF economics and commodity
research chief in  London , said in today’s report. “Shale gas
may help replace some of our declining conventional production,
but it is unlikely to arrive quickly enough, in sufficient
volume, to drive U.K. prices below international levels.”  Extracting shale gas in the U.K., which imports half of the
natural gas it consumes, will cost from $7.10 a million British
thermal units to $12.20, according to BNEF estimates. That
compares with $4.54 to $4.83 in the U.S., it said.  The U.K. needs to produce 4 billion to 4.5 billion cubic
feet of gas a day and drill about 10,000 wells over 15 years to
reduce imports, BNEF says. The country is more densely-populated
than the U.S. and has tougher local planning rules, it said.
That, coupled with a stronger environmental movement, may lead
to slower development than in America, it said.  The U.K.’s Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. says its Bowland basin
in northwest  England  may hold as much as 200 trillion cubic feet
of gas. A fraction of that may be recoverable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  