-- U.K. Budget Surplus Swells, Boosted by BOE Gilt Income
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-21T13:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/u-k-january-budget-surplus-swells-boosted-by-boe-gilt-income.html
Britain saw its  budget surplus  widen
in January as the Treasury received the first payment of gilt-
coupon income from the Bank of England’s quantitative easing
program.  The surplus excluding government support for banks was 11.4
billion pounds ($17.4 billion) compared with 6.4 billion pounds
a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said in
 London  today. The Bank of England transferred 3.8 billion pounds
to the Treasury on Jan. 7, the statistics office said. Britain
usually posts a surplus in January as taxes on company profits
and personal incomes pour in.  “There is a modest trend improvement in the public finance
figures, but until we’ve got past all these weird and wonderful
one-offs, we can’t get an accurate picture of what’s really
going on,”  Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in
London, said in a telephone interview. “Weakness in the economy
will continue to constrain the government’s ability to bring
down the deficit as fast as they’d like.”  The pound and government bonds have plunged this year as
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  struggles to meet his
deficit targets. The economy stands on the brink of a triple-dip
recession and speculation is growing that Britain will lose its
top credit rating. The opposition  Labour Party  says Osborne
should use his March 20 budget to boost an  economy  that has
barely grown since he took office almost three years ago.  Weak Taxes  The pound, close to its weakest against the dollar since
July 2010, climbed 0.1 percent in London today and was trading
at $1.5252 as of 12:44 p.m. in London. Ten-year gilt yields fell
6 basis points to 2.13 percent. The Debt Management Office sold
an additional 2.25 billion pounds of 10-year gilts at an average
yield of 2.147 percent, the highest since May. The U.K. last
sold 10-year bonds on Jan. 22 at an average yield of 1.897
percent.  While government income increased 7.3 percent in January
from a year earlier, corporation-tax receipts dropped 13
percent, reflecting the impact of a weak economy on company
profits. Spending increased 4.1 percent, today’s figures showed.  In the first 10 months of the fiscal year, the deficit
climbed to 93.8 billion pounds from 92.3 billion pounds a year
earlier. The  figures  exclude a one-time boost from the 28
billion-pound transfer of Royal Mail Group Ltd. pension assets.
If the boost from the  Bank of England  and other accounting
changes were also stripped out, the deficit so far this fiscal
year would be more than 5 billion pounds higher than a year
earlier.  Spectrum Sale  Osborne’s target of holding the underlying deficit to 120.3
billion pounds for the full fiscal year was further undermined
yesterday after the government auction of fourth generation
mobile spectrum raised 2.3 billion pounds rather than the 3.5
billion pounds expected by his fiscal watchdog. The money is
expected to be paid in February and be reflected in the public
finance figures for the month, due in March.  Outlining how it plans to treat the coupon-income
agreement, announced in November, the statistics office said net
borrowing will be 6.4 billion pounds lower in the fiscal year
through March than it would have been without the transfer.  The transfer will reduce borrowing in the next fiscal year
by an estimated 12 billion pounds, it said. The effect on net
debt in January was 3.8 billion pounds, lowering the total to
1.16 trillion pounds, or 73.8 percent of gross domestic product.
Over 2012-13 as a whole, the program will reduce net debt by
11.3 billion pounds.  Debt Pile  As of the end of December, net debt jumped to 1.18 trillion
pounds, or 75.2 percent of GDP, as a result of Bradford &
Bingley Plc and Northern Rock Asset Management being transferred
to the central government. The nationalized mortgage lenders add
about 70 billion pounds of liabilities. As the two entities make
small profits, the change reduced net borrowing by 670 million
pounds in 2011-12 and 740 million pounds in the previous fiscal
year.  The Office of Budget Responsibility has estimated the
transfer of gilt income will continue to boost Treasury coffers
through March 2017. This will reverse as quantitative easing is
unwound and the Bank of England sells gilts for less than their
purchase price, forcing the Treasury to cover the losses.  Standard and Poor’s in December became the third ratings
company to warn that Britain could be stripped of its top-notch
ranking after Osborne conceded it is taking longer than planned
to repair the public finances. While investors often ignore such
actions, a downgrade would be embarrassing for Osborne and Prime
Minister  David Cameron , who made Britain’s AAA ranking a symbol
of economic virility during their early days in office.  ‘Targeted’ Measures  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee has called
for more “targeted” measures to fuel the economic recovery,
and said these may need to be deployed by government officials
outside of the central bank, according to minutes of the Feb. 7
policy decision published yesterday. The economy shrank 0.3
percent in the fourth quarter.  “The smoke and mirrors employed by the chancellor to get
the recorded deficit down show a degree of desperation,” Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank and a former Bank of
England official, said in a research note. “The economy is
flat-lining and that is hurting tax receipts and  deficit
reduction . We continue to think the U.K. will probably lose its
AAA  credit rating  this year with at least one rating agency.”  The pound has slumped 5.1 percent this year, the second-
worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Only the yen has
weakened more. Gilts handed investors a loss of 2.8 percent this
year through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bonds dropped 1.7 percent and Treasuries fell
0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  