-- U.S. February Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-02-21T15:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/u-s-february-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Feb-13  Manufacturers responding to the February Business Outlook Survey
reported declines in activity this month. Following reported
growth in late 2012, indicators for general activity and new
orders have now registered negative readings for the past two
months. However, indicators for shipments and employment were
slightly positive this month. The survey’s broad indicators of
future activity edged higher this month.  Indicators Suggest Decline in Activity  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the
diffusion index of current activity, decreased from a reading -
5.8 in January to -12.5 this month. The demand for manufactured
goods also showed slight declines this month: The new orders
index declined from a reading of -4.3 in January to -7.8 in
February. Despite negative readings for general activity and new
orders, the shipments index showed improvement: The index
remained positive and edged slightly higher to 2.4. The
percentage of firms reporting increased shipments (25 percent)
was slightly greater than the percentage reporting declines (22
percent).  Labor market conditions showed signs of stabilizing this month.
The employment index increased from -5.2 in January to 0.9 this
month, its first positive reading in eight months. The
percentage of firms reporting employment increases (15 percent)
narrowly exceeded the percentage reporting decreases (14
percent).  Price Indexes Continue to Moderate  The price indexes suggest continued moderation in price
pressures this month. For the second consecutive month, the
prices received index was slightly negative. The percentage of
firms reporting lower prices for their own manufactured goods (9
percent) was nearly matched by the percentage reporting higher
prices. With regard to purchased inputs, 13 percent of firms
reported paying higher prices for inputs, compared with 20
percent last month. The prices paid index fell for the third
consecutive month and, at 8.9, is now at its lowest reading in
eight months.  Six-Month Indicators Improve  The survey’s future indicators suggest that firms expect recent
declines to be temporary. The future general activity index
increased from a reading of 29.2 to 32.1, its third consecutive
monthly increase. The percentage expecting increases in activity
over the next six months (47 percent) exceeded the percentage
expecting decreases (15 percent). The indexes for future new
orders and shipments showed a mixed pattern this month. The
future new orders index increased 6 points, while the future
shipments index fell 9 points. The future employment index
improved modestly, increasing from 10.7 to 14.9. Twenty-five
percent of firms expect to increase employment over the next six
months; 10 percent expect to decrease it.  In special questions this month, firms were asked about their
expectations for production growth for the first quarter (see
Special Questions). Nearly 54 percent of the firms expect
increases in production in the first quarter; 25 percent expect
decreases. Nearly 47 percent of the firms said first quarter
production growth would represent an acceleration in growth
(only 9 percent characterized it as ’significant acceleration’;
38 percent said the expected growth represented ’some
acceleration’).  Summary  The February Business Outlook Survey indicated weakness in the
region’s manufacturing sector this month. Firms reported
decreases in overall activity and slight declines in new orders.
A slight rise in shipments was one positive sign, along with an
apparent stabilization of labor market conditions. Firms
reported a continued trend of moderation in price pressures.
Responses suggest that firms expect declines to be short-lived,
since first quarter production is expected to rise and orders
and shipments are expected to increase over the next six months.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 