-- U.S. Food-Inflation to Ease on Bigger Grain Crops, USDA Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-02-21T20:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/u-s-food-inflation-to-ease-on-bigger-grain-crops-usda-says.html
U.S. food inflation may ease later
this year as larger crop inventories lessen cost pressures,
assuming the worst drought since the 1930s ebbs further, the
Agriculture Department’s top food economist said.  The drought led to record corn and soybean prices last
year. Cattle futures reached the highest ever and the country’s
herd dropped to the smallest since 1961 as ranchers culled
animals to lower feed costs. Those effects will ease as this
year’s grain harvests replenish supplies and agribusinesses
worry less about shortages, economist Richard Volpe said today
at a USDA conference in Arlington, Virginia.  “The drought is still having impacts on agriculture
through all the sectors we think of as important to food
prices,” Volpe said. While conditions have improved in some
parts of the U.S., rain is needed in the coming months to ensure
adequate harvests and improve inventories, he said.  Consumer  food costs  will rise 3 percent to 4 percent this
year, the USDA said last month. The drought pushed the price of
corn, the main feed source for livestock, up 68 percent from
mid-June to Aug. 10, when it hit a record $8.49 a bushel. Since
then, futures have dropped 19 percent, easing pressure on food
costs. The reach of the drought, which at its peak covered 65
percent of the lower 48 states in September, fell to  56 percent 
as of Feb. 12, according to government data.  Production of corn, the most-valuable U.S. crop, may reach
a record 14.53 billion bushels this year, up 35 percent from
last year, the department said today.  Food prices rose 2.6 percent in 2012 and 0.4 percent in
January, according to the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  