-- U.S. Quadruples Pipeline Tax Break Cost to $7 Billion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-02-21T21:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/u-s-quadruples-pipeline-tax-break-cost-to-7-billion.html
A tax break used by oil and gas
pipeline companies such as  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  will
cost the U.S. government $7 billion through 2016, about four
times more than previously estimated, Congress’s tax
scorekeepers said this month.  The nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation quadrupled its
cost  estimate  for exempting the fast-growing “master limited
partnerships” from corporate income tax in the year ended in
September to $1.2 billion from $300 million. The annual cost
will rise to $1.6 billion by fiscal 2016, the committee said.  The revision reflects the growth of tax-free publicly
traded partnerships. They have taken over the U.S. pipeline
business and are expanding into the rest of the oil and gas
industry, partly by gobbling up dozens of tax-paying companies.
With President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans
calling for a tax overhaul, the higher cost estimate may make it
harder for industry to protect the MLP subsidy, said  John Buckley , a tax professor at  Georgetown University Law Center .  “A bigger number always means it’s a bigger target,” said
Buckley, who as a Democratic congressional aide helped draft the
1987 law that included the partnership exemption.  Canada ended a similar break in 2011, saving an estimated
$500 million a year.  Wind, Solar  Lawmakers led by Senator  Chris Coons , a Delaware Democrat,
are pursuing a proposal to extend the MLP break to renewable
energy companies such as wind and solar-power producers.
Proponents in both chambers of Congress introduced bills last
year that failed to win passage.  Coons plans to reintroduce the bill in March, said Ian
Koski, a spokesman for the senator.  The estimate increased primarily because the latest data
show MLP’s are generating more income than before, said Thomas Barthold, the chief of staff of the committee, in an e-mail.  The market value of the MLP industry has grown to about
$370 billion, more than double its size as recently as 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pretax income for about
90 MLP’s rose to a record $16.9 billion in 2011,  Bloomberg News 
reported last month.  Last year, the committee  estimated the cost  of the MLP
exemption at $1.4 billion for the four years ended in 2015. The
new estimate pegs the cost during those same four years at about
$5.4 billion.  Linn Acquisition  Today,  Linn Energy LLC (LINE) , a Houston-based publicly traded
partnership that produces oil and gas, said it agreed to buy
 Berry Petroleum Co. (BRY)  for $2.42 billion. It’s the first time a
publicly traded partnership has bought a listed oil and gas
producer that’s a tax-paying corporation, or “C-Corp,” Linn
said in a statement.  The transaction will “demonstrate how much value can be
created by tax-efficiently converting a C-Corp with the right
assets into an MLP,” said Kolja Rockov, Linn’s chief financial
officer, on a conference call.  Berry, based in Denver, set aside $81.3 million for
corporate income taxes in the first three quarters of 2012,
after recording a $142.2 million tax benefit in 2011 because of
a net loss.  MLP’s don’t pay corporate income taxes because they’re
structured as partnerships, and they don’t distribute taxable
dividends. Individual members pay personal income tax on any
profits, offsetting to some extent the government’s loss of
revenue.  Energy Exception  In 1987, six years after large businesses started forming
publicly traded partnerships, Congress passed a law requiring
them to pay the same taxes as corporations, a rate that is
currently 35 percent.  The law included an exception for industries involving oil
and gas and other natural resources. Since then, the pipeline
industry has mostly shifted to the partnership structure. Two of
the biggest are Houston-based  Kinder Morgan , run by billionaire
 Richard Kinder , and Enterprise Products Partners LP.  The law spurs investment in energy infrastructure that
outweighs the cost of the lost tax revenue, said Mary Lyman, the
executive director of the  National Association of Publicly
Traded Partnerships . She said MLP’s that transport and store oil
and gas spent $113 billion on  capital investment  from 2007 to
2012.  Good Ratio  “You compare that to even the higher estimate. That seems
like a good benefit to cost ratio,” Lyman said.  Corporate tax overhauls outlined by both Obama and  Dave
Camp , the Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee, would lower the corporate  tax rate  while eliminating
some breaks. Any reduction in the corporate rate would lower the
cost of the subsidy for MLP’s, even if their special tax status
is left in place, Buckley said.  Investor demand for MLP equity securities, known as
partnership units, has led a variety of companies from outside
of the pipeline business to convert to the form. New MLPs that
went public in the past two years include  CVR Partners LP (UAN) , which
uses refinery byproducts to make fertilizer, and  Hi-Crush
Partners LP (HCLP) , which digs up the sand used in the hydraulic
fracturing of oil and gas wells.  Congress expanded the break in 2008 to include companies
that transport and store biofuels such as ethanol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Golden in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net  