-- UBS $76 Million Coke Bottler Trade Said Probed by Mexico
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-02-21T21:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/ubs-76-million-coke-bottler-trade-said-probed-by-mexico.html
Mexican regulators are probing a $76
million trade  UBS AG (UBSN)  executed in  Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL)  shares
hours before the bottler announced its biggest acquisition in 16
months, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The Jan. 17 trade was the biggest in Mexico City-based
Coca-Cola Femsa’s shares since August, equivalent to more than
six times the stock’s  average  daily trading volume over the past
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the Mexican
stock exchange. UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, acted as the
 broker  on the transaction, according to the exchange.  The trade took place at 8:30 a.m. local time, according to
the data. After markets were closed for the day at about 9 p.m.,
Coca-Cola Femsa said in a regulatory filing it agreed to buy the
Mexican drinkmaker Grupo Yoli SA in a deal valued at 8.81
billion pesos ($692 million). In trading the next day, Coca-Cola
Femsa shares advanced 1.2 percent.  Mexico’s  National Banking and Securities Commission  is
trying to uncover what motivated the transaction, according to
the person, who asked not to be named because the investigation
is still private. Neither Zurich-based UBS nor Coca-Cola Femsa
has been accused of any wrongdoing, the person said.  “We don’t have knowledge of the investigation,” Carolina Alvear, a spokeswoman for Coca-Cola Femsa, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The Jan. 17 trade “is totally
independent from the company.”  Aurelio Bueno, a press official for the securities
commission, declined to comment.  Megan Stinson, a spokeswoman for UBS, declined to comment.  Certain Parameters  Luis Tellez , chief executive officer of the  Mexican stock
exchange , said in a Feb. 13 interview in  New York  that the
bourse’s market surveillance unit identified the transaction as
one that exceeded “certain parameters” warranting a referral
to the commission.  “We have passed all the information we have” to the
regulators, Tellez said.  UBS’s Mexican brokerage unit executed the transaction for
5.08 million shares, the biggest single  trade  in the bottler’s
shares since Aug. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It’s not specified in the data whether the trade was executed
for clients or on the bank’s behalf.  The shares  changed hands  at a price of 190.48 pesos each, a
4 percent discount to the previous day’s closing price, the data
show. The total transaction value was about 967.6 million pesos
($76 million).  Coca-Cola Femsa shares rose 0.6 percent to 207.67 pesos in
 Mexico  City today, bringing this year’s advance to 8.5 percent.  The Yoli acquisition announcement was Coca-Cola Femsa’s
biggest since September 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  