-- Hungary Police Probes Central Bank Over Data Handling
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-02-21T11:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/hungary-police-probes-central-bank-over-data-handling.html
 Hungary’s police are probing the
country’s central bank after auditors said the regulator
illegally shared information with the International Monetary
Fund and failed to meet data-storage rules.  An investigation was started on suspicion of the abuse of
authority and “other crimes” by the Budapest police
department’s corruption and economic crimes division, the police
press service said in an e-mail today. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank
rejects the auditor’s findings and is “puzzled” by the probe,
it said in an e-mail today.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who will name a new central
bank chief next week, has unsuccessfully pushed MNB President
Andras Simor to quit before his six-year term expires on March
3. The Cabinet has criticized monetary policy for not doing
enough to stimulate growth, while the central bank has said
government measures helped push the economy into a recession.  The State Audit Office has notified the “relevant
authorities” about its findings and “didn’t press charges”
against the central bank, the agency said in a statement today.  Orban’s ruling Fidesz party wants to summon Simor to a
parliamentary committee hearing to discuss the findings of the
Audit Office, MTI state news service reported Feb. 13, citing
Fidesz lawmaker Imre Puskas.  The Audit Office, which like the central bank is an
independent state institution, is headed by Laszlo Domokos, a
former Fidesz lawmaker nominated by Orban in 2010.  The forint weakened 0.5 percent to 292.66 per euro as of
12:05 p.m. in Budapest, falling for the first time in four days.
It has declined 0.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  