-- Eu Sees Hungary Breaching Deficit Limit in Orban Setback
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-02-22T15:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/hungary-fights-for-fiscal-room-as-forecast-ignites-family-feud-.html
The European Union may release
Hungary from its monitoring program for budget offenders, a pre-
election boost to Prime Minister  Viktor Orban .  Orban’s Cabinet committed to “structural” measures, to be
presented in April, that will keep the deficit within the EU
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product, European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in
Brussels today. The gap may widen to 3.4 percent of GDP this
year and in 2014 from 2.4 percent in 2012, the European
Commission, the EU’s executive, forecast today.  Orban, who faces re-election next year, sacrificed growth
to remove the threat of cuts in EU funding, which finances 95
percent of all development projects in the country, the highest
proportion in the bloc, according to the government.
Extraordinary industry taxes in the past two years helped push
the economy into its second recession in four years in 2012. GDP
may shrink 0.1 percent this year and rise 1.3 percent in 2014,
the Brussels-based commission said.  “ Hungary  is one of the promising half-dozen countries that
may receive abrogation from the” so-called excessive-deficit
procedure “in the course of this spring,” Rehn told reporters
today.  The forint weakened 0.1 percent against the euro to 292.12
per euro at 4:21 p.m. in Budapest, paring losses after it
dropped to a two-week low of 293.99 earlier in the day. Yields
on Hungary’s 10-year forint-denominated bonds fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.236 percent, the lowest
in five weeks. The yield fell to a seven-year low of 5.99
percent on Jan. 3, compared with 10.8 percent a year earlier.  Forecasts Questioned  The EU’s forecasts are inaccurate because GDP will grow
almost 1 percent this year, allowing the government to keep the
budget gap “well below” 3 percent, the  Economy Ministry  said
in an e-mailed statement today.  “Don’t let the European Union’s forecasts bother you
because it hasn’t been able to predict our  budget deficit  a
single time,” Orban told an audience at his annual state-of-
the-nation speech in Budapest today.  The commission failed to take into account some revenue
items, including proceeds from the introduction of an electronic
road-toll network, the ministry said. Rehn said the EU executive
is still verifying some budget items to determine whether they
are temporary or structural.  ‘Debt Trap’  Orban wants to persuade EU officials to release the country
from budget shackles in the run-up to 2014 elections, which
would give the government more fiscal freedom. The Cabinet,
which plans to cut utility prices by 30 percent by mid-2014 and
may raise teachers’ wages, has said it won’t go on a spending
spree before the ballot.  Hungary has been under the 27-nation bloc’s excessive-
deficit procedure for budget offenders since it joined in 2004.  While Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy yesterday said
Hungary had “emerged from the debt trap” and made its budget
sustainable, the commission has questioned the sustainability of
the debt reductions.  The 2013 deficit may rise after the phasing-out of
extraordinary taxes introduced in 2010 and other one-time
revenue items accounting for 1 percent of GDP, the commission
said today.  The measures to reduce the deficit and debt levels have
included the nationalization of private-pension fund assets and
retroactive extraordinary taxes on industries, including
 Europe ’s highest bank tax.  Dwindling Investment  Those contributed to dwindling investment and lending,
pushing the economy into its second recession in four years in
2012. The economy’s potential growth rate is near zero,
according to government estimates. Investment will be 17.6
percent of GDP this year, the lowest since 1992, the
International Monetary Fund forecasts.  Growth this year may exceed the government’s 0.9 percent
estimate because of a boost from agriculture and car production,
Cabinet spokesman Andras Giro-Szasz said on Jan. 25. That
contrasts with the EU’s assessment, which projects
“stagnation” this year.  The public debt level may drop to 77.7 percent of GDP next
year from 78.7 percent this year, the commission said. The
inflation rate may decline to 3.6 percent this year and 3.3
percent in 2014 from 5.7 percent in 2012, it forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  