-- Unions, Business Reach Accord on Guest-Worker Visa Needs
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-02-21T20:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/unions-business-reach-accord-on-guest-worker-visa-needs.html
Labor leaders and the nation’s
largest business lobby called for a new visa program to let U.S.
companies hire foreign workers for jobs Americans aren’t
available to fill, signaling progress on a critical component of
immigration law revisions being debated in Washington.  AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka , representing the nation’s
biggest organized labor federation, and U.S. Chamber of Commerce
President Thomas J. Donohue also said today that the government
should create a research bureau to crunch employment and other
data to help identify future U.S. labor shortages and ways to
address them.  While their “joint statement of shared principles” fell
far short of a compromise on one of the thorniest issues in the
immigration debate, it is a public signal that business and
labor -- long at war over a so-called “guest-worker program” -
- are moving toward common ground.  “We are now in the middle -- not the end -- of this
process, and we pledge to continue to work together and with our
allies and our representatives on  Capitol Hill  to finalize a
solution that is in the interest of this country,” Trumka and
Donohue said in their joint statement.  Hispanic Clout  The 2012 elections spotlighted the growing political
influence of Hispanic voters,  71 percent support  of them backed
President  Barack Obama  and helped him win a second term. Since
then, the White House has pressed for a measure to legalize the
11 million  undocumented  immigrants estimated to be living in the
U.S. A bipartisan group of senators is also working to craft
such a measure, aiming to unveil it next month.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  welcomed the labor-
business statement when asked about it today.  “This is yet another sign of progress” and “we are
encouraged by it,” Carney told reporters.  At the same time, he
said, “we remain focused on encouraging the Senate to develop a
comprehensive bill.”  Senator Chuck Schumer, a  New York  Democrat who is one of
the eight-member group working on immigration legislation,
called the agreement “a major step forward.”  “While the devil will be in the details in terms of
fleshing these principles out, our staffs have had very
productive discussions with both sides this week,” Schumer said
in a statement.  Sticking Point  The long-running dispute over how the bill should address
temporary entry for low-skilled foreign workers -- including
janitors, home health care aides and carnival workers -- still
threatens to emerge as a sticking point.  The issue helped defeat a similar immigration effort in
2007, when Obama, then a senator, voted to gut a proposed guest-
worker program and the AFL-CIO opposed the broader bill.  Obama opted against including such a program in his own
blueprint for an immigration rewrite rolled out last month, and
a legislative draft of his administration’s plan first obtained
Feb. 16 by  USA Today  omits it as well.  Labor leaders have said a new low-skilled visa program
could undermine protections and drive down wages for U.S. and
immigrant workers alike, while employers argue they need one to
fill vacancies for jobs Americans are unwilling or unavailable
to perform.  Government Commission  The two sides remain divided over how to structure such a
program. Organized labor wants to put a government commission in
charge of looking at employment and other data and recommending
whether to issue additional visas, and how many.  Businesses are opposed to leaving the decision in the hands
of such a panel, arguing that employers should be allowed to
hire foreigners after showing that they couldn’t find Americans
for the jobs they’re seeking to fill.  “American workers should have a first crack at available
jobs,” the principles state, adding that business and labor
have agreed to try to improve the means by which low-skilled
workers, particularly those in “disadvantaged communities,”
can find out about job openings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  