-- United Says 787 Taken Off Flight Schedule Through June 5
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-02-21T23:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/united-says-787-taken-off-flight-schedule-through-june-5.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
took  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner off its flight schedule for an
additional two months, through June 5, as the planemaker seeks
to fix the grounded jet’s batteries.  The only exception would be to use the 787 on a new route
between Denver and  Tokyo  if the jet is cleared to resume flights
by May 12, the new start date for that service, said Christen David, a United spokeswoman. The Chicago-based carrier had
planned to begin the flight on March 31.  Boeing is poised to present a battery redesign to satisfy
regulators’ safety concerns and get the plane back in the air
within weeks, people familiar with the matter said. The global
fleet was ordered parked last month after a fire on a 787 at the
Boston airport and an emergency landing in  Japan .  “We don’t have visibility on when the 787 will be
restored” to service, David said today in an interview. “We
make changes in our published schedule to give us the utmost
operating flexibility and reliability, and to let our customers
know what aircraft to expect when flying us.”  Boeing said it is “staying in close communication” with
United, the only U.S. airline with 787s, as the Chicago-based
manufacturer works toward getting the model back into service.  “We deeply regret the impact the recent events have had on
the schedule for United and their customers,” said  Marc Birtel ,
a spokesman at the planemaker’s commercial headquarters in
 Seattle .  United said on Feb. 19 that it was taking the Dreamliner
off its schedule through March and replacing the planes with
other aircraft. The world’s biggest carrier has six 787s and is
scheduled to take delivery of two more in the second half of
this year.  The start date for service between Denver and Tokyo’s
Narita airport will be delayed again if the Dreamliner isn’t
ready to fly by May 12, David said.  “There is no viable alternative aircraft,” David said.
“This route is only possible with the 787.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  