-- Vanguard Will Introduce New Canadian ETPs to Boost Market Share
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-02-21T17:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/vanguard-will-introduce-new-canadian-etps-to-boost-market-share.html
Vanguard Group Inc., the biggest
U.S. mutual-fund company, plans to introduce as many as seven
Canadian exchange-traded products this year in an effort to take
market share from  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s iShares.  The  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based asset manager is
considering adding four to seven new products to its current
lineup of 11 Canadian ETFs, said Atul Tiwari, a managing
director for the company’s Canadian operations. Vanguard plans
to eventually boost its Canadian market share to 15 percent from
1 percent, according to James Norris, managing director of
international operations.  “I don’t think it’s unreasonable to have that kind of
success in the handful of countries we’re really focused on,”
said Norris in an interview in Bloomberg’s Toronto office. “We
wouldn’t go into a market if we didn’t think we had a reasonable
chance for that kind of success.”  Vanguard, which oversees more than $2 trillion globally,
entered the Canadian market in December 2011 and faces
competition from iShares  Canada , a unit of BlackRock’s iShares
holds a 75 percent market share and assets under management of
C$40.6 billion ($39.9 billion) as of  November , according to the
company’s website. Vanguard Canada manages about C$680 million
for a 1 percent market share, Tiwari said.  The company may link the new Canadian-listed products to
its U.S.-based funds because they have more liquidity, according
to Tiwari. The Canadian-listed  Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets
Index ETF (VEE)  has a market value of C$115.8 million and invests
primarily in its U.S.  version , which has a market value of $60.2
billion, he said.  Lower Fees  “The other advantage is you get the liquidity of the
underlying product,” Tiwari said. Actively-managed products,
such as mutual funds, are not in Vanguard Canada’s plans at the
moment, he said.  Vanguard will attract customers from iShares because of its
lower management fees, according to Norris. The average expense
ratio for Vanguard Canada’s ETFs is 0.23 percent, compared with
an average 0.51 percent fee for iShares, according to the
companies websites.  “We have a better product, better capabilities and we
align better with clients,” said Norris, who said the firm’s
other key markets include the U.K.,  Australia  and  Hong Kong .
“I’m very confident we will get our fair share.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  