-- Asda Vows to Continue to Drive Down Prices as Sales Slow
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-02-21T16:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/wal-mart-s-asda-u-k-unit-says-fourth-quarter-sales-gained-0-1-.html
Asda, the U.K. supermarket chain
owned by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , said it will continue to reduce
prices on basic food products such as bread, milk and eggs to
lure cash-starved shoppers away from discount rivals.  “The family purse continues to be squeezed” as inflation
outpaces wage growth, Asda Chief Executive Officer Andy Clarke
told reporters in  London  today. The company invested 100 million
pounds ($153 million) last year to lower the prices of
“essentials,” he said.  While the strategy has helped drive volume growth it also
damped sales in the fourth quarter, when revenue at stores open
at least a year advanced 0.1 percent, lower than a 0.3 percent
gain in the previous quarter, Chief Financial Officer Richard Mayfield said.  The U.K’s second-largest grocer is struggling to maintain
market share as an economic slump and the prospect of rising
inflation is curbing household spending, prompting shoppers to
turn to discounters Aldi and Lidl. Asda, which has more than 500
stores in the U.K., is also facing a reviving  Tesco Plc. (TSCO)   Clarke declined to say whether the cost of lower prices in
the current year will match last year’s figure, though the CEO
said the amount would be “significant.”  George.com Expansion  Asda said today it will expand the delivery capability of
its George.com clothing retailer to 24 countries, including
Spain, France and  Denmark . The company will also open more
franchise stores in the Middle East, making the brand available
in 35 countries, it said in a statement.  The slight sales gain in the 14-week fourth quarter ended
Jan. 5, at stores open at least a year and excluding fuel,
compares with 1 percent gain for the fiscal year. Asda’s market
share slipped to 16.7 percent in the 12 weeks to Feb. 2 from
17.1 percent a year earlier, according to  Nielsen data released 
on Feb. 13.  Even so, Asda’s operating income grew faster than sales in
the fourth quarter, Doug McMillon, Wal-Mart CEO of international
operations, said on a call with investors.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, said today that its
fourth-quarter profit rose 8.6 percent, topping analysts’
estimates, as a wider variety of merchandise and lower prices
drew shoppers. The company also projected first-quarter profit
that trailed some analysts’ estimates.  Net income increased to $5.61 billion, or $1.67 a share,
from $5.16 billion, or $1.50, a year earlier, the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company said today in a statement. The average of
22 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was $1.57.  Spending Pressure  U.K. retail sales unexpectedly fell in January as cold
weather kept consumers at home and incomes remained under
pressure, hurting spending on food, household goods and fuel,
the Office of National Statistics said Feb. 15. Food sales fell
to their lowest level since April 2004 in January, declining 1.6
percent on the month and 2.6 percent from a year earlier, the
statistics office said.  Asda, along with most other U.K. supermarkets, was also
forced to withdraw mislabeled beef products that contained horse
meat, in a food scandal that has now spread across  Europe .  Pressure on consumers may continue after some of the U.K.’s
biggest utilities raised gas and electricity prices. Inflation,
which was at 2.7 percent last month, may accelerate in the near
term and remain above the Bank of England’s 2 percent goal for
two years, the central bank said Feb. 13. By comparison, annual
wage growth was 1.4 percent in the quarter through November, ONS
data show.  “It’s been a tough year economically,” CFO Mayfield told
reporters in London. “Inflation went up faster than wage growth
and we don’t see much improvement for customers this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  