-- What’s a Pacific Trade Pact Without Japan?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-21T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/what-s-a-pacific-trade-pact-without-japan-.html
The best news that Japan’s Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe and U.S. President  Barack Obama  could
announce after their meeting on Feb. 22 is that the U.S. wants
Japan to join it in talks on the proposed  Trans-Pacific
Partnership  trade pact -- and that Japan has decided, belatedly,
to take part.  The TPP is a big deal in every sense. The envisaged
partnership already includes 11 countries -- Australia, Brunei,
Canada,  Chile ,  Malaysia ,  Mexico ,  New Zealand ,  Peru ,  Singapore ,
the U.S. and  Vietnam . Japan and South Korea have been thinking
about it. A 13-member TPP would account for 40 percent of global
output and about 30 percent of world trade.  As much as the scale, it’s the ambition. This is the real
surprise. More than a dozen rounds of negotiations have moved
quickly since they began almost three years ago, yet the agenda
has stayed bold. So far, the partners have chosen not to exclude
sensitive sectors -- agriculture, typically, but each country
has its own -- and a far-reaching deal is possible. The TPP,
whose next set of talks opens March 4 in Singapore, is on course
to be not just wider but also deeper than existing regional and
bilateral free-trade agreements.  With the  Doha Round  of multilateral trade talks all but
dead, the TPP has become the best chance to advance liberal
international trade. As the partners themselves stress, it’s an
opportunity for like-minded countries to set a new benchmark for
21st century trade agreements -- one that goes beyond earlier
deals by including cross-border investment, competition policy,
intellectual property and the role of state-owned enterprises.  Japan’s participation at the outset is important, first,
because it advances that bigger vision and, second, because
adding an economy of this size (it’s bigger than the 10 non-U.S.
members added together) substantially boosts the benefits of the
initial TPP. The benefits for Japan itself would be large, too,
but here’s the problem: They’d be large because they’d force a
faster pace of domestic economic restructuring.  Resistance to the TPP has been strong in  Japan  up to now.
The powerful rice-farming lobby rightly fears the TPP agenda.
Attempts to confront the lobby have been sporadic and lacking in
conviction.  Japan’s taking part in the TPP would tilt the balance of
interest-group politics in  Tokyo  in a helpful direction, by
setting exporters’ potential gains against farmers’ potential
losses. That wouldn’t guarantee the rice lobby’s defeat, of
course. It wouldn’t be riskless for the other TPP members
either: Conceivably, it could start a reciprocal process of
sector-by-sector carve-outs that diminishes the whole project.
On balance, though, it’s better for all the partners -- and
especially for Japanese consumers -- if Abe brings his country
in.  Japan’s leaders have calculated that there’s no hurry: They
can let the TPP take shape and join later in the process.  So they can. A notable feature of the TPP is that the
planned membership has expanded during the negotiations:  Canada 
and Mexico signed up only in October, for instance. A TPP could
and should embrace  China  in due course, and become the Free
Trade Area of the Asia Pacific. In fact, so long as the TPP
stays open to new members willing to join on the same terms -- a
crucial principle -- it could be the model for a new global
trade system.  But digesting an economy as big as Japan’s late in the
process is difficult. The longer the delay, the more it’s apt to
slow and perhaps derail the talks. If Japan waits even longer,
with the aim of joining a fully formed TPP, it will put itself
at a disadvantage as well as deny the project its full initial
momentum.  The U.S. should send a strong message that it wants Japan
to join, and Abe should seize the moment.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 