-- Whitehaven Coal Expects Final Maules Creek Approval Soon
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-02-21T05:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/whitehaven-coal-expects-final-maules-creek-approval-soon.html
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) ,  Australia ’s
second-biggest independent coal producer, expects soon to
complete approvals for its A$766 million ($785 million) Maules
Creek mine, maintaining its target for first output next year.  “The issues left to be answered we believe we’ll be able
to deal with those in quick fashion,” Mark Vaile, chairman of
the Sydney-based company, said today in a phone interview. “The
work that we’ve done particularly in the original application to
the state government contains all the reassurances that the
federal government needs.”  Whitehaven, which today appointed non-executive director
Paul Flynn to succeed Tony Haggarty as chief executive officer,
gained a conditional approval on Feb. 11 for the project from
federal Environment Minister Tony Burke. The mine in New South
Wales state has faced opposition from local green groups and
farmers concerned about damage to a forest and cropping land.  “Our absolute focus as a company is to finalize our
approvals process which we expect will be sooner rather than
later,” Vaile said. The company expects to start production in
the first half of next year.  Whitehaven fell 6.1 percent to A$2.94 at the close of
trading in Sydney, the most since Aug. 24. The S&P/ASX 200
Materials Index decline 3.4 percent.  Whitehaven has said it was “extremely disappointed” about
delays in gaining approvals after starting the process in August
2010. In the conditional approval, Burke asked for additional
work including limiting clearance of vegetation to minimize its
environmental impact.  Vaile said he’d had no direct contact in recent times with
 Nathan Tinkler , the company’s biggest shareholder. Tinkler Group
in August  scrapped  a takeover valuing the producer at A$5.3
billion. Tinkler in October sought to oppose the election of
five board directors, including Flynn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  