-- Williams Says Fed Bond-Buying Needed Well Into This Year
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-02-21T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/williams-says-fed-bond-buying-needed-well-into-this-year.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams  said the central bank’s bond-
buying will be needed well into 2013, as he urged Fed policy
makers to maintain “strong monetary stimulus” to foster
economic expansion.  “We need powerful and continuing monetary accommodation to
move toward our mandated goals,” Williams said in the text of
prepared remarks in New York today, referring to the central
bank’s mission to achieve  maximum employment  and price
stability. “Purchases of mortgage-backed securities and longer-
term Treasury securities will be needed well into the second
half of this year.”  The Fed affirmed a plan in January to keep buying $85
billion in bonds per month, seeking to bolster growth and reduce
unemployment even as some officials are starting to express
concern that the program may have unintended consequences.
Several participants said the policy-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee  should be prepared to adjust the pace of purchases,
according to minutes of the meeting released yesterday.  “Both the employment and the inflation signals are
flashing the same message, and that is that strong monetary
stimulus is essential,” said Williams, who is not a voting
member of the FOMC this year. Unemployment stood at 7.9 percent
last month, while the Fed’s preferred price measure, issued by
the Commerce Department and tied to  consumer spending , rose 1.3
percent in the 12 months ended December.  Interest Rate  After having cut its  main interest rate  to near zero, the
Fed has been experimenting with unprecedented policies to fuel
growth. In September, the central bank began its third round of
large-scale asset purchases, saying it would buy $40 billion in
mortgage bonds per month. The Fed in December expanded the
purchases to include a monthly $45 billion in Treasuries.  The FOMC has not said how long it intends to maintain what
officials have called an open-ended program, only saying it is
waiting for substantial improvement in the  labor market .  A number of officials said the costs of their stimulus may
prompt them to reduce or end their purchases before the labor
market substantially improves, according to minutes of the Jan.
29-30 gathering. “Several others” noted the risks of pulling
back the stimulus too soon, the record said.  Williams said today that some brighter parts of the economy
include the auto and housing industries, adding that those
improvements were facilitated by Fed’s record-low interest
rates. The job market has been “lackluster” and the
unemployment rate probably won’t drop below 6.5 percent -- the
benchmark the FOMC has given for a possible start for rate
increases -- until the second half of 2015, he said.  ‘Key Signal’  “The Fed’s  unemployment-rate  threshold can best be
understood as a key signal that will help us determine how well
we’re moving toward maximum employment,” Williams told the
Forecasters Club of New York. “When we consider when to 
start raising the federal funds rate, we’ll examine the full 
range of information about the labor market and broader 
economic conditions.”  The Fed last month left unchanged its December link between
its  interest-rate  outlook and economic thresholds, saying
borrowing costs will stay low “at least as long” as
joblessness exceeds 6.5 percent and if projected inflation
doesn’t go beyond 2.5 percent between one and two years in the
future.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  