-- Won Weakens on Concern Fed Will Refrain From Extending Stimulus
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-02-21T01:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/won-weakens-on-concern-fed-will-refrain-from-extending-stimulus.html
The won snapped a two-day rally, on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  may refrain from extending its
monetary easing to boost growth in the U.S., South Korea’s
second-biggest export market.  Government bonds  rose.  The minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Jan.
29-30 meeting showed policy makers were divided about the
strategy behind Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s program of buying
bonds until there is “substantial” improvement in the U.S.
labor market burdened with 7.9 percent unemployment. South
Korea’s incoming President Park Geun Hye said yesterday currency
stability is important.  “Investors are concerned the U.S. may end its stimulus
program and that may dry up the supply of dollars as foreign
investors pull money away from  emerging markets ,” said Hong
Seok Chan, analyst at Daishin Economic Research Institute in
Seoul. “The won also fell after South Korea’s president-elect
said currency stability is important for exporters.”  The won dropped 0.5 percent to 1,083.80 per dollar as of
10:38 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, climbed seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.82 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Incoming President Park said yesterday currency stability
is needed to protect South Korean companies and the nation will
“pre-emptively, effectively” respond to the foreign-exchange
risk, according to an e-mailed statement from her spokesman Park
Sun Kyoo. The won gained 1.6 percent last week, the biggest
five-day advance since the period ended Dec. 2, 2011. China is
South Korea’s biggest export market.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent notes due 2017 fell
one basis point to 2.81 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices
show.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said in an interview
this week an improved global outlook boosts the odds of 2013
economic growth exceeding forecasts, signaling further monetary
easing isn’t needed for now. The central bank kept the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  at 2.75 percent on Feb. 14 after cuts
of 25 basis points each in July and October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  