-- Woodside Talking With Companies in Canada on Gas Partnership
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-21T06:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/woodside-in-talks-with-companies-in-canada-for-gas-partnership.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,  Australia ’s
second-biggest oil producer, said it’s in talks with companies
for a potential partnership to enter  Canada ’s  natural gas 
industry to tap rising Asian demand.  “It’s natural in an area that has the sort of hydrocarbon
resource that Canada does that Woodside is in there talking to
people,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Coleman  said today in an
interview in Sydney, declining to name any companies.  Woodside, expanding overseas as Australia’s liquefied
natural gas industry struggles with rising costs, is looking at
possible deals in North America, Coleman said.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Petroliam Nasional Bhd. are pursuing
gas exports from western Canada to Asian markets, where the
commodity sells at a premium to North American prices.  “There is potential to add value in Canada,”  Mark Wiseman ,
a Sydney-based analyst at Goldman Sachs Australia Pty said today
in an e-mail response to questions. “Those projects will likely
be toward the upper end of the LNG cost curve. They won’t be
cheap, and may face delays. But with strong demand growth in the
Asian market, several Canadian projects should find a home.”  Woodside fell 2.9 percent to A$37.95 at the close in Sydney,
while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 2.3 percent. The
stock has gained 5.4 percent in the past six months.  ‘Substantial Partners’  “We’re trying to understand what is the business model
that would make sense for Woodside in Canada, recognizing that
we’re starting a couple of years behind some competitors,” said
Coleman, who joined Woodside in 2011 after 27 years with Exxon
Mobil Corp. “Any entry into  North America  would require some
very knowledgeable and substantial partners.”  Perth-based Woodside, operator of the A$15 billion ($15.4
billion) Pluto LNG development and North West Shelf venture in
 Western Australia , agreed in December to pay as much as $2.3
billion for a stake in  Israel ’s largest natural gas field,
Leviathan. The oil and gas producer also reached two exploration
agreements last year off the Myanmar coast.  British Columbia expects as many as seven LNG export
projects in the province, with the first built as soon as 2015,
Rich Coleman, provincial Minister of Energy, Mines and Natural
Gas, said in September. British Columbia holds an estimated 200
trillion cubic feet of gas in shale formations.  “British Columbia really doesn’t have material hydrocarbon
production, so you are in a situation where you have a province
that is still learning,” Coleman said. If Woodside opts to
expand in North America, “you would hope that it would be to
leverage our LNG expertise,” he added.  Export Terminal  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  is seeking a partnership with Woodside to
develop a natural gas export terminal in Canada, the Globe &
Mail reported in December, citing unnamed sources. Coleman
declined to say whether Woodside is talking with Enbridge.  Surging production from shale fields has reduced the cost
of U.S. gas to about 20 percent of Asian prices.  Japan  paid the
equivalent of $15.79 per million British thermal units for LNG
in December, according to data from the country’s Ministry of
Finance. U.S. gas futures traded in  New York  reached a 10-year
low in April of less than $2 per million Btu. They traded at
$3.255 per million Btu at 2:52 p.m. Tokyo time.  More M&A  More international acquisitions are likely for Woodside,
James Bullen, a Sydney-based analyst at Bank of America Corp.,
said yesterday in a note after Woodside reported its annual
profit almost doubled to a record $2.98 billion. Coleman “wants
Woodside to remain a growth company” and to broaden its
business outside Australia, Bullen said.  Pluto has boosted Woodside’s sales and output since
starting in April. The company had operating cash flow of $3.48
billion last year, a gain of 55 percent from 2011.  While Woodside was informed last week it was unsuccessful
in a bid for gas exploration rights off Cyprus, the company will
look at entering that market later, Coleman said.  “Are we disappointed we missed out?” Coleman said. “Yes
we are. But Cyprus is not off the radar screen.”  Energy companies from Chevron to  ConocoPhillips (COP)  are
building seven LNG projects in Australia at a cost of about
A$190 billion to meet Asian demand. While the projects have put
Australia on course to surpass Qatar as the world’s biggest
exporter of LNG by 2020, developers face increasing construction
costs and global supply competition.  Browse, Sunrise  Woodside expects to decide by mid-year whether to go ahead
with the Browse LNG project in Western Australia, estimated by
Deutsche Bank AG to cost A$44 billion, and plans to develop the
Sunrise floating LNG venture in the  Timor Sea . Woodside last
year put a proposed Pluto expansion on hold after saying that
its drilling campaign failed to find enough gas.  Woodside has been talking with the government of  East Timor 
to resolve a dispute stalling Sunrise. East Timor has sought to
pipe the gas to a processing plant in the country, while
Woodside has proposed developing a floating LNG plant.  “If we’ve not made progress within the next 12 months, and
significant progress, I’m not sure where Sunrise is going to
be,” Coleman said today. “Deals have their window, and it
doesn’t stay open forever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  