-- Billionaire Okada Resigns From Wynn Board Ahead of Vote
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-22T08:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/wynn-resorts-director-okada-resigns-ahead-of-shareholder-vote.html
Kazuo Okada, the Japanese
billionaire facing removal from  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s board of
directors today, resigned ahead of a shareholder vote he was
certain to lose.  Okada, chairman of pachinko machine maker  Universal
Entertainment Corp. (6425) , will continue his fight with founder  Steve Wynn  to recover his  stock  in the Las Vegas-based casino company,
according to a statement yesterday.  Wynn Resorts seized Okada’s 20 percent stake at a 30
percent discount a year ago, handing him a $1.9 billion
promissory note. The fight broke into public view earlier when
Okada questioned a $135 million donation the company made to a
Macau university foundation. Wynn Resorts accused Okada of
extending gifts and cash to Asian casino regulators.  A preliminary vote count showed 99.7 percent of those
casting ballots backed removal of Okada, and the  company  will
hold its special meeting as planned, Wynn Resorts said in a
statement. Okada failed last week to persuade a federal judge to
halt the special shareholder meeting. His ouster from the  board 
is the only item to be addressed at the meeting.  Wynn Financing  “We greatly appreciate the overwhelming support from our
stockholders,” Steve Wynn, the company’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  Wynn Resorts fell 0.9 percent to $115.53 in  New York 
yesterday, trimming its  gain this year  to 2.7 percent.  Wynn Macau , the Hong Kong-listed arm,  closed  unchanged at
HK$20.05 on the city’s stock exchange today, and has lost 4.3
percent this year. Universal Entertainment  rose  0.8 percent to
1,560 yen in Tokyo trading and has gained 5.1 percent this year.  The 70-year-old Okada is chairman of Tokyo-based Universal
Entertainment. He helped Steve Wynn finance the casino operator
that went public in October 2002 and was its largest individual
shareholder until last February.  Wynn, 71, and his ex-wife Elaine control almost 20  percent 
of the company after Okada’s stake was redeemed, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Okada has said Wynn wanted him out because he opposed the
university gift.  “I supported Mr. Wynn during some of his darkest days and
provided the company’s predecessor entity with $260 million in
critical  funding  to get off the ground,” Okada said yesterday.
“When Mr. Wynn needed my money, I was more than good enough for
him and the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  