-- Hybrid Structured Note Sales Rise as Volatility Falls to Low
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-02-21T18:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/hybrid-structured-note-sales-rise-as-volatility-falls-to-low.html
U.S. banks sold $271.9 million of
structured notes that are tied to multiple types of assets in
February, the most in almost two years, as volatility fell to
its lowest level since 2007.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  led issuers with $179.6 million of
sales of hybrid securities, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Such notes are linked to different assets, typically
equities and currencies or commodities.  Investors sometimes bundle together several bets to
increase potential returns, with U.S. stock volatility so low,
said Justin Capetola, managing partner at Blue Bell Private
Wealth Management LLC in Blue Bell, Pennsylvania. On Feb. 19,
the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, commonly
known as the VIX, closed at 12.31, the lowest since April 20,
2007.  Hybrid notes can be more volatile than other types of
securities, boosting the value of their embedded options and
allowing banks to create more attractive terms for them, he
said.  The next biggest month for offerings was in March 2011,
when banks sold $305.9 million worth of the notes, Bloomberg
data show.  Credit Suisse issued the largest hybrid this month, $171.4
million of one-year securities tied to the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index and the Chinese  yuan . The securities, issued
Feb. 1, yield twice the gains of the benchmark adjusted for the
 exchange rate  between the dollar and the offshore  renminbi , with
a cap of 32.5 percent, according to a  prospectus  filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
distributed the notes for a 1 percent fee.  Investors bought $1.01 billion worth of hybrid notes last
year, 13 percent less than in 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  