-- Yota Devices in MegaFon Talks on Dual-Screen Phone Debut
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-02-21T09:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/yota-devices-in-megafon-talks-on-dual-screen-phone-debut.html
Yota Devices , a Russian smartphone
startup, is in talks to sign up the country’s second-biggest
wireless operator as its first customer for a dual-screen
handset the manufacturer plans to introduce in the second half.  The phonemaker is negotiating with  OAO MegaFon (MFON)  and “large
operators” developing so-called fourth-generation networks in
 Europe ,  South Africa  and  Asia  to offer the YotaPhone, Chief
Executive Officer Vlad Martynov said. He declined to elaborate.
The manufacturer plans to start selling the device for about
$650 by year-end, he said.  The company, a maker of modems and routers, was part of
mobile-phone operator Yota Holdings until billionaire  Alisher
Usmanov  bought the network last year and a group of Russian
investors took over the manufacturing business. The YotaPhone,
equipped with an electronic-paper screen on the back in addition
to a standard touch screen on the front, is aimed at changing
the market in the way that  Research In Motion Ltd. (BB) ’s BlackBerry
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone did earlier, Martynov said.  “Phonemakers are obsessed with better resolution in
cameras or experimenting with gadgets’ size,” Martynov said in
an interview in his Moscow office. “In terms of user
experience, there have been no revolutions since the first
iPhone came to the market six years ago.”  Petr Lidov, a spokesman for Moscow-based MegaFon, confirmed
the mobile operator’s potential interest in the YotaPhone,
declining to comment further because of the “early stage” of
the project.  MegaFon, with 63 million subscribers, ranks second in
 Russia  to  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MTSS) , which serves 71 million
customers.  2010 Brainstorming  Martynov, an engineer who worked for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in the
U.S. and ran the Russian business of German software maker  SAP
AG (SAP)  for two years, said the device is the result of a
brainstorming session by Yota managers in 2010 focused on “a
simple idea: what we don’t like in smartphones.”  One of the main annoyances was that screens of phones that
aren’t in use stay black, lighting up only a short time if a
call or text arrives, posing a risk of delay in spotting a
message, Martynov said. Also, reading on a standard smartphone
is limited to about four hours before the power dies, he said.  “We came up with the idea of a second, electronic-paper
screen, which saves batteries,” Martynov said. “Then we
created scenarios enabling user to send to the back screen
whatever he wants -- an electronic book, a notification, a map
he needs, an electronic airline ticket.”  Finnish Engineers  Yota Devices employs 50 people, including former Nokia
engineers in Oulu,  Finland , and former executives of RIM and
Microsoft. The YotaPhone uses  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system and chipsets from  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and will be assembled by
Singapore-based  Hi-P International Ltd. (HIP) , which produces
BlackBerry smartphones.  Development costs will probably total $25 million by the
end of 2013, and the company needs to sell at least 500,000
YotaPhones to remain in the market long-term, offering new
models every 10 months, Martynov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  