-- Zloty Bonds Rally as Fitch Revises Poland’s Outlook to Positive
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-02-21T16:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-21/zloty-bonds-rally-as-fitch-revises-poland-s-outlook-to-positive.html
Polish bond yields fell to a two-
week low and the zloty erased losses as  Fitch Ratings  changed
its outlook on Poland’s A- credit rating to positive, citing a
lower  budget deficit  and stabilized public debt.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year zloty bond
fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.99 percent
at 5:31 p.m. in Warsaw, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield hit a record low of 3.71 percent on Dec. 21, the data
show.  The revision from a stable outlook reflects a narrowing of
the country’s budget deficit to an estimated 3.4 percent of
economic output last year and a stabilization of public debt at
around 54.5 percent of gross domestic product, Fitch said in a
statement. The ratings company said pension changes will
“improve medium-term sustainability of public finances” and
 Poland ’s long-term growth potential could increase if the
government helped improve the business environment.  “This is definitely good news for local bonds and also the
zloty,” Esther Law, a senior emerging-market strategist in
 London  at Societe Generale SA, wrote in a note today. “This
outlook should also offer reassurance for Polish government debt
holders, who are worried about positioning becoming heavier
these days.”  The zloty traded less than 0.1 percent stronger at 4.1593
against the euro. The yield on Poland’s euro-denominated notes
due in 2024 fell six basis points to 3.11 percent.  Foreign Inflows  Foreign investors have bought record amounts of Polish
bonds in the last three years after the country’s economy became
the only one in the European Union to avoid recession since the
global debt crisis in 2008. That helped cut borrowing costs to
the lowest since the fall of communism in 1989.  Fitch has kept Poland’s rating at A-, the fourth-highest
investment grade, since 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. An upgrade could result from continued progress with
fiscal consolidation that puts the public debt ratio on a
“clear downward path,” along with a “material reduction” in
external debt ratios, according to the statement.  “Public debt ratio will be slow to improve as we need a
rebound in growth, which is not happening this year for sure,”
Viktor Szabo, who helps manage $11 billion in emerging-market
debt at Aberdeen Asset Management, said in e-mailed response to
questions today. “I don’t think that will have have a material
impact on bonds.  Europe  is still holding Polish ratings back.”  The European Union’s largest eastern economy expanded at
its slowest pace since 2009 last year as the euro area, its
biggest trading partner, slipped into recession and consumers
curbed their spending in the face of rising unemployment.  Moody’s Investors Service is “continuing to maintain a
stable outlook on the sovereign’s A2 rating,” Jaime Reusche, a
New York-based analyst at the company, said in an e-mail today
responding to questions from  Bloomberg News . The company rates
Poland one step above Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  