-- 
`No Brainer’ for Australia to Stop Singapore Exchange's ASX Bid, Swan Says

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-04-08T01:16:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/-no-brainer-for-australia-to-stop-singapore-exchange-s-asx-bid-swan-says.html
Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
rejected  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s bid for  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , saying the 
deal was not in his nation’s interest and would have left the 
local bourse operator as a junior partner.  “It was a no brainer that this deal was not in  Australia ’s
national interest,” Swan told reporters today in Canberra,
three days after the nation’s Foreign Investment Review Board
advised the government to reject it. “At the end of the day
this takeover was more about growing Singapore’s financial
sector than Australia’s. I am open to the right deal for
Australia if it comes along.”  Singapore Exchange offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 in a cash-
and-share deal then valued at A$8.4 billion ($8.8 billion), a 42
percent premium to ASX’s share price, in what it described as a
merger to create the world’s fifth-largest exchange. In February,
Singapore Exchange Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  offered
to give more board seats to Australians in a concession aimed at
overcoming opposition from lawmakers in Canberra.  “Let’s be clear here: this is not a merger,” Swan said
today. “It’s a takeover that would see Australia’s financial
sector become a subsidiary to a competitor in  Asia .”  Pressure on rival exchanges to consolidate is increasing as
the fight to attract global capital intensifies. This year,
Europe’s  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext agreed to merge,
while  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  said it would buy Canada’s
 TMX Group Inc. (X)   ‘Open Mind’  “This takeover would not enhance our access to global
financial markets,” Swan said. “The claims made by the
applicants didn’t stack up. I had no hesitation in rejecting
it.”  ASX’s shares climbed as much as 0.6 percent to A$33.68 in
Sydney trading today, while Singapore Exchange jumped as much as
2.1 percent to S$8.32.  Swan said the Singapore government’s interest in the
country’s bourse operator was not a factor in his decision. He
said he asked the Council of Financial Regulators to look at a
regulatory overhaul to protect issuers and investors for a
future bid by another exchange.  Any future bid would need to build Australia as a financial
services hub, increase its integration into global capital
markets, boost access to capital for local companies and support
financial sector jobs, Swan said.  “I doubt ASX will sit on their hands,” said  Angus Gluskie ,
who helps manage $350 million at White Funds Management Pty in
Sydney. “SGX and ASX could seek to amend the structure of their
arrangement, tilting the transaction more along the lines of a
merger of equals, and re-apply. Alternatively, ASX may wish to
examine merger opportunities or other strategic tie-ups with
exchanges other than SGX.”  Swan Non-Committal  Swan would not comment about the possibility of  Singapore
Exchange  returning with a revised offer. “I can’t speculate
about a future application from the SGX or anybody else and I
don’t intend to do that,” he said.  Earlier this week, the Treasurer sought to reassure
investors that a rejection of Singapore Exchange’s bid wouldn’t
signal increased scrutiny or obstacles for overseas deals.  Singapore’s Exchange’s bid is the first proposed foreign
merger to be opposed on national interest grounds in Australia
since former treasurer Peter Costello blocked a $3.2 billion bid
by Royal Dutch Shell Plc in 2001 to take control of Woodside
Petroleum Ltd.  FIRB rejected three of 4,404 applications in the year ended
June 30, 2010, according to its annual report. Foreigners had
A$782.1 billion invested in the Australian economy at the end of
2010, compared with A$774.9 billion a year earlier, the latest
government  statistics  show.  China Approval  Swan in April 2009 approved with conditions a $1.2 billion
bid by China Minmetals Group, the nation’s biggest trader of
metals, to buy most of OZ Minerals Ltd.’s mines. FIRB in 2009
blocked State-owned China Non-Ferrous Metal Mining (Group) Co.’s
A$252 million bid for Lynas Corp. because it would threaten
supply to non-Chinese buyers of rare earths.  Singapore Exchange’s bid to create the world’s fifth-
largest exchange, trading about $2 trillion of shares, was
opposed by several Australian parliamentarians. Swan’s minority
Labor government, led by  Julia Gillard , would have needed
support from four non-party lawmakers for parliamentary approval
of the proposal.  In mid-2005, the combined value of shares traded on the
Australian and Singapore exchanges exceeded that of  Hong Kong .
Since then, the Hong Kong exchange has attracted more companies
and is now about $520 billion bigger, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Junior Partner’  Singapore Exchange’s bid valued ASX at 19.5 times earnings
before interest and taxes, almost twice as much as the 10.4
times involved in LSE’s bid for TMX Group, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That also compares with 11.2 times offered by
 Deutsche Boerse  for  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   Approval of the deal would have left ASX as a “junior
partner” in the merger, Swan said today, adding that FIRB’s
advice against the tie-up was surprisingly strong. “This is not
normally the attitude of the FIRB,” he said.  Swan said the Treasury, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, and
the  Australian Securities and Investments Commission  also had
raised concerns about regulatory oversight when it came to
Singapore Exchange’s bid.  The  Foreign Investment Review Board  is a unit within
Australia’s Treasury Department and gives advice to the
treasurer on whether proposals should be approved. The treasurer
then makes a decision and announces it, often without providing
details on the board’s recommendations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net 
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 