-- 
About 35,000 Treasury Employees to Keep Working, U.S. Says

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-04-08T15:18:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/about-35-000-treasury-employees-to-keep-working-u-s-says.html
About 92,000 U.S. Treasury
Department workers would be furloughed in the event of a
government shutdown and 35,000 would keep working, the
department said.  The  Internal Revenue Service , which makes up the bulk of
the Treasury budget, would keep 21 percent of its employees on
the job during a shutdown.  “Because the possible lapse comes at the height of the
annual tax-filing season, the majority of these employees would
be excepted from furlough to handle essential tax-filing and
service functions of the IRS,” Dan Tangherlini, the Treasury’s
chief financial officer, wrote in a  blog posting  on the
department’s website today.  If the government shuts down, people with appointments
related to tax audits, collections or appeals “should assume
their meetings are canceled,” Tangherlini wrote. The IRS would
reschedule those appointments.  Even if Congress fails to reach a budget agreement today
and the government closes, U.S. taxpayers still are required to
file their returns by April 18, he said. Taxpayers are “urged
to file electronically, because most of these returns are
processed automatically and would not be delayed,” Tangherlini
wrote.  Limited Customer Service  Processing of paper returns would be held up, delaying
refunds. IRS walk-in taxpayer service centers wouldn’t be open,
and there will be only “limited telephone customer service
functions,” Tangherlini wrote.  At the IRS, 23,176 of the agency’s 111,133 employees would
continue to work, according to the  IRS shutdown contingency plan 
posted on the Treasury website today. The majority of those
employees process tax returns and manage taxpayer account
information. The IRS criminal law enforcement division will also
remain open.  The Treasury Department will “continue to provide key
functions in a limited capacity, such as economic analysis,
implementation of tax policies and programs, management of the
government’s cash position, and the continuation of
borrowing/debt programs, including work related to adjusting the
debt limit,” the agency said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net 
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  