-- 
Lactalis Shouldn’t Face Parmalat Barriers, EU’s Almunia Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-04-08T18:43:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/lactalis-purchase-of-parmalat-stake-followed-by-eu-s-almunia.html
Groupe Lactalis’s possible takeover
of Italian dairy company  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  shouldn’t be thwarted by
the country’s government, according to  Joaquin Almunia , the
European Union’s antitrust chief.  Joaquin Almunia, who’s in charge of probing merger deals in
the 27-nation EU, said he’s keeping a close eye on the
situation. Fellow EU commissioner  Michel Barnier  said today that
he’s seeking reassurances from Italy about possible barriers to
investment.  “If we are serious about putting  Europe ’s economy back on
track, we must keep the internal market open and competitive,
not raise protectionist barriers,” Almunia said in prepared
remarks for a speech in  St. Gallen  in Switzerland today. “That
is why I am closely following the developments of Lactalis’s
acquisition of a stake in Parmalat.”  Italy  has adopted a series of measures to try to block
Lactalis from transforming its 29 percent stake into management
control of Parmalat, the country’s biggest dairy company. The
government authorized a stated-owned lender to buy shares in
companies identified as strategic and also allowed Parmalat to
reschedule a vote on Lactalis’s management slate to give Italian
investors more time to mount a defense.  Abiding by Rules  The commission is “concerned principally” about whether
Italy is abiding by rules on competition and free movement of
capital, Barnier told reporters after a meeting of European
finance officials in Godollo, Hungary. “They must be complied
with,” he said.  Barnier, the EU commissioner for financial services and the
internal market, said he still had “every faith” that Italian
measures to protect its industry would comply with the bloc’s
rules.  Barnier said he met today with Italian Finance Minister
Giulio Tremonti. He declined to say if Parmalat was discussed,
as did Tremonti when asked about the meeting by Bloomberg News.  The commission yesterday sent a letter to the Italian
government requesting details on Laval, France-based Lactalis’s
purchase of part of Parmalat, Barnier’s spokeswoman  Chantal Hughes  said.  Block Trade  EU antitrust officials are still checking if they will
review the Lactalis transaction under merger rules, Almunia
said. “If this is an EU case, indeed we will deal with the case
in a very straightforward orientation,” he said. Barnier can
separately take legal action against countries that block trade
within the EU.  Almunia said today he’s also keeping watch on the role of
the Chinese state in merger deals that are probed by the EU.  He said his team examines whether Chinese state-owned
companies active in the same industry are independent or “act
as one.”  PetroChina Co., the country’s biggest energy producer, this
week sought EU approval to buy a 50 percent stake in  Encana
Corp. (ECA) ’s Cutbank Ridge gas assets in  Canada  for C$5.4 billion
($5.7 billion.) The EU has an initial deadline of May 16 to rule
on the deal.  European regulators this year approved without conditions a
$2 billion purchase of silicon businesses from  Orkla ASA (ORK) ’s Elkem
unit by chemicals maker China National BlueStar Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in St. Gallen at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 