-- 
Allen Stanford Investor Suit Should Be Dismissed, SEC Says

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-04-09T00:29:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/allen-stanford-investors-suit-against-sec-should-be-dismissed-u-s-says.html
The U.S. asked a federal judge to
throw out claims that the Securities and Exchange Commission
should be held accountable for failing to stop an alleged  Ponzi
scheme  by R. Allen Stanford earlier than it did.  SEC officials have legal protection for policy decisions,
such as whether to take enforcement action when they suspect
wrongdoing, the government said in papers filed yesterday in
federal court in Dallas.  “Plaintiffs are challenging a policy choice -- something
they may not do by way of a tort suit for damages,” the
government said in the filing. “Congress did not intend to
provide for judicial review of the quality of investigative
efforts.”  Eight investors in the indicted financier’s Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd. sued regulators last month for
their losses, which amounted to about $18.7 million. They said
“negligence and misconduct” by officials in the SEC’s Fort
Worth,  Texas , office let Stanford’s activities continue
unchecked for years after alarms were raised by agency
investigators.  Edward Gonzalez, the investors’ attorney, said federal law
doesn’t shield the U.S. from liability for damages caused by
government misconduct.  Immunity Limits  “The complaint in this case clearly alleges such
misconduct,” Gonzalez said in an e-mail. “The suggestion that
a blanket of immunity covers all enforcement-related acts by SEC
personnel is incorrect.”  The SEC seized Stanford’s businesses in February 2009 on
suspicion he was paying above-market rates to early buyers of
certificates of deposit by taking funds from later depositors.
Stanford, who denies all wrongdoing, was indicted in June 2009
on charges he defrauded investors of more than $7 billion.  The SEC’s inspector general, in a report issued last year,
faulted the agency’s  Fort Worth  office and some of its employees
for failing to take action against Stanford sooner.  The Fort Worth staff conducted four reviews of Houston-
based Stanford Financial Group Co. starting in 1997 and
determined after each one that Stanford’s purported CD returns
were highly unlikely, SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz said
in the report. In spite of those determinations, the SEC didn’t
conduct a meaningful probe of Stanford’s operation until 2005,
he said.  The investor case is Robert Juan Dartez LLC v. U.S., 3:11-
cv-0602, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas). The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 