-- 
Allianz Full-Year Profit Target Not Endangered by Japan Quake

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-04-08T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/allianz-full-year-profit-target-not-endangered-by-japan-quake.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest
insurer, said its 2011 profit target is not endangered by claims
it may face from the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  “At this point in time, we have no reason to change the
operating profit outlook,” Allianz finance head Paul Achleitner
told reporters in Frankfurt today. “We are working to get
reliable numbers. Hopefully we will be able to provide them at
our shareholder meeting.”  Allianz, which is scheduled to hold its annual investor
meeting in Munich on May 4, forecast operating profit of 7.5
billion euros ($10.8 billion) to 8.5 billion euros this year.
That compares with 8.2 billion euros in 2010, which topped the
upper end of the insurer’s targeted range.  Following the 9.0-magnitude earthquake, which struck off
Japan’s coast on March 11, and other natural disasters such as
the earthquake in  New Zealand  and flooding in Australia,
insurers and reinsurers face their most costly start to a year.  Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-biggest insurer, expects costs from
the earthquake and tsunami in Japan of more than 100 million
euros, Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries said last
month.  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s biggest
insurer, on March 31 estimated total claims of about $500
million from the series of natural disasters that hit the Asia-
Pacific region this year.  Allianz, which generated about 60 percent of its operating
profit from investment income on average over the past five
years, seeks to increase holdings of real estate and alternative
assets such as renewable energy and commodities in 2011,
Achleitner said.  ‘Further Momentum’  In renewable energy, the insurer focuses on onshore wind
and solar photovoltaic, according to  David Jones , head of
Allianz Specialised Investments. The company has invested more
than 1 billion euros in the industry since 2005, mostly in wind
and solar projects in the euro zone.  “The Japanese nuclear disaster might add further momentum
to the renewable energy sector, however it doesn’t have a direct
impact on Allianz’s investment strategy in the space,” Jones
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  