-- 
Man. City's Mancini Says Adebayor Can Stay at Madrid, Sun Says: Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-08T10:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/man-city-s-mancini-says-adebayor-can-stay-at-madrid-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Adios Adebayor?  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  has opened the door
for Emmanuel Adebayor to stay at Real Madrid at the end of his
loan stint, the  Sun said .  Adebayor joined Real in January through the end of the
season and the Spanish club has a 15 million-pound ($25 million)
option to make it permanent, the Sun said. The striker scored
two goals in Real’s 4-0 Champions League win over Tottenham
three days ago.  “At the end of the season, we will see. If he wants to
stay, he can,” Mancini said.  Referees Revolt  Premier League referees are unhappy that Lee Mason was put
under pressure to write a report that led to the Football
Association giving  Wayne Rooney  a two-match ban for swearing,
the  Daily Mirror  said.  The  Manchester United  forward was suspended for cursing
into a television camera after scoring a hat trick at West Ham
last week. Mason’s admission in the report that he would have
sent Rooney off had he been aware of the incident led to Rooney
being charged.  Referees now feel Mason was “used” by the F.A., who
wanted to charge the striker, the Mirror said.  Custard Pie  Wolverhampton manager Mick McCarthy has dismissed the idea
winger Matt Jarvis, who been linked with  Aston Villa  and
Liverpool, will be leaving Molineux in the summer, the  Daily
Mail  said.  “Jarvis is not for sale at any price,” the newspaper
quoted McCarthy as saying. “If anyone comes knocking at my
door, they will get a custard pie.”  Barton’s Boast  Newcastle’s Joey Barton says he’s the best midfielder in
 England  and took dismissed those who currently man the position
for England, the Mirror said.  Barton feels Frank Lampard is “past it,” said  Steven Gerrard  was injury prone and called Gareth Barry a “teacher’s
pet,” the Mirror said.  “He’s like the guy that sits in the front row and listens
to the teacher,” Barton, who’s made one appearance for England,
said of Barry. “I certainly don’t lose any sleep when I play
against him.”  Another Chance  Manchester United is considering offering oft-injured Owen Hargreaves a chance to remain at the club when his contract
expires at the end of the season, the  Daily Telegraph  said.  Hargreaves has made just two brief appearances, amounting
to six minutes, since undergoing double knee surgery in June
2009, the Telegraph said. United has been impressed with his
determination to regain full fitness and is confident his knee
problems are behind him, the newspaper said.  Odemwingie’s Future  West Brom manager  Roy Hodgson  admits the club faces a fight
to keep striker  Peter Odemwingie  this summer, the  Mirror  said.  Odemwingie has scored 10 goals since joining the Baggies
from Lokotmiv Moscow in August and was voted the third-best
newcomer in a poll of Premier League managers behind Rafael van der Vaart and David Silva, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 