-- 
Manny Ramirez Quits Baseball in Decision Tied to Anti-Drug Rules, MLB Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-04-08T21:06:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/manny-ramirez-quits-baseball-in-decision-tied-to-anti-drug-rules-mlb-says.html
Manny Ramirez  retired from  Major
League Baseball  rather than face an unspecified “issue” tied
to the sport’s anti-doping rules.  Ramirez, 38, who joined the Tampa Bay Rays this season, was
suspended for 50 games in May 2009 while playing for the  Los
Angeles Dodgers  for violating baseball’s drug rules. This year,
Ramirez again tested positive for a performance-enhancing drug
during spring training and was recently told of the positive
result, the  New York  Times reported, citing two people briefed
on the matter.  “We are obviously surprised and disappointed by this
news,” the Rays said in an e-mailed statement. “We will have
no further comment on this matter, and our fans and organization
will carry on.”  In 2009, Ramirez said in a statement that the violation
wasn’t a steroid and declined to challenge the suspension. ESPN
cited two unidentified people as saying Ramirez failed a test
for human chorionic gonadotropin, or HCG, a female fertility
drug that also can be taken by steroid users to help with
testosterone production.  If Ramirez had tested positive this year for a performance-
enhancing drug, it would have resulted in a 100-game ban for a
second violation, while a third positive results in a lifetime
suspension from baseball. MLB said it would continue its process
under the drug program if Ramirez decides to return to baseball.  An e-mail sent to Rachel Viglietta, an assistant to Scott Boras, Ramirez’s agent, wasn’t immediately returned.  Ramirez, a 12-time All-Star, made his first appearance in
the major leagues in 1993 with the  Cleveland Indians . He joined
the  Boston Red Sox  as a free agent before the 2001 season and
was part of World Series-winning teams in 2004 and 2007. He was
traded to the Dodgers during the 2008 season, then was picked up
on waivers by the  Chicago White Sox  in August of last year. He
joined the Rays this season and was 1-for-17 at the plate
before his retirement.  Ramirez finishes his career with a .312 batting average
over 19 seasons, 555 home runs (14th on the career list) and
1,831 runs batted in (18th on the career list).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 