-- 
Asean Sees “Vulnerabilities” From Inflows, Commodity Prices

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-04-08T10:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/asean-sees-vulnerabilities-from-inflows-commodity-prices.html
Southeast Asian governments said
they remain vulnerable to surging capital inflows and rising
commodity prices even as their economies expand and surpass pre-
crisis growth rates.  Domestic demand and an improving global economy is boosting
growth in the region, which may expand by as much as 6.4 percent
this year, finance ministers from the  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations  said in a statement after their meeting in Bali,
 Indonesia  today. The 10-member regional bloc grew 7.6 percent
last year, the grouping said.  “Strong rebound in growth rates is still expected from a
few countries,” the ministers said. “This reflects sustained
strength in domestic demand buoyed by sound macroeconomic
management and favorable external conditions.”  Thailand , the  Philippines  and Indonesia raised borrowing
costs last quarter to curb inflation stoked by capital inflows
and commodity prices including oil, which has been driven higher
by the political unrest in the Middle East.  Asia ’s economic
recovery has helped attract foreign funds and companies,
boosting currencies and stocks in the past year.  “Keeping in mind the adverse impact of these
vulnerabilities, we reaffirmed our commitment to respond rapidly
and decisively to ensure systemic stability, avoid disruptive
fluctuations in capital flows and sustain growth,” the
ministers said.  Asean Partnership  Asean policy makers are collaborating to deepen their asset
markets including developing their bond markets and jointly
promoting their  stock exchanges . The group said it will fully
implement a $700 million Credit Guarantee and Investment
Facility next month and is making progress toward establishing a
fund to improve infrastructure in the region.  “While we recognized the benefits of capital inflows into
the region, we should continue to increase our capacity to deal
with volatile capital flows and with the objective to enhance
our resilience to external shocks,” the ministers said.  Asean comprises Indonesia, Thailand,  Malaysia ,  Singapore ,
Brunei, the Philippines, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam.
Formed in 1967, its members have a combined gross domestic
product of more than $1.1 trillion and a population of about 570
million people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Bali at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  