-- 
Stocks Climb as Gold Reaches Record, Oil Rallies

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-04-08T20:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/asia-stocks-gain-yen-weakens-as-oil-trades-above-110-a-barrel-won-rises.html
Treasuries fell and the dollar slid,
sending commodity indexes to two-year highs, amid speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will lag behind other central banks in
lifting  interest rates . Gold and tin rose to records and oil
gained to a 30-month high above $112 a barrel. U.S. stocks fell.  The 10-year Treasury note yield increased four basis points
to 3.59 percent as traders bet on higher inflation. The Dollar
Index, a gauge of the currency against six major peers, slumped
0.8 percent to the lowest level since December 2009. Gold for
June delivery rose as much as 1.2 percent to $1,476.40 an ounce
and oil climbed 2.3 percent as the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of commodities climbed for a seventh straight day to reach
the highest level since September 2008.  Declines in the dollar, Treasuries and stocks came as
measures of expectations for consumer prices surged and the U.S.
government moved closed to shutting down after lawmakers failed
to agree on a federal budget. Fed Bank of Dallas President
 Richard Fisher  said policy makers face a risk of providing
stimulus for too long and should weigh curtailing a $600 billion
bond-purchase plan. Airline and consumer shares slid on concern
higher energy costs will hurt profits.  “Anyone who uses fuel to get from point A to point B is
going to be negatively impacted,” saidCarl Larry, president of
Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston. “Airlines will take a
hit, as will delivery companies. Services will have to raise
prices, which will hurt the consumer and show up in the
economy.”  Commodity Rally  Brent oil for May delivery climbed as much as 3.4 percent
to $126.87 a barrel, the highest since August 2008, as
skepticism that Libyan output will rebound when fighting ends
also boosted prices. Tin jumped to an all-time high of $33,100 a
metric ton in  London  and copper advanced 1.9 percent to $4.5015
a pound in New York. Heating oil, nickel, wheat and silver
climbed more than 2.8 percent to lead gains in the CRB index.  The dollar weakened against all 16 major counterparts,
losing more than 1 percent versus the Norwegian krone and
Swedish krona. The European Central Bank yesterday increased its
benchmark rate to 1.25 percent from a record low of 1 percent,
in line with the prediction by all 57 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the increase, the
first since 2008, wasn’t necessarily the “first of a series.”  The 10-year Treasury capped a third weekly drop, the
longest run of declines this year. President  Barack Obama  said
he hopes lawmakers can reach a last-minute deal today to avert a
government shutdown after a third round of talks with
congressional leaders last night failed to end an impasse over
the federal budget.  Budget Feud  Democrats said today they agreed to cut $38 billion in
federal spending this year and resolved dozens of policy
directives sought by Republicans. The only remaining point was
Republicans’ insistence on canceling funding for Planned
Parenthood, which offers abortions, said Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid .  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of traders’ expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, widened to 2.66
percentage points, the most since 2006 on a closing basis. The
measure, known as the 10-year break-even rate, was as high as
2.74 percent in 2006 prior to the U.S. recession that began in
December 2007 and lasted for 18 months.  U.S. Stocks Slip  About five stocks retreated for every two that rose on U.S.
exchanges. United Continental Holdings Inc. slumped 5.8 percent
and the NYSE Arca Airlines Index slid to an almost seven-month
low as higher energy prices threatened profits. United Parcel
Service Inc. and FedEx Corp. lost at least 1 percent, while
Macy’s helped lead retailers lower with a 2.2 percent drop.  Stocks climbed in Asia and  Europe  as concern about
yesterday’s earthquake in  Japan  eased and exports in  Germany ,
Europe’s largest economy, grew more than forecast in February as
the global recovery boosted demand. No unusual conditions were
observed at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant after a magnitude-7.1 temblor in Japan killed two
people and injured 93 in the biggest aftershock since the day of
the March 11 disaster.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, rose
2.7 percent and Rio Tinto Group gained 3.2 percent.  Vallourec SA (VK) 
jumped 4.7 percent as Credit Suisse Group AG recommended shares
of the steel-pipe maker.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the Italian bank, fell 1.1 percent as
the European Banking Authority prepared to announce which types
of capital it will accept for this year’s stress tests.  TNT NV (TNT) 
tumbled 13 percent as the Dutch mail carrier that’s planning to
spin off its express division said the unit’s profit fell.  Toyota Climbs  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rallied 0.9 percent. Toyota
Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, gained 1.4 percent in
Tokyo after saying it will resume output at its factories in
Japan on April 18.  The euro completed for its second consecutive weekly gain
versus the dollar and extended its strongest start to a year on
record. The yen weakened against 15 of 16 of its most-traded
peers, sliding at least 1 percent versus the euro and currencies
of Norway and  Sweden .  The Australian dollar climbed as much as 0.8 percent to
$1.0552, the strongest level since the currency was allowed to
trade freely in 1983.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks in developing
markets climbed 0.4 percent, set for its highest closing level
since June 2008, and its third weekly increase.  China ’s Shanghai
Composite Index gained 0.7 percent. Developing-nation equity
funds attracted $5.7 billion in the week ended April 6, the most
since mid-October, Citigroup Inc. reported, citing data from
EPFR Global.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  