-- 
Asia Can Speed Stimulus Removal, World Bank’s Mulyani Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-04-08T14:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/asia-can-speed-stimulus-removal-world-bank-s-sri-mulyani-says.html
Asian economies can afford to remove
fiscal and monetary stimulus at a “stronger and faster” rate
as growth in the region outpaces the rest of the world, the
 World Bank  said.  Capital inflows are still a “danger” and policy makers
can adopt targeted and temporary controls if needed, Sri Mulyani Indrawati, a World Bank managing director, said in an interview
in Bali. Output gaps across Asia are narrowing as investment
flows into asset markets and domestic demand strengthens, she
said.  Most Asian nations “have now reached capacity constraints
and you can see that inflation is picking up very fast,” Sri
Mulyani said. “Combined with food and fuel prices, you are
doubly hit. When it’s combined with capital flows, there will be
monetary policy complications.”  Asian nations are stepping up the fight against inflation
as political unrest in the Middle East boosts crude oil prices,
prompting  Thailand ,  South Korea  and  India  to raise borrowing
costs in March. Growth in the region has helped attract foreign
funds and companies that helped boost currencies and stocks in
the past year.  Policy makers who remove stimulus too late won’t see a
meaningful impact and will fail to address rising inflation
expectations, she said, adding that China, Vietnam and Indonesia
may be examples.  Stimulus Withdrawal  “Policy makers now have to really decide how strong, how
fast they will have to adjust,” Sri Mulyani said. “Our
recommendation is the stronger and faster, the better especially
in this region.”  The jump in crude oil costs is escalating the danger of
inflation in  Asia , where central banks are already grappling
with consumer price pressures fueled by job and spending gains.
The World Bank in March said East Asia needs to tighten monetary
policy to keep price expectations from escalating and
governments should let discretionary fiscal stimulus packages
lapse.  The  European Central Bank  raised rates from a record low
yesterday, while Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President
Richard Fisher last month said no additional monetary stimulus
will be necessary after the asset purchase program is completed
in June.  Capital Controls   Emerging economies from  South America  to Asia have imposed
capital controls starting last year to stem the inflows of funds
seeking higher returns.  Brazil  announced this week it will
extend a higher tax for the renewal of some foreign loans after
Finance Minister Guido Mantega said the country will continue to
adopt measures seeking to reduce “excessive” dollar inflows.  As rising oil and food prices add to subsidy bills and
national debt burdens, governments should continue to target
such handouts to those who need it, Sri Mulyani said.  Indonesia ’s parliament last month approved a government
proposal to delay a planned cut in subsidized fuel sales that
was scheduled to begin April 1. The plan was postponed because
of the threat of faster inflation amid rising oil costs, and no
decision has been made on how long it will be delayed, according
to Teuku Rifky Harsya, chairman of the parliamentary commission
for energy affairs.  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak last week said he will
consider slowing subsidy cuts to shield consumers from rising
prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net  