-- 
Mattel Tells Federal Jury MGA Stole Bratz Doll Idea as Second Trial Closes

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-04-08T23:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/mattel-tells-federal-jury-mga-stole-bratz-doll-idea-as-second-trial-closes.html
Mattel Inc. (MAT)  asked a jury to find
that rival toymaker MGA Entertainment Inc. stole the idea for
the Bratz doll at the end of a second trial over the origins of
the pouty, multiethnic figurine.  “This case is about building a brand using another
company’s confidential information,” William Price, a lawyer
for Mattel, told the federal court jury in  Santa Ana ,
 California , in his closing argument today. “Bratz was created
at Mattel.”  The jury is asked to determine whether closely held MGA
stole Mattel’s  trade secrets  in 2000, when it made an agreement
with a designer who Mattel says worked for them at the time he
came up with the idea for Bratz, and whether the dolls MGA
started selling in 2001 infringed Mattel’s copyright.  Last year, a federal appeals court overturned a 2008
verdict in Mattel’s favor. A jury in Riverside, California, had
awarded Mattel $100 million in damages after agreeing that the
designer,  Carter Bryant , made most of the initial sketches for
the dolls while he worked for El Segundo, California-based
Mattel. Mattel had sought as much as $1 billion in damages.  In the current trial, Mattel claims $314 million to
$544 million in lost profits.  Jennifer Keller, a lawyer for  Van Nuys , California-based
MGA, said in her closing statement that Mattel is a giant
corporation out to crush a smaller competitor of the Barbie
doll.  ‘Steal Everything’  “Who is trying to steal here? Not us,” Keller told
jurors. “Mattel is trying to steal everything MGA made out of
this initial set of drawings.”  Mattel didn’t provide any witness who saw Bryant create the
original drawings at Mattel in 1999, as the company claims he
did, Keller said. The designer has always maintained he came up
with the Bratz idea and made the first drawings in 1998, while
he was living in  Missouri  with his parents in between two stints
of working for Mattel, she said.  “He’s been accused of being a liar because they know that,
if they can’t disprove that, they’re out,” she said.  The jury will also decide on MGA’s claims that Mattel stole
its trade secrets because Mattel employees used fake identities
to get access to MGA’s show rooms at toy fairs.  John Quinn, a Mattel lawyer, told the jury that the
information toymakers provide to retailers and the press at
these events aren’t trade secrets.  “This claim is the biggest effort of all to distract you
from the theft of a brand,” Quinn said. “It’s transparent.”  The appeals court, in ordering a second trial, said the
lower-court judge had erred in ruling that Bryant’s employment
agreement entitled Mattel to the designer’s drawings as a matter
of law. The appeals court also found that the judge, Stephen Larson, who has since returned to private practice, was wrong to
award Mattel the rights to most of MGA’s Bratz products.  The case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-09049, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  