-- 
Australia Rejects Singapore Exchange Bid for ASX in ‘No Brainer’ Decision

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-04-08T09:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/australia-says-rejecting-singaporean-asx-bid-a-no-brainer-2-.html
Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
rejected  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s $8.8 billion bid for  ASX Ltd. (ASX) ,
saying the deal was not in his nation’s interest and would have
left the local bourse operator as a junior partner.  “This isn’t a merger -- it’s a takeover that would see
 Australia ’s financial sector become a subsidiary to a competitor
in  Asia ,” Swan told reporters today in Canberra, three days
after the nation’s Foreign Investment Review Board advised the
government to reject the proposal. “I am open to the right deal
for Australia if it comes along.”  Singapore Exchange, whose co-president said the deal’s
failure wasn’t “disastrous,” had offered a record bid premium
for ASX to create the world’s fifth-largest exchange. In
February, the Singapore bourse’s Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  offered more board seats to Australians in a concession
aimed at overcoming opposition from lawmakers in Canberra. The
companies officially withdrew the deal after Swan’s announcement.  “I doubt ASX will sit on their hands,” said  Angus Gluskie ,
who helps manage $350 million at White Funds Management Pty in
Sydney. “SGX and ASX could seek to amend the structure of their
arrangement, tilting the transaction more along the lines of a
merger of equals, and re-apply. Alternatively, ASX may wish to
examine merger opportunities or other strategic tie-ups with
exchanges other than SGX.”  ‘Regional Hub’  ASX’s shares fell as much as 1 percent to A$33.68 in Sydney
trading today before closing down 0.5 percent. Singapore
Exchange jumped as much as 3.1 percent to S$8.40 after co-
president Muthukrishnan Ramaswami said in  Hong Kong  that the
bourse had talked with other exchange operators in recent years
and is “trying to be a regional hub for Asian capital.”  Pressure on rival exchanges to consolidate is increasing as
the fight to attract global capital intensifies. This year,
Europe’s  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext agreed to merge,
while  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  said it would buy Canada’s
 TMX Group Inc. (X)   “It was a no brainer that this deal was not in Australia’s
national interest,” Swan said today.  Swan said the Singapore government’s 23 percent stake in
the city state’s bourse operator was not a factor in his
decision. He said he asked the Council of Financial Regulators
to look at a regulatory overhaul to protect issuers and
investors for a future bid by another exchange.  Developing Australia  Any new bid would need to build Australia as a financial
services hub, increase its integration into global capital
markets, boost access to capital for local companies and support
financial sector jobs, Swan said.  Swan should disclose in full the information on which his
decision to reject ASX’s sale was based, said  Joe Hockey ,
spokesman on Treasury matters for the opposition  Liberal Party .  “This appears to be a decision made some time ago that has
been looking for a justification,” Hockey said. “The
Treasurer’s behavior can only have heightened foreign investor
concerns about sovereign risk in Australia.”  Swan would not comment about the possibility of  Singapore
Exchange  returning with a revised offer. “I can’t speculate
about a future application from the SGX or anybody else and I
don’t intend to do that,” he said.  Earlier this week, the Treasurer sought to reassure
investors that a rejection of Singapore Exchange’s bid wouldn’t
signal increased scrutiny or obstacles for overseas deals.  Low Rejection Rate  Singapore’s Exchange’s bid is the first proposed foreign
merger to be opposed on national interest grounds in Australia
since former treasurer Peter Costello blocked a $3.2 billion bid
by Royal Dutch Shell Plc in 2001 to take control of Woodside
Petroleum Ltd.  FIRB rejected three of 4,404 applications in the year ended
June 30, 2010, according to its annual report. Foreigners had
A$782.1 billion invested in the Australian economy at the end of
2010, compared with A$774.9 billion a year earlier, the latest
government  statistics  show.  The ASX today said that after termination of the merger
deal its board is concentrating on finding a replacement for
Chief Executive Officer Robert Elstone, whose term expires July
11 or, at the board’s discretion, on October 11. Bocker was to
be CEO of the combined entity.  Dwindling Market Capitalization  Singapore Exchange’s bid to create the world’s fifth-
largest exchange, trading about $2 trillion of shares, was
opposed by several Australian parliamentarians. Swan’s minority
Labor government, led by  Julia Gillard , would have needed
support from four non-party lawmakers for parliamentary approval
of the proposal.  In mid-2005, the combined value of shares traded on the
Australian and Singapore exchanges exceeded that of Hong Kong.
Since then, the Hong Kong exchange has attracted more companies
and is now about $520 billion bigger, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Singapore Exchange’s bid valued ASX at 19.5 times earnings
before interest and taxes, almost twice as much as the 10.4
times involved in LSE’s bid for TMX Group, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That also compares with 11.2 times offered by
 Deutsche Boerse  for  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)   ‘Junior Partner’  Approval of the deal would have left ASX as a “junior
partner” in the merger, Swan said today, adding that FIRB’s
advice against the tie-up was surprisingly strong. “This is not
normally the attitude of the FIRB,” he said.  Swan said the Treasury, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, and
the Australian Securities and Investments Commission also had
raised concerns about regulatory oversight when it came to
Singapore Exchange’s bid.  The  Foreign Investment Review Board  is a unit within
Australia’s Treasury Department and gives advice to the
treasurer on whether proposals should be approved. The treasurer
then makes a decision and announces it, often without providing
details on the board’s recommendations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net 
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 