-- 
Austria’s Volksbanken Added to List of Banks in Stress Test

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-04-08T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/austria-s-volksbanken-added-to-list-of-banks-in-stress-test.html
Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ,
 Austria ’s fourth-biggest lender, was added to the list of
Austrian banks undergoing the European Union’s  stress test , the
European Banking Authority said today.  Volksbanken will join Erste Group Bank AG and Raiffeisen
Bank International AG, who already took part in the EU’s stress
test last year. The country’s biggest lender, Bank Austria, is
owned by Italy’s UniCredit SpA and is not tested separately in
Austria.  Volksbanken was among the Austrian banks hit hardest by the
financial crisis. Its Kommunalkredit AG unit was nationalized to
prevent its collapse in 2008. Volksbanken received 1 billion
euros ($1.4 billion) in capital from the Austrian government in
2009, which was consumed by a net loss of 1.1 billion euros that
year. The lender hasn’t paid interest on the state aid because
of the losses and said it won’t pay for 2010 either.  Moody’s downgraded Volksbanken’s long-term senior debt and
deposit ratings one step to Baa2 from Baa1 April 6. Its core
tier 1 ratio was only 2.4 percent if government capital and
minority capital wasn’t counted, and “concerns about the long-
term viability” and its “limited earnings power” were factors
restraining its  credit rating , the ratings agency said.  Volksbanken’s Tier 1 capital was 8.9 percent at the end of
September, the latest available data, according to its quarterly
report. The bank doesn’t publish its core Tier 1 capital ratio.  Volksbanken is selling its eastern European arm and is
raising 300 million euros from its majority owners, a group of
regional Austrian cooperative banks, as it plans to repay part
of the state capital this year. Failure to repay the state
capital may lead to its nationalization, Moody’s said.  The regional cooperative banks own 58 percent of
Volksbanken.  Germany ’s DZ Bank owns 25 percent,  Munich Re  owns
10 percent and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG holds 6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  