-- 
Bail-In Blemish Shows Denmark Can’t Be Outlier, Danske Says

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-04-08T08:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/bail-in-blemish-shows-denmark-can-t-be-outlier-danske-says.html
Denmark’s decision to force bank
bondholders to share losses risks turning the country into an
“outlier” in  Europe  as lenders prepare to tap funding markets,
said Danske Bank A/S Chief Executive Officer Peter Straarup.  “There is a risk that it puts a small blemish on
Denmark,” Straarup said in an April 6 interview from
Copenhagen. Burden sharing “is something that has to be put in
place in Europe in general. It’s my hope that the Danish
situation is not an outlier situation, but something that is
more of a general norm in the European universe.”  The Feb. 6 failure of Amagerbanken A/S forced a 41 percent
loss on unsecured senior bonds and prompted Moody’s Investors
Service 10 days later to cut ratings on five Danish lenders,
including Danske Bank, as it factored out state protection. The
insolvency was the first to test rules  Denmark  put in place in
October and set a European Union precedent for senior creditor
losses amid a region-wide debate on burden sharing.  Danske Bank hasn’t seen any “material change” in the
short-term funding market, Straarup said. The bank didn’t tap
long-term debt markets last quarter. “We are sticking to our
funding plan,” he said.  Danske Bank yesterday said it sold $1.75 billion in three-
and five-year notes. The sale included $500 million in notes due
2014 with a floating coupon and a 105-basis-point spread over
three-month Libor. The bank also sold $1.25 billion in five-year
notes with a 3.875 coupon with a 160-basis-point spread over
comparable-maturity Treasuries.  The bank booked net proceeds of 19.8 billion kroner ($3.8
billion) after selling 232.9 million new shares, it said on
April 6.  Testing Markets  Spar Nord Bank A/S, Denmark’s fourth-largest lender,
dropped plans to sell bonds in February after Amagerbanken’s
collapse, said Ole Madsen, the bank’s communications director,
in a phone interview today.  “We’re comfortably funded for the next 12 months but do
plan to test markets later this quarter, though we don’t know
whether we’ll pursue an international  bond issue ,” he said.
“It’s worrying if funding is drying up and there’s no solution
to this problem.”  Lobbying for Support  Danske Bank shares, which have declined 8.1 percent this
year, were trading 2.63 percent higher at 124.80 kroner at 10:11
a.m. in Copenhagen.  Denmark is trying to persuade the rest of Europe to match
its bail-in rules to avoid having its bank industry punished by
higher funding costs.  “The EU ought to think very seriously about this,” said
Thomas Broeng Joergensen, acting director of international
financial affairs at the  Financial Supervisory Authority , in a
March 20 e-mail. “A level playing field in Europe is crucial
for ensuring an effective, transparent single market.”  A permanent European crisis-handling mechanism due to come
into force in 2013 will include provisions for bondholder losses
on a case-by-case basis in line with International Monetary Fund
practices.  The failure of Amagerbanken, which was Denmark’s fifth-
largest listed bank, will trigger a wave of consolidation as
small banks struggling to raise funds get absorbed by bigger
rivals, said Ulrik Noedgaard, FSA director, in a March 4
interview.  The Nordic country opted for Europe’s toughest bank rescue
mechanism even though it was clear “that one of the
consequences of Denmark no longer securing all debt holders
could be that financing costs would rise,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  