-- 
Citigroup Faces Indonesia Sanctions on Alleged Fraud

-- B y   F e m i   A d i   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-05-03T03:36:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/bank-indonesia-should-sanction-citigroup-parliament-says.html
(Corrects amount in third paragraph of story originally
published on April 8.)  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
 U.S. bank , faces sanctions by  Indonesia ’s central bank after a
local employee allegedly stole money from clients and a credit-
card holder died at a branch, raising concern internal controls
are inadequate.  “The sanctions will be given by Bank Indonesia in line
with the degree of Citibank’s mistake,” Budi Rochadi, deputy
governor of the central bank, said after a meeting with
lawmakers and Citigroup officials in Jakarta today. “What these
sanctions are depend on the result of BI’s internal
investigation.”  The bank was barred from adding wealth-management and
credit-card clients in Indonesia after the incidents. In the
first, a customer died on March 29 following meetings with
company debt collectors. In the other, the police said one of
the bank’s relationship managers stole 16.1 billion rupiah ($1.9
million) from three clients in 2009 and 2010. Lawmakers ended
two days of hearings by recommending that Citigroup’s New York
headquarters take responsibility.  The fraud “may damage the public’s trust in the foreign
banks’ branches that are operating in Indonesia,” a
parliamentary commission for financial affairs said in a
statement today. The lawmakers asked  Bank Indonesia  to revise
regulations on debt-collection practices, and the police to
probe if there was criminal behavior at the bank’s local unit.  Reviewing Recommendations  “We have only just received the recommendations and are in
the process of reviewing them,” Jon Diat, a Citigroup spokesman,
said. “We will continue to work closely with the regulators on
these issues.”  The alleged theft of funds reflects weaknesses in
Citigroup’s internal controls and procedures, Achsanul Qosasi,
vice chairman of the commission, said in Jakarta today. He
announced the group’s recommendations following the meeting. The
parliamentary hearings were attended by national police,
Citigroup and central bank officials.  The head of Citigroup’s operations in the country since
2008 is Shariq Mukhtar, a company veteran who has held roles in
Taiwan and  Thailand . He reports to Shirish Apte, the bank’s co-
chief executive officer for the Asia Pacific region. Apte moved
to  Singapore  from  Hong Kong  last year to oversee operations in
 South Asia . He also reports to Shengmen Zhang, Asia Pacific
chairman, according to Diat.  Client Complaint  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York , declined to comment on Citigroup’s Indonesian business.
Kevin Mukri, a spokesman for the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, also declined to comment.  Citigroup reported the alleged theft by Inong Malinda Dee,
a relationship manager who handled more than 200 accounts of
about 500 million rupiah each, to the police following a
complaint by a client on March 11, Hotman Simbolon, a vice
president for customer care at Citigroup, said at the hearing on
April 6.  Other executives are also being investigated by the police,
he said.  Halapancas Simanjuntak, a lawyer for Dee, said the employee
has been in police custody since March 24. He declined to
comment further when he was contacted on his mobile phone today.  ‘Very Disappointed’  The police have seized four cars belonging to the
relationship manager, including a Mercedes E350 Coupe, a Ferrari
F430 Scuderia and a Ferrari California, National Police Director
for Economy and Special Crime Arief Sulistyanto said in an e-
mail yesterday.  The commission today also said it was “ very
disappointed” with the debt-collection practices used by
Citigroup’s Indonesian unit that led to Irzen Okta’s death.  The lawmakers’ panel “extends its official protest and
demands the head office of  Citibank NA  in  New York  apologize and
take responsibility, both material and non-material, to the
family of the victim and the people of Indonesia,” according to
the commission’s statement.  Customers who were defrauded won’t lose money following
transactions that they didn’t authorize, Mukhtar told reporters
after the meeting today. The bank has also alerted other clients
who were managed by Dee, he said.  “We will not betray your trust,” Mukhtar said.  Citigroup has had operations in Indonesia for 42 years and
employs about 4,500 to 5,000 people, Simbolon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  