-- 
Banorte May Cut 1,000 Jobs to Reduce ‘Fat’ After $1.3 Billion Ixe Purchase

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-04-08T20:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/banorte-may-cut-1-000-jobs-to-reduce-fat-after-1-3-billion-ixe-purchase.html
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB,
Mexico’s third-largest bank by outstanding  loans , may reduce its
workforce by as much as 1,000 after buying Ixe Grupo Financiero
SAB, Chief Executive Officer Alejandro Valenzuela said.  The combined workforce of almost 25,000 should be reduced
to about 24,000 in a year, Valenzuela said today in an interview
at a banking convention in Acapulco. Completing the acquisition
of Ixe will take a year to 18 months, and the deal gives Banorte
more access to high-end banking clients, Valenzuela said.  “When you undertake this process, there is some pain,” he
said. “The rule of the game is to be fair and fast.”  Banorte has grown by acquiring smaller banks to help it
boost its share of the Mexican banking market to 15 percent
share from 1.5 percent two decades ago, Valenzuela said.
Shareholders of Monterrey-based Banorte approved the $1.31
billion purchase of Ixe last week.  “You’re going into surgery and at the end of the day you
want to get the fat, but not the muscle,” he said.  Banorte rose 1.1 percent to 59.55 pesos in  Mexico  City
trading for a fifth straight daily advance. That is the longest
streak since October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexicana Loan  The bank expects to recover more of a loan for 1.55 billion
pesos ($132 million) to Cia. Mexicana de Aviacion, the Mexican
airline that defaulted on debt and stopped flying. The
outstanding amount of the loan is now 1.2 billion pesos and
Banorte expects eventually to collect 300 million to 400 million
pesos of that, Valenzuela said. The bank already had made
provisions for the full amount of the loan, he said.  The biggest opportunities for Mexican loan growth are in
the consumer and small-business sectors, Valenzuela said. The
company is also working on capturing more deposits to keep
funding costs low, he said.  Banorte now has about 2,500 non-affiliated bank branches,
which are operated out of  convenience stores  and other
commercial locations that aren’t owned by the bank. That number
“can easily” double over the next two or three years,
Valenzuela said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Acapulco, Mexico, at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at    edufner@bloomberg.net  