-- 
Bonds Jury to Rehear Testimony of Ex-Assistant Who Said She Saw Injection

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/barry-bonds-jury-begins-deliberations-over-perjury-charge.html
Jurors deliberating whether baseball
player  Barry Bonds  lied to a grand jury in 2003 about using
steroids will listen again to the testimony of his ex-personal
shopper who said she saw him get an injection from his trainer.  The eight-woman, four-man jury in federal court in  San
Francisco  left yesterday without reaching a verdict after its
first full day of deliberations. The judge presiding over the
trial said when jurors reconvene April 11, they will be read
testimony of Kathy Hoskins, the former assistant who has known
Bonds since their childhood growing up in Northern California.  Hoskins testified March 31 she was in Bonds’s bedroom at
his home near San Francisco in 2002 packing his bags for a trip
when the trainer,  Greg Anderson , walked in with the athlete, who
said “Let’s do it right here” and lifted his shirt.  “So Greg shot him in the belly button” with a syringe,
Hoskins testified. She said Bonds said it was a “a little
something” for the road and couldn’t be detected, Hoskins told
jurors.  Bonds, 46,  Major League Baseball ’s home-run record holder,
faces three counts of lying to a 2003 grand jury about whether
he took steroids provided by Anderson and received injections
from the trainer.  Earlier yesterday, jurors heard for a second time a secret
recording of Anderson allegedly talking about injecting the
former  San Francisco Giants  left fielder with undetectable
substances. They had sent a note to U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  asking to read a transcript of the recording. Because
the transcript wasn’t part of the evidence, Illston played the
recording for them.  ‘A Little Glitch’  Illston called the jury into the courtroom this afternoon
to fix what she told the panel was “a little glitch” in a
statement made by Assistant U.S. Attorney Matt Parrella during
his closing arguments on April 7.  Parrella mistakenly told jurors that former San Francisco
Giants head trainer Stan Conte testified that one of Bonds’s
trainers used flaxseed oil on his legs and ankles and thus Bonds
knew the difference between the oil and a designer steroid
called the Cream.  Illston told jurors that Conte actually testified he didn’t
know anything about flaxseed oil and Assistant U.S. Attorney
Jeff Nedrow had correctly stated in his portion of closing
arguments that Conte testified he never saw Bonds using flaxseed
oil at the Giants clubhouse.  ‘Prosecutorial Misconduct’  Bonds’s attorneys called the error “prosecutorial
misconduct” in a filing yesterday. Illston said it wasn’t
intentional.  The jury has to decide on three counts alleging Bonds made
false statements. Two deal with his denials about taking
steroids and human growth hormone and one concerns his assertion
that he only received injections from his doctor, not his
trainer.  Jurors must also decide one count of obstruction of
justice. Prosecutors said Bonds repeatedly used evasive answers
in his grand jury testimony to avoid telling the truth, and that
he impeded the grand jury’s decisions about indictments.  Bonds’s lawyers said he was truthful and told the grand
jury that he received performance-enhancing substances from
Anderson without knowing what they were because they were new at
the time and because Anderson told him one was flaxseed oil.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  