-- 
Battery Bill, Hedge Monitor, Comverse Settlement: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-08T12:42:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/battery-bill-colleges-hedge-monitoring-comverse-settlement-compliance.html
Companies led by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Samsung Electronics Co. would save $1.13
billion under U.S. legislation barring limits on air shipments
of lithium batteries that go beyond international standards.  The legislation, approved by the House legislation April 1,
prevents President Barack Obama’s administration from enacting a
 proposed rule  that treats billions of batteries shipped or
packed into laptop computers, cellular phones and digital
cameras as  hazardous materials . The rule would trigger
packaging, training and handling requirements for manufacturers,
retailers and airlines.  U.S. regulators, backed by pilot unions and congressional
Democrats, say they want to limit shipments because lithium
batteries may overheat and ignite. The rule by the Pipeline and
Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, part of the
Transportation Department, would cost $1.13 billion the first
year in packaging, transportation, logistical and training
costs, according to an  analysis  commissioned by the Washington-
based battery association.  The differing bills regarding the treatment of batteries
will be reconciled in a House-Senate conference committee in
coming weeks. Spokesmen for  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia
Democrat who chairs the Senate Commerce, Science and
Transportation Committee, declined to comment pending the start
of conference committee talks.  Julia Valentine, a spokeswoman for the  Transportation
Department ’s hazardous materials agency, said she couldn’t
comment on a pending rulemaking.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  For-Profit Colleges Face State Crackdowns as U.S. Rules Delayed  For-profit colleges, criticized by the U.S. for their
recruitment practices, are facing increased state regulations as
the government weighs measures to tighten access to federal
student aid.  At least 16 states have proposed or enacted laws affecting
for-profit colleges this year, according to the  National
Conference of State Legislatures  in Denver. States impatient for
federal rules are taking action, said Kentucky State
Representative Reginald Meeks.  The Education Department delayed plans to restrict for-
profit colleges’ access to $30 billion in U.S. funds last year
after the industry doubled spending on lobbying. The Education
Department said last year that it will release regulations in
early 2011 that will tie for-profit colleges’ eligibility for
federal funds to graduates’ incomes and loan repayment rates.  Restrictions on student aid that single out for-profit
colleges are unfair, said  Harris Miller , president of the
 Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities , a
Washington-based trade group.  For more, click here.  Stress Tests Must Focus on High-Quality Capital, Enria Says  European Union regulators should only allow the capital
that can best absorb banks’ possible losses when they conduct
the latest round of stress tests, the region’s top bank
supervisor said.  Andrea Enria, chairman of the  European Banking Authority 
made the remarks concerning how to define capital in EU stress
tests to journalists in Vienna April 6.  The EBA will announce today which types of capital it will
accept and how much a bank must hold to pass the test, Enria
said. The definition may exclude a form of non-voting capital
known as silent participation that is common among German state-
owned banks, two people familiar with the talks have said.  Last year’s EU stress tests were criticized for not being
stringent enough because lenders in the 27-nation region were
shown by regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros ($5 billion)
of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest analyst estimate.
Those tests were based on a definition of capital known as Tier
1, which includes some hybrid instruments such as preference
shares.  Enria said the 2011 tests will use a definition of core
capital that may be tougher than a standard drawn up at
international level by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  that will apply in 2013.  For more, click here.  Banks May Raise Rates to Cope With Capital Rules, EU Says  Banks may raise  interest rates  for borrowers and lower
deposit rates to cope with increased capital requirements, the
European Commission said.  “While higher capital standards make banks more resilient
in times of asset losses, this comes possibly at the price of on
average higher lending rates if regulation imposes higher
funding costs on banks,” the Brussels-based commission, the
European Union’s executive, said yesterday in a  quarterly report 
on the euro area.  Banks across  Europe  are increasing reserves as regulators
tighten capital requirements. New rules from the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision, which brings together authorities from
27 countries, will require banks to more than double the
reserves they hold by 2019.  In its report, the commission said the current economic
recovery remains on track “but is nonetheless associated with
comparatively weak and unbalanced” growth of gross domestic
product, or GDP.  Commodity Derivative Traders May Face EU Transparency Overhaul  Traders in commodity derivatives may face tougher
transparency rules under proposals being considered by European
Union governments.  Necessary improvements would include extending requirements
on traders to report their positions to regulators, according to
a draft EU statement obtained by Bloomberg News. The statement
was drawn up by officials from finance ministries of the 27-
nation EU.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy has blamed speculation for
driving up world food prices and made regulation of commodity
trading one of his priorities during France’s leadership of the
Group of 20 countries in 2011.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services commissioner
and a former minister of Sarkozy’s, called in February for
restrictions on traders, including position limits.  Hungary, which holds the six-month rotating presidency of
the EU, is aiming for the statement to be formally endorsed by
EU finance ministers in May, said Marton Hajdu, a government
spokesman. It may also be discussed at an informal meeting of
finance ministers that starts tomorrow, he said.  EU Considers Overhaul to State-Aid Rules for Airports, Airlines  The  European Commission  said it’s seeking views on possible
changes to state-aid rules for airlines and airports.  The European Union antitrust regulator said it’s reviewing
the way it examines subsidies earmarked for airports and start-
up aid to airlines from regional airports.  Rules on social and restructuring aid for airlines are also
part of the information-gathering exercise, the commission said
in an e-mailed statement from Brussels yesterday. The agency
said it will make a proposal by 2012, if it concludes changes
are needed.  Japan May Require Financial Firms to Save Power, FSA’s Jimi Says  Japan’s Financial Services Minister Shozaburo Jimi said his
agency is in discussions with the nation’s financial industry to
reduce power use as part of the government’s energy-saving plan
after the March 11 earthquake.  The minister also said he wants to review the law on
special measures for strengthening financial functions to aid
regional lenders in the quake-affected areas during the current
Diet session. Jimi was speaking to the press in  Tokyo .  Compliance Action  Comverse to Pay $2.8 Million to Settle Bribery Allegations  Comverse Technology Inc. (CMVT) , a maker of voice-mail software,
agreed to pay a total of $2.8 million in settlements for
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  The company, based in  New York , settled with the  Securities
and Exchange Commission  for $1.6 million and with the U.S.
 Justice Department  for $1.2 million, according to separate
statements by the government.  The agreement recognizes the company’s “self-examination”
and voluntary disclosure and “full cooperation,” the Justice
Department said in its statement.  Comverse said last month that Chief Executive Officer Andre
Dahan will depart, citing the need for new leadership.  Paul D. Baker, a spokesman for Comverse, declined to
comment.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Comverse Technology Inc., 11-cv-01704, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Rajaratnam Case Spurs Monitoring, Workshops at Hedge Funds  Since the October 2009 arrest of Raj Rajaratnam, the  fund
manager  on trial in New York for insider trading, hedge funds
have engaged private investigators to monitor traders’ personal
lives.  They have also held workshops on securities law and offered
whistle-blower hot lines as they seek to avoid the fate of five
funds that have liquidated since Rajaratnam’s arrest. Federal
authorities raided four funds as part of their investigation and
subpoenaed at least five others. In all, investors have
withdrawn at least $9 billion from the funds. The FBI said in
February that the probe isn’t over and that there will be more
arrests.  In January, the  Regulatory Compliance Association  hosted a
seminar on insider trading that drew 3,800 people, said Walter
Zebrowski, chairman of the New York-based non-profit group. Six
months after Rajaratnam’s arrest, New York-based Millennium
Management LLC formed an independent Regulatory and Compliance
Advisory Council, which included  Harvey Pitt , the former
chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
according to an April 2010 letter sent to investors. Pitt also
has held workshops with SAC Capital Advisors LP employees about
complying with government rules.  Corporate Resolutions Inc ., a consulting and investigative
firm in New York, last month started an employee hot line to
help hedge funds deter possible illegal trading. The service
enables employees to anonymously report suspected wrongdoing at
their firms.  As many as 50 private-equity clients had signed up for the
service, according to Joelle Scott, director of business
intelligence at the investigations firm.  For more, click here. Hercules Reports Probes by U.S. SEC,
Justice Department  Hercules Offshore Inc., the largest supplier of shallow-
water rigs in the  Gulf of Mexico , said it was subpoenaed by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as part of a probe into
possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  The commission is requesting documents about “certain
international jurisdictions where we conduct operations,” the
Houston-based drilling contractor said yesterday in a federal
filing. The Justice Department is also investigating the
company, according to the filing.  The probes may be related to Hercules’s so-called lift boat
business in West Africa, said Luke Lemoine, an analyst at
Capital One Southcoast in New Orleans.  Hercules is the world’s largest provider of lift boats,
with 65 on three continents. Lift boats provide extra surface
space adjacent to shallow-water rigs and platforms.  Hercules Chief Financial Officer Stephen Butz declined to
comment.  For more, click here and see Kroll interview in Interviews
section, below.  Courts  SEC, Companies Clash in Court on Rule Boosting Investors Powers  A Securities and Exchange Commission rule making it easier
for shareholders to oust board members was based on “serious
error” in assessing its cost to companies, a lawyer for
business groups told a U.S. appeals court.  The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and the Business Roundtable
yesterday asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington to
overturn the proxy access  rule , which was mandated by the Dodd-
Frank financial-regulatory overhaul enacted last year.  Eugene Scalia, a lawyer at  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP  in
Washington who represents the business groups, said the
commission failed to study the cost of fighting a challenge from
shareholders. The rule would allow investors or shareholder
groups that own at least 3 percent stock for three years to put
their own board nominees on proxy statements.  The SEC’s assistant general counsel, Randall Quinn, said
the potential costs are reasonable because not every board will
oppose a candidate put forward by a shareholder.  The measure is on hold pending the outcome of the business
groups’ suit.  The case is Business Roundtable v. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 10-1305, U.S. Court of Appeals, District of Columbia
(Washington).  U.K. Management Consultant Sidhu Denies Insider-Trading Charges  Rupinder Sidhu, a management consultant, pleaded not guilty
to 23 counts of insider trading and one count of money
laundering at a London court.  U.K. market regulator the Financial Services Authority
 brought the case .  Sidhu is charged with dealing in securities of companies
such as  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) ,  Swatch Group AG (UHR) ,  Reed Elsevier
Plc (REL)  and  Michael Page International Plc (MPI) , while knowing London
hedge fund AKO Capital LLP, planned transactions in the same
shares, according to the indictment. The trades took place in
2008 and 2009.  Judge Nicholas Loraine-Smith said the trial should take
place in November.  Interviews/Speeches  Burns Says Kluger Case Uses ‘After-the-Fact’ Recordings  Douglas Burns, a former federal prosecutor, talked about
the insider-trading case involving Matthew Kluger, a former
attorney at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC.  Kluger stole non-public data on companies including Sun
Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM) , according to a
Federal Bureau of Investigation arrest complaint. Kluger passed
tips to a middleman who gave them to Garrett Bauer, a stock
trader who was arrested April 6, according to the complaint.
Burns spoke with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  House’s Frank Says Republican Budget Would Undermine Regulators  Republican efforts to roll back federal spending to 2008
levels would force the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to
cut two-thirds of its staff and put the Securities and Exchange
Commission in the position of subsidizing the government,
Representative Barney Frank said.  The fiscal 2012 budget proposed by House Republicans would
be a “serious threat” to the financial-industry regulators,
said Frank, the Massachusetts lawmaker who is the top Democrat
on the House Financial Services Committee, at a news conference
in Washington yesterday.  Funding for the SEC and the CFTC, which received expanded
authority under the regulatory overhaul that bears Frank’s name,
is less than the cost of a week’s worth of munitions in the
fighting in Libya, the lawmaker said. He also noted that since
the SEC collects fees from regulated entities, its funding
doesn’t have to be cut in the name of deficit-reduction.  K2’s Kroll Says Insider Trading Now an ‘Enterprise Risk’  Jeremy Kroll, co-founder of  K2 Global Consulting LLC ,
talked about hedge funds’ efforts to detect and thwart possible
misuse of confidential information.  Kroll has created software that allows hedge funds to
scrutinize the personal, social and business relationships of
their traders and analysts. He spokes with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg
Television’s “Taking Stock.”  For the video, click here and see hedge fund story in
Compliance Action section, above.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  