-- 
Bavaria Eases Return of Looted Art, Will Restitute Watercolor

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-04-08T08:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/bavaria-eases-return-of-looted-art-will-restitute-watercolor.html
Bavaria’s regional  parliament  eased
the return of looted art to the heirs of victims of the Nazis by
eliminating a rule requiring the state government to be
compensated for restitutions.  The restriction was lifted after the heirs of Valerie
Heissfeld, a Jewish widow living in Vienna in 1938, laid claim
to a watercolor in Munich’s  Staatliche Graphische Sammlung . The
painting, by Rudolf von Alt, was looted by the Nazis after
Heissfeld fled Vienna. Martin Bormann, Adolf Hitler’s private
secretary, acquired it and kept it in Obersalzberg.  The painting was among the belongings of Nazi officials and
institutions transferred to Bavaria after the war. Though it
accepted the Heissfeld claim as valid, the Staatliche Graphische
Sammlung blocked the painting’s return because it could not
refund its value to the state. A constitutional requirement that
the state must be compensated for any lost assets was amended in
the budget law, passed late yesterday.  “This is a positive and constructive step,” said Anne
Webber, co-chair of the London-based  Commission for Looted Art
in Europe , which tracked down the watercolor and filed the claim
on behalf of the heirs. “We hope that where other claims are
successful, returns can now happen more quickly.”  Heissfeld fled Nazi-annexed  Austria  for Brno in 1939. After
the Nazis invaded  Czechoslovakia , she was deported to the
Theresienstadt concentration camp where she was murdered in
1942. Her daughter Lotte managed to escape Czechoslovakia two
weeks before the invasion.  Export Ban  Heissfeld had tried to take the painting, called “Old
North Station, Vienna,” when she fled Austria but was prevented
from doing so under an export ban. It was auctioned after she
fled, along with three other von Alt watercolors belonging to
Heissfeld. Bormann acquired it from a dealer in Munich.  During World War II, it was hidden in an Austrian salt mine
for safekeeping and then returned to Bavaria after the war. It
is currently valued at 20,000 euros ($28,500).  The state of Bavaria inherited the property of  Adolf Hitler 
and his wife Eva Braun, Reichsmarschall Hermann Goering,
Bormann, Rudolf Hess and others, as well as artworks from Nazi
Party offices. Some 800 works were transferred to the Bavarian
State Painting Collections, according to Andrea Bambi, the Chief
Curator for Art Provenance Research.  Bambi is researching the ownership history of about 4,400
paintings and 700 sculptures belonging to Bavaria. She estimates
the number of looted artworks in the collection that need to be
restituted to heirs will “be a two-digit figure at most.”  Loot Lists  The state collection has listed works it suspects may have
been looted on the lost art database  www.lostart.de . It has
returned eight works in the past 10 years, and was in each case
obliged to compensate the Bavarian state for the loss.  “The change to the law will make it easier for our museums
to carry out speedy restitutions of Nazi-looted art and we
welcome it,” said Katja Funken, a spokeswoman for the Bavarian
Ministry of Science, Research and Art.  Webber called on Bavaria to publish a list of all the works
inherited from Nazi officials and institutions that are in
public collections to help other heirs seeking looted art.  “We don’t know what these works of art are,” she said.
“This should all be online and transparent. We know of a number
of paintings which were looted and in Bavarian public
collections. This was not the only one.”  The Commission for Looted Art in  Europe  also secured the
return of a painting from the  Dresden State Art Collections  this
week. On April 6, it  announced  the restitution of the 1816
“Portrait of a Young Woman With a Drawing Instrument” by Carl
Christian Vogel von Vogelstein to the heirs of three Viennese
sisters, two of whom were murdered in Treblinka in 1942.  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 