-- 
Billionaire Blavatnik Gets Counts Reinstated in Lawsuit Against JPMorgan

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-04-08T22:06:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/blavatnik-gets-counts-reinstated-in-lawsuit-against-jpmorgan.html
Billionaire Len Blavatnik got counts
reinstated in his lawsuit claiming  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  lost 10
percent of the $1 billion it managed for him.  New York  state court Judge Melvin L. Schweitzer in
 Manhattan  upheld the claims in a decision today after Blavatnik
filed an amended complaint in December. That complaint gave more
context for negotiations of an investment-management agreement
between the parties, the judge said. Schweitzer declined to
dismiss claims for negligence and breach of fiduciary duty that
he had previously tossed out.  “Structured in such a fashion, the claims for breach of
contract, negligence and breach of fiduciary duty do not
overlap,” he wrote in his decision today.  Blavatnik claims JPMorgan, the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets, put twice as much money into risky mortgages as
Blavatnik’s investment guidelines allowed while Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  was unloading such investments from the
bank’s books. Blavatnik says the bank lost $98 million of his
investment.  “The court’s decision on the motion to dismiss is a
preliminary step in the case,” Darin Oduyoye, a JPMorgan
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “Discovery is
ongoing. J.P. Morgan Investment Management denies the
allegations in the complaint, and will continue to defend
against all claims vigorously until the final resolution of the
case.”  ‘Broad Discretion’  In May 2006, Blavatnik and JPMorgan entered into an
investment agreement that gave the bank “broad discretion to
carry out its role,” the judge wrote. “This IMA maximized
plaintiff’s legal protections in a market environment where
conflicts risk was of significant concern to plaintiff.”  In December 2009, Schweitzer threw out Blavatnik’s claims
for negligence and breach of fiduciary duty. He refused to
dismiss accusations of breach of contract and negligent
misrepresentation, though he narrowed the contract claim. In his
decision today, he ruled similarly, upholding the two latter
claims while narrowing the contract claim.  The state appeals court upheld Schweitzer’s earlier ruling
and JPMorgan moved to dismiss Blavatnik’s new complaint.  Economic Crisis  The suit is “an improper attempt” to “use the courts to
collect reimbursement for investment losses that have resulted
from an extraordinary and unprecedented economic crisis that no
one could have anticipated,” New York-based JPMorgan has said
in court papers.  Blavatnik, born in  Ukraine , runs New York-based Access
Industries Group, which owns energy, chemical, aluminum, media
and real-estate companies.  Blavatnik, 53, sued JPMorgan in June 2009, claiming the
bank loaded his Access Industries fund with subprime and so-
called Alt-A mortgages at the same time CEO Dimon was ridding
his bank of such exposure.  JPMorgan said in court papers that the instruments it sold
were different from those in the Access Industries account.  Subprime mortgages are loans made to people with poor
credit scores. Alt-A mortgages are loans made to people with
higher credit scores than subprime borrowers who still don’t
meet underwriting criteria established by government-sponsored
entities such as the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., or
 Freddie Mac .  The case is CMMF LLC v. J.P. Morgan Investment Management
Inc., 601924-09, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 