-- 
Bloomberg wins 2011 Asian Banker ‘Data Provider of the Year’

-- B y  
-- 
2011-04-08T16:31:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/bloomberg-wins-2011-asian-banker-data-provider-of-the-year-.html

Bloomberg demonstrates strongest integrated product
functionality alongside robust terminal sales growth  Rigorous selection process chaired by former Chairman of HSBC
Asia Pacific  Press Release  Hong Kong -- The Asian Banker announced today that Bloomberg
L.P. has won the Data Provider of the Year award for 2011,
based on its outstanding achievements in the financial
industry. The award recognizes institutions operating in the
capital markets that have demonstrated sustainable long-term
strategy along with robust business processes. The firm
received the awards at The Asian Banker Business Achievement
Awards Gala, held in conjunction with The Asian Banker Summit,
the APAC’s largest annual meeting of decision makers and
senior professionals in the financial services industry.  The judging panel, hosted by David Eldon, chairman of the
Asian Banker Summit,  praised Bloomberg for its coverage of
the global debt markets used by investment banks to assist
them generate revenues globally. Of particular note was
Bloomberg’s unparalleled focus to the government debt markets
in  Japan ,  China  and  India , while in the corporate debt
markets, Bloomberg provided relevant content to a wide range
of countries, including those in  Europe  and Latin America.
Additionally, Bloomberg’s strong revenue generation and
terminal sales growth in APAC - fuelled by excellent usability
of its data platform, - has generated unrivalled loyalty with
customers using its data services in the region,  creating an
industry benchmark of success for global data providers.  “The  achievement  awards  programme  for  market  and
exchanges  takes  the  idea  of  business excellence in
financial markets and exchanges very seriously,”  commented
Chris Kapfer, Associate Director and Head of Research at The
Asian Banker.  “We looked at various aspects of these
organisations, including liquidity capacity, capital raising
success, platform stability, and business development and
performance relative to peers in the entire APAC region. All
winners  of  this  year’s award, including Bloomberg,  have
truly  outperformed  their  peers  in  the  region, and as a
result customers have benefited.”  The Awards gala is a gathering of international and domestic
institutions that have excelled in Markets and Exchanges,
Transaction Banking, Risk Management and Technology, held at
the  Hong Kong  Jockey Club in Hong Kong on April 7th, 2011.
The Summit  is  held  annually  in  different  Asian  cities,
and  this  year’s  was  held  in  Hong Kong with the full
support of the Monetary Authority of Hong Kong.  An audience of top industry leaders from around the world were
present at the awards ceremony.  Among  the  honoured  guests
were  David Eldon, Chairman of The Asian Banker Summit, M.
Ramaswami, President,  Singapore Exchange  (SGX), He Guangbei,
Chief Executive of  Bank of China  (HK) and Chairman of the Hong
Kong Association of Banks, Norman T L Chan, Chief Executive,
Hong Kong Monetary Authority,  Mike Smith , Chief Executive
Officer, ANZ, and Jose Maria Roldan, Director General for
Banking Regulation of the Banco de Espana and Chair of the
Standards Implementation Group of the Basel Committee.  Among the key speakers at the event are M. Ramaswami, SGX,
David  Eldon,  former  Chairman  of  The  Hong Kong  and
 Shanghai  Bank and currently the Senior Advisor of
PricewaterhouseCoopers,  Mike Smith, Chief Executive Officer,
ANZ; Jose Maria Roldan, Director General for Banking
Regulation of the Banco de Espana and Chair of the Standards
Implementation Group of the Basel Committee, Esmond Lee,
Executive Director, Financial Infrastructure, Hong Kong
Monetary Authority, and James Pike, Executive Director,
Regional Head of Derivative Operations, Morgan Stanley Asia
Limited.  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information
for financial professionals and businesses. Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news,
and display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional® service and
multimedia platforms, including Bloomberg Businessweek and
Bloomberg Markets magazines. Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations. Headquartered in  New York ,
the company employs more than 12,900 people in 166 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Anne Karumo, +65 811264 09,  BloombergAsia@cognitomedia.com   About The Asian Banker  The Asian Banker is the region’s most authoritative provider
of strategic business intelligence to the financial services
community. The Singapore-based company has offices in
 Singapore ,  Malaysia , Hong Kong and Shanghai as well as
representatives in  London , New York and  San Francisco . It has
a business model that revolves around three core business
lines: publications, research services and forums.  Contact for Asian Banker:  Arun Mambully, (65) 62366510,  amambully@theasianbanker.com   -- Bloomberg Press Room  #<761373.6922700.2.1.87.23378.2660>#
-0- Apr/08/2011 16:32 GMT
 