-- 
BlueBay Buys Irish Debt as Restructuring Is Seen as ‘Extremely Unlikely’

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-04-08T15:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/bluebay-buys-irish-debt-as-it-sees-restructuring-as-extremely-unlikely-.html
BlueBay Asset Management, which
oversees $39 billion in assets, is buying Irish  government bonds 
because pessimism surrounding the country’s finances has reached
“unrealistic” proportions.  BlueBay is keeping its holdings of Portuguese securities
below levels suggested by benchmark indexes because its economy
isn’t as able to compete, said Mark Dowding, a senior portfolio
manager at the London-based company. The country’s economy will
struggle to grow, he said.  Dowding began buying Irish bonds last week after the
government said it wouldn’t penalize investors in Irish bank
debt. BlueBay now holds more Irish debt than the level
recommended by the index it uses to measure performance, a so-
called overweight position.  “Ireland’s economy has more competitive advantage compared
with  Portugal ’s,” Dowding said in an interview. “We like the
fact that the interests of  European Central Bank  and European
Union policy makers are very much being observed by the new
government. A near-term restructuring of Irish government debt
is extremely unlikely.”  The extra yield investors demand for holding 10-year Irish
bonds instead of the benchmark German bunds fell to 577 basis
points today from 699 basis points on March 31, the highest on
record. The yield on the Irish security tumbled 73 basis points
this week to 9.25 percent as of 4:05 p.m. in London.  Irish ‘Relief’  Ireland’s new government took office last month after Prime
Minister  Enda Kenny ’s Fine Gael party ousted  Fianna Fail , which
had run the country since 1997. Ireland yielded to the ECB to
protect bondholders even as its bailout bill for the region’s
worst banking crisis moved to as much as 100 billion euros ($144
billion).  “We were concerned in the election process that the new
government may look to turn its back on  Europe  and try to go it
alone with an independent policy,” said Dowding. “It’s a
relief that it’s not the case. In this environment, Ireland will
continue to receive external assistance and support. We believe
the risk that’s priced into Irish bond yields has reached an
unrealistic proportion.”  Irish bonds are the best performer this month among euro
region’s government securities, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS
indexes. It handed investors a 5.2 percent return, compared with
a 0.8 percent loss from Portuguese debt.  Portuguese Yields  Europe’s rich countries pushed Portugal to make deeper-
than-planned budget cuts in exchange for a rescue package
estimated at 80 billion euros. The Iberian nation asked for aid
two days ago after a government vacuum helped send bond yields
to record highs.  The Portuguese two-year bond yield jumped 6 basis points to
9.13 percent, up 252 basis points, or 2.52 percentage points,
since Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned on March 23 after
losing a vote on implementing deeper austerity measures.  Portugal’s request for assistance may help prevent the
sovereign-debt crisis from spreading to other countries such as
Spain and  Italy , Dowding said.  “There is a sense in the market that the European
authorities may have managed to engineer the beginning of the
end of this stage of the euro-sovereign debt crisis,” he said.
“The outlook for peripheral countries is turning somewhat more
positive. However, our long-term assessment on Portugal remains
one where we are very concerned about its growth prospects.”  BlueBay was bought by Royal Bank of Canada in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 