-- 
Barry Bonds Jury Asks for Transcript of Ex-Business Partner’s Secret Tape

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-08T21:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/bonds-jury-asks-for-transcript-of-ex-partner-s-secret-recording-of-trainer.html
The jury in the Barry Bonds perjury
trial listened to a secret recording of the slugger’s ex-trainer
allegedly talking about injecting Bonds with steroids after the
panel asked to see a transcript of the conversation in its first
full day of deliberations.  The 2003 recording, which was played for the jury at trial
March 23 after Bonds’s attorneys lost a bid to keep it out,
captured a conversation between Steve Hoskins, Bonds’s ex-
business partner, and  Greg Anderson , Bonds’s former weight
trainer, in which prosecutors say Anderson talked about shots he
gave to Bonds.  Bonds, 46,  Major League Baseball ’s home-run record holder,
faces three counts of lying to a 2003 grand jury about whether
he took steroids provided by Anderson and received injections
from the trainer.  U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  told jurors that
the transcript they sought wasn’t evidence, only the recording
was. As Bonds sat at the defense table, they listened to the
tape, with several taking notes. Anderson is heard talking
about cysts that can form at injection sites on the body, and
Hoskins asks about “Barry’s.”  “I never just go there, I move it all over the place,”
said a voice on the recording that Hoskins and a written
transcript said was Anderson. The substances used were
“undetectable,” Anderson is alleged to have said on the tape.
Anderson had been discussing how the shots sometimes caused
cysts that had to be drained.  Bobby Bonds  Hoskins, a government witness, testified that he secretly
recorded Anderson in the clubhouse at the  San Francisco  Giants
ballpark and intended to show Bonds’s father Bobby “what was
going on” after Bonds and Anderson denied steroid use to the
elder Bonds. Bobby, like Barry, played outfield for the Giants
and Bobby Bonds also coached the team.  Bonds’s lawyers told jurors yesterday in their closing
argument that the government’s witnesses were unreliable.  The tape “is pretty good evidence for the prosecution,”
said University of San Francisco law professor Robert Talbot,
who is following the case and isn’t involved in it. “It could
mean that someone on the jury thinks it’s strong from the
prosecution, or could mean someone thinks it doesn’t show that
much,” he said in a telephone interview.  The trial began March 21. The jury of eight women and four
men began deliberations late yesterday after hearing 4 1/2 hours
of closing arguments.  In addition to the perjury charges, Bonds faces one count
of obstruction of justice for allegedly providing evasive
answers to questions about Anderson, taking steroids and getting
injections.  His lawyers say he truthfully testified that he received
performance-enhancing substances from Anderson, not knowing what
they were because they were new at the time.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  