-- 
Bovespa Posts Weekly Decline as Banks Fall on Consumer Loan Tax Increase

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-04-08T21:31:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/bovespa-index-futures-advance-on-rate-outlook-commodities-gain.html
Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index posted
its first weekly decline in a month as banks fell after policy
makers doubled a tax on consumer loans to try to curb inflation.  Banco Santander Brasil SA, the Brazilian unit of  Spain ’s
biggest bank, led the drop in financial shares.  Cosan SA
Industria e Comercio (CSAN3)  fell after Bank of America Corp. cut the
stock to “neutral.” Homebuilder Rossi Residencial SA rose
after the government excluded mortgages from the tax.  “Such measures negatively contribute for volatility of
banks’ stocks,” Credit Suisse Group AG’s analysts Marcelo Telles and Victor Schabbel wrote in a note to clients.
“ Interest rates , not macro-prudential measures, are the right
way to fight inflation.”  The Bovespa slid 0.7 percent to 68,718.01 at the close of
Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time. Fifty-two stocks
declined on the index, while 16 advanced. The measure fell 0.8
percent this week, the first weekly drop since the period ended
March 11. The real strengthened 1 percent to 1.5705 per  U.S.
dollar .  The measure’s decline was limited as commodities rose for a
seventh day on optimism for an economic recovery and on a weaker
dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw-
materials futures reached the highest level since August 2008.
Copper, a bellwether for global growth, rose for a fourth day,
capping the biggest weekly gain in four months. MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA jumped.  Consumer Loan Tax  Consumer loans excluding mortgages will be subject to a 3
percent annual tax, up from the previous rate of 1.5 percent,
Sandro Serpa, undersecretary for taxation at the Tax Agency told
reporters in Brasilia today.  Policy makers are adopting a blend of higher interest
rates, measures to curb credit growth and budget cuts as they
try to prevent inflation from breaching the 6.5 percent upper
limit of their target range.  In the interest-rate futures market, yields on contracts
maturing in January 2012 were unchanged at 12.25 percent.  Santander Brasil slumped 3.2 percent to 18.75 reais.  Banco
Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Brazil’s second-biggest bank by market value,
declined 2.1 percent to 32.45 reais. Rossi rose 0.6 percent to
14.94 reais.  MMX gained 5 percent to 11.05 reais, the highest price
since Jan. 19.  Vale Offer  Vale SA (VALE3)  was little changed at 47.43 reais after earlier
rising 0.8 percent. The world‘s second-largest mining company
offered to buy South African copper producer Metorex Ltd. for
about 7.4 billion rand ($1.11 billion) as it seeks to boost
output of the metal almost fivefold by 2015.  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale will offer 7.35 rand a share, a
3.5 percent premium to the company´s closing price yesterday in
Johannesburg, according to a statement today from Metorex.
Shareholders owning about 25 percent of the Johannesburg-based
company´s capital have agreed to the offer, according to Vale.  CPFL Energia SA, Brazil’s largest private-sector power
distributor, declined 1.4 percent to 44.62 reais. The company
agreed to buy wind-energy producer Jantus SL for 950 million
reais ($599 million). The deal includes four wind farms in the
Brazilian state of Ceara, which have installed capacity of 210
megawatts, and wind projects set to add another 867 megawatts,
Sao Paulo-based CPFL said yesterday in a regulatory filing.  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes (CYRE3) ,
Brazil’s second-biggest homebuilder by revenue, dropped 0.2
percent to 16.36 reais. The company reported first-quarter
preliminary contracted sales of 998.6 million reais, down 6.3
percent from a year earlier, according to a regulatory filing.  Cyrela Sales  “Overall, we regard Cyrela’s operating performance as
weak, especially on the sales front, which paves the way for a
uninspiring financial performance,” Banco Santander analysts
including Flavio Queiroz said in a note to clients today.  Cosan fell 2.6 percent to 23.82 reais.  There are
“increased governance risks” related to the lack of disclosure
about the compensation minority shareholders will receive after
Cosan creates a joint venture with Royal Dutch Shell Plc.,
analysts Fernando Ferreira and Isabella Simonato wrote in a note
to clients today.  Brazil may tax sugar exports in a bid to spur more ethanol
production and lower prices, newspaper  Valor Economico  reported
April 6, without saying where it got the information.  The government is “discussing” ways to guarantee ethanol
supply to consumers, Agriculture Minister Wagner Rossi told
reporters in Brasilia April 6. Rossi declined to say whether
taxing sugar exports is one of the measures under discussion.  The Bovespa is down 0.9 percent this year after declines in
homebuilders and banks on concern inflation will limit growth
overshadowed a rally in telecom shares.  The index trades at 11.1 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares to a ratio of 13.9 for the Shanghai Composite Index,
7.7 for  Russia ’s Micex, and 15.5 for  India ’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  