-- 
BP-Rosneft Swap Still Blocked, Deadline May Be Extended

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-04-08T15:52:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/bp-says-tribunal-ruled-interim-injunction-to-remain-in-place.html
BP Plc (BP/)  failed to overturn an
injunction blocking the $7.8 billion share swap with OAO
Rosneft, which it had planned to complete this month.  BP may seek an extension of the April 14 deadline, an
arbitration panel ruled. The swap and a proposed Arctic offshore
venture with the state-controlled Russian producer are still
subject to the tribunal’s final decision, London-based BP said
today in a statement.  BP had asked for the right to carry out the share swap
separately from the Kara Sea exploration project after its
billionaire partners in TNK-BP won legal challenges to hold up
the Rosneft alliance. The partners argued that TNK-BP has
exclusive rights under the shareholders’ agreement to pursue
opportunities in  Russia  for BP.  “This is going to rumble on for a very long time,” said
Doug Youngson, an analyst at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd. in
 London . “I’m fairly skeptical about it working out for BP. The
TNK vehicle was how they were meant to do Russia, so getting
involved with Rosneft was always going to be an issue.”  BP shares rose 0.8 percent as of the 4:30 p.m. London
close. The stock is down 4 percent since the Rosneft deal was
announced on Jan. 14. Rosneft slipped 0.3 percent in Moscow, and
has gained 15 percent in the period.  TNK-BP, owned 50-50 with the billionaires, accounts for
about a quarter of BP’s global output and a fifth of reserves
and is Russia’s third-largest oil producer. The AAR Consortium
represents the TNK partners.  Swap Deadline  “AAR welcomes the decision of the tribunal, which we
consider fair, balanced and thoughtful,” said  Stan Polovets ,
chief executive officer of AAR, in an e-mailed statement. “We
will be pleased to continue to cooperate.”  The tribunal asked BP and AAR to submit more information
for further review of the share swap, according to AAR.  BP hasn’t asked yet about extending the share swap
deadline, which for now remains April 14, Rustam Kazharov, a
Rosneft spokesman, said by phone, declining to comment further.  In a setback for Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley ’s
efforts to rebuild the company after last year’s Gulf of Mexico
oil spill, the arbitrators on March 24 extended indefinitely an
injunction on the Rosneft deal granted to AAR in February.  ‘Good for Russia’  BP agreed on Jan. 14 to swap 5 percent of its stock for 9.5
percent of Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer. The share
swap on its own may be worth about $2 billion more to BP than
when it was first announced because BP shares have fallen,
Rosneft stock has risen and the ruble has strengthened,
Bloomberg data show. BP bought $1 billion of stock, or about 1.3
percent, in Rosneft’s 2006 initial public offering.  Rosneft plans to “defend its position in the deal, a deal
that is good for Russia,” Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin ,
who is also the oil producer’s chairman, told reporters on March
25. “BP suits us as a partner.”  President  Dmitry Medvedev  on April 2 instructed senior
government officials including Sechin to step down from posts at
state-owned companies by July 1.  The Kremlin would advise BP and its partners in TNK-BP to
“find a mutually acceptable solution” on the Rosneft deal,
 Arkady Dvorkovich , Medvedev’s economic adviser, said March 29.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  lauded BP and Rosneft’s
strategic alliance on Jan. 14. He later said Dudley had left him
“completely unaware” of a potential dispute with the TNK-BP
partners. The Rosneft deal would have been the first of its kind
between a state-owned company and an international oil producer.  A 2008 management dispute between BP and the billionaires
led to Dudley’s dismissal after five years in the top post at
TNK-BP. AAR said Dudley favored BP’s interests over its own,
which the U.S. executive and the U.K. company denied.  BP’s billionaire partners are TNK-BP interim Chief
Executive Officer  Mikhail Fridman , Executive Director  German Khan , United Co. Rusal Chairman  Viktor Vekselberg  and Access
Industries Chairman  Len Blavatnik , who is a U.S. citizen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  