-- 
Brazil Real Posts Biggest Two-Week Advance Since 2009 on Tax Rule Changes

-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-04-08T21:47:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/brazil-real-heads-for-biggest-two-day-gain-since-june-on-government-signal.html
Brazil ’s real posted the biggest
two-week gain in almost two years after the government enacted
measures to curb its rally that were weaker than some investors
expected, and Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said long-term
appreciation of the currency is “inevitable.”  The real rose 1.1 percent today to 1.5689 per dollar at 5
p.m. New York time, adding to the currency’s 5.9 percent rally
over the past two weeks. The currency gained 7.4 percent in the
two-week period ended May 29, 2009. The real rallied 2.4 percent
this week.  The government has changed tax rules three times since
March 29 in an effort to slow the two-year, 40 percent surge in
the real that’s crimping exporters’ profits. The measures were
“very mild” compared to the steps traders worried Mantega
would take, said  Win Thin , global head of emerging-markets
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New York .  “That’s pretty much a green light for the market to take
the real stronger,” Thin said in a telephone interview.
“They’ve kept the big guns in the bag. If you look at Mantega’s
comments, you sort of realize they know it’s sort of like a
losing battle. They’ll try and slow the move, but it’s getting
costly.”  Mantega said April 6 the currency’s strength was, to some
extent, “inevitable” due to the economy’s growth as he
announced the government was broadening the scope of a 6 percent
tax on foreign borrowing to include loans with maturities of up
to two years from one year.  Brazil’s central bank said it bought an unspecified amount
of dollars in the forward  currency market  today at 1.5795 reais
for liquidation on May 3. Policy makers said they also purchased
the U.S. currency twice in the  spot market , first at 1.5770 and
then at 1.5740 each. The tactics are part of an effort to curb
gains in the currency, which has appreciated 48 percent since
the end of 2008, the most among emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg in the period.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
were unchanged at 12.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  