-- 
Brazil Doubles Consumer-Credit Tax to Damp Inflation

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-04-08T01:13:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/brazil-doubles-consumer-credit-tax-to-damp-inflation-2-.html
Brazil  doubled a tax on  consumer
credit  as President Dilma Rousseff’s government shifts its focus
to fighting inflation from curbing gains by the currency.  Starting tomorrow, consumer loans, excluding mortgages,
will be subject to a 3 percent annual tax, up from a previous
rate of 1.5 percent, according to a Finance Ministry statement.  Policy makers are adopting a mix of higher  interest rates ,
measures to curb credit growth and budget cuts as they try to
prevent inflation, already at a two-year high, from exceeding
the 6.5 percent upper limit of their target range. Rousseff’s
team is concentrating on fighting inflation because there isn’t
much more they can do to prevent the currency from strengthening,
said Pedro Tuesta, a Washington-based economist for Latin
America at 4Cast Inc.  “They still have tools to work on inflation, whereas in
the foreign-exchange market they seem to have run out of
tools,” Tuesta said. “As hard as it is for them to accept a
stronger real, they have to.”  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  reiterated today that gains
by the real are “unavoidable.”  The currency strengthened beyond 1.60 per dollar for the
first time since August 2008, after it advanced 1.7 percent
today to 1.5863 per dollar. It was the biggest daily increase
since Oct. 5.  Credit Growth  Credit growth in Brazil’s economy picked up in February.
Total outstanding credit rose 1.3 percent in February from
January to 1.74 trillion reais ($1.05 trillion), up from a 0.6
percent increase the previous month. Credit rose 21 percent from
a year earlier.  Mantega said the higher tax on consumer loans can be
repealed when credit growth slows to an “adequate” pace of 12
percent to 15 percent a year. He said the government can take
additional measures to curb demand and inflation.  “The government won’t allow inflation to run out of
control,” he said.  The central bank forecasts credit growth of 13 percent in
2011, Tulio Maciel, acting head of the bank’s economic research
department, said March 29. The average rate charged on consumer
loans was unchanged at 43.8 percent in February.  In December, the central bank raised reserve and capital
requirements as part of its plan to fight inflation by reducing
credit. The government has also increased taxes on foreign loans
with the dual goal of reducing credit and restricting capital
inflows that fueled a 46 percent rally in the real since the end
of 2008.  Policy Meeting  In the minutes of its March 1-2 policy meeting, the central
bank said that so-called macro-prudential measures to curb bank
lending are a “rapid and potent” weapon.  Traders are wagering the central bank will raise overnight
rate to at least 12 percent this month as it seeks to slow
inflation that quickened to 6.3 percent in the 12 months through
March. The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus
or minus two percentage points.  The central bank raised the overnight rate by half a
percentage point in each of its two previous meetings, pushing
the rate up to 11.75 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  