-- 
Brazilian Stock Movers: Cosan, Itau Unibanco, MMX, Embraer

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-04-08T14:51:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/brazilian-stock-movers-cosan-itau-unibanco-mmx-embraer.html
The following companies are having
unusual price changes in Sao Paulo trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 10:19 a.m. New York time.
Preferred shares are usually the most-traded class of stock.  The Bovespa Index fell 0.6 percent to 68,738.32.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  (ITUB4 BS), Latin America’s
biggest bank by market value, dropped 1.7 percent to 37.77
reais, after  Brazil  doubled a tax on consumer loans in an
attempt to limit credit growth and curb inflation. Starting
today, consumer loans excluding mortgages will be subject to a 3
percent annual tax, up from the previous rate of 1.5 percent,
according to a Finance Ministry statement.  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio (CSAN3)  (CSAN3 BS), the sugar-cane
producer, fell 2.2 percent to 23.92 reais, as its shares were
cut to “neutral” from “buy” at Bank of America Corp. The
bank cited “increased governance risks” related to the lack of
details disclosed so far about compensation that minority
shareholders will receive after the creation of Cosan’s joint
venture with Shell Plc.  MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA (MMXM3)  (MMXM3 BS), the iron-ore miner
controlled by Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista, rose 2.2
percent to 10.75 reais as commodity prices climbed to a two-year
high. Morgan Stanley in a report said that steel prices this
year have “outperformed the rise in raw material costs, which
may intensify pressure” on prices.  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  (EMBR3 BS) fell 0.3 percent to 13.16 reais after
Reuters reported the world’s fourth-largest planemaker may sign
contracts next week to sell planes, including the 190 commercial
flyer and the Legacy executive jet, to Chinese regional
carriers. The news service cited Maria Edileuza Fontenele Reis,
a Brazilian foreign ministry official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  