-- 
Brazilian Banking Stocks Fall as Rousseff Doubles Tax on Consumer Loans

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-04-08T19:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/brazil-doubles-consumer-credit-tax-as-inflation-threatens-to-breach-target.html
Brazil doubled a tax on consumer
loans yesterday and pledged today to adopt further measures as
the government shifts its focus from waging war against
exchange-rate appreciation to fighting the fastest inflation in
more than two years.  Starting tomorrow, consumer loans excluding mortgages will
be subject to a 3 percent annual tax, up from the previous rate
of 1.5 percent, Sandro Serpa, undersecretary for taxation at the
Tax Agency told reporters in Brasilia today.  Policy makers are adopting a blend of higher  interest
rates , measures to curb credit growth and budget cuts as they
try to prevent inflation from breaching the 6.5 percent upper
limit of their target range. President Dilma Rousseff’s team has
turned its attention to quelling inflation because there isn’t
much more it can do to prevent the currency from strengthening,
said Pedro Tuesta, an economist for Latin America at 4Cast Inc.  “They still have tools to work on inflation, whereas in
the foreign-exchange market they seem to have run out of
tools,” Washington-based Tuesta said. “As hard as it is for
them to accept a stronger real, they have to.”  Policy makers are trying to cool the economy after
inflation in March reached 6.3 percent, the fastest in 28
months, and Brazilian manufacturers increased the use of
installed capacity to a record 83.6 percent in February. The
government aims to slow credit growth to an “adequate” level
of 12 percent to 15 percent a year, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  Affect Demand  Speaking to reporters today in  Sao Paulo , Mantega said some
measures will affect Brazilian demand in the medium term and the
government was prepared to take further action.  “The government won’t hesitate in taking measures to
contain inflation,” Mantega said. “We have a heated demand,
services heated and we don’t want overseas inflation here.”  Mantega also said today that a strong real would help
contain inflation, though policy makers were focusing their
anti-inflationary efforts on reducing demand and credit growth.  “It is true that” a strong real “would be good for
inflation,” Mantega said. “But we don’t conduct this policy,
our anti-inflationary policies are defined by the central bank
and the Finance ministry aiming to reduce the level of
consumption and demand.”  Interest Rate Futures  The yields on interest rate futures contracts fell across
the board. Contracts maturing in July, the most traded in BM&F
Bovespa stock exchange, traded little changed at 11.968 percent
at 3:51 p.m.  New York  time. The real rose 0.9 percent to 1.5717
per dollar, heading for the biggest two-day gain in almost 10
months after the government signaled it’s more focused on
fighting inflation than currency appreciation.  On April 6, Mantega extended a tax on foreign-based loans
in an effort to stem gains in the real after the currency
appreciated to a two-and-a-half year high this week. Even so,
the currency continued to strengthen yesterday, going beyond
1.60 per dollar for the first time since August 2008, after it
advanced 1.7 percent to 1.5863 per dollar. It was the biggest
daily increase since Oct. 5.  Total outstanding credit in Brazil’s economy rose 21
percent from a year earlier in February, to 1.74 trillion reais
($1.1 trillion). Brazilian central bank President Alexandre Tombini told lawmakers March 22 that growth in  consumer credit 
above 15 percent needs to be monitored “very carefully” to
avoid “excessive risks.”  Credit Growth  The central bank forecasts credit growth of 13 percent in
2011, Tulio Maciel, acting head of the bank’s economic research
department, said March 29. The average rate charged on consumer
loans was unchanged at 43.8 percent in February, while the
default rate rose for a third straight month, to 5.84 percent.  Traders are betting the central bank will raise borrowing
costs 0.25 percentage point to 12 percent at its April board
meeting, according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest-rate
futures.  Mantega said policy makers could take additional steps to
curb demand. “There isn’t only one tool against inflation;
there are many tools that can be used and we are using them
all,” he said.  “It signals a willingness on the part of the government to
incrementally do more,” said  Tony Volpon , Latin America
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York. “That’s a very
powerful signal for the banking sector that unless loan growth
slows down to the 12 percent to 15 percent level he’s talking
about they will do more.”  Reserve Requirements  In December, the central bank raised reserve and capital
requirements as part of its plan to fight inflation by reducing
credit. The government has also increased taxes on foreign loans
with the goals of slowing credit and limiting capital inflows
that fueled a 46 percent rally in the real since the end of
2008.  In the minutes of its March 1-2 policy meeting, the central
bank said that so-called macro-prudential measures to curb bank
lending are a “rapid and potent” weapon.  “It helps curb credit growth while likely reducing the
need for the central bank to hike the interest rate, which would
exacerbate the real’s appreciation pressures,” said Gustavo Rangel, chief  Brazil  economist for ING Financial Markets in New
York.  Macro-prudential financial policies are “essential to
contain financial-sector exuberance,” the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a  report  published yesterday.  The central bank raised borrowing costs by half a
percentage point at its January and March meetings, lifting the
benchmark rate to 11.75 percent. The central bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  