-- 
Brown's California Budget May Harm San Francisco Projects, Controller Says

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-04-08T19:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/brown-s-california-budget-may-harm-san-francisco-projects-controller-says.html
San Francisco, facing a $1.4 billion
 budget deficit  through 2014, may lose potential  tax revenue  if
 California  Governor Jerry Brown’s plan to eliminate
redevelopment agencies takes effect, the city controller said.  Brown’s plan “has implications” for three projects to
transform two former military bases and an industrial area into
neighborhoods by the city’s redevelopment agency, which produces
most of the city’s affordable housing, Controller Ben Rosenfield
said today in an interview in his City Hall office.  “That’s probably the most significant change that has been
proposed and not yet adopted that the city is pushing hard on
and very worried about,” Rosenfield, 37, said.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, in January proposed a plan
to abolish more than 400 local redevelopment agencies, a $5
billion pillar of his plan to erase the largest state deficit in
the U.S. Brown would divert their revenue to schools and local
governments.  San Francisco ’s agency is spearheading the redevelopment of
Treasure Island, Hunters Point Shipyard and Mission Bay,
Rosenfield said.  “For a fully built-out city like we are that’s got
constraints, there aren’t that many areas to continue to build
our tax base,” Rosenfield said. “Those places that there are,
we are relying on our redevelopment agency to do that. To lose
those would have significant long-term economic implications for
the city.”  Redevelopment Law  San Francisco is California’s fourth-largest city, behind
 Los Angeles ,  San Diego  and  San Jose , according to 2010 U.S.
Census data.  Under California’s 65-year-old redevelopment law, if a city
or county creates a redevelopment area to address urban blight,
the agency receives related property-levy revenue increases that
may result, known as the tax increment. Those funds are shared
between the agency and the municipality.  Rosenfield, Interim Mayor Edwin Lee and the Board of
Supervisors’ budget analyst yesterday released an annual report
projecting a $1.4 billion general-fund deficit through June
2014.  State funds represent 10 percent of San Francisco’s $6.3
billion fiscal 2011 budget, including the city’s Public Health
Department and Human Services Agency, Rosenfield said.  “It’s a very significant funding source for us, for our
general government services,” Rosenfield said. “And that’s the
wild card in all of this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 