-- 
HTC Net Surges More Than Estimated to Record on Demand for Android Mobiles

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-04-08T07:34:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/htc-net-surges-more-than-estimated-to-record-on-demand-for-android-mobiles.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest
mobile-phone maker by market value, posted record quarterly 
profit and sales on demand for more-advanced high-speed handsets.  Net income almost tripled to NT$14.83 billion ($513
million) in the first quarter from NT$5 billion a year earlier,
the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a statement today.
That was higher than the NT$12.8 billion average of 18 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales more than doubled as HTC benefited from rising demand 
for smartphones that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system and models 
that offer higher connection speeds. Profit may gain further this 
quarter as the company begins selling new devices including its
first tablet computer, according to analyst estimates compiled 
by Bloomberg.  “We expect HTC’s new model launches in the second quarter
to drive stronger shipment growth than peers in the next two
quarters,” analyst Jeff Pu, who recommends investors “buy”
the stock, at Fubon Financial Holding Co. wrote in a report
yesterday.  HTC said Jan. 21 it expected to ship 8.5 million units for
the quarter, more than double that of a year earlier and its
second-highest following the 9.1 million sold in the fourth
quarter. It didn’t provide first-quarter shipment numbers today.
Net income may climb in the second quarter to NT$14.5 billion,
according to the average of 17 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  ThunderBolt Vs Iphone  Revenue rose to NT$104.2 billion, beating HTC’s own
forecast for NT$94 billion, and surpassing the NT$95 billion
average of 20 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s ThunderBolt handset, using fourth-generation
high speed networks, equaled sales of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone in 61
percent of the 150 Verizon Wireless stores surveyed by New York-
based BTIG LLC, analyst Walter Piecyk wrote in a March 31
 report . ThunderBolt outsold iPhone in 28 percent of stores,
according to the survey.  “Several respondents indicated that the store lines were
longer for the first day of the ThunderBolt launch than they
were for the iPhone,” Piecyk wrote. “Verizon sales people
indicated that sales of the iPhone were still strong but they
simply noted that the ThunderBolt was as strong if not
stronger.”  The Taiwanese company’s first tablet,  HTC Flyer , was
 unveiled  on Feb. 15. Sales will begin in the second quarter,
rivaling Apple’s iPad and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy.
Flyer has a smaller screen and higher-resolution camera than
Apple’s iPad2.  Overtaking Nokia  HTC’s stock, which has tripled in the past year, fell 3.3
percent to NT$1,160 at the 1:30 p.m. close of Taipei trading
before the earnings were announced. Its market value surpassed
that of Nokia Oyj on April 6, putting it behind only Apple and
Samsung, before dropping back below the Finnish rival in trading
today.  Google’s Android operating system, which HTC uses for its
handsets and tablets, will run on 49 percent of smartphones sold
globally next year, from 39 percent this year and 23 percent
last year,  Stamford , Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. said in a
 statement  yesterday. The software platform will stay ahead of
Research in Motion Inc.’s BlackBerry, and Apple’s iOS, it said.  None of the 36 analyst recommendations compiled by
Bloomberg advise investors to sell HTC while 29 say “buy” the
stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  