-- 
HTC Posts Record Sales, Profit on Demand for ‘ThunderBolt’, Smartphones

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-04-08T10:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/htc-posts-record-sales-profit-on-demand-for-advanced-phones-1-.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese company
which overtook Nokia Oyj this week as the world’s third-largest
phonemaker by market value, posted record quarterly profit and
sales on demand for smartphones.  Net income almost tripled to NT$14.8 billion ($513 million)
in the first quarter from NT$5 billion a year earlier, the
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a statement today. That
was higher than the NT$12.8 billion average of 18 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales more than doubled as HTC benefited from rising demand
for smartphones that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system and models
that offer higher connection speeds. Profit may gain further
this quarter as the company begins selling new devices including
its first tablet computer, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We expect HTC’s new model launches in the second quarter
to drive stronger shipment growth than peers in the next two
quarters,” Jeff Pu, an analyst at Fubon Financial Holding Co.
in Taipei who recommends investors “buy” the stock, wrote in a
report yesterday.  HTC said Jan. 21 it expected to ship 8.5 million units for
the quarter, more than double that of a year earlier and its
second-highest following the 9.1 million sold in the fourth
quarter. It didn’t provide first-quarter shipment numbers today.
Net income may climb in the second quarter to NT$16.4 billion,
according to the median of three analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg in the past 28 days.  ThunderBolt Vs Iphone  Revenue rose to NT$104.2 billion, beating HTC’s own
forecast for NT$94 billion, and surpassing the NT$95 billion
average of 20 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That
figure may climb to NT$112 billion this quarter, according to
analyst estimates from the past 28 days.  The company’s ThunderBolt handset, using fourth-generation
high speed networks, equaled sales of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone in 61
percent of the 150 Verizon Wireless stores surveyed by New York-
based BTIG LLC, analyst Walter Piecyk wrote in a March 31
 report . ThunderBolt outsold iPhone in 28 percent of stores,
according to the survey.  “Several respondents indicated that the store lines were
longer for the first day of the ThunderBolt launch than they
were for the iPhone,” Piecyk wrote. “Verizon sales people
indicated that sales of the iPhone were still strong but they
simply noted that the ThunderBolt was as strong if not
stronger.”  The Taiwanese company’s first tablet,  HTC Flyer , was
 unveiled  on Feb. 15. Sales will begin in the second quarter,
rivaling Apple’s iPad and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy.
Flyer has a smaller screen and higher-resolution camera than
Apple’s iPad2.  Overtaking Nokia  HTC’s stock, which has tripled in the past year, fell 3.3
percent to NT$1,160 at the 1:30 p.m. close of Taipei trading
before the earnings were announced. Its market value surpassed
that of Nokia on April 6, putting it behind only Apple and
Samsung, before dropping back below the Finnish rival in trading
today.  Global shipments of smartphones climbed 72 percent last
year, more than double the 32 percent growth in the wider mobile
devices market, researcher Gartner Inc. said in a Feb. 9
statement. Smartphones, the only type of phone HTC makes,
accounted for 19 percent of market shipments last year, it said.  Google’s Android operating system, which HTC uses for its
handsets and tablets, will run on 49 percent of smartphones sold
globally next year, from 39 percent this year and 23 percent
last year,  Stamford , Connecticut-based Gartner said in a
 statement  yesterday. The software platform will stay ahead of
Research in Motion Inc.’s BlackBerry, and Apple’s iOS, it said.  None of the 36 analyst recommendations compiled by
Bloomberg advise investors to sell HTC while 29 say “buy” the
stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  