-- 
Caja Madrid, BFA Ratings May Be Lowered on Bank Plan

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-04-08T11:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/caja-madrid-bfa-ratings-may-be-cut-by-s-p-on-bank-plan-1-.html
(Corrects rating to A- in second paragraph.)  Caja Madrid  and Banco Financiero y
de Ahorros SA may have their credit ratings cut because of a
plan to set up a so-called bad bank to hold riskier assets,
 Standard & Poor’s  said.  The A- ratings of Caja  Madrid  and BFA have been placed on
“creditwatch with negative implications,” S&P said in a
statement last yesterday. BFA “will likely operate as a quasi-
holding company” that holds some of the group’s “risky
assets” and assume a “significant amount” of the group’s debt
under the plan announced on April 5, it said late yesterday.  “In our view, this new plan could affect the
creditworthiness of both Caja Madrid and BFA and raises
significant uncertainties,” the ratings company said.  Spanish savings banks, which have recognized almost half of
their 217 billion euros ($313 billion) in loans to builders and
developers as “potentially problematic” after the collapse of
a property boom, are racing to raise funds to meet new  capital
requirements  before a September deadline set by the government.
Under Caja Madrid’s plan, preference shares owned by the state’s
bank-rescue fund will be bundled into BFA along with the riskier
assets.  Bankia Unit  The government, which is tightening rules on lenders as
part of its efforts to restore investor confidence, has declined
to comment on the detail of Caja Madrid’s plan, even as it says
the state will make a profit on its preference shares. Finance
Minister Elena Salgado said on April 6 it was up to the Bank of
 Spain  to evaluate the plan.  The group formed from a merger of seven savings banks plans
to list a unit called Bankia, with assets of 275 billion euros,
on the Madrid stock market while leaving foreclosed land,
substandard loans on land, some share holdings in other
companies and enough cash to meet payments in the hands of BFA.
BFA remains the only shareholder in Bankia until the initial
public offering. Chairman Rodrigo Rato denied on April 6 that
Bankia was setting up a “bad bank.”  Caja Madrid is following steps taken by Barcelona-based  La
Caixa , which said in January it would transfer its banking
business into a publicly traded holding company,  Criteria
CaixaCorp SA (CRI) , while keeping the riskier assets in an unlisted
unit. Criteria shares have risen 17 percent since that plan was
announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  