-- 
California Teachers Fund Needs 10% Returns to Meet Retirement Needs

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-04-08T18:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/california-teachers-fund-needs-10-returns-to-meet-retirement-needs.html
The  California  State Teachers’
Retirement System would need to realize investment returns of
more than 10 percent a year for the next 30 years to meet its
obligations to retirees, a number actuaries called unrealistic.  The board of the second-largest U.S. public pension today
adopted a report by its actuaries showing that it slipped $15.5
billion farther behind its ability to pay its long-term
obligations in fiscal 2010.  Calstrs, as the fund is known, estimates its annual return
will be 7.75 percent. A 10.1 percent projected yield would be
needed to avoid increasing contribution rates for teachers or
school districts, according to an analysis by actuarial
consultants Milliman Inc.  “We wanted to give you a sense of what would need to
happen to invest our way out of it, just to give you a sense of
how hard it is,” said  Nick Collier , a Milliman actuary, in
comments to the board today. “The further we go down the road
without additional revenue, the harder it’s going to be.”  Ed Derman, the $150.1 billion fund’s deputy executive
director, said Calstrs will need additional contributions from
members and school districts at some point. The power to
increase contribution rates resides with the state Legislature,
not the pension system managers, Derman said.  Unfunded Liabilities  Calstrs’ unfunded liabilities rose 38 percent to $56
billion as of June 30, actuaries said in a  report . The gap is
smaller than the $57.5 billion projection made by actuaries a
year earlier because of stronger-than-expected equity
performance, according to the report.  Like many public pensions, Calstrs projects its expected
assets and liabilities over a 30-year period.  Public pensions nationwide are grappling with about $3.6
trillion in unfunded liabilities, according to a 2010 study by
 Joshua Rauh  of  Northwestern University  and Robert Novy-Marx of
the University of Rochester. While Calstrs earned a 12.7 percent
return last year, its ability to make long-term payments
declined because gains and losses are averaged over a three-year
period.  Past Losses  Calstrs actuaries said absorbing  losses  from 2008 to 2009
was responsible for $12.7 billion of the increase in unfunded
liabilities between June 2009 and June 2010.  Under a formula that triggers automatic increases in state
payments when the  pension plan  falls further behind its
obligations, California will pay an estimated $140 million to
$150 million more toward Calstrs this year. The state
contributed $573 million in the fiscal year that ended June 30.  The state’s additional payments are expected to begin in
October, Derman said in an interview.  Governor  Jerry Brown  said April 1 that he would develop a
plan to tackle the widening gap between Calstrs’ assets and
expected liabilities.  The issue was one of seven pension-related measures that
the 73-year-old Democrat vowed to address following a breakdown
in budget negotiations with Republicans. Bob Dutton, the state
Senate Republican leader, had proposed requiring new public
employees to enter into a mandatory hybrid between a traditional
pension and a 401(k)-style plan.  Brown didn’t offer specifics on how he would deal with the
Calstrs liabilities.  In comments to the Calstrs board today, a lobbyist for the
 California Teachers Association  said the growing gap between
assets and liabilities shouldn’t be a pretext for making drastic
changes to employees’ pensions.  “There are some who want to use and manipulate this for
their own political purposes,” Jennifer Baker, legislative
advocate for the 325,000-member union, told the board. “There
truly is an agenda for some that has nothing to do with solving
the shortfall that you have now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  