-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls on Spring Temperatures in U.S. North

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-04-08T19:57:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/canadian-natural-gas-falls-on-spring-temperatures-in-u-s-north.html
Canadian natural gas fell for the
fifth day this week as spring gathered steam in  North America ,
reducing the need to buy the heating fuel.  Demand for heat in the New York and New England area will
trail normal by 39 percent through April 15, according to
Belton, Missouri-based forecaster Weather Derivatives.
Temperatures in the region will be above normal by 6 degrees
Fahrenheit (3.8 Celsius), the forecaster said.  Temperatures in Pittsburgh fell to a low of 46 degrees
Fahrenheit (8 Celsius), which is 10 degrees above normal, early
today, according to  Weather Underground  in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.
The overnight low is forecast at 40 degrees, 2 above normal.  Alberta natural gas for May delivery fell 3.5 cents to
C$3.28 per gigajoule ($3.25 per million British thermal units)
as of 3:15 p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian
Internet market. Gas on the exchange goes to users in  Canada  and
the U.S. and is priced on TransCanada’s Alberta system.  Gas for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell 1.6 cents to settle at $4.041 per million Btu on the New
York Mercantile Exchange.  Volume on  TransCanada Corp.’s  Alberta system, which
collects the output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.3
billion cubic feet as of 2 p.m. in New York, about 22 million
above target. Volume on the system, or linepack, fell 472
million cubic feet in the past four hours.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.69 billion cubic feet
at Empress,  Alberta , where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.42 billion cubic feet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 