-- 
Carmelo in Company of Rangers May Mean $15 Million Playoff Payday for MSG

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-04-08T20:34:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/carmelo-in-company-of-rangers-may-mean-15-million-playoff-payday-for-msg.html
It’s been 17 years since both the
 New York Knicks  and Rangers made it to their league finals,
giving Madison Square Garden 26 playoff games. Steven Klein says
he went to them all.  “There is nothing more exciting in New York and Madison
Square Garden than the playoffs,” said Klein, the 50-year-old
president of S&M Klein Co., an insurance company in Queens, who
has season tickets to both clubs.  The Knicks, led by All-Stars Amar’e Stoudemire and  Carmelo Anthony , are already in the playoffs. The Rangers will join them
if the Carolina Hurricanes falter. Like Klein, investors of
 Madison Square Garden Inc. (MSG)  will be rooting for the Rangers: The
arena stands to generate about $15 million in revenue each round
both teams advance, according to Richard Tullo, an analyst with
Albert Fried & Co. in  New York .  “This is, without a doubt, good news,” said Tullo, who
has a “buy” rating on the New York-based company and a price
target of $34. MSG fell 10 cents to $27.61 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock is up 7.1 percent
this year.  Madison Square Garden will bring in about $750,000 in MSG-
owned concessions, $4.1 million in ticket sales and $2.8 million
in advertising revenue from arena sponsorships and TV
commercials per round for the Knicks and almost as much for the
Rangers, Tullo said, basing his estimate on 2009 prices when the
Rangers last made the playoffs. Both teams last made the
playoffs in 1996.  “This has been a great season for the Knicks and the
Rangers both on and off the court and ice,” MSG Sports
President Scott O’Neil said in an e-mail. “This is a great time
to be a Knicks and Rangers fan, and it looks like just the
beginning.”  MSG Earnings  MSG earned $83 million last year with sales of $1.2 billion
and ended the year with more than $350 million in cash on hand,
Chief Executive Officer Hank Ratner said on a conference call
last month. MSG will announce first-quarter earnings on May 6.
Analysts estimate the company will earn 27 cents a share with
revenue of $320 million, a 4.4 percent increase from a year ago.  According to Forbes magazine, the Knicks took in $81
million in gate receipts in 2010, or $1.98 million each home
game. The Rangers took in $62 million in gate receipts in 2010,
or $1.51 million a game.  A 30 percent increase in first-round ticket prices
calculates to $2.57 million a playoff game for the Knicks and
$1.96 million for the Rangers. If both teams play three home
games in the first round, that’s $13.6 million in ticket revenue
alone.  Ticket Prices  Face-value prices soar as the teams advance. Klein’s 4th-
row $330 Knicks regular-season tickets increase to $590 each in
the first round, $725 in the second round, $980 in the
conference finals and $1,550 for the finals. His Rangers tickets
rise from $210 in the regular season to $530 for the Stanley
Cup.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  spun off MSG, which owns the
arena, Radio City  Music Hall , the Knicks and the Rangers, in
January 2010 to focus on its cable operations. MSG shares have
risen 27 percent since then.  A championship run from either team could generate between
$5 million and $10 million in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization from tickets, and “millions
more” in ad profit, according to John Tinker, senior media
analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York.  “If either team wins the playoffs, it reminds everyone
that the Garden has a huge worth,” said Tinker, who has a
“buy” rating on MSG shares. “Madison Square Garden has become
part of the conversation again. It’s become relevant.”  MSG Renovations  Another benefit of playoff victories for MSG is leverage to
increase its prices next season, after MSG spends $850 million
on renovations following the Knicks’ and Rangers’ seasons, Tullo
said. Knicks tickets will increase an average of 49 percent;
Rangers 23 percent.  The Knicks will play the  Miami Heat ,  Chicago Bulls  or
 Boston Celtics  in the first round. If the Knicks play  LeBron James ’s Heat, the hype around the two-time NBA Most Valuable
Player may cause advertising revenue to rise another 20 to 30
percent over estimates, Tullo said.  If the Rangers lose to the New Jersey Devils tomorrow and
the Hurricanes win at least one of their final two games, New
York is out of the playoffs. The Rangers can make the playoffs
with a win and one or two Hurricanes losses, or with a regular
or overtime win against the Devils, and two shootout wins by the
Hurricanes.  The Garden, now in its fourth location in New York, opened
at its current spot on Seventh Avenue between 31st and 33rd
streets in 1968. The first two incarnations were at Madison
Avenue and 26th Street, giving the arena its name. The third was
on Eighth Avenue between 49th and 50th streets.  Both in Playoffs  The Rangers and Knicks both made the playoffs in the same
year at the Garden 24 times. The closest they came to winning
titles the same year was in 1994, when the Rangers won the
 Stanley Cup  and the Knicks lost the NBA finals to the  Houston
Rockets .  Even without joint titles, both teams making the playoffs
would be welcome news for Klein.  “The drought has been terrible. I miss it very much,”
said Klein, of Woodmere, New York. “It also has had a terrible
effect on my marriage because I’m home too much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  