-- 
Cassa Hotel Owner to Sell Portion of Manhattan Building for $130 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-04-08T22:03:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/cassa-hotel-owner-to-sell-portion-of-manhattan-building-for-130-million.html
Waterscape Resort LLC, owner of the
 Cassa Hotel and Residences  in midtown  Manhattan , agreed to sell
a portion of the building for about $130 million to an
unidentified buyer without holding a bankruptcy auction.  The New York-based company and affiliate Assa Properties
reached a “binding contract with an international investor” to
sell the hotel section of the property, according to a statement
today.  Harvey Strickon, a lawyer representing the purchaser,
declined to comment on the buyer, citing instructions not to
reveal its identity.  The segment of the building designated for condominiums,
floors 27 to 48, isn’t part of the sale and will remain under
the company’s control, according to the statement. The owners
value that portion of the property at more than $120 million.  “We remain optimistic about the success of the hotel, the
sale of the penthouses and residential units,” Assa Properties
Chief Executive Officer Solly Assa said in the statement.  The company listed $100 million to $500 million in both
assets and debt in Chapter 11 papers filed April 5 in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  New York . Waterscape was forced to seek
bankruptcy after disputes with its contractors caused
construction delays and increased costs.  The Cassa complex is on West 45th Street, a block from
Times Square. It includes 165 hotel rooms, 57 residences and a
restaurant that hasn’t opened, according to court papers. The
hotel business generated as much as $18 million in gross annual
revenue as of September 2010. The company has sold five
residential units for a total of $12.7 million.  The case is In re Waterscape Resort LLC, 11-11593, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 