-- 
Cate Blanchett Hunts Wily Teen; Boozy ‘Arthur’ Remake: Movies

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-04-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/cate-blanchett-hunts-wily-teen-boozy-arthur-remake-fonzie-s-son-film.html
A killer -- maybe even a killer
franchise -- is born in “ Hanna ,” Joe Wright’s wildly
propulsive new action film.  A spy-versus-spy thriller with an ingenuity that shames
Hollywood junk, “Hanna” sprints from beginning to end, and
might do more for the career of young star Saoirse Ronan than
her 2008 Oscar nomination.  A sweet-faced girl with long golden locks -- the Brothers
Grimm practically deserve a co-writing credit -- Hanna was
raised and trained by her ex-CIA dad Erik (Eric Bana) in the
extreme arts of survival.  When the day comes to leave their isolated cabin in the
snowy hinterlands of  Finland , Hanna becomes the target of CIA-
trained assassins. Any good fairy tale needs a witch, and
“Hanna” has a terrifically wicked one:  Cate Blanchett  plays an
agent from Erik’s past, intent on hunting down and killing
Hanna.  Wright, best known for adaptations of “Pride & Prejudice”
and “Atonement” (the latter featured Ronan in the Oscar-
nominated performance), takes to the action genre like a spy to
subterfuge, working from an airtight screenplay by Seth Lochhead
and David Farr.  The Chemical Brothers’ techno score is a blast,
particularly a recurring music box melody amped up with a dance-
club beat. Good luck getting it out of your head anytime soon.  “Hanna,” from  Focus Features , is playing across the U.S.
Rating: ****  ‘Arthur’  The ill-conceived remake of 1981’s “ Arthur ” begins with a
drunken car crash and never regains its footing.  Russell Brand , in the role made famous by Dudley Moore,
works very hard to charm as the alcoholic millionaire playboy,
but his outsize grin and grating childlike demeanor can’t put a
smile on the dated, boozy humor.  Director Jason Winer makes a few feeble attempts to refresh
the recipe. The caretaker, played by John Gielgud in the
original, gets a gender change with  Helen Mirren  and Arthur’s
toys now include a Batmobile.  Greta Gerwig takes over for Liza Minnelli as the working-
class object of Arthur’s desire. She was a shoplifting waitress
in the original; now, absurdly, she gives unlicensed tours of
Grand Central Terminal.  Winer, best known for TV’s “Modern Family”, hangs on to
the central contrivance: In order to keep his allowance and
alcohol flowing, Arthur must marry a heartless corporate climber
(Jennifer Garner, regrettably). The barracuda stereotype has
aged about as well as the drunk jokes.  “Arthur,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , is playing across
the U.S. Rating: **  ‘Meek’s Cutoff’  So this is how the West was really won: in slow,
mistrustful steps.  “ Meek’s Cutoff ,” looking like “Days of Heaven” while
putting its prairie folk through hell, is a contemplative anti-
Western that should convince art-house audiences the long, dusty
trail was worth the trip.  Directed by Kelly Reichardt (“Wendy and Lucy”), it
details the hardships of three small families crossing the
Oregon Trail in 1845. Led by mountain man Stephen Meek (Bruce Greenwood) -- who might be crazy, duplicitous or both -- the
pioneers (played by, among other, Michelle Williams, Paul Dano
and Shirley Henderson) get lost on the sun-parched lands.  Already terrified by Meek’s gruesome tales of Indian
savagery, the good folk are tossed into moral quandary when they
capture a Native American man (Rod Rondeaux). Is he stalking
them, or offering assistance? The travelers must rely on
instinct.  Poor Indian, right? But the film reveals no easy resolution
-- or any resolution, for that matter. It’s a ploy that will
likely leave the lovely “Meek’s Cutoff” stranded from mass
appeal.  “Meek’s Cutoff,” from Oscilloscope Laboratories, is
playing in  New York . Rating: ***  ‘Ceremony”  Director Max Winkler, the son of Henry “Fonzie” Winkler,
tries his own hand at comedy in his debut feature “ Ceremony .”  This strenuously quirky film about a young man’s supposedly
sweet obsession with an older woman strains with false notes,
beginning with the casting of baby-faced Michael Angarano as
lovelorn Sam and a bored-looking  Uma Thurman  as his ex-
girlfriend Zoe.  Sam, along with a clueless buddy (Reece Thompson), crashes
Zoe’s posh beachside wedding outside  New York City , hoping to
convince her that he is her true love.  Neither Sam nor the film do any convincing beyond
proclaiming their inspirations. No one not named Salinger has
any business pairing a Zoe with an Esme, and characters dropping
references to  Manhattan ’s Ziegfeld Theater should know how to
pronounce it.  “Ceremony,” from  Magnolia Pictures , is playing in New
York and  Los Angeles . Rating: **  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 