-- 
CDC to Provide Emerging-Market Debt Funding This Year, Chief Laing Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-04-08T10:11:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/cdc-to-provide-emerging-market-debt-funding-this-year-chief-laing-says.html
CDC Group Plc , a U.K.-owned investor
in private equity funds in African and Asian countries, plans to
offer debt services this year, said Chief Executive Officer
Richard Laing.  The fund-of-funds manager, with more than 2.5 billion
pounds ($4 billion) in about 140 leveraged buyout funds and
direct investments, plans to help companies issue debt or invest
in firms that may arrange borrowing, Laing said in an interview
at CDC’s London offices yesterday.  CDC hired a specialist to help it address the “massive
debt need in Africa” he said “It will be a small start but it
can build up pretty quickly. It could grow up to be in three or
four years time hundreds of millions of dollars.”  The company’s direct investments are currently “just shy”
of 50 million pounds, according to Rhyddid Carter, a CDC
spokesman. CDC, which anticipates investments to increase over a
five year period, has provided capital to 31 LBO funds with
holdings in  Africa , said Laing, who will retire in early 2012.
The U.K. government founded CDC more than 60 years ago to invest
in former British colonies. After restructuring in 2004, the
company began backing emerging-market private equity funds with
a goal of reducing poverty by boosting investment.  “We are trying to find ways of getting to the real
frontier,” Laing said, saying that CDC is interested in a
small-sized deal to begin investing in an Ethiopian general
fund. Many African nation’s have small economies and “highly
specialist funds won’t work” on the continent.  ‘Increase Markedly’  CDC reduced investment, mostly in African and Asian
businesses, to 359 million pounds in 2009 from 436 million
pounds in the previous 12 months. The firm is “pleased” with
its returns and will announce annual results for 2010 later this
month, said Laing.  Investment in Africa will “increase markedly” going
forward, Laing said. CDC’s holdings have more than doubled from
1 billion pounds seven years ago, he said. “The funds are great
ways of getting capital to work. They empower people locally.
The disadvantage of funds is that you can’t always target with
great precision where you want your capital to go.”  Sub-Saharan African bond issuance rose 50 percent to $15
billion in 2010, up from $10 billion in 2009, and a 150 percent
surge from 2008 to 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a 46 percent increase in Latin
America bonds issued in 2010, and a 7 percent decline in Asia-
Pacific bonds the same period.  Fundraising in Africa “is still extremely tough” though
there’s a lot of interest, he said.  “If you go to an Africa-based conference, it’s packed,”
Laing said. “Lots of people there, lots of people looking for a
market, but many of them are just holding back and saying ‘is
this the right time to invest?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  