-- 
Cephalon Wins Order in Patent Suit Delaying Sales of Generic Form of Amrix

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-04-08T19:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/cephalon-wins-order-in-patent-suit-delaying-sales-of-generic-form-of-amrix.html
Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  won a court order that
prevents generic-drug makers from selling low-cost versions of
its muscle relaxant  Amrix  until a judge rules on a patent
dispute over the drug.  Generic versions could have entered the market as soon as
April 17. U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson in Wilmington,
 Delaware , said today she wasn’t sure if she would be able to
issue a ruling on the case by that date.  “It is the court’s intention to issue its findings of fact
and conclusions of law in short order, but not necessarily by
April 17,” Robinson wrote in court papers.  The consolidated case relates in part to a lawsuit filed in
Delaware in January 2009 by Frazer, Pennsylvania-based Cephalon
against  Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL)  of Hayward,  California . Cephalon
alleges infringement of a 2008 patent for the drug, known
chemically as cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride. That individual
case was settled last year.  “We’re pleased with the judge’s ruling that prevents
generic companies from marketing a generic version of Amrix
before the court has fully decided the patent-infringement
lawsuit,” Natalie de Vane, a Cephalon spokeswoman, said in a
phone interview.  Cephalon reported $109.2 million in U.S. Amrix sales last
year.  The combined case is In re Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride
Extended-Release Capsule Patent Litigation, 09-md-2118, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  