-- 
Chile Covered Bonds May Replace Mortgage Debt, De Gregorio Says

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-04-08T16:36:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/chile-covered-bonds-may-replace-mortgage-debt-de-gregorio-says.html
Covered bonds, a form of financing
first used by Frederick the Great to rebuild war-torn Prussia,
may come to dominate financing for Chilean housing, central bank
President Jose  De Gregorio  said today.  “The covered bond mechanism allows an on-balance-sheet
‘securitization,’ which allows appropriate alignment of
incentives at the moment of approving loans,” De Gregorio told
bankers at a meeting in Zapallar,  Chile , today. “This mechanism
-- which has proved itself very robust in the recent
international context -- should tend to replace the mortgage
bonds mechanism that has contributed so much to the development
of the market for mortgage debt in Chile.”  Covered bonds are backed by assets, such as mortgages or
other loans, held in pools on a lender’s balance sheet. This
form of financing home loans without shifting them off a
lender’s books incentivizes the lender to make sure the borrower
keeps paying, helping to avoid banks lending money without
checking a borrower’s ability to repay, De Gregorio said.  Covered bonds get higher ratings than notes sold by banks
and pay less in interest because they augment the issuer’s
repayment pledge with assets that can be sold in a default.  New regulations that took effect in June allowed the bonds
in Chile. The market for mortgage bonds, known as letras
hipotecarias in Spanish, was worth $30 billion at the end of
2008, or 17.7 percent of gross domestic product, according to
the  Finance Ministry .  In 1769, short of funds for reconstruction after attacks by
Russia, Sweden and  Austria , Prussia’s King Frederick let
aristocrats, churches and monasteries raise money by pledging
their estates as security to investors. It worked so well,
 Denmark  followed suit after a 1797 fire destroyed Copenhagen. By
the end of 2008,  Europe ’s market for the bonds was worth 2.4
trillion euros ($3.5 trillion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  