-- 
China Plans Fuel Price Measures If Oil Exceeds $130, Radio Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-08T02:06:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/china-plans-fuel-price-measures-if-oil-exceeds-130-radio-says.html
China  will  introduce tax measures  to
ensure sufficient fuel production if global  oil prices  exceed
$130 a barrel, China National Radio reported today, citing an
unidentified National Development and Reform Commission
official.  Domestic prices of gasoline and diesel may not be increased
after crude reaches that level, the state broadcaster said,
citing the official.  China raised retail fuel prices yesterday for the second
time this year after oil advanced to the highest in more than 30
months, undermining government effort to cap costs and cool
inflation. Crude in  London  settled at $122.67 a barrel
yesterday, the highest since August 2008.  The government won’t allow imported inflation to spur
increases in domestic consumer prices, China National Radio
reported, citing NDRC Vice Chairman Peng Sen. Price increases
will taper off toward year-end, Peng was cited as saying.  China is studying measures to stabilize the price of rice,
Peng was cited as saying in a separate report by  China Central
Television  today. The government may implement measures for rice
“similar” to what it did for wheat last year, when subsidies
were handed to the country’s large grain companies, according to
Peng.  In the longer term, the government aims to “further
optimize” the way it prices gasoline and diesel before 2015 and
will adjust the pricing system for natural gas, water and
renewable energy, China National Radio said yesterday.  The government also wants to guarantee the profitability of
the nation’s electricity generators by making “gradual”
changes to power pricing, the broadcaster said, citing Peng.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  