-- 
Clapton & Marsalis, Stiller & Falco, Toro Y Moi: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-04-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/clapton-marsalis-stiller-falco-toro-y-moi-bye-hopper-n-y-weekend.html
Neil Patrick Harris stars as the
lonely, middle-aged birthday boy in  Stephen Sondheim ’s
“Company.” He’s surrounded by stars ranging from Patti LuPone
to  Stephen Colbert .  Five married couples display various facets of intimacy,
including a burning desire for divorce. Don’t expect
heartwarming sentiment, though: Sondheim characterized this as
the first musical whose defining quality is irony.  Paul Gemignani conducts the  New York Philharmonic  in this
staged revival.  Through April 9th at  Avery Fisher Hall ,  Lincoln Center .
Information: +1-212-875-5656;  http://nyphil.org .  Head to  Bar Boulud  for post-concert steak tartare and a
glass of Cabernet Sauvignon. It may just be warm enough to sit
outside.  1900 Broadway. Information: +1-212-595-0303.  Saturday  Shopping for a rare map or hard-to-find first edition? Try
the 51st Annual NY Antiquarian Book Fair at the Park Avenue
Armory.  Everyone from Abeceda Antiquariat to Irving Zucker Art
Books, more than 100 international book dealers in all, are
hawking their wares under the capacious drill hall roof.  Just looking is fine, too, but beware: As one enthusiast
attests, “After love, book collecting is the most exhilarating
sport of all.”  643 Park Ave. at 67th St. Information: +1-212-255-8240;
 http://www.sanfordsmith.com .  Saturday Afternoon  Check out the 10-foot tall chrome  Andy Warhol  lighting up
Union Square. Dressed in preppie blazer and jeans, Polaroid
camera slung around his neck, the Pop king carries a
Bloomingdale’s shopping bag.  Rob Pruitt’s “The Andy Monument” stands on Broadway and
17th St. within sight of two buildings once inhabited by
Warhol’s Factory.  Andy will be joining  George Washington  and  Mahatma Gandhi 
until October 2nd.  Information: +1-212-223-7800;  http://www.publicartfund.org .  Saturday Matinee  Ben Stiller  is back onstage in a revival of John Guare’s
“The House of Blue Leaves.” He’s Artie, zookeeper and aspiring
songwriter, caught between his literally crazy wife Bananas,
played by Edie Falco, and his mistress, Bunny Flingus, the
redoubtable Jennifer Jason Leigh.  Stiller made his professional debut as son Ronnie in the
1986 production, and in this show he makes his first return to
Broadway in the role of the dad. Tempus fugit.  In previews at the Walter Kerr Theatre, 219 W. 48th St.,
opening April 25. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.houseofblueleaves.com .  Saturday Night  Two musical giants are getting together for some intense
play:  Eric Clapton  joins Wynton Marsalis for a tour of the
blues.  They’ll amble through  New Orleans  and the Delta before
heading to  Chicago , on the way invoking Howlin’ Wolf, Ma Rainey,
Fats Waller, and, of course, Louis Armstrong.  By the way, Clapton selected the entire playlist.  Jazz at Lincoln Center, Broadway at 60th St. Information:
+1-212-258-9800;  http://www.jazzatlincolncenter.org .  Late Saturday  Catch handsome baritone Nathan Gunn at the Cafe Carlyle,
singing classic songs, including “If Ever I Would Leave You,”
and “My Funny Valentine.”  He brings operatic intensity to the Depression-era
“Brother, Can You Spare a Dime,” which resonates somewhat
ironically in the posh supper club.  Julie Jordan Gunn, who created the lively arrangements,
accompanies her husband on the piano.  35 E. 76th St. Information: +1-212-744-1600;
 http://www.thecarlyle.com .  Sunday  A girl sits on her bed, bare arm extended, sewing something
filmy in her lap. With her back to the viewer, she’s framed by
the window, a poignant picture of isolation.  This is Edward Hopper’s “New York Interior” (c. 1921),
one of the works on display in the smart show at the Whitney.
You’ll see him in the company of such contemporaries as
Stieglitz, Steichen, Strand and Shahn over the course of four
decades.  “Modern Life: Edward Hopper and His Time” is well worth
seeing, but you have to hustle: It closes today!  945 Madison Ave. Information: +1-212-570-3600;
 http://whitney.org .  Sunday Afternoon  For a musical thrill ride, head over to  Carnegie Hall ,
where Evgeny Kissin plays Chopin’s First Piano Concerto with the
splendid Met Orchestra, conducted by James Levine.  A musical prodigy who began playing the piano by ear at the
age of two, Kissin rocketed to international fame performing
Chopin with the Moscow State Philharmonic -- he was twelve.  Schoenberg and Brahms round out the program.  881 7th Ave. at 57th St. Information: +1-212-247-7800;
 http://www.carnegiehall.org .  Sunday Night  Despite an early association with the fake-but-now-all-too-
real “Chillwave” genre, Toro Y Moi crafts some serious dance
floor fillers.  Riding high off a successful tour of South by Southwest and
a killer second album, “Underneath the Pine,” the South
Carolina native appears at the  Music Hall  of Williamsburg.  His subtle hand creates imaginative, woozy pop layered with
wiggly synths, electronic beeps and strong funk break-downs.  Isn’t Sunday night when you really need transporting sonic
uplift?  66 N. 6th St. Information: +1-718-486-5400;
 http://www.musichallofwilliamsburg.com .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 