-- 
Republicans Need ‘Glide Path’ to Raise Debt Limit, Coburn Says

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-04-09T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/coburn-says-republicans-probably-should-make-budget-deal-with-democrats.html
Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  said
the budget battle that brought the government to the brink of
shutting down this week is far less important than resolving the
partisan fight over raising the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling this summer.  “You’re not going to have the first Republican vote for
that until we have a plan that puts this country on a glide path
to solving its problems,” the  Oklahoma  lawmaker said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Coburn, who is in bipartisan talks with five other senators
over a longer-term debt-reduction plan, said it isn’t clear
whether his group -- dubbed the “Gang of Six” -- can agree on
a proposal that could be the basis for that debate. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  told Congress this week the debt
limit will be reached no later than May 16, although Coburn said
Geithner can find ways to extend that to as late as July 4.  Turning to other matters, the second-term senator spoke
about his unusual friendship with President  Barack Obama , which
began when Coburn, an obstetrician from Oklahoma, and Obama, an
Illinois Democrat and lawyer, were freshman senators in 2005.  “He’s a very neat man,” Coburn, 63, said. “I don’t want
him to be president, but I still love him.”  Coburn said he and Obama, 49, are “polar opposites” and
“see things from a different perspective.”  “That doesn’t make him a bad man,” Coburn said, adding
that you “can’t change anybody” if you don’t embrace them.  Killing Ethanol Tax  On taxes and spending, Coburn said he’s confident that
eventually he’ll succeed in getting Senate approval for a vote
to end a tax credit for ethanol to a vote on the Senate floor.  Coburn, who has been dubbed “Dr. No” by Senate colleagues
because of his willingness to hold up legislation he says wastes
taxpayer money, wants to attach his ethanol proposal to a small-
business measure pending in the Senate. Some farm-state
Republicans oppose the plan and are blocking a vote.  Coburn said his proposal to eliminate a 45-cent-per-gallon
tax credit for ethanol may not get a vote on the small-business
bill, but will someday.  “I will eventually get a vote on this, and, yes, I will
win,” Coburn said.  Coburn also said he disagrees with some signals that
there’s little concern in bond markets about the nation’s fiscal
standing. The cost of short-term borrowing is less than it has
been in years, suggesting a lack of worry about inflation.  Different View  Coburn said he sees things differently.  “When you see bonds go down in price nine days in a row,
the signal has been sent that people lack confidence and that
we’re going to see an increase in  interest rates ,” he said.
“For every 1 percent increase in interest rates, we’re going to
spend $150 billion, which complicates the very problem that
we’re having discussions about today” between the president and
congressional leaders.  He also said he’s concerned that the Federal Reserve’s
purchase of Treasuries is “debasing the currency, which will
result in significant inflation.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of traders’ expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, widened to as
much as 2.66 percentage points, the most since March 2008. The
measure, known as the 10-year break-even rate, was at 2.74
percent in 2006.  ‘Hard Issues’  A bond-market gauge of inflation expectations the  Federal
Reserve  uses to help determine monetary policy, the 5-year
forward inflation rate, increased to 3.01 percentage points, the
most since March 8. The measure has averaged 2.8 percent over
the past five years.  On the debt-reduction talks, Coburn said the group has been
challenged by “hard issues” and declined to provide details.  Some members of the group, led by Democratic Senator  Mark Warner  of  Virginia  and Republican Senator Saxby Chambliss of
 Georgia , were on Obama’s bipartisan debt-reduction commission.
The panel rejected a $3.8 trillion budget-cutting plan Coburn
supported that included tax increases and changes to programs
like Social Security. Coburn said he can’t say whether that plan
can form the basis for a bipartisan proposal.  “I don’t know the answer to it,” Coburn said.  Coburn said that Obama “was happy to see my vote” for
that debt-reduction plan. “He’s always knocking me because I
won’t give him enough votes,” Coburn said. “I mean, he always
chides me on it.”  He said the relationship between the two could be an
example to others in  Washington ’s power structure.  “He is our president,” Coburn said. “He’s my president.
And I disagree with him adamantly on 95 percent of the issues,
but that doesn’t mean I can’t have a great relationship. And
that’s a model people ought to follow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  