-- 
Coca-Cola Femsa Plans Sale Before Rate Increase: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-04-08T21:40:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/coca-cola-femsa-plans-sale-before-rate-increase-mexico-credit.html
Coca-Cola Femsa SAB, Latin America’s
largest soft-drink bottler, plans to sell peso bonds for the
first time in two years before the central bank starts raising
 interest rates  from a record low.  The bottler, known as KOF, next week will sell 5 billion
pesos of fixed-rate bonds due 2021 and floating-rate notes due
2016, said Roland Karig, a spokesman in Mexico City. The fixed-
rate notes may yield 105 basis points more than government debt,
or about 8.50 percent, according to Scotia Capital Inc. Similar-
maturity bonds from America Movil SAB, which shares KOF’s A-
credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s , yield 8.48 percent.  The fastest expansion in a decade in Latin America’s
second-biggest economy is prompting traders to bet that the
central bank will boost benchmark lending rates from 4.5 percent
as soon as August. Mexico is the only major country in the
region that hasn’t increased borrowing costs in the past year.
 Brazil  raised rates five times and Chile nine times as inflation
rose and commodity prices climbed to the highest in more than
two years.  “It’s a good moment to go to the market,” Karig said in a
telephone interview. “Considering the outlook, many banks are
suggesting that in the coming months they may raise rates.”  Inflation Outlook  While Mexico’s inflation dropped to a four-year low of 3.04
percent in March, the pace of economic growth is fueling concern
that price increases will pick up later this year, according to
Sergio Luna, the head economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit
in Mexico City. The economy may expand as much as 5 percent this
year after 5.5 percent growth in 2010, the most in a decade,
Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said last month.  “Everyone is trying to take advantage of the low rates,”
said  Alonso Madero , who helps manage about $5.5 billion of debt
at Corp. Actinver SAB in Mexico City. “We’re definitely going
to participate” in KOF’s debt sale, he said.  The central bank will raise rates by 75 basis points, or
0.75 percentage point, by the end of the year, according to
trading in TIIE, or interbank rate futures contracts. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Companies still may have time to sell debt before rates
head up, a survey showed. The central bank will resume increases
in January, according to the median economist estimate in an
April 4 survey by Banamex.  Rates on Hold  “This year rates aren’t going to move,” said  Ricardo Aguilar , an economist with Invex Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico
City. “Inflation will begin to accelerate, but within the
expectations of  Banco de Mexico .”  Karig said the company will use proceeds from the bond sale
to pay debt maturing in 2012 and bolster cash reserves. Coca-
Cola Femsa became the world’s largest franchise for Atlanta-
based Coca-Cola Co.’s namesake beverage in October. Mexico City-
based KOF’s profit rose 6.9 percent to 3.02 billion pesos in the
fourth quarter.  “This is about taking advantage of the market in regards
to rates and the spread,” Eduardo Uribe, an analyst with
Standard & Poor’s in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of Treasuries fell 3 basis points to 126,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell four basis points to 97, according to CMA prices
in  New York . Brazilian credit-default swaps dropped three basis
points to 107 and the U.S. swaps were little changed at 41.1
basis points. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the
issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  The peso gained 0.4 percent to 11.73050 per dollar. The
currency is up 5.2 percent this year.  Coca-Cola Femsa shares were little changed at 94.99 pesos.
Its parent company, Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB, whose
holdings include the Oxxo convenience store chain and Dos Equis
beer, rose 0.3 percent to 71.36 pesos.  Mexican companies sold 62.8 billion pesos in local bonds in
the first quarter, the fastest start on record.  “There’s a sense that this is the floor for interest
rates,” said Luna, the economist. “From the point of view of
the corporate market, it’s a good time to sell debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  