-- 
Corporate Jets Often First Thing to Go After Leveraged Buyouts

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-04-08T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/corporate-jets-often-first-thing-to-go-after-leveraged-buyouts.html
Note to chief executive officers
weighing that leveraged-buyout offer: You may have to give up
the corporate jet.  Companies bought by private-equity firms are 32 percent
less likely to have a jet in the three years after the deal
closes than in the year before, according to a  paper  written by
the Federal Reserve Board’s Jesse Edgerton. The study, published
Jan. 21, found that jet fleets at LBO-backed companies are at
least 40 percent smaller than at similar publicly traded firms.  Buyout funds, which completed a record $1.3 trillion of
deals from 2005 to 2007, have been criticized by labor groups
such as the  Service Employees International Union  for being
little more than financial engineers, relying on debt to make
purchases and selling as soon as possible for a gain. Part of
private-equity firms’ case is that they impose more financial
discipline on a company, including cutting some perks that
corporate managers often take for granted.  “What the good investors do is go into a company, look for
fat, and these guys are pretty good at removing it,” said
 Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University of Chicago  Booth
School of Business . “The trick is not to remove the muscle with
the fat.”  The annual cost of operating a corporate jet can run as
much as $5 million, with $1 million being typical, according to
 Edgerton , a Fed economist. While those amounts are not large
compared with the revenue of companies he studied, they "could
represent the tip of a larger iceberg," he wrote. Edgerton
declined to comment.  Justify Every Expense  Private-equity firms also may look at costs such as golf
memberships and elaborate corporate meetings when overhauling
spending, said Jeff Bunder, global private-equity leader for New
York-based Ernst & Young.  The pitch to newly acquired company managers is reminding
them that a radically altered ownership structure means the
shareholders paying for the perks are the managers themselves.
They typically have larger stakes after the buyout and the
potential for big paydays when private equity sells the company
or takes it public.  “You’re sitting around the table, and you have to think
about it this way: Every dollar you’re going to spend is going
to come out of your pocket,” Bunder said, noting that public
companies tend to use the previous year’s budget as a starting
point for increases, while a private-equity owner usually
demands management start from scratch and justify every expense.  Gulfstream Sold  To be sure, private equity is far from a spartan industry,
and many of the biggest firms’ founders have their own aircraft.
That includes  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s  Stephen Schwarzman ,
Washington-based  Carlyle Group ’s  David Rubenstein  and  David Bonderman  of TPG Capital in  Fort Worth ,  Texas .  In Schwarzman’s case, he owns his plane and is reimbursed
by Blackstone for business use, which amounted to about $1.3
million last year, according to the New York-based company’s
annual report. The other firms have similar arrangements with
their plane-owning top brass.  Some buyout managers during the past year have reaped quick
payouts in part by adding debt to companies they own and paying
dividends to themselves and their investors. Aramark Corp.,
Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse Corp. and Getty Images Inc.
paid such dividends.  When TPG and New York-based KKR & Co. bought TXU Corp. for
a record $43.2 billion in 2007, among the first things the new
owners cut was the company’s Gulfstream V jet, according to two
people familiar with the decision, who asked not be named
because the firm is privately held. Lisa Singleton, a
spokeswoman for Dallas-based Energy Future Holdings Corp., as
TXU is now known, declined to comment.  Agency Costs  KKR’s penchant for cutting perks dates well before the TXU
deal. In the aftermath of its $30 billion takeover of RJR
Nabisco Inc. in 1988, KKR sold seven of the company’s eight
jets, along with more than 12 corporately owned houses and
apartments, according to "Barbarians at the Gate," the chronicle
of the LBO written by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar.  Edgerton said the paper’s purpose was to examine how the
objectives of management and shareholders can diverge in
publicly traded companies -- a concept known as "agency costs" -
- by looking at corporate jet use. While private jets can save
firms time and money, it’s possible "that executives could
overuse corporate aircraft if shareholders are unable to monitor
or incentivize them properly," he wrote.  In the study, Edgerton identifies three characteristics of
private-equity ownership: “highly performance-sensitive
managerial compensation, highly levered financing and active
monitoring of firm activities by skilled professionals" from the
fund.  ‘More Efficient Organizations’  ‘‘These changes are intended to transform firms into
better-managed, more efficient organizations,’’ he wrote.  The pressure on private-equity managers comes in part from
investors such as public pensions, which are under scrutiny from
their members and beneficiaries. Funds such as the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System  have adopted new rules about
how they interact with investment funds to which they commit
money.  They’re also being more selective in where they invest,
demanding more information from buyout managers as private-
equity firms resume raising money and press for commitments.  ‘‘The institutional investors have more bargaining power,
and bargaining power means more scrutiny,” Kaplan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  