-- 
Credit Suisse Clashes With Goldman, HSBC in China Inflation War Forecasts

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-08T01:37:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/credit-suisse-clashes-with-goldman-hsbc-in-china-inflation-war-forecasts.html
Credit Suisse Group AG is at odds
with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on the outlook for  interest rates 
in China as analysts differ on the threat from inflation and the
government’s likely mix of policy tools.  Increases may be “close to an end” after a quarter-point
boost to key benchmarks this week, according to Goldman, the
fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets. In contrast, Swiss lender
Credit Suisse estimates the deposit rate will rise by another
1.5 percentage points by year-end, eclipsing the 1 percentage
point gain since the global financial crisis.  Credit Suisse sees “limited” room for increases in bank
reserve requirements as elevated inflation adds pressure for the
central bank to keep boosting rates after four increases since
mid-October. Forecasters lack clues to policy makers’ intentions
because unlike nations from the U.S. to  South Korea ,  China 
issues no minutes of monetary policy meetings and the cabinet,
not the central bank, has the final say on rate decisions.  “China isn’t a country that solely focuses on interest
rates as a policy tool, it also uses quantitative tools, and
that makes it harder to predict rates,” said Helen Qiao, a Hong
Kong-based economist for Goldman. “The PBOC isn’t independent,
it can’t always raise interest rates as it wishes.”  HSBC Holdings Plc is among banks that disagree with the
Credit Suisse assessment.  Reserve requirements will continue to climb as so-called
quantitative tools are “dominant” in tightening and rate
increases play a secondary and “moderate” role,  Qu Hongbin ,
Hong Kong-based chief China economist for HSBC, said by e-mail.  Faster Inflation  China’s statistics bureau may report on April 15 that the
annual rate of inflation quickened to 5.2 percent in March, the
fastest pace since July 2008 and more than the government’s
full-year target of 4 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index has climbed 7 percent this
year as investors and analysts predict the government can
sustain growth while taming prices. Credit Suisse, HSBC,
Macquarie Group Ltd. and Citigroup Inc. advocate China stocks.  Credit Suisse describes its forecasts for rates as “the
highest on the street” and Hong Kong-based economist Tao Dong
said in a note this week that the central’s bank’s latest move
is “one step closer towards our direction.”  Tao sees the one-year lending rate climbing 1.35 percentage
points to 7.66 percent by year-end, a level higher than when
Chinese officials were trying in 2007 and 2008 to cool an
overheating economy before the financial crisis struck. The
central bank has already boosted reserve requirements for banks
by 4.5 percentage points since the start of last year and Tao
sees “only limited further upside.”  Goldman says officials may increase rates once more in the
first half, increase reserve requirements as “a regular tool,”
allow more currency gains and maintain controls on bank lending
and the property sector. Tightening measures have reduced
inflation pressures and officials may be able to loosen policies
in the second half, economists Qiao and Yu Song said in a note.  The reserve ratio for the nation’s biggest banks stands at
20 percent, excluding any extra requirements for individual
lenders not publicly announced.  --Chinmei Sung. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net 
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at +886-2-7719-1543 or
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  