-- 
Czech Premier Necas Wants Cabinet Reshuffle to Fulfill Goals

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-04-08T13:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/czech-premier-necas-wants-cabinet-reshuffle-to-fulfill-goals-1-.html
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas said
he wants personnel changes in the government in the coming weeks
to ensure his Cabinet meets its goals, including budget-deficit
cuts and a pension-system overhaul.  Necas accepted today the resignation of Transport Minister
Vit Barta, who quit after a rift inside his Public Affairs
party, the smallest of the three ruling-coalition members, over
allegations of improper financing. Barta denied any wrongdoing
and said he doesn’t want the allegations to affect the
government or endanger its program, the website iDnes.cz said.  “Suspicions that have arisen in relation to possible
corrupt behavior are so serious that this step was absolutely
necessary,” Necas told reporters in parliament in Prague.
“This coalition must quickly come around.”  The Czech ruling parties have repeatedly argued over
personnel issues and the measures needed to meet its goals.
Public Affairs refused until the last moment to pledge support
for the government ahead of a no-confidence motion in December.
The party also backed out of a preliminary deal on the overhaul
of the pension system in March and forced through last-minute
changes to the plan.  Necas’ Civic  Democratic Party  also clashed with Public
Affairs over who will lead the national police force. The third
coalition member, TOP09, demanded the dismissal of Defense
Minister Alexandr Vondra, a Civic Democrat, while Public Affairs
opposes parts of a planned tax-system revamp presented by
Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek, a TOP09 member.  “It’s not possible to continue like this and it can’t
continue like this,” Necas said. “This government has a clear
task to reform and modernize this country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Peter Laca} in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  