-- 
Tognum Owners Said to Seek Higher Takeover Offer From Daimler, Rolls-Royce

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-04-08T08:43:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/daimler-rolls-4-6-billion-offer-for-tognum-said-to-be-rejected-as-too-low.html
Tognum AG (TGM)  owners holding about 30
percent of the company’s shares have rejected  Daimler AG (DAI)  and
Rolls-Royce Group Plc’s joint 24 euros-per-share offer for
Tognum as too low, a person familiar with the situation said.  Investors, including  ING Groep NV (INGA) , First Eagle Investment
Management and Delta Lloyd Asset Management, have written to
Tognum opposing the bid, while others have expressed their
objections orally, the person said, speaking on condition of
anonymity, because the communication is private.  ING and First Eagle are Tognum’s biggest shareholders after
Daimler, holding more than 12 percent of the shares combined,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Daimler, which owns
28.4 percent, is sticking to the 3.2 billion-euro ($4.6 billion)
bid, spokesman Florian Martens said by phone today from
Stuttgart,  Germany . “We have time.”  Daimler and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  started their public
tender for the German engine manufacturer on April 6, pressing
ahead even though the stock has been above the bid since March
9, when Tognum said it hadn’t agreed on a price. The prospective
buyers are seeking more than 50 percent of the shares in the
tender, which runs until May 18. Daimler has pledged its stake.  Tognum rose as much as 0.1 percent to 25.78 euros and
traded at that level as of 10:43 a.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the
company at 3.38 billion euros. The bid is 30 percent higher than
Tognum’s March 4 closing price, the last trading day before the
prospective buyers expressed interest.  Holding Firm  Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks, and
London-based Rolls-Royce, whose engines power Airbus SAS and
Boeing Co. planes, aim to hold firm with their offer. Daimler’s
stake allows it to block efforts by other potential suitors.
Shareholders with more than 25 percent of any German company
have the power to veto major strategic moves.  Tognum spokeswoman Julia Loeffelsend said the company is
reviewing the offer and will comment “in due course,”
declining to say anything more. Tognum’s management holds 5.3
percent of the company’s shares.  Gaining control of Tognum, which Daimler once owned, would
give the two companies the world’s second-largest maker of high-
speed diesel engines for the marine, energy and defense
industries after Caterpillar Inc. Rolls-Royce plans to integrate
its Bergen business, which makes gasoline and diesel engines for
ships and power generators, with Tognum after the deal.  Daimler sold Tognum, then called MTU Friedrichshafen, for
1.6 billion euros to Stockholm-based private equity firm EQT
Partners to help pay for reorganizing Chrysler in March 2006,
when it still owned the U.S. carmaker.  After an initial public offering by Tognum at 24 euros a
share in July 2007, Daimler bought a 22 percent stake for 585
million euros in April 2008, increasing the holding to more than
25 percent three months later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  