-- 
Platinum Equity Founder Gores to Purchase NBA’s Detroit Pistons

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-04-08T19:53:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/detroit-pistons-to-be-purchased-by-platinum-equity-founder-tom-gores.html
Tom Gores, founder of California-
based Platinum Equity, has a tentative agreement to buy the
 Detroit Pistons  from current owner Karen Davidson, the two sides
said today in a news release.  The purchase, which must be approved by the  National
Basketball Association , includes the Pistons, the Palace of
 Auburn Hills  and DTE Energy Music Theatre.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed in a press release
distributed by Marketwire. In February, the  Detroit Free Press 
reported that Gores would buy the team from Davidson for $420
million. Gores’s acquisition will be financed by Comerica Bank
and is expected to close by June 30, pending league approval and
normal conditions, according to the release.  “Just as my late husband, Bill Davidson, was the face of
the Pistons, I am confident that Tom will bring the same energy,
dedication and love to this organization,” Karen Davidson said
in the release.  The 46-year-old Gores is a Flint, Michigan, area native and
 Michigan State University  graduate. He is the founder and
chairman of  Platinum Equity , a Beverly Hills, California-based
private equity investment firm that owns 34 companies in a range
of industries, including technology, industrials and automotive
supply.  The NBA and its player’s union are preparing for offseason
labor negotiations. The league’s collective bargaining agreement
expires on June 30 and the two sides disagree on issues such as
minimum age requirements, the percentage of shared revenue and
salary cap restrictions.  Stern’s Figures  In an interview for Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations
With  Judy Woodruff ,” NBA Commissioner David Stern said in
February that the league has projected losses of about $350
million this season. He has said the owners want to reduce
player salaries by as much as $800 million annually.  The Pistons have made the playoffs eight of the last 10
seasons and have won three NBA titles, most recently in 2004.
The team is 27-51 this season, 31 games behind the  Chicago Bulls 
in the Eastern Conference’s Central division, and failed to
reach the postseason.  Last year Mike Ilitch, owner of hockey’s Detroit Red Wings
and baseball’s  Detroit Tigers , expressed interest in purchasing
the Pistons. Talks stalled after Ilitch concluded that revenue
numbers in the team’s prospectus were inflated, Forbes  reported 
citing an unidentified person familiar with the negotiations.  The Pistons won 27 games last season, their lowest total
since 1993-94. From 2010 to 2011, the team’s value dropped 25
percent, to $360 million from $480 million, according to  Forbes
Magazine .  The Pistons are the second NBA team to be sold this season.
In December the league bought the  New Orleans Hornets 
from George Shinn for an undisclosed price. The Hornets are
worth $280 million, making them the fifth-least valuable team in
the league, according to Forbes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in  Washington  at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net 
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  