-- 
Dimon Calls JPMorgan's Wamu Deal ‘Bit Worse Than Expected,' Still Worth It

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-04-08T13:28:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/dimon-calls-jpmorgan-s-wamu-deal-bit-worse-than-expected-still-worth-it.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s rushed
acquisition of Washington Mutual in 2008 has turned out to be
“a bit worse than expected but clearly still worth it,” Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon told investors.  The mortgage and credit-card portfolios, which were
initially written down by $30 billion, have continued to
deteriorate, Dimon said in his annual letter to  shareholders 
released yesterday.  “We thought losses could wind up being $10 billion worse
(pretax) and we have experienced about half that,” wrote Dimon,
55. “We anticipate some further potential downside, depending
on the health of the  U.S. economy , as well as some other one-
time gains and losses relating to litigation and other
unresolved matters.”  JPMorgan bought Wamu’s banking operations in September 2008
during the financial crisis for a $1.9 billion payment to the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Regulators seized the Seattle-
based lender after defaults on subprime home loans soared,
triggering the biggest banking failure in U.S. history.  Wamu’s mortgage origination and servicing businesses
performed better than expected, while its other retail banking
operations, such as checking accounts and credit cards, “did
significantly worse,” Dimon said.  At the same time, the acquisition delivered prospects that
turned out to be better than anticipated, such as lending to
small businesses and commercial banking. The expanded commercial
banking and term-lending businesses may eventually deliver more
than $500 million each in annual profits, “significantly better
than we expected,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 