-- 
Disney, China Partner Will Spend $4.4 Billion Building Resort in Shanghai

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-08T09:35:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/disney-breaks-ground-on-4-4-billion-shanghai-resort-in-china-market-drive.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and its state-owned
 China  partner will invest about $4.4 billion building a resort
in Shanghai, the entertainment company’s second amusement park
in the world’s most-populous nation.  The Shanghai Disney Resort will open in about five years
and be the first in mainland China for the world’s biggest
theme-park operator, which opened Hong Kong Disneyland in 2005.
Shanghai Shendi Group Co. will own 57 percent of the resort with
Disney owning the rest, and financing will be proportional to
ownership, according to a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer Robert Iger called the investment a
“defining moment” as Disney bets on China’s rising middle
class to fuel growth, three years after the global financial
crisis hurt spending in the U.S. and  Europe . The company
increased film production in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy and plans to open Disney stores there by 2012.  “Disney has the strongest China strategy of all the media
companies,” said  Alan Gould , an analyst with Evercore Partners
in New York who recommends the stock. A longer-term goal is to
negotiate wider distribution of films in China and the creation
of a 24-hour television channel, he said.  ‘Most Significant’  The entertainment company may collect more than $200
million in annual management fees in a decade, plus licensing
revenue, Gould estimated. The park will attract 7.3 million
visitors annually, the Shanghai government said March 3.  Disney will hold a 70 percent stake in the management
company that will develop the resort and collect operating fees,
with Shanghai Shendi owning the rest.  “This is our most significant investment in a market that
is experiencing dynamic growth,” Iger, 60, said in a separate
phone interview.  Disney declined 23 cents to $42.04 in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday. The stock has gained 12
percent this year.  The Asia-Pacific region is the fastest-growing area by
sales for the Burbank, California-based company, expanding 25
percent to $2.3 billion, which is 6.1 percent of total revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Initial Investment  Disney and Shanghai Shendi today started building the
resort, which will occupy 963 acres (3.9 square kilometers) with
“room to expand,” the statement said.  The initial investment in the theme park will be about 24.5
billion yuan ($3.7 billion), according to the statement. Another
4.5 billion yuan will be spent building the rest of the resort,
which will include two hotels and retail, dining and
entertainment areas.  Shanghai Disneyland may be the first of three theme parks
on the resort’s 7 square kilometers (1,730 acres), according to
a local government  website .  About 330 million people live within three hours by car or
train from the site, Disney said. Spending on domestic leisure
travel in China may double to more than $200 billion by 2015,
according to Tom Staggs, chairman of Walt Disney Parks & Resorts.  “China is the most exciting opportunity we’ve had since
Walt first bought land in  Florida  in 1964,” Staggs, 50, said at
a Feb. 17 investor presentation.  About 30 million Chinese enter the middle class each year,
he estimated.  Shanghai Expo  Hong Kong Disneyland , part-owned by the city government,
missed its forecast to attract 5.6 million visitors in its first
year and has yet to make a profit. The park, which narrowed its
annual loss to HK$720 million ($93 million) in the 12 months
ended Oct. 2, has been criticized for its small size, with
Disney saying it fell short of expectations.  Tourism growth in China and  Asia  will support both parks,
said Andrew Kam, managing director of Hong Kong Disneyland.  “Every park has to go through its learning process,” he
said today when asked if he had any advice to give to the
management of Shanghai park, which Staggs said will be larger.  Shanghai’s $44 billion World Expo attracted 73 million
visitors from May 1 to Oct. 31 last year, with its 5.28 square-
kilometer park drawing 1 million visitors on a single day, local
media  reported .  “What we saw at the Expo was a major learning process for
us,” Iger said. Disney has been “in communication” with
China’s government for more than a decade, Iger said.  ‘Absorb Large Crowd’  Disney’s  Shanghai  park was designed “around how to absorb
a large crowd and still give them a good experience,” Staggs
said.  The Shanghai project will be financed 30 percent with debt
and 70 percent with equity, with the companies making
proportional investments based on ownership, according to the
statement.  Shanghai Disneyland may generate management fees of
$65 million-$70 million for the company in the first year and
more than $200 million annually within a decade, Gould said.  Disney also will collect a license fee of about 6 percent
on ticket sales, revenue for the use of its name on hotels and a
separate fee on merchandise, he said.  Theme parks contributed 28 percent of Disney’s $38.1
billion in full-year revenue and 17 percent of its $7.59 billion
in operating income.  Shanghai also plans to spend 4 billion yuan ($611 million)
on a 9.2-kilometer (5.7-mile) subway line to the theme park in
the city’s Pudong area.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  