-- 
Djiboutian President Guelleh Wins Vote; Human Rights Watch Doubts Fairness

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-04-08T22:52:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/djiboutian-president-guelleh-wins-vote-human-rights-watch-doubts-fairness.html
Djiboutian President Ismael Guelleh
won a presidential election, extending his 12-year rule of the
Horn of Africa country that hosts the only U.S. military base on
the continent.  Guelleh garnered 78 percent support, compared with 22
percent for Mohamed Warsama Ragueh, his only opponent in
yesterday’s vote, with 98 percent of ballots counted, Foreign
Minister Mahmoud Ali Yousef said in a phone interview today from
the capital, Djibouti City. Ragueh had warned that a Guelleh
victory may lead to a “violent reaction” by opposition
supporters after he alleged irregularities during voting.  “There has been no trouble. If there is any claim against
the result, the Constitutional Council will look at it,” Yousef
said. “By a week or 10 days, we will have the final result.”  Guelleh, 63, has led Djibouti since 1999, when he succeeded
his uncle Hassan Gouled Aptidon, the country’s first president
after it gained independence from  France  in 1977. In March 2010,
Guelleh amended the constitution to allow him to extend his rule
by two more six-year terms.  Djibouti, a country of 516,000 people, has a $982 million
economy that relies on services related to its strategic
location on the  Red Sea , one of the world’s busiest shipping
lanes, according to the U.S. State Department. France has about
3,000 troops stationed in the country, which is smaller than the
U.S. state of  Massachusetts .  Ragueh, the former head of the country’s Constitutional
Council, was backed by an opposition coalition known as the
Union for a Democratic Movement. The group helped lead protests
in February against Guelleh’s rule that ended in clashes in
which one policeman died and nine other people were injured.
Last month, four opposition leaders were detained while trying
to lead another protest against Guelleh’s rule.  Alleged Irregularities  Ragueh said during voting yesterday that there were
irregularities including election observers being prevented from
entering about 25 polling stations in the northern city of
Tadjourah, while security forces were seen voting multiple times
in the capital. Yousef said the allegations were “completely
untrue” and urged anyone who witnessed vote rigging to submit
their complaints to the relevant authorities.  “The election was handled in a very transparent manner,” he
said.  Human Rights Watch , the New York-based advocacy group, said
before the election that the government crackdown on the
opposition raised questions about whether the vote would be free
and fair.  Djibouti ranks 148th out of 169 countries in the United
Nations Development Program’s  Human Development Index , which
measures  life expectancy , education and  living standards .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 