-- 
Djiboutians Vote in Election Expected to Extend President Guelleh’s Rule

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-04-08T19:53:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/djiboutians-vote-in-election-expected-to-extend-guelleh-s-rule.html
Djiboutians voted in an election in
which President Ismael Guelleh is expected to extend his 12-year
rule, as his only rival alleged the vote was being rigged and
said the results may be followed by protests.  Election observers were prevented from entering about 25
polling stations in the northern city of Tadjourah, while
security forces were seen voting multiple times in the capital,
Djibouti City, Mohamed Warsama Ragueh said in a phone interview.
Foreign Minister Mahmoud Ali Yousef said the allegations were
“completely untrue.”  “We know the government is doing massive fraud,” Ragueh
said. “If the government says they have won, I think there will
be a violent reaction of the people.” Official results of the
vote will be announced at midnight, according to the Independent
National Electoral Commission.  Guelleh has led Djibouti, which hosts the only U.S.
military base in Africa, since 1999. The 63-year-old leader
succeeded his uncle Hassan Gouled Aptidon, who was the country’s
first president after it gained independence from  France  in
1977. In March 2010, Guelleh amended the constitution to allow
him to extend his rule by two more six-year terms.  Ragueh, the former head of the country’s Constitutional
Council, is backed by an opposition coalition known as the Union
for a Democratic Movement.  “People are upset,” Ragueh said. Guelleh “will announce he
has won tonight. For the moment there is no protest. It will
start tomorrow.”  Foreign Observers  The foreign minister said the election had been observed by
monitors from the  African Union , the  Arab League  and European
countries. Anyone who witnessed any irregularities should submit
them to the relevant authorities, Yousef said.  “There is no protest or any gathering of any kind,” he
said. “We are not at all concerned. The election was handled in
a very transparent manner.”  Djibouti, a Horn of Africa nation of 516,000 people, has a
$982 million economy that relies on services related to its
strategic location on the  Red Sea , one of the world’s busiest
shipping lanes, according to the U.S. State Department. France
has about 3,000 troops stationed in the country, which is
smaller than the U.S. state of  Massachusetts .  Violence broke out at an opposition rally near the city’s
Hassan Guled stadium on Feb. 18 when security forces broke up a
demonstration that the government said was hijacked by
“trouble-makers.” A policeman died and nine other people were
injured in the clashes, according to the government. Last month,
four opposition leaders were detained while trying to lead
another protest against Guelleh’s rule.  ‘Free and Fair’  “The government has trampled on those very rights that
make a vote free and fair,” Rona Peligal, deputy  Africa 
director at  Human Rights Watch , the U.S.-based advocacy group,
said in a statement on April 5.  Ragueh has called for changes to the judicial system,
investment in education and a reduced role for the ruling party
in the economy, while Guelleh is relying on his track record of
economic stability to secure him another six-year term. The
economy has expanded every year since at least 2002 and growth
is forecast to accelerate to 5.4 percent this year from 4.5
percent in 2010, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Djibouti ranks 148th out of 169 countries in the United
Nations Development Program’s  Human Development Index , which
measures  life expectancy , education and  living standards .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 