-- 
Dollar Declines as U.S. Budget Stalemate, Possible Shutdown Damps Demand

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-08T21:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/dollar-declines-as-u-s-budget-stalemate-possible-shutdown-damps-demand.html
The dollar dropped against most of
its major counterparts as lawmakers failed to agree on a federal
budget, increasing the likelihood of a government shutdown, and
as signs of global growth damped demand for haven assets.  The euro reached an almost 15-month high versus the dollar
after a report showing German exports rose the most in five
months, boosting bets that policy makers will lift interest
rates further to curb inflation. The greenback slumped on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will trail other central banks
in raising interest rates. Currencies of commodity-exporting
countries including the Australian dollar rallied as raw
materials prices advanced.  “The main driver behind dollar weakness today is the
market concern about a government shutdown,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of Americas G-10 currency strategy at Bank of
America Corp. in New York.  The dollar fell 1.2 percent to $1.4483 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York, extending its loss this week to 1.7 percent. The
euro reached $1.4489, the highest since January 2010. The yen
declined 1.1 percent to 122.76 per euro, after touching the
weakest since May 2010. Japan’s currency gained 0.2 percent to
84.76 per dollar.  Dollar Falls  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback versus the currencies of six major
trading partners, including the pound and Canadian dollar, sank
to as low as 74.848, the least since December 2009.  Leaders in Congress remained divided about a budget, hours
away from potentially the first U.S. government shutdown in 15
years.  Democrats said they agreed to cut $38 billion in federal
spending this year and resolved dozens of policy directives
sought by Republicans. The only remaining point was Republicans’
insistence on canceling funding for Planned Parenthood, which
offers abortions, said Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid .  Europe ’s currency has rallied 8.2 percent against the
dollar this year as economic growth in  Germany  and accelerating
consumer prices in the euro region boosted expectations that
interest rates will need to rise to curb inflation, which
reached a two-year high of 2.6 percent in March.  A report showed German exports jumped 2.7 percent in
February from a month earlier, when they dropped 1 percent. That
was the biggest month-on-month increase since September and
above the 2 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  China Gains  China’s yuan gained 0.1 percent to 6.5354 per dollar at the
close in  Shanghai , the strongest level since 1993, according to
the  China  Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Traders are showing the largest yuan appreciation
expectations in a month, betting the government will put curbing
inflation ahead of protecting exports. Contracts that fix the
currency’s value in a year indicate a 2.5 percent gain, compared
with as low as 1.7 percent last week, after an interest-rate
increase on April 6.  The ECB’s decision to raise its main rate yesterday comes
as the central banks of other developed nations, including the
U.S. and Japan, keep borrowing costs near zero to support their
economies as they recover from the financial crisis. The Fed
isn’t expected to raise its target funds rate until the first
quarter of 2012 and the Bank of  Japan  will probably keep
borrowing costs on hold for the next 12 months, the median
estimates in two Bloomberg surveys show.  Yen Drop  The yen dropped for a fourth straight week versus the euro,
the longest losing streak in 20 months, on speculation the BOJ
will continue with accommodative monetary policy to help its
economy recover from a record earthquake on March 11. The BOJ
yesterday unveiled a 1 trillion yen, one-year loan program to
companies affected by the quake and tsunami as board members
downgraded their economic assessment for the first time since
October.  “Improved risk sentiment on the back of the global
recovery is pushing the euro higher against the yen and dollar,
especially now the market is convinced there will be further
rate increases by the ECB,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, senior
strategist at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. in  Tokyo , a unit of
Japan’s second-largest bank.  The ECB will raise its benchmark rate by 133 basis points
during the next 12 months, compared with a prediction for 44
basis points of increases at the end of last year, a Credit
Suisse Group AG index based on swaps showed.  Trichet Stance  “We will continue to do in the future” what is
appropriate “to ensure  price stability ,” ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet said at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
yesterday, following the announcement of the rate increase.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  said the ECB’s decision
to raise its benchmark lending rate was “quite inappropriate”
because several euro member countries are suffering from too
much debt.  “It is not appropriate in current circumstances when you
have a number of countries that are suffering from too much debt
and high  interest rates ,” Soros said today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television at the Bretton Woods conference.  The  International Monetary Fund  said today it had received
a financial aid assistance request from  Portugal , which earlier
this week followed Greece and Ireland in asking the European
Union for aid as it struggles to pay its debt.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB index of commodities
gained 1.2 percent.  Traders boosted bets on the amount of interest rate
increases by the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  over the next 12
months to 30 basis points, from 18 basis points at the end of
last week, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index.  Australia’s dollar gained 0.9 percent to $1.0564, after
earlier rising to $1.0584, the highest since it was freely
floated in 1983.  Sweden’s krona was the best performer among the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, adding 1.8 percent to 6.2029
per dollar. The currency strengthened as data showed the
nation’s industrial output increased at the fastest annual pace
on record, reinforcing speculation its central bank will raise
borrowing costs as the economy expands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  