-- 
Heating Oil Surges to 32-Month High on Libya Supply Disruption

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-04-08T20:23:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/heating-oil-surges-to-31-month-high-on-libya-supply-disruption.html
Heating oil surged to the highest
level since August 2008 as strikes on Libyan oilfields by forces
loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  increased concern that disruptions to
the country’s crude exports will be lengthy.  Futures rose the most in six weeks as Nomura Holdings Inc.
said Libyan crude oil output would be limited to about 29
percent of pre-crisis levels even if all state-operated fields
returned to full production. Prices also advanced as fuel
shortages caused by last month’s earthquake in Japan increased
demand for diesel.  “You’re probably going to see more cargos of U.S. diesel
going to Europe and Japan,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “And with the Nigerian
elections coming up this week, there’s concerns about the
reliability of oil coming out of  Nigeria .”  Heating oil for May delivery advanced 11.37 cents, or 3.5
percent, to settle at $3.3197 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since Aug. 4, 2008.
Prices rose 5.9 percent this week, the most since the seven days
ended Feb. 25.  The May contract broke through technical resistance when it
rose above $3.2574, the upper Bollinger Band, said  Michael Smith , president of T&K Futures & Options in Port Saint Lucie,
 Florida . The next resistance is $3.33, the intraday high on Aug.
28, followed by $3.351, the Aug. 21 intraday high for the front-
month contract, Smith said.  To reverse the trend, heating oil would have to close below
the March 29 intraday low of $3.005. “It could correct 20 cents
without messing up the uptrend,” Smith said.  Dollar Sinks  Prices also gained as a weaker dollar increased demand for
dollar-denominated commodities. The U.S. currency fell 0.9
percent against the euro as of 2:53 p.m. in  New York  as
lawmakers remain divided over a federal budget, hours away from
potentially the first U.S. government shutdown in more than 15
years.  “The big move up in the euro, the weakness in the dollar
driven by the expectation of a government shutdown, is the
contributing factor to the magnitude of today’s move,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold
Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas .  Heating oil was the day’s biggest gainer on the Thomson
Reuters/Jeffries CRB Index of 19 raw materials. Gasoline was
fifth and crude oil was sixth, as 14 commodities posted
increases today.  Heating Oil Premium  The premium of heating oil over gasoline increased to 5.9
cents a gallon, the widest gap since March 22.  “The market is starting to acknowledge the impact of
higher prices on gasoline demand, but not on distillate
demand,” Knight said.  Strikes on oilfields in  Libya  by forces loyal to Muammar Qaddafi will help send prices toward $130 a barrel, according to
analysts at  Barclays Capital .  Brent oil for May settlement gained $3.98 to $126.65 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange today.
Product futures are vulnerable to changes in Brent because
ConocoPhillips and Sunoco Inc. refineries on the U.S. East Coast
process crude grades priced relative to the European benchmark.  Nigeria Elections  Prices could keep rising on the “strong possibility” of
further supply losses in Nigeria as result of attacks in the
period leading to parliamentary elections, Barclays analysts led
by London-based Amrita Sen said in a report today.  Nigerian voters go to the polls tomorrow to choose members
of parliament in the first of a three-stage general election in
 Africa ’s top oil producer. The vote is a prelude to the
presidential contest next week that pits Goodluck Jonathan
against 18 rivals, including former military ruler Muhammadu Buhari.  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami halted production
at six refineries, reducing supplies from a country that
exported about 20,000 tons a day of diesel and gasoil last year.  The squeeze has driven up prices in Europe relative to
those in the U.S., where there’s a surplus, prompting companies
from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Royal Dutch Shell Plc to seek
profits by shipping diesel across the Atlantic.  Tankers able to carry about 800,000 metric tons of fuel
were booked in March to haul diesel from the U.S. Gulf Coast to
Europe through the end of this month, data from Bloomberg and
 Clarkson Research Services  show. It’s the largest amount since
April 2009 and up from 483,000 tons in February.  U.S. traders contracted 20 ships to move so-called clean
petroleum products from the Gulf in March, up from 11 in
February, according to Clarkson, the world’s biggest shipbroker.
Diesel accounts for most U.S. exports of clean, or high-quality,
fuel to Europe.  Greece  Strikes  In Greece, labor unions at  Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE) , the
country’s largest refiner, said they will extend to April 19 a
strike begun April 3. Production at three plants, which account
for 76 percent of Greece’s total refining capacity, has been
gradually reduced as the strike progresses, according to the
 Panhellenic Union of Employees in Hellenic Petroleum.   “We’re seeing a strike in Greece shutting down the major
refineries there, which means Greece would have to import
diesel. said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC
in Houston. “Overall in Europe, they’re going into their
turnaround season.”  Gasoline for May delivery added 7.42 cents, or 2.3 percent,
to settle at $3.2607 a gallon on the exchange, the highest level
since July 16, 2008.  Regular gasoline at the pump increased 1.4 cents to $3.739
a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its website. That’s the highest
price since Sept. 22, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in  Dallas  at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  