-- 
Lebanon Seeks to Resume Egypt Gas Imports After Payment Deadlock

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-08T16:01:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/lebanon-seeks-to-resume-egypt-gas-imports-after-payment-deadlock.html
Lebanon’s caretaker Prime Minister
 Saad Hariri  will discuss the resumption of natural-gas imports
from  Egypt  during talks in Cairo, according to Mohammad Shatah,
his economic adviser.  “This will for sure be among the issues discussed,” he
said by telephone from the capital, Beirut. The visit, initially
due tomorrow, was delayed due to changes in the schedule of
Egyptian officials, Hariri’s office said in a statement.  Gas shipments have been halted since Nov. 5 because of
unpaid dues to Egypt stemming from a deadlock between the
ministry of finance, headed by an aide to Hariri, and the energy
ministry, run by an aide to opposition leader Michel Aoun. The
dispute, which is adding to the country’s energy bill, reflects
internal political wrangling that has hampered the formation of
a new Cabinet since January.  “There is no real explanation other than for political
reasons,” Nabil Yamout, adviser to the finance minister, said
in a telephone interview from  Beirut .  Within 10 days, the ministry of finance would have paid the
entire amount owed to Egypt, or about $64.4 million, he said.
The  finance ministry  only accepted to unlock the payments after
receiving the bills “in due process, even if late by several
months” from the energy ministry, he said.  ‘Squandered Money’  “The delay is certainly not due to the finance ministry,
as it is definitely due to the energy ministry and its
institutions, so it is the latter that has squandered public
money by delaying bills,” caretaker Finance Minister Raya Haffar El Hassan said today in her latest open letter to
caretaker Energy and Water Resources Minister Gebran Bassil.
Bassil denied the accusations today in a press conference.  The Lebanese continue to live with widespread blackouts
that have affected the country since a 15-year civil war ended
in 1990. The government spends as much as $1.5 billion a year
subsidizing state-owned Electricite du Liban, which provides
more than 90 percent of the country’s power. Lebanon imported
about 25 million cubic meters of natural gas a month from Egypt
before the shipments were halted.  Egypt has gas reserves of 77 trillion cubic feet (2.18
trillion cubic meters) and is the main producer of the fuel in
the eastern Mediterranean, according to the U.S. Energy
Department. The country exported 650 billion cubic feet in 2009,
30 percent by either the Arab  gas pipeline  to Jordan, Syria and
Lebanon, or to  Israel  through the El Arish-Ashkelon line, the
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  