-- 
ECB May Raise Rate to 1.5% in July as Trichet Fights Inflation

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   K r i s t i a n   S i e d e n b u r g
-- 
2011-04-08T12:34:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/ecb-might-raise-rate-to-1-5-in-july-in-trichet-effort-to-tame-inflation.html
The  European Central Bank  will raise
 interest rates  again in July as it battles to push inflation
below its 2 percent ceiling, a survey of economists shows.  Policy makers will follow yesterday’s increase with 25
basis-point steps every three months, taking the benchmark rate
to 1.5 percent in July and 1.75 percent in October, according to
the median of 20 estimates in the Bloomberg News survey. The
pattern will continue in 2012 with increases every quarter, so
that the key rate reaches 2.75 percent before the end of next
year, the survey shows.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that
officials had not decided on a series of increases after lifting
the benchmark from a record low of 1 percent, where it had been
since May 2009. With inflation running at 2.6 percent and
 Germany ’s economy booming, economists said the ECB has embarked
on a gradual policy-tightening cycle.  “Trichet may have said that they haven’t made that
decision, but he always says that,” said  Nick Kounis , chief
European economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam, who expects
the next move in July. “They will continue to raise rates and
it’s just a combination of factors that will drive it -- the
inflation outlook, the economic outlook and their desire to
normalize policy.”  ‘Cautious Start’  Silvio Peruzzo, euro-area economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London , said the ECB’s next move could
come as soon as June.  “The phrase about the first step not being the beginning
of a series is reminiscent of the start of the previous
tightening cycle,” he said. “Trichet wants to signal a cautious
start.”  When Trichet kicked off the last cycle of rate tightening
in December 2005, he said that “we have not taken any ex-ante
decision to embark on a series of interest-rate increases.” The
central bank went on to lift its key rate from 2 percent to 4.25
percent by July 2008.  Trichet also said yesterday that officials are monitoring
inflation risks “very closely,” a phrase that during the
previous cycle signaled an interest-rate increase in two to
three months’ time.  The ECB last month forecast inflation would average 2.3
percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012. Since then,  oil
prices  have surged to more than $111 a barrel.  ECB officials are worried that workers will demand higher
wages in compensation for rising energy and food costs -- so-
called second-round effects that could entrench faster
inflation.  “We’ve seen a cost push and monetary policy has to act
preemptively,” ECB Executive Board member Gertrude Tumpel- Gugerell told reporters in Berlin today. “It’s important to
avoid second-round effects now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Kristian Siedenburg in Budapest at 
 ksiedenburg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  