-- 
EDF Offers $2.2 Billion for Rest of Energies Nouvelles Renewables Division

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-04-08T16:36:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/edf-offers-2-2-billion-for-rest-of-energies-nouvelles-unit.html
Electricite de  France  SA offered to
buy the 50 percent it doesn’t own of its renewable energy unit
 EDF Energies Nouvelles SA (EEN)  for as much as 1.5 billion euros
($2.16 billion) as solar and wind projects become more costly.  “Renewable energy projects are becoming more significant
in size and more complex,” Thomas Piquemal, EDF’s chief
financial officer, said on a conference call. “Development is
becoming more industrial.”  EDF began considering the offer at the start of March,
Piquemal said, rejecting the idea that the deal is a way for the
world’s biggest nuclear reactor operator to hedge against a
curtailment of atomic energy development worldwide.  “This doesn’t have much to do with the accident in
 Japan ,” he said.  Paris-based EDF will buy the 25 percent stake held by
Energies Nouvelles Chairman Paris Mouratoglou and offer to buy
shares held by minority holders, according to a statement. The
Paris-based utility has offered 40 euros a share in cash and 13
of its own shares for 11 in the renewable energy unit with
Mouratoglou selling half his stake for shares.  Outside France  The move by EDF, the world’s biggest nuclear reactor
operator, follows Spanish utility  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , which last month
offered to buy out minority investors in its renewable energy
unit. EDF has said it wants to develop renewable energies such
as wind and solar power while at the same time pursuing
expansion of atomic energy outside France.  The cash offer is at a 10 percent premium over the last
traded price of shares in EDF Energies Nouvelles while the share
offer premium is 11 percent over six=month trading levels,
according to an EDF presentation of the agreement.  The agreement will raise 2012 net earnings by 90 million
euros and have a “limited impact” on debt ratios, EDF said.
The utility plans to buy back shares worth between 300 million
euros and 1 billion euros to prevent shareholder dilution.  EDF is planning 2.4 billion euros for investment in
renewable energies for EDF Energies Nouvelles and hydroelectric
operations in 2013 compared with 1.6 billion euros last year,
according to Piquemal. This includes maintaining hydro dams.  “The market for renewable will be for bigger, more complex
and more technical operations,” Mouratoglou said, adding that
the unit will benefit in the future from EDF’s financial power.
In the past, he has said the shareholding structure of EDF
Energies Nouvelles offered more entrepreneurial freedom.  “We are investing as much in new nuclear projects as in
EDF Energies Nouvelles,” Piquemal said, adding that “organic
growth” will take priority over further acquisitions of
renewable energy companies.  Solar Projects  EDF Energies Nouvelles shares last traded at 36.64 euros.
Shares in the utility, which has a market capitalization of 2.84
billion euros, have gained 16 percent since the start of the
year. Mouratoglou will remain chairman of the unit and said
current management will remain in place.  EDF Energies Nouvelles has said earnings this year would
rise about 23 percent to at least 560 million euros on wind and
solar projects in  Europe . Earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization for 2010 increased 36 percent to
455.1 million euros while net income including exceptional items
rose 8.4 percent to 106.1 million euros.  EDF Energies Nouvelles is installing wind and solar
capacity as the European Union aims to get 20 percent of its
energy from renewable sources within 10 years, reducing
dependence on oil and natural-gas imports. The company is
targeting 500 megawatts of solar energy by the end of 2012. It
plans to have 4,200 megawatts of installed wind capacity by that
time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  