-- 
Hedge Funds Chase Japan Opportunities After Enduring Quake, Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-08T06:42:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/hedge-funds-chase-japan-opportunities-after-enduring-quake-nuclear-crisis.html
Hedge funds  investing in  Japan  are
scouting for opportunities after weathering the country’s worst
earthquake and resulting nuclear crisis as the Bank of Japan
pumped record funds into the financial system.  R-SQUARED Master Fund, which benefited from investments in
put options and credit default swaps before the March 11 temblor,
is finding opportunities in subordinated debt. Dymon Asia, which
started a macro hedge fund in 2008 with capital from Tudor
Investment Corp., sees potential in the foreign exchange market
after the fund returned 8 percent last month.  Hedge funds investing in Japan returned 0.3 percent in
March on a preliminary basis, according to estimates from
Singapore-based data provider Eurekahedge Pte, beating the 8.6
percent slump in the benchmark Topix index of 1,666 stocks.
Japan moved to weaken the currency by  selling  692.5 billion yen
($8.1 billion) last month as policy makers battled the nation’s
worst postwar disaster.  “The  Bank of Japan  acted very quickly and they were
responsive in flooding the market with Japanese yen, so the cost
of funding did not increase,” said Christopher Donald, managing
director and the head of global prime finance for Japan at
Deutsche Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “That provided a lot of
liquidity and comfort to the overall market. It is really now a
researchers’ game.”  ‘Shoot First’  The magnitude-9.0 temblor and ensuing tsunami on March 11
led to more than 27,000 dead or missing and damaged  Tokyo
Electric  Power Co.’s Fukushima nuclear plant. The nuclear
disaster is rated 5, the same degree of severity assigned to the
Three Mile Island accident near Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , in
1979. The world’s worst nuclear accident was the level 7
disaster at Chernobyl, Ukraine, in 1986.  The temblor snapped a stock market rally of about 16
percent since November.  “Being long Japanese equities was a very popular trade
prior to the earthquake,” Dymon  Asia  Capital Chief Executive
Officer Danny Yong said. “Given the uncertainty about the
extent of the damage at the nuclear reactors initially, we
expected investors to shoot first and ask questions later.”  That’s what happened: the Topix plunged 18 percent in the
wake of the quake to its low on March 15 and remains 8.4 percent
below its March 10 level. Foreign investors bought a record
amount of Japanese stocks in the first week following the
earthquake.  Versus Lehman  The stock market’s rout pushed valuations on the nation’s
stocks to the lowest since after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008. Credit-default swaps of
sovereign debt surged to a two-year high after the quake.  “When we last saw market events of this magnitude in 2008,
the week Lehman failed, I think that was far more jarring,”
said Masa Yanagisawa, director and head of global prime finance
sales for Japan at Deutsche Securities in  Tokyo . “During the
Lehman crisis it was just complete absence of liquidity.”  The BOJ injected a record 15 trillion yen into money
markets on March 14. Lenders’ deposits with the central bank
reached an all-time high of 42.6 trillion yen on March 24.  The Group of Seven nations’ finance chiefs said in a joint
statement on March 18 they will “provide any needed
cooperation” with Japan after the yen strengthened to a record
76.25 per dollar on March 17. The G7 members hadn’t stepped in
the market together since September 2000 when they sought to
support the euro as it tumbled in its second year of existence.
The Japanese currency recently traded at 85.06 yen per dollar.  180 Degree Change  “The biggest change after the disaster for the financial
markets is the fact that thanks to the BOJ’s quick response,
Japan’s fiscal policy and monetary policy trend has changed 180
degrees,” said Shuhei Abe, chief executive officer of Sparx
Group Co., Asia’s second-largest hedge fund.  Returns by Sparx’s long-short Japanese equity funds ranged
from about minus 1.5 percent to positive 2 percent in March,
said Abe.  The crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant may weigh on the
market until owner Tokyo Electric shows the situation is under
“some sort of control,” Abe said.  The Fukushima plant had its power and back-up generators
knocked out by the tsunami that followed the earthquake.  Late yesterday, a magnitude-7.1 earthquake hit near the
site of the March 11 temblor, the  U.S. Geological Survey 
reported on its website. No unusual conditions were observed at
the Fukushima plant, according to statements from Tokyo Electric
and Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency.  R-SQUARED  Stocks rose on speculation that damage from the latest
temblor was limited, pushing the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average up 1.9 percent at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo.  The $115-million R-SQUARED fund, run by Singapore-based MAM
Pte, returned about 0.6 percent in March on a preliminary basis,
bringing its return since inception last April to about 13
percent. The fund, which employs an arbitrage and relative-value
strategy that bets on price differences between markets, has had
no redemptions since the quake and had allocations from new
investors in April, said co-chief investment officer Gen Kato.  “There was an enormous amount of volume in the first week
and some panic-like price actions were seen immediately after
the earthquake, but we took on some new relative-value risks,”
said Tan Maruyama, a former proprietary trader at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in Tokyo who now runs the fund with Kato.  ‘Nimble Trading’  Tier 1-subordinated bonds and preferred shares that fell in
the knee-jerk reaction selloff after the March 11 quake look
attractive going forward, Kato said.  Dymon Asia Capital profited from active short-term trading
in the days following the quake, said CEO Yong.  “We tend to adopt a nimble trading approach when the
markets are news-driven and volatile,” Yong said.  The Singapore-based firm, which manages an Asian macro fund
with more than $500 million, bet on a decline in Japanese stocks
following the temblor. It covered its short positions on March
14 and went long the Nikkei 225 index futures four days post the
quake, said Yong, who previously worked at Citadel LLC and
Goldman Sachs.  The concerted effort by the G7 countries to get involved in
the  currency market  was a “welcomed surprise,” said Yong.  Further Growth  “We believe the yen is possibly at the start of a
significant weakening trend against other Asian currencies like
the Korean won, the Chinese RMB and the  Singapore dollar ,” said
Yong. “Japan needs a weaker yen to help it tide through this
tough period, and the G7 agreement has in effect given Japan the
green light to engineer a weaker yen.”  For now, Yong said he favors being short the yen and long
the Korean won and Chinese renminbi, while keeping a “neutral”
position in equities. Shorting involves selling borrowed
securities with the view their value will fall and they can be
bought back cheaper.  Just 11 days after the quake, Deutsche Securities, which
expects global hedge-fund assets to reach a record $2.25
trillion by year-end, held the Alternative Investment Survey
seminar in Tokyo, attended by 25 Japanese institutions.  “We feel that despite the events lately in Japan we’re
going to see further growth in the hedge fund industry in
general,” said Deutsche Securities’ Yanagisawa. “Global
investors will continue to look at absolute return strategies in
volatile markets like these.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  