-- 
Lehman Seeks to Delay Court Hearing for Paulson-Calpers Plan

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-08T21:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/lehman-seeks-to-delay-court-hearing-for-paulson-calpers-plan-1-.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  asked
a judge to delay a court hearing for a rival liquidation plan
drawn up by bondholders including hedge fund Paulson & Co.,
saying time and money would be saved if creditors approve the
defunct firm’s $61 billion plan.  “If the debtors’ plan is confirmed, it will relieve the
need for further proceedings and save considerable time and
expense,” it said in a filing today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
 Manhattan . The judge has “discretion” to give Lehman, which
has been “laboring” to gain creditor consensus, first chance
at getting a plan confirmed by the judge, it said.  Lehman, which collapsed in 2008 in the biggest bankruptcy
in U.S. history, is set to ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck
on June 28 to allow creditors to vote on its proposal. The
Paulson group of bondholders, including the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , wants its plan to be heard on the
same schedule as Lehman’s. Opponents of both plans, including
derivatives creditors such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Silver Point Capital LP, want all alternative proposals to be
assessed at the same time.  Lehman, which filed for bankruptcy with debt of $613
billion, is trying to deal with mounting opposition to the way
it will apportion among creditors the $61 billion it aims to
raise as it liquidates assets.  ‘Parochial Interests’  In the filing,  Harvey Miller , Lehman’s lead bankruptcy
lawyer, said the Paulson-Calpers plan “presents the parochial
interests of 13 entities that collectively purport to hold
claims of approximately $20.2 billion.” Writing about
derivatives creditors, who have said they might file a third
payment proposal for Lehman, he said, “the Big Banks assert
extraordinarily large unresolved claims, which are disputed by
the debtors.”  Setting a timetable to assess the plans, it would be
“prudent and proper” for Peck to “grant primacy to the
debtors and best serve the interests of all stakeholders,”
Miller said.  By law, Lehman’s exclusive right to file a plan and solicit
votes has expired. Because of that, Lehman’s official committee
representing creditors said it had no objection to concurrent
hearings on Lehman’s and the Paulson-Calpers plan, and any other
plan that may be filed, as long as the groups keep to the
deadlines.  Creditors who want the judge to consider their plan along
with Lehman’s should file it in court by April 29, according to
the Paulson group.  Seeking Details  Separately, Goldman Sachs,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and other banks
said Lehman is proposing to bar them from information that is
“crucial” to knowing whether creditors of some units should be
paid more than others, or if all should be treated equally. They
also are seeking details of multibillion-dollar claims, filed by
Lehman and its U.K. company against the Lehman special financing
unit, they said in a filing today.  The banks, which are creditors of Lehman Brothers Special
Financing, and in line to get more money than some other
creditors, said the claims arose from derivatives trades and
securities transactions.  “A proper analysis of this claim is simply not possible
without access to valuation details concerning the trades
underlying the claim allegations,” Goldman said.  Also today, the Paulson-Calpers group responded in a filing
to Miller’s earlier demand that they disclose more information
about the claims they hold on the defunct firm before they
participate in the bankruptcy. The same rules should apply to
creditors working in a group, such as Goldman Sachs and others
with derivative claims, who haven’t yet filed a bankruptcy plan
for Lehman, it said. The Paulson-Calpers proposal would commit
banks and  hedge funds  to say what they paid for claims bought
after Lehman’s bankruptcy filing.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  