-- 
Televisa's Azcarraga Cuts Wireless Deal to Show Company Won’t ’Stay Put’

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-04-08T22:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/televisa-ceo-cuts-wireless-deal-to-show-company-won-t-stay-put-.html
Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  Chief Executive
Officer Emilio Azcarraga said the world’s biggest Spanish-
language broadcaster is making its $1.6 billion bet on wireless
to expand faster than it can in its traditional media business.  Azcarraga, 43, is adding to the company’s collection of
media and telecommunications assets by buying a 50 percent stake
in Grupo Iusacell SA, Mexico’s third-largest wireless carrier,
to share control with billionaire  Ricardo Salinas . Azcarraga
plans to use the agreement to compete against  Carlos Slim ’s
America Movil SAB for customers in Mexico, he said.  “It’s a message that we’re not going to stay put with a
company that grows 3 or 4 percent,” Azcarraga said today in an
interview at Televisa’s  Mexico  City headquarters. “We need a
company that grows at a higher rate to deliver results to
investors.”  Televisa’s stock has fallen 7.5 percent in Mexico City
trading since the company announced on April 5 it was in talks
with Iusacell, compared with a 1.1 percent decline for Mexico’s
benchmark IPC index. Televisa fell 12 centavos today to 54.03
pesos.  “I understand they have doubts,” Azcarraga said. “We
have the management, the people and the right strategy in place
with Iusacell.”  Azcarraga, who has led Televisa since his father’s death in
1997, has expanded the world’s largest Spanish-language
broadcaster into cable and satellite TV services.  Not ‘Crazy’  Those businesses represented 39 percent of Televisa’s
fourth-quarter sales, compared with 38.5 percent for the
broadcast business, where growth has slowed in a market where
Televisa gets 70 percent of the audience.  “A lot of people, when we started satellite, they said we
were crazy, and we weren’t,” Azcarraga said.  Televisa’s cable division is competing with  America Movil ’s
fixed-line unit, Telefonos de Mexico SAB, for customers of
phone, Internet and video service in the home. They have also
engaged in a political battle this year, with both sides filing
antitrust complaints against the other as they jockey for
position in Mexico’s telecommunications market.  “We’re going to create a competition, a real competition,
that can provide a better product, a better service and a
cheaper price for the user, at the same time making money out of
it,” Azcarraga said. “I don’t know if in 10 to 15 years we’re
going to be leaders, but we’re going to have a good business.”  Advertising Disagreement  Slim’s companies, including retailers in his Grupo Carso
SAB, have declined to purchase advertising on Televisa’s
networks this year, saying the disagreement is over price.
Televisa has asked regulators to reduce the fees America Movil
can charge to connect calls from its competitors’ customers to
its network.  Telmex has accused Televisa of overcharging for pay
television services, a market regulators haven’t allowed Slim’s
company to enter. Telmex has instead teamed with Dish Mexico, a
satellite provider controlled by MVS Comunicaciones SA and
EchoStar Corp., to jointly offer phone and TV services.  Both sides are going to do what’s in their best interests
in the market, Azcarraga said. He offered no prediction for how
the conflict would be resolved.  Televisa wanted to buy all of Iusacell, just as it earlier
wanted to buy full control of the Mexican unit of  NII Holdings
Inc. (NIHD) , Mexico’s fourth-largest mobile-phone carrier, Azcarraga
said. Neither was for sale, and getting control of half of
Iusacell is better than the 30 percent stake Televisa almost
bought last year in the NII unit, he said.  Iusacell’s Court Challenge  Televisa backed out of that agreement after Iusacell went
to court to challenge NII’s victory in a government auction of
mobile-phone airwaves.  Sharing control with Salinas, whose TV Azteca SAB competes
with Televisa in the broadcast business, will work because both
investors share the same objective, Azcarraga said.  “Televisa always would like to get control, but I don’t
think Ricardo would like to sell that control,” Azcarraga said.
“He also believes the communications and mobile sector is going
to be very big in the growth of his business.”  Antitrust regulators may take about six months to approve
the agreement, said Salvi Folch, Televisa’s chief financial
officer, in an interview. The agreement will give Iusacell
enough working capital to invest in its business for the first
time, giving it a better opportunity to grow, he said.  Azcarraga declined to say how much he believes Iusacell can
expand.  “When you see the growth in telecommunications in
basically all of the countries of the world, it’s very big,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  