-- 
Tepco Gains After Aftershock Causes No Further Damage to Fukushima Reactor

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-04-08T20:35:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/tepco-gains-after-aftershock-causes-no-further-damage-to-fukushima-reactor.html
Tokyo Electric  Power Co.’s shares
rose the most in 36 years after reporting its Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant wasn’t further damaged by a magnitude-7.1
aftershock.  Tokyo Electric rose 80 yen, or 24 percent, to 420 yen
yesterday, its biggest gain since 1974. The stock has dropped 80
percent since a March 11 earthquake and tsunami damaged power
supplies that help keep fuel at the plant cool, leading to
releases of radioactive air and water.  Fifteen engineers were able to return to the site after the
April 7 aftershock, the biggest since the day the magnitude-9
earthquake struck. They continue to pump nitrogen into one of
the reactors, part of an effort to prevent hydrogen explosions
at the plant,  Tokyo  Electric said. There have been no
indications of plant damage at Dai-Ichi or changes in radiation
levels, Takashi Kurita, a company spokesman said yesterday.  “Magnitude-7 level aftershocks may continue to occur even
as the frequency of aftershocks will likely fall,” said
Yoshihiro Hiramatsu, an associate professor specializing in
seismology at Kanazawa University in Japan. “Aftershocks will
continue for a year or so.”  The aftershock resulted in four deaths and left millions
without power in some of the areas hardest hit by the quake and
tsunami, Japanese television station NHK reported.  It disrupted power supplies at two other Japanese nuclear
power plants, Higashidori and Onagawa, according to the
 International Atomic Energy Agency . Both plants’ cooling systems
are working, the agency said.  Households Without Power  About 1.9 million households, mostly in Miyagi and Iwate
prefectures, were without electricity as of 1 p.m. yesterday,
said Tohoku Electric Power Co., the main supplier to northern
 Japan .  Tokyo Electric, known as Tepco, is using emergency pumps to
cool the reactors and pools holding spent fuel at Dai-Ichi, four
weeks after the initial disaster. Three blasts last month
damaged reactor buildings at the site, 220 kilometers (137
miles) north of Tokyo.  Tohoku Electric said no radioactive water leaked from its
Onagawa nuclear station. About 11 liters (3 gallons) of
radioactive water spilled on the floor because of shaking from
the quake, according to the company.  Two of three  power lines  to the station, which was shut
down after the March 11 quake, remain disabled, the company
said.  Missing and Dead  Tohoku Electric said it restored main power at its
Higashidori nuclear plant and restarted three out of six units
at other  power plants  yesterday.  The earthquake and tsunami last month left  27,778 dead or
missing  as of 8 p.m. yesterday, according to Japan’s  National
Police Agency . The government estimated damage of 25 trillion
yen ($295 billion).  The aftershock was centered about 333 kilometers northeast
of Tokyo, the  U.S. Geological Survey  reported on its  website . It
follows the magnitude-9 earthquake, which was 373 kilometers
northeast of Tokyo and is the largest ever recorded in Japan,
according to the agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  