-- 
Ergen’s Deal-a-Month Spree May Boost Dish, EchoStar With Web

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-08T20:29:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/ergen-wages-deal-a-month-spree-to-boost-dish-echostar-with-web.html
Charlie Ergen went almost three
years without an acquisition after splitting up his satellite-
television empire in 2008. Since December, he has cut five deals
and may soon have a sixth.  Ergen is seeking to push his  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  TV provider
and  EchoStar Corp. (SATS)  equipment company into Internet and on-demand
services, said  Chris Marangi  at Gamco Investors Inc. Dish, where
Ergen is chairman and chief executive officer, won an auction
this week for bankrupt Blockbuster Inc.’s movie-rental business,
beating out  Carl Icahn  and others with a $320 million bid.  “Charlie needs to find other ways for the business to
grow,” said Marangi, a portfolio manager at Rye, New York-based
Gamco, which owned 5.4 million Dish shares as of Dec. 31. “He’s
trying to look around the corner and figure out where he wants
to be.”  Ergen, the 58-year-old billionaire who made his fortune
building EchoStar after helping found it in 1980, has struggled
in recent years to compete against  DirecTV (DTV) , cable providers like
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and telephone companies such as  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  that now sell television service.  DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, has a
leading position in premium video and sports that has crimped
Dish’s revenue growth and profit, Marangi said. Meanwhile,
companies such as Verizon and Comcast offer faster Internet
connections that appeal to the growing number of people who
watch video online from  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  or Hulu LLC.  Share Slump  Dish’s primary business remains providing  pay television 
via satellites in the U.S., where it is second-largest behind
DirecTV. EchoStar, which sells set-top boxes and satellite
services, is still linked with Dish, getting about 80 percent of
revenue from the Englewood, Colorado-based company. Ergen and
his family hold majority voting power in both companies.  Dish wouldn’t make Ergen available for comment and
declined to discuss its acquisition strategy, said Marc Lumpkin,
a company spokesman.  At the time of the split, Ergen said it would increase the
value of the companies and help finance expansion. Dish shares
have fallen 28 percent since the separation at the beginning of
2008, while DirecTV’s more than doubled. EchoStar rose 4.2
percent in the same period.  Dish’s subscribers fell by 156,000 last quarter to 14.1
million, the company’s worst quarterly performance ever.  Dish fell 16 cents to $23.79 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market. DirecTV, based in El Segundo,  California ,
dropped 2 cents to $46.48.  Four Deals  Ergen is shifting his strategy as consumers change their
viewing habits. His deal spree may help him appeal to people who
want to watch video over the Internet and at times they choose,
rather than fixed time slots, said  Todd Mitchell , a Kaufman
Bros. analyst.  “Dish is thinking, ‘What do I need to do to change myself
from being a broadcast platform to being an on-demand
platform?’” said Mitchell, who is based in New York and
recommends buying the stock. “The media model for distribution
is changing.”  EchoStar in January bought Move Networks Inc., which makes
technology for streaming video online, and in February said it
would spend $2 billion for Hughes Communications Inc., which
provides speedy satellite Internet service. Dish in December
acquired Liberty-Bell Telecom, a small telephone and broadband
company based in Denver, and in February agreed to pay $1.4
billion for the bankrupt DBSD North America Inc., a satellite
company that provides voice and data services.  Blockbuster Fit  A bankruptcy court judge approved Dish’s Blockbuster bid
yesterday. Ergen may look north for his sixth deal. EchoStar
made an offer for Telesat Holdings Inc., the Canadian satellite
company, people familiar with the matter said last month.  Hughes and DBSD may let Ergen offer a bundle of satellite
TV, broadband Internet and wireless services to compete with
Verizon,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and cable providers, said Amy Yong, an
analyst at Macquarie Securities in New York. Move Networks’s
technology will let him deliver better-quality online video,
over relatively slow Internet connections, said Yong, who rates
Dish and EchoStar “outperform” and doesn’t own either.  The Blockbuster acquisition has little to do with its
retail stores and more likely is aimed at using the brand name
for online video, including movie services similar to Netflix’s,
said Mitchell.  “There’s no reason to be in the retail business for media
distribution,” said Mitchell. “What Dish is looking to do is
get rid of the retail business as fast as possible, and believe
me, Charlie Ergen is going to be ruthless.”  Blockbuster and Slingbox  Dish may keep at least some of Blockbuster’s more than
1,700 stores and convert them into locations where customers can
buy subscriptions to Dish, according to a company statement.
Dish declined to comment on whether it plans to liquidate some
of the stores, as certain contracts and leases have not been
examined yet, Lumpkin said.  Dish could use Blockbuster’s assets to build a stand-alone
website to compete with Netflix or to market Dish services to
Blockbuster’s customers, which include about 1 million DVD mail
subscribers, according to a note by Jeff Wlodarczak, an analyst
at New York-based Pivotal Research Group.  “We would be surprised if Ergen has an absolute firm plan
for the asset yet,” Wlodarczak said in his note.  Dish could also build Blockbuster’s streaming movie
capabilities into its satellite-video offering and use Dish’s
Slingbox technology to let users to watch on mobile devices, say
analysts including Craig Moffett of Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Acquiring bankrupt companies with no public explanation of
the strategy would “usually be met with a selloff in the
stock,” which hasn’t happened, said Moffett in an interview.  Though investors may not see the benefits of the deals,
they may trust Ergen knows what he’s doing, he said.  “There’s this cult of personality around Charlie Ergen
that believes, maybe with some justification, that Charlie is
the smartest guy in the room, and that maybe he’ll figure it
out,” said Moffett.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  