-- 
Essar Says It Plans to Honor $5 Billion Vodafone India Pact

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-08T17:52:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/essar-says-it-plans-to-honor-5-billion-vodafone-india-pact.html
Essar Group said it will honor an
agreement with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  enabling a deal to sell its 33
percent holding in an Indian joint venture to the U.K. mobile-
phone company to complete in November.  Vodafone agreed last month to buy Essar’s stake after the
partner exercised an option to sell its holding in the venture
for $5 billion. The transaction will raise Vodafone’s stake to
75 percent. Essar wants as much as $700 million more from
Vodafone for the stake, the Economic Times reported today,
citing two people it didn’t identify.  Essar “fully intends to honor all its rights and
obligations under the various agreements with Vodafone and also
expects Vodafone to do the same,” the Indian company said in an
e-mailed statement. Essar will remain a shareholder in Vodafone
Essar Ltd.,  India ’s third-largest mobile-phone operator, until
the transaction is completed, it said.  Essar, founded by billionaires Shashi and Ravi Ruia, had an
option to sell its entire 33 percent stake to Vodafone for $5
billion or to sell a smaller stake at an independently appraised
fair market value. The deal is a boost for Vodafone Chief
Executive Officer Vittorio Colao as Essar failed to gain a
higher valuation for part of its stake in Vodafone Essar.  Essar has applied to the  Reserve Bank  of India seeking
permission to transfer a 10.97 percent stake in the venture for
$1.2 billion, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because the details aren’t public.
That stake was valued by banks hired by Essar at about $1.8
billion, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  