-- 
EU Lifts Sanctions on Ivory Coast Cocoa Exporters, Abidjan and San Pedro

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x ,   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 
2011-04-08T18:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/eu-lifts-sanctions-on-ivory-coast-cocoa-exporters-abidjan-and-san-pedro.html
The European Union lifted
restrictions on Ivory Coast’s cocoa-exporting ports of Abidjan
and  San Pedro  after President-elect  Alassane Ouattara  called for
their removal in an attempt to revive the nation’s conflict-
devastated economy.  The Council of the European Union said today that the
Ivorian Refining Company and the Coffee and Cocoa Trade
Management Committee were also removed from a list of entities
subject to the EU asset freeze.  Speaking in a televised address late yesterday, Ouattara
said his forces were working to restore order and security to
the West African nation, the world’s top cocoa producer.  “I invite all my compatriots to refrain from acts of
vengeance,” Ouattara, 69, said. “Ivorians from the north, the
south, the east and the west, Ivorians of all faiths, whether
you voted for me or not, I appeal to your sense of dignity and
responsibility.”  Ivory Coast  has been locked in a violent political struggle
since the Nov. 28 presidential election. While Ouattara is the
internationally recognized winner of the vote,  Laurent Gbagbo ,
65, who ruled for a decade, refuses to cede power and remains
bunkered in the basement of his Abidjan home. Ouattara’s troops,
backed by United Nations and French airstrikes, have failed to
force him out.  Burned Alive  At least 100 bodies have been discovered in the west of the
country in past 24 hours as a result of two separate incidents,
 Agence France-Presse  reported, citing Rupert Colville, a
spokesman for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.  The
dead included some people who had been burned alive and others
who were thrown down a well, the  news agency  said. About 60
corpses were discovered in the town of Guiglo, while some
appeared to be people from neighboring West African countries,
Colville was cited as saying.  UN-backed talks on a peaceful exit for Gbagbo broke down on
April 6 and exile is no longer an option, Youssoufou Bamba, the
Ouattara-appointed ambassador to the UN, was cited by Xinhua as
saying. Gbagbo must be captured alive and made to face justice,
Bamba said.  Residents in the Cocody area of Abidjan, near Gbagbo’s
residence, reported gangs of armed looters roving the streets.  Stealing Cars  “It’s not safe to go out. We can see armed guys coming in
groups, in pick-ups,” said Jeanette Gadou, a resident of the
area. “We can see them entering some buildings and stealing
cars, especially four-by-fours,” she said by phone.  Crowds surrounded two supermarkets in Deux Plateaux, said
Jacqueline N’Guessan, a resident who was trying to get food.  “People don’t know for how long it will stay open, and if
it will be safe to go there by foot later in the day,” she said
by phone.  About a third of the country’s 2010-11 cocoa crop, or
440,000 metric tons, has been stockpiled near the port of
Abidjan, the commercial capital. A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the
world’s largest container-shipping line, has said it would be
able to send vessels as soon as the EU lifted sanctions it
imposed in January.  Cocoa futures for July delivery fell 1.3 percent to 1,889
pounds ($3,084) a ton at 5:11 p.m. in  London .  Ivory Coast’s defaulted $2.3 billion Eurobond fell for the
first time in four days, declining 1.9 percent to 52.833 cents
on the dollar at 4:13 p.m. in Abidjan.  Reopen Banks  Ouattara asked the Dakar, Senegal-based  Central Bank of
West African States  to reopen its offices in Ivory Coast to help
restore a banking industry shuttered by the crisis and pay
“salaries and arrears.” A noon-to-6 a.m. curfew would be
lifted beginning today, the president said.  The measures are meant to “allow for a progressive return
to normality,” Ouattara said.  Residents of Abidjan have been shut in their homes since
the pro-Ouattara Republican Forces entered the city on April 1
and began their last push to install their leader in office.  Ouattara pledged to investigate all the allegations of
human rights abuses committed during the conflict and bring all
those found guilty to justice.  “All the massacres and crimes will be brought to light”
and “the authors of the crimes will be sanctioned,” he said.  ‘Post-Gbagbo Era’  France , which launched helicopter strikes on Gbagbo forces
in Abidjan earlier this week, praised Ouattara’s efforts. “The
page has turned, we are living in a post-Gbagbo era,” said
 Bernard Valero , a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry. “Mr.
Gbagbo is living in his cave.”  UN peacekeepers rescued five South Korean officials late
yesterday who had been trapped in that embassy’s compound in
Abidjan for six days,  South Korea ’s Foreign Ministry said in a
statement on its website.  Guillaume Soro, Ouattara’s prime minister, urged residents
in Abidjan not to block aid workers from removing bodies,
supplying medicine and restoring water and electricity,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Sexual violence has risen sharply in some areas, with the
International Rescue Committee saying it had recorded a four-
fold increase in the number of reported sexual assaults in parts
of western and central Ivory Coast since December.  “Even if the political and military showdown in Abidjan
ends today, we’re concerned that looting, hostility, bloodshed,
reprisal killings and sexual assaults will escalate in
communities across the country,” Louis Falcy, the aid agency’s
country director for Ivory Coast, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax and Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ; 