-- 
EU May Extend Kyoto Climate Treaty if Conditions Are ’Right’

-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 6 0 6 8 0 7 0 ]   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   [ ]   a n d   [ b n : P R S N = 1 6 5 0 2 7 1 9 ]   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   [ ]
-- 
2011-04-08T12:50:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/eu-may-extend-kyoto-climate-treaty-if-conditions-are-right-1-.html
     April 8 (Bloomberg) --The European Union said it will
consider extending the Kyoto limits on  greenhouse gases  if the
conditions are “right,” even as some countries hesitate.  “Our position is unchanged,” Artur Runge-Metzger, head of
strategy and negotiations at the European Commission, said today
at United Nations-sponsored climate talks in Bangkok. “We are
considering a second commitment period if the conditions are
right. We need to get rules right and get a reassurance that
partners are ready to do their fair share under convention.”  Some countries are hesitant to continue with the 1997
agreement, Runge-Metzger said. If industrialized nations don’t
want to sign up to a second commitment period, “there needs to
be something else,” he said.  Developing countries including China and  India  have urged
for bigger emissions cuts from richer nations, while Japan and
 Russia , who are parties to the emissions-reduction treaty, said
they will reject new targets when current ones expire in 2012.  “Ideally there should be a single legal framework, and
that doesn’t look possible,” Runge-Metzger said. Nations that
don’t sign up to the protocol need to do something under a legal
framework, he said.  Today is the last day of a week of United Nations overseen
climate talks in Bangkok. Key elements of a climate agreement
have “still not finished”, said Jozsef Feiler, head of climate
protection and energy at Hungary’s  Environment Ministry .  “If we don’t get a meaningful agenda, that’s a risk as
well for us,” Feiler said. “Cancun raised credibility of the
whole process. Now we have to keep it.”  With assistance from Alex Morales in  London  and Ewa Krukowska in
Brussels. Editors:  Mike Anderson , John Buckley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  