-- 
EU Says Raising $100 Billion a Year for Climate Aid Is Feasible

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-08T14:48:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/eu-says-raising-100-billion-a-year-for-climate-aid-is-feasible.html
Raising $100 billion a year for
climate aid is “challenging but it can be done” with the
participation of public funding, private funds leveraged by
banks and international carbon markets, the European Union said.  As a part of the United Nations climate talks, developed
nations have pledged they will help poorer countries finance the
fight against global warming by 2020. The EU released its report
today as envoys worldwide concluded a meeting in Bangkok, trying
to break an impasse on negotiating an emissions-reduction deal
that would succeed the  Kyoto Protocol  after it expires in 2012.  “Many advanced economies will face serious fiscal
constraints in the years to come,” EU Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in a statement. “This cannot be
paid by public money alone. We need to rely also on innovative
sources of financing, in particular, in the private sector and
carbon markets. We should make good use of innovative financing
mechanisms in close cooperation with development banks.”  The EU, which has led the campaign for a global treaty to
tackle the heat waves, storms and floods tied to  climate change ,
offered the developing world 2.4 billion euros ($3.5 billion) a
year from 2010 to 2012. That’s a part of the $10 billion
annually promised by rich nations in so-called fast-start aid.  “The EU is already well on track to deliver its fast-start
funding,” EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said in the
statement published in Brussels today. “And we will also
contribute our fair share to climate funding in the long run.”  Emissions Trading System  The EU said several financing sources identified by the UN
advisory group on climate change financing are already in place
in the 27-nation bloc, or will be used in the coming years.
Other solutions to put a price on carbon, including taxes on
aviation and maritime transport, or on financial transactions
would require more global cooperation, according to the European
Commission, the EU’s executive arm.  The cornerstone of the EU’s plan to fight climate change is
its emissions trading system. The world’s largest cap-and-trade
program imposes pollution limits on companies including German
utility RWE AG and  France ’s EDF, leading to a ceiling in 2020
that will be 21 percent below 2005 discharges.  Emitters that produce less carbon dioxide than their quota
can sell surplus allowances and those exceeding their limits
must either buy additional permits or pay a fine of 100 euros
for each excess metric ton of CO2. They can also use for
compliance cheaper emission reduction credits generated under
the UN Clean Development Mechanism.  “The carbon market can deliver a substantial contribution
if, in addition to improvements in the existing Clean
Development Mechanism, sectoral carbon market mechanisms are
introduced,” the EU said in the statement. “Private finance
will also have a key role in scaling-up international climate
finance. Multilateral and other development banks can further
leverage these sources of climate finance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 