-- 
Stress Tests Toughened as 90 Banks to Face EU Capital Exams

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-04-08T16:18:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/eu-stress-tests-to-examine-90-banks-5-core-capital-pass-rate.html
European regulators will use a
tougher measure of capital on 90 lenders in this year’s stress
tests following criticism last year’s weren’t stringent enough.  Banks will be expected to maintain a Core  Tier 1 capital 
ratio of at least 5 percent under the stress-test scenarios, the
European Banking Authority said on its  website . Lenders won’t be
allowed to use some types of non-voting capital permitted by
German bank supervisors, known as silent participations, to
calculate the results, the EBA said.  Last year’s tests, which allowed national regulators to use
their own capital definitions, were criticized by bank analysts
for not being tough enough. Lenders in the 27-nation region were
shown by regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros ($5 billion)
of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest analyst estimate.  “The tests will be tougher than last time, but investors
will likely have lingering doubts about the safety of some of
the banks and their balance sheets,” said Lex van Dam, a
London-based  fund manager  at Hampstead Capital LLP, which
oversees $500 million. “The test scenario may be not
conservative enough, but it seems it is tough enough to force
some banks to raise capital sooner than expected.”  At least five banks were added to the list of those
examined last year. Ireland’s Irish Life and Permanent Plc,
 Norway ’s DnB NOR Bank ASA, Nykredit Bank from  Denmark ,
Slovenia’s Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor and Oesterreichische
Volksbank AG from  Austria  will be tested for the first time. The
EBA is due to announce the results by the end of June.  Irish Banks  In 2010,  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Bank of Ireland Plc
passed the EU’s examination, while Anglo Irish Bank Corp. wasn’t
tested. Later in the year, a liquidity shortfall caused when
depositors withdrew funds from Irish lenders helped prompt
European governments and the  International Monetary Fund  to
agree on an 85 billion-euro aid package for the country and the
nationalization of Anglo Irish.  “Make no mistake, 5 percent of Core Tier 1 is harder in
comparison with last year,” James Babicz, head of risk at
business analytics company SAS, said in telephone interview in
London today. “But I think you have to look at how risky a bank
is rather than look at a static capital threshold.”  This year’s tests will include a review of how banks would
handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the euro area in
2011 as well as a 15 percent drop in European equity markets.
Another scenario will simulate the effect on assets held in bank
trading books of a loss of 3.5 percent on German 10-year bonds
and 7.6 percent on British debt.  Sovereign Bonds  “We welcome a transparent and coordinated approach to
stress tests that allows for a continuous assessment and ensures
a level playing field,” Christian Clausen, chief executive of
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and president of the European Banking Federation,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  The EBA tests will also examine the effect of a 75 basis-
point-jump in  interest rates  on European sovereign bonds and an
increase in short-term inter-bank financing costs of 125 basis
points. Losses on sovereign bonds held to maturity won’t be
tested, according to the EBA.  Supervisors agreed “that a higher threshold than the legal
minimum is necessary in assessing the resilience of banks in
adverse circumstances if credibility and confidence in the
banking sector is to be restored,” the  EBA  said.  The  FTSE 350 Banks Index (F3BANK)  rose 0.06 percent today.  Germany ’s Bundesbank and financial regulator BaFin have
called for the  stress-test  information submission deadline to be
extended by two weeks, the central bank said yesterday. The
original deadline was the end of April, the Bundesbank said.  Landesbanken  Regional German banks, including Norddeutsche Landesbank
and Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen, have complained that the EBA’s
tighter definition of capital may lead to some lenders failing
the exams.  At Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen, or Helaba, silent
participations -- the funds the state-owned banks receive from
savings banks and regional governments -- accounted for more
than 50 percent of the total in 2010. At Norddeutsche
Landesbank, or NordLB, it amounted to 30.5 percent of capital in
September, company figures show.  The VOeB Association of German Public Sector Banks “fears
the stress test may convey false signals to the markets,”
Stephan Rabe, a spokesman for the Berlin-based group, said in an
e-mailed response to questions after the EBA published its
requirements. “Therefore, the test doesn’t contribute to the
transparency sought by the EBA.”  5 Percent Level  Banks that fall below the EBA’s 5 percent level will have
to arrange capital injections with their national supervisors.  “It is up to the governments, if there is anything to do
in terms of recapitalization after the stress tests, to stand
ready to do whatever would be necessary,”  Jean-Claude Trichet ,
the president of the  European Central Bank , said at a press
briefing in Budapest.  Core Tier 1, as defined by global regulators in the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision , largely consists of banks
common stock and retained earnings. The 2010 tests were
conducted against a pass rate of six percent Tier 1 capital,
which encompasses a broader range of securities including hybrid
instruments such as preference shares.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 