-- 
Europe’s $2 Trillion of Distressed Debt Set to Outstrip U.S.

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-04-08T13:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/europe-s-2-trillion-of-distressed-debt-to-outstrip-u-s-market-svp-says.html
The distressed  debt market  in  Europe 
is set to outstrip the U.S. for the first time as the region’s
sovereign crisis forces banks to sell $2 trillion of
underperforming assets, Strategic Value Partners LLC said.  “The opportunity set in Europe is very attractive and
rich,” Victor Khosla, founder of the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based distressed-debt hedge fund manager, said in a
phone interview. “It far exceeds the U.S. for the first time.”  Strategic Value Partners, which oversees $4 billion, is
among  hedge funds  eyeing Europe as the fallout from the credit
crisis and governments’ austerity measures trigger fire sales.
Mark Unferth, head of distressed debt at London-based CQS
U.K. LLP, is boosting investment in Europe and expects rivals to
do the same, he said in an April 6 interview. New York-based KKR
& Co. said March 1 it hired Mubashir Mukadam to head its push
into the European market.  By comparison, U.S. banks have announced they need to sell
$800 billion of assets since the credit crisis, Strategic Value
Partners calculations show.  Distressed debt typically yields at least 10 percentage
points more than  government bonds . Hedge funds dedicated to
buying the debt earned an average 4.1 percent return this year
after reaping 23 percent last year, according to Singapore-based
data provider Eurekahedge Pte.  ‘American Invasion’  Distressed-debt funds seek to profit by buying assets at
below their face value, providing high-yield financing which
could give rights to a company’s shares and opportunities to
restructure it or install new management before selling it at a
higher value.  The second wave of restructuring in Europe will require
“hardcore, true restructuring skill” handling debt-for-equity
swaps and overhauling corporate operations, Khosla said. Lenders
wrote off 6.5 billion euros ($9.4 billion) of senior loans as
defaults peaked in 2009, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Strategic Value Partners  has 50 investment professionals in
London and  Frankfurt  and has invested about $6 billion in
European distressed debt since it was set up in 2002.  “Europe is not a market for everyone. Over the years we’ve
seen American invasion followed by American retreat from those
failing to grasp the how to do business in this region”
including knowledge of different legal regimes from country to
country, Khosla said. “Given the amount of the legacy non-
performing assets that needs to be cleaned up, this
restructuring cycle is going be at least three to five years and
even longer for the peripheral countries because we don’t expect
to see a sharp recovery in the economy there.”  Bank of Ireland said April 4 hired Deutsche Bank AG to
sell most of its project finance business of U.K. infrastructure
loans. Ireland’s central bank instructed four lenders on March
31 to raise 24 billion euros after publishing the outcome of the
banks’ stress tests.  “The spate of equity fund-raising by European banks
recently is positive for corporate debt restructuring because it
will allow banks to be able to start taking writedowns on these
assets,” Khosla said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  