-- 
European Stocks Gain, Extending Weekly Advance; BHP, Rio Climb

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-04-08T16:18:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/european-index-futures-rise-raiffeisen-amadeus-reed-elsevier-may-move.html
European stocks rose, extending the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) ’s third straight week of gains, as
yesterday’s 7.1-magnitude aftershock in Japan caused limited
economic damage.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group led basic-resource
producers higher as metal prices advanced on the London Metal
Exchange. Vallourec SA surged 4.7 percent as Credit Suisse Group
AG recommended the stock. TNT NV tumbled the most in 2 1/2 years
as the Dutch mail carrier that’s planning to spin off its
express division said the unit’s profit fell.  The Stoxx 600 gained 0.3 percent to 281.68 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in London. The measure dropped in the final hour of
trading yesterday after Japan was shaken by the biggest
aftershock since the day of the March 11 earthquake. The index
has advanced 0.6 percent this week, bringing its gain from this
year’s lowest level on March 16 to 7.4 percent.  “Equities are looking attractive,” Lothar Mentel, who
oversees about $3.2 billion as the London-based chief investment
officer at Octopus Investments Ltd., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “We’ve had good macroeconomic updates and
companies are earning good money. Valuations are at low
levels.”  The Stoxx 600 traded at about 13.8 percent times its
companies’ reported earnings, near the cheapest since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fifty-four percent of
 companies in the gauge  that have announced earnings since Jan.
10 topped the average analyst estimate for per-share profit.  Limited Damage  “As daylight broke in Japan the damage from the latest
quake appeared to be limited,” said Jonathan Sudaria, a market
strategist at London Capital Group. “There was no tsunami and
the nuclear power plants at Fukushima reportedly did not receive
any further damage.”  The aftershock minutes before midnight yesterday spared the
Fukushima plant, although workers struggling to cool radioactive
fuel were evacuated, Tokyo Electric Power Co. said, based on its
initial assessment. No unusual conditions were observed at the
plant, the utility and Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety
Agency said.  European regulators will use a tougher measure of capital
on 90 lenders in this year’s stress tests following criticism
that last year’s weren’t stringent enough. Banks will need to
maintain core Tier 1 capital of at least 5 percent, the European
Banking Authority said today. Lenders cannot count silent
participations, a type of capital permitted by German bank
supervisors, toward their Tier 1 ratios.  FTSE, CAC  National benchmark indexes climbed in 14 out of 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 and France’s CAC 40
gained 0.8 percent and Germany’s DAX rose 0.5 percent.  In the U.S., a report showed  inventories  at wholesalers
climbed in February as sales decreased for the first time since
the recession ended. Stockpiles increased 1 percent, the same as
in January and matching the median projection in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists, Commerce Department data showed.
Sales dropped 0.8 percent, the first fall since June 2009.  BHP Billiton,  the world’s largest mining company , gained
2.7 percent to 2,585.5 pence, while Rio Tinto, the third-
biggest, climbed 3.2 percent to 4,524 pence. Fresnillo Plc, the
world’s largest primary silver producer, soared 2.4 percent to
1,646 pence. Basic-resource shares were the best performers in
the Stoxx 600 today as copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc
advanced.  Vallourec (VK)  jumped 4.7 percent to 84.10 euros as the French
producer of steel pipes for the oil and gas industry was raised
to “outperform” from “neutral” at Credit Suisse.  Deutsche Boerse  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  gained 2.9 percent to 54.45 euros, the
highest price in four weeks. CNBC’s David Faber yesterday said
NYSE Euronext, which is the target of a takeover bid by the
operator of the Frankfurt exchange, will “issue a resounding
rejection” of a competing offer from Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.
Faber didn’t cite anyone.  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  surged 3.5 percent to 3.07 euros. The
German pay-TV operator controlled by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp.
will make its programs available on mobile phones, laptop
computers and Apple Inc.’s iPad as it attempts to add
subscribers in Europe’s biggest TV market.  Shire Plc (SHP)  climbed 1.6 percent to 1,819 pence after the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration said yesterday that the drugmaker
doesn’t need to change the labels of its attention deficit and
hyperactivity disorder treatments.  TNT Sinks  TNT tumbled 13 percent to 16.01 euros, the biggest decline
since October 2008. The mail carrier said the express unit’s
profit fell in the first 12 weeks of 2011 as Arab revolts in the
Middle East and north Africa and floods in Australia caused its
volume to drop.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, the largest French airline, fell 1.4
percent to 11.46 euros as oil climbed above $111 in New York for
the first time in 30 months. International Consolidated Airlines
Group slid 2.5 percent to 217.4 pence in London.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  slipped 1.8 percent to 68.76 euros, extending
the biggest retreat since October 2009. Germany’s largest
builder was downgraded to “underperform” from “outperform”
at CA Cheuvreux, which cited a “risk of a significant cut in
earnings estimates depending on the magnitude of Leighton’s
guidance revision” and “increasing concerns of a potential
Leighton capital increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  