-- 
European Stocks Climb for Third Week as Banks Rally; Rhodia Shares Surge

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-04-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/european-stocks-gain-for-third-week-as-banks-rally-rhodia-soars.html
European stocks rose for the third
straight week as banks rallied after Portugal requested a
bailout and the  European Central Bank  increased interest rates
for the first time in almost three years.  Paris-based  Rhodia SA (RHA)  rallied 48 percent after Belgian soda
ash maker Solvay SA agreed to pay 3.4 billion euros ($4.9
billion) in cash to buy the company.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,
Italy’s second-biggest bank, climbed 7.1 percent as it announced
plans to raise as much as 5 billion euros selling new shares to
boost capital.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.6 percent to 281.68
this past week. The gauge has rallied 7.4 percent from this
year’s low on March 16 as investors speculated that the economic
recovery will withstand  Japan ’s worst earthquake on record and
popular revolts in the Middle East and north  Africa . On April 7,
ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said that officials had not
decided on a series of increases to  interest rates . Earlier that
day, the bank lifted the benchmark to 1.25 percent from a record
low of 1 percent, where it had been since May 2009.  “Ultra-loose policy settings have clearly led to short-
term economic momentum and to expectations that this trend can
continue, perhaps for some time,” said Iain Stewart, a  fund
manager  at Newton Investment Management Ltd. in London, which
oversees the equivalent of $76.8 billion. Stewart runs the
Newton Real Return Fund that has beaten 97 percent of its peers
in the past five years, according to Bloomberg data.  The Stoxx 600 traded at about 13.8 percent times its
companies’ reported earnings, near the cheapest since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fifty-four percent of
companies in the gauge that have announced earnings since Jan.
10 topped the average analyst estimate for per-share profit.  Interest-Rate Decision  ECB policy makers will follow this week’s increase with 25
basis-point steps every three months, taking the benchmark rate
to 1.5 percent in July and 1.75 percent in October, according to
the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The
pattern will continue in 2012 with increases every quarter,
taking the key rate to 2.75 percent before the end of next year,
the survey showed.  The Euro Stoxx 50 climbed 8 percent in the subsequent month
during the previous two interest rate increase cycles, according
to London-based Exane BNP Paribas strategist Lars Kreckel. In
the past two instances, this rally became 20 percent three
months after, data in his April 8 report showed.  Portugal ’s Bailout  Portugal became the third member of the euro area to ask
the European Union for a bailout. Portugal’s bid for emergency
aid opens what European leaders say will be the final chapter in
the debt crisis that erupted in  Greece  last year, spread to
Ireland and triggered speculation that the 17-nation euro area
will not survive in its current form.  Rhodia rallied 48 percent. Shareholders of the Paris-based
company will receive 31.60 euros a share, 50 percent more than
Rhodia’s closing price on April 1. Including debt, the deal has
an enterprise value of 6.6 billion euros.  There have been 6,589 takeover deals announced globally
this year, totaling $658.1 billion, a 30 percent increase from
the $506.5 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Intesa Sanpaolo climbed 7.1 percent. The Italian bank will
sell common stock to owners of common and savings shares at a
nominal value of 52 euro cents apiece. Italian lenders will
boost capital reserves before the implementation of new rules
requested by central bankers to avert a repeat of the financial
crisis.  Banks posted the biggest gains among all 19 industry groups
on the Stoxx 600.  Marks & Spencer  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  climbed 6.1 percent as the U.K.’s
largest clothing retailer reported sales that beat estimates and
forecast improved profitability as Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  starts to put his stamp on the business.  SGL Carbon SE advanced 13 percent after saying its board
and senior management bought 112,346 shares of the company with
a total value of 3.9 million euros.  Hochtief AG sank 10 percent, among the biggest decliners on
the Stoxx 600 this week.  Germany ’s largest builder said that it
will miss its forecast for this year after its Leighton Holdings
Ltd. unit in  Australia  asked for its shares to be suspended. The
Sydney-based company will issue a review of its Feb. 14 earnings
projection on April 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  