-- 
Dollar Falls as Federal Reserve Trails ECB, Possible Shutdown Damps Demand

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-08T14:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/euro-strengthens-after-german-export-growth-boosts-ecb-rate-increase-bets.html
The dollar dropped against most of
its major counterparts on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
trail other central banks in raising  interest rates  and as signs
of global growth damped demand for haven assets.  The euro gained to an almost 15-month high versus the
dollar after a report showing German exports rose the most in
five months, boosting bets that policy makers will lift interest
rates further to curb inflation. The greenback slumped as
lawmakers failed to agree on a federal budget, increasing the
likelihood of a government shutdown. Currencies of commodity-
exporting countries including the Australian dollar rallied as
raw materials prices advanced.  “Interest-rate differentials are widening and there is a
stalemate between the White House and Congress, they’re all
contributing to dollar weakness,” said  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in
Toronto. “Commodities are higher, equities are stronger,
contributing to positive sentiment in respect to global risk.”  The dollar fell 0.8 percent to $1.4428 per euro at 10:46
a.m. in New York, extending its loss this week to 1.4 percent.
The euro reached $1.4443, the highest since January 2010. The
yen declined 1.1 percent to 122.81 per euro, the weakest since
May 2010. Japan’s currency lost 0.3 percent to 85.12 per dollar.  Dollar Falls  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback versus the currencies of six major
trading partners, including the pound and Canadian dollar, sank
to as low as 75.033, the least since December 2009.  After meeting with House Speaker  John Boehner  and Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, President  Barack Obama  said budget
issues remained unresolved and he hoped for a breakthrough that
would prevent a government shutdown, set to begin at midnight.  Europe ’s currency has rallied 7.8 percent against the
dollar this year as economic growth in  Germany  and accelerating
consumer prices in the euro region boosted expectations that
interest rates will need to rise to curb inflation, which
reached a two-year high of 2.6 percent in March.  A report showed German exports jumped 2.7 percent in
February from a month earlier, when they dropped 1 percent. That
was the biggest month-on-month increase since September and
above the 2 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  China  Gains  China’s yuan gained 0.1 percent to 6.5354 per dollar at the
close in  Shanghai , the strongest level since 1993, according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Traders are showing the largest yuan appreciation
expectations in a month, betting the government will put curbing
inflation ahead of protecting exports. Contracts that fix the
currency’s value in a year indicate a 2.5 percent gain, compared
with as low as 1.7 percent last week, after an interest-rate
increase on April 6.  The ECB’s decision to raise its main rate yesterday comes
as the central banks of other developed nations, including the
U.S. and  Japan , keep borrowing costs near zero to support their
economies as they recover from the financial crisis. The Fed
isn’t expected to raise its target funds rate until the first
quarter of 2012 and the  Bank of Japan  will probably keep
borrowing costs on hold for the next 12 months, the median
estimates in two Bloomberg surveys show.  Yen Drop  The yen headed for a fourth weekly drop versus the euro,
the longest losing streak in 20 months, on speculation the BOJ
will continue with accommodative monetary policy to help its
economy recover from a record earthquake on March 11. The BOJ
yesterday unveiled a 1 trillion yen, one-year loan program to
companies affected by the quake and tsunami as board members
downgraded their economic assessment for the first time since
October.  “Improved risk sentiment on the back of the global
recovery is pushing the euro higher against the yen and dollar,
especially now the market is convinced there will be further
rate increases by the ECB,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, senior
strategist at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. in  Tokyo , a unit of
Japan’s second-largest bank.  The ECB will raise its benchmark rate by 133 basis points
during the next 12 months, compared with a prediction for 44
basis points of increases at the end of last year, a Credit
Suisse Group AG index based on swaps showed.  Trichet Stance  “We will continue to do in the future” what is
appropriate “to ensure  price stability ,” ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet said at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
yesterday, following the announcement of the rate increase.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1 percent and the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB index of commodities gained 0.6
percent.  Traders boosted bets on the amount of interest rate
increases by the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  over the next 12
months to 30 basis points, from 18 basis points at the end of
last week, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index.  Australia’s dollar gained 0.6 percent to $1.0532, after
earlier rising to $1.0545, the highest since it was freely
floated in 1983.  Sweden’s krona was the best performer among the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, adding 1.5 percent to 6.2261
per dollar. The currency strengthened as data showed the
nation’s industrial output increased at the fastest annual pace
on record, reinforcing speculation its central bank will raise
borrowing costs as the economy expands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  