-- 
Ex-Galleon Trader Goffer, Four Others Face New Insider-Trading Charges

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-08T16:54:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/ex-galleon-trader-goffer-four-others-face-new-insider-trading-charges.html
Former Galleon Group LLC trader
 Zvi Goffer , accused of leading one of three insider-trading
rings that are the subject of a nationwide U.S. probe, was
indicted along with four others on additional charges.  Prosecutors filed a superseding indictment yesterday
against Goffer, his brother, Emanuel Goffer, Craig Drimal,
Michael Kimelman and Jason Goldfarb. All the defendants were
traders, except Goldfarb, who is a lawyer.  The indictment adds new charges of securities fraud against
Zvi Goffer, who now faces two counts of conspiracy and 12 counts
of securities fraud. It also removes as defendants  David Plate ,
a former trader at Schottenfeld Group LLC, and Arthur Cutillo,
who worked as a lawyer with the firm Ropes & Gray LLP.  Plate and Cutillo have pleaded guilty. The others have
pleaded not guilty and deny wrongdoing.  Prosecutors said the Goffer ring traded on stock tips
originating from lawyers at Ropes & Gray in  New York  and from
Gautham Shankar, an ex-trader at New York-based Schottenfeld.  The U.S. has placed Zvi Goffer at the center of the scheme
and claimed his accomplices called him “Octopussy,” a
reference to the 1983 James Bond movie, because of his many
sources of information. Goffer’s lawyers dispute the
characterization.  The case is scheduled to begin trial in U.S. District Court
in Manhattan May 9.  Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam is nearing the end of his
insider trading trial in Manhattan federal court. Rajaratnam has
pleaded not guilty, claiming his stock purchases were the result
of legitimate research.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 