-- 
Ex-Lawmaker Devine Convicted of Expense Fraud

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-04-08T13:10:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/ex-lawmaker-devine-convicted-of-expense-fraud-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of Illsley’s first name in fourth
paragraph in story published Feb. 10)  Former U.K. lawmaker  Jim Devine  was
convicted of fraudulently claiming almost 9,000 pounds ($14,400)
in expense reimbursement by a  London  jury.  “Submitting a false invoice is plainly dishonest,
regardless of why it has been done or who has done it,” Simon
Clements of the  Crown Prosecution Service  said in an e-mailed
statement. “We say there is no excuse for such conduct and,
with today’s conviction, it is clear the jury agreed.”  Devine, 57, was convicted on two counts by a jury at
Southwark Crown Court. Judge John Saunders will sentence Devine,
who has denied all wrongdoing, at a later date, according to
Metropolitan Police. A former Labour party lawmaker, Devine is
the first elected representative to stand trial for expenses
fraud since the Daily Telegraph newspaper began to publish
stories about lawmakers’ claims in 2009.  Two other former Labour party members of parliament,  David Chaytor  and Eric Illsley, have pleaded guilty to expense fraud.
Last month  John Taylor , a member of Britain’s unelected second
chamber, the House of Lords, was convicted of similar charges.
Taylor was formerly affiliated with the Conservative Party.  Prosecutors alleged during the trial that Devine supplied
false invoices to fraudulently claim 3,240 pounds for phony
cleaning services and 5,505 pounds for fake bills from a
printing company in 2008 and 2009.  While the companies on the invoices were real, the
information on them was “a fiction,” prosecutor Peter Wright
told the court on Feb. 2. “No such services were provided.”
They were “a device to raise substantial sums of public money
to which he was not entitled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 