-- 
Texas Senate May Curb Tax Breaks, Sell Property to Aid Schools

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/texas-senate-may-curb-tax-breaks-sell-property-to-aid-schools.html
Texas ’s Senate may try to end some
business-tax breaks, sell government property and accelerate
confiscation of unclaimed assets to raise $5.5 billion and avoid
slashing education spending in the second-most populous state.  Dozens of revenue-raising ideas are listed in a “fiscal
matters decision document” produced by a panel led by Senator
Robert Duncan, a Lubbock Republican. In an interview yesterday,
Duncan described the document as a “starting point” for
discussion and said some of the proposals would be dropped, such
as liquidating the state’s $590 million tobacco trust fund.  Duncan’s panel is trying to provide the Senate with a menu
of options to avoid making deep cuts in education, he said
yesterday in Austin. The  House of Representatives  passed an
$83.9 billion two-year general-fund  budget  on April 3 that
reduces spending for public schools and state colleges 6.5
percent, or $3.2 billion, from the current budget.  “We aren’t  Washington , D.C., we haven’t been overspending
in Texas,” Duncan said. “We can’t stay attractive as a state
unless we have an appropriate revenue system.”  Some proposals being considered, such as charging $100 to
buyers of new gas-guzzling vehicles to raise $115.3 million, and
assessing satellite-television providers a fee to bring in
$102.4 million, amount to tax increases that break Republicans’
pledge against imposing new levies, said Michael Quinn Sullivan,
president of  Empower Texans . His group, which advocates limited
government, posted the discussion list on its website yesterday.  Opposing New Taxes  Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst, the Senate’s president,
“has been very consistent about opposing new taxes and
hopefully the Senate will follow,” Sullivan said.  In addition to the economic slump that bit into sales-tax
collections, Texas’s revenue hasn’t gained as much as forecast
from a levy established in 2006 as many businesses devised ways
to avoid paying it, Duncan said. The change was aimed at
offsetting reductions in local property assessments.  Texas’s taxation should become more equitable, Duncan said,
while declining to comment on specific proposals. “We need to
address why some businesses are avoiding taxes, while others are
paying them,” he said.  Other ideas up for discussion include the release of 3,000
nonviolent prisoners who are eligible for parole and immediate
deportation, saving the state $111 million. Shortening the
amount of time the state must wait to take abandoned bank
accounts and other assets would produce $78 million.  Speeding up the collection of quarterly franchise taxes,
which Duncan likened to a “cash management” change, would reap
$880 million. Suspending a  tax cut  on natural-gas companies for
two years would produce $426 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 