-- 
Mexico’s Finance Ministry Increases 2011 Economic Growth Forecast to 4.3%

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-04-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/mexico-s-finance-ministry-increases-2011-growth-forecast-to-4-3-.html
Mexico’s  Finance Ministry  said it
increased the country’s 2011 economic growth forecast to 4.3
percent as rising employment spurs domestic demand.  Mexican President Felipe Calderon announced the new growth
forecast during a speech at a banking conference last night in
Acapulco. The previous estimate was 4 percent, the ministry said
in a statement.  “On the economic front, our country is doing well,”
Calderon told bankers. “Mexico is a nation that is advancing
and advancing with confidence in its future.”  Mexico created 230,721 new jobs in the first three months
of the year, helping fuel consumer demand, and non-oil exports
accelerated 23 percent in January and February from a year ago,
the ministry said. Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said last
month the ministry planned to raise the forecast.  Calderon said a strong banking industry and sound public
finance helped Mexico recover from a global crisis. Mexico’s
economy rose 5.5 percent last year, the quickest pace in a
decade, after dropping 6.1 percent in 2009.  Bank credit is expected to rise as much as 20 percent in
2011 from last year, said Ignacio Deschamps, president of
Mexico’s banking association and chief executive of BBVA
Bancomer SA, the largest bank in Mexico. Bank credit rose about
8 percent last year.  Mexico needs to take advantage of a growing economy to
adopt more flexible  labor laws , inject more competition in the
telecommunications industry, improve tax laws and lower
 government regulation , he said.  “Today is precisely when we need to build the bases for an
era of higher growth and prosperity,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net  and
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  