-- 
Expedia Default Swaps Climb to Three-Month High on Split

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-04-08T15:14:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/expedia-default-swaps-climb-to-three-month-high-on-split-1-.html
The cost to protect debt issued by
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  surged after the biggest online travel agency by
revenue said it will split into two businesses, giving investors
a chance to own shares in its fast-growing TripAdvisor unit.  Credit-default swaps on the company’s debt jumped 17.8
basis points to a mid-price of 172.5 basis points as of 10:15
a.m. in New York, according to broker Phoenix Partners Group.
The contracts are at the highest level since Jan. 10, according
to data provider CMA.  In a succession event such as a division into two
businesses, the company’s debt can remain whole with one entity
or be split between each. The contracts tend to climb on
succession events because of the uncertainty and because a
smaller spun-off entity will likely have a worse credit profile
than the parent.  “You have to ask how much leverage will remain with
Expedia and how much will go with TripAdvisor,” said  Dave Novosel , an analyst at Gimme Credit LLC in  Chicago . Because
TripAdvisor is a “relatively small entity in a growth phase,”
the debt will probably stay with Expedia, he said.  If an entity takes on 75 percent or more of a company’s
obligations that can be guaranteed by swaps, then the
derivatives become linked solely to that entity, according to
definitions published by the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association . Otherwise, swaps are divided between the two.  ‘Slower Revenue Growth’  After the divestiture, Expedia will have “slower revenue
growth going forward, lower margins and higher leverage,”
according to Novosel. TripAdvisor may also become a competitor
if it starts a booking business, he said.  Expedia’s $749.8 million of 5.95 percent bonds maturing in
August 2020 fell $2.40 per $100 of face value to $98.64, where
they yielded 6.14 percent. Its shares rose $2.42, or 11 percent,
to $24.82 in Nasdaq Stock Market Trading.  TripAdvisor, which includes 19 travel and advertising
brands, will be spun off into a publicly traded company,
Bellevue, Washington-based Expedia said yesterday in a
statement.  Editors: Mitchell Martin, Richard Bedard  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  