-- 
Text of EU Finance Ministers’ Statement on Portugal Aid Program

-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 
2011-04-08T12:58:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/text-of-eu-finance-ministers-statement-on-portugal-aid-program.html
Following is the text of a statement
issued today by European Union finance ministers at a meeting in
Godollo,  Hungary .  Statement by the Eurogroup and ECOFIN Ministers  Ministers acknowledged the Portuguese authorities’ request for
financial assistance. Ministers invited the Commission, the ECB,
the IMF and Portugal to set up a program and take appropriate
action to safeguard financial stability.  In the context of a joint EU-IMF program, the financial
assistance package to Portugal should be financed on the
European side within the framework provided by the European
Financial Stabilization Mechanism, or EFSM, and the European
Financial Stability Facility, or EFSF.  Euro-area and EU financial support will be provided on the basis
of a policy program which will be supported by strict
conditionality and negotiated with the Portuguese authorities,
duly involving the main political parties, by the Commission, in
liaison with the ECB, and the IMF. The preparations will start
immediately to reach a cross-party agreement ensuring that an
adjustment program can be adopted by mid-May and implemented
swiftly after the formation of a new government.  The program will be based on three pillars:
* An ambitious fiscal adjustment to restore fiscal
sustainability.
* Growth and competitiveness enhancing reforms by removing
rigidities in the product and labor markets and by encouraging
entrepreneurship and innovation, allowing for a sustainable and
balanced growth and unwinding internal and external
macroeconomic imbalances, while safeguarding the economic and
social position of its citizens. This should include an
ambitious privatization program.
* Measures to maintain the liquidity and solvency of the
financial sector.  The set of measures announced by the Portuguese authorities on
March 11 is a starting point in this regard. We call on all
political parties in  Portugal  to swiftly conclude an agreement
on the adjustment program and form a new government after the
upcoming elections with the ability to fully adopt and implement
the agreed fiscal consolidation and structural reform measures.
After an agreement has been reached with the Portuguese
authorities and supported by the main political parties, the
program will be endorsed by the ECOFIN Council and the Eurogroup
in line with national procedures on the basis of a Commission
and ECB assessment.  The Ministers of the Eurogroup and ECOFIN, the Commission and
the ECB are looking forward to ambitious fiscal adjustment,
comprehensive structural reforms and measures to safeguard
financial stability that will address the fiscal and structural
challenges of the Portuguese economy in a decisive manner. It
will thereby also help restore confidence and safeguard
financial stability in the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Godollo, Hungary, at  jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  