-- 
Fed Is Unlikely to React to Plunge in Overnight Rates, Goldman Sachs Says

-- B y   L i z   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-04-08T18:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/fed-is-unlikely-to-react-to-plunge-in-overnight-rates-goldman-sachs-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  is unlikely to
react to the plunge in overnight lending rates, which won’t
interfere with policy makers’ ability to change monetary
policy, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The effective federal funds rate dropped to as much as 0.16
percentage point below the rate the central bank pays banks on
excess reserves, which is equal to the top of the Fed’s zero to
0.25 percent target range for overnight loans between banks. The 
rate, a volume-weighted average on trades by major brokers, was
0.09 percent on April 5, equaling the lowest since June.  The rate “is still perfectly consistent with the directive
issued by the Federal Open Market Committee,” wrote a team of
Goldman economists lead by Jan Hatzius, in an e-mailed note
today. “The effective funds rate has been around current levels
before: between September 2009 and January 2010 the funds rate
averaged 12 basis points. Unless market functioning is seriously
disrupted, we would not expect a Fed response.”  Cash in the banking system has risen this year, in part as
Fed’s purchases of Treasuries boosted banks’ reserves parked at
the Fed. Excess reserves have climbed to $1.431 trillion from
$1.296 trillion a month ago, and $2.2 billion at the start of
2007. The Fed began paying interest on the reserves in October
2008 to keep the overnight interest rate traded in the market
close to the target set by policy makers.  “The Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets
consistent with federal funds trading in a range of 0 to 1/4
percent,” according to the minutes of the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s  March 15 meeting, which were published April 5.  Repo Market  Rate on  repurchase agreements  for government debt and
Treasury bills also escalated a 2011 decline this week, guided
down in part by the decline in the funds rate, as a cut in
government bill sales on behalf of the Fed, central bank debt
purchases and a Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. fee change
helped trigger collateral shortages.  In a repurchase agreement, one party provides cash to
another in exchange for a security, and vice versa. Repos are
typically used to finance holdings, meaning movements in the
rates affect the cost of holding the securities in inventory.  The Fed’s ability to pay interest on excess reserves will
enable the central bank to drain the over $1 trillion added to
the financial system to combat the financial crisis and lift
rates when economic conditions warrant, wrote the economists at
Goldman, one of the 20 primary dealers that act as
counterparties on open-market operations with the central bank.  Excess Reserves  “The striking observation about the funds market today is
that despite $1.4 trillion in excess reserve, the effective
funds rate remains well above zero,” Hatzius wrote. “This is
clear evidence that the payment of interest on excess reserves
exerts a powerful force. That said, the recent variability in
the funds rate may influence one aspect of the exit strategy:
the way in which the FOMC communicates policy changes,”
referring to a method that Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  already
suggested last year, the Goldman economists added.  Bernanke in February 2010 testimony to the House Financial
Services Committee stated that the Fed was considering the
“utility, during the transition to a more normal policy
configuration, of communicating the stance of policy in terms of
another operating target, such as an alternative short-term
interest rate.” Adding that, “in particular, it is possible
that the Federal Reserve could for a time use the interest rate
paid on reserves, in combination with targets for reserve
quantities, as a guide to its policy stance, while
simultaneously monitoring a range of market rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  