-- 
Fiat Said to Increase Stake in Chrysler Group to 30% as Soon as Next Week

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-04-08T17:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/fiat-said-to-increase-stake-in-chrysler-group-to-30-as-soon-as-next-week.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian automaker that
controls Chrysler Group LLC, is preparing to raise its ownership
stake in the U.S. company to 30 percent from 25 percent as soon as
next week, said two people familiar with the matter.  An announcement may come as soon as April 11 or April 12,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the plans
aren’t public.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
automakers, wants to meet goals set by the U.S. Treasury
Department to raise Fiat’s stake in Chrysler to 35 percent and
exercise options to buy an additional 16 percent this year
before holding an initial public offering. Fiat declined to
comment on changes to the Chrysler stake.  Marchionne, who has already cleared one of the U.S.
government’s hurdles, has been working on a plan to achieve a
second milestone that requires 90 percent of Fiat’s Latin
America dealers to carry Chrysler vehicles. The milestone also
requires Chrysler to meet a goal of $1.5 billion in revenue
outside  North America , which has been accomplished, a person
familiar with the effort has said.  The automakers are working on a plan to sell Chrysler-made
vehicles in  Brazil  under the market-leading Fiat brand,  Mike Manley , who runs Chrysler’s international operations, said
yesterday. The plan would allow the carmakers to avoid
negotiating new franchise agreements with Fiat dealers in
Brazil; Marchionne said in October the effort was difficult
because of regulations governing dealers in Brazil.  ‘Near Future’  “I think we’ll see resolution of it in the near future,”
Manley said.  Marchionne is pushing Chrysler to increase its global sales
32 percent in 2011 and post its first annual net profit since
emerging from bankruptcy reorganization in 2009. He wants to
increase Fiat’s ownership of Chrysler to 51 percent in advance
of an initial public offering of the U.S. company’s stock,
possibly this year. Last month he said the IPO may be delayed
until next year.  Fiat, based in Turin,  Italy , agreed with the U.S.
government after the bankruptcy to share technology and
management with Chrysler in exchange for an initial 20 percent
stake and performance targets to increase to 35 percent without
paying any cash. Fiat can buy the remaining 16 percent needed to
reach 51 percent.  Fiat may pay $1.14 billion to exercise its  call option  on
the last 16 percent if Marchionne makes the purchase in 2011 and
$1.37 billion if he buys it next year, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst Ranjit Unnithan, who has an “underweight”
rating on the stock. The cost is linked to Chrysler’s earnings.  Hurdle Cleared  The Italian carmaker raised its stake to 25 percent in
January after Chrysler began production of a Fiat-derived small
engine in the U.S.  Fiat expects to increase to a 35 percent holding by the
fourth quarter after meeting a requirement for Chrysler to
assemble a Fiat-derived car in the U.S. that gets 40 mpg,
Marchionne said last week.  Fiat has 700 dealers in Latin America, including 550 in
Brazil, while Chrysler has fewer than three dozen outlets in
that country. Brazilian law prohibits Fiat from forcing the
dealers to become Chrysler franchises, according to Stephan
Keese, head of the automotive practice for Roland Berger
Strategy Consultants in  Sao Paulo .  Brazil is Fiat’s second-largest market by revenue, trailing
Italy. The company sold 761,400 passenger and light-commercial
vehicles there last year. Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills ,
 Michigan , delivered 3,952 vehicles in the country in 2010,
according to J.D. Power & Associates, a market researcher based
in  Westlake Village ,  California .  Chrysler’s best-selling vehicle in Brazil is the Mexico-
built Dodge Journey sport-utility vehicle, which starts at
82,900 reais ($52,300). The Journey begins at $22,245 in the
U.S., according to the brand’s website. The automakers plan to
rename the Journey as the Fiat Freemont for Brazil and  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 