-- 
First-Time Homebuyers in U.K. Could Double With Insurance

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-04-08T10:21:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/first-time-homebuyers-could-double-with-mortgage-insurance-u-k-bank-says.html
Loans to U.K. first-time homebuyers
could double if insurers offered protection to banks against
borrowers defaulting, according to Lloyds Banking Group, the
U.K.’s largest mortgage provider.  “There’s been a lot of conversation recently about
mortgage indemnity and whether it’s a way to manage the
transference of risk,” said Stephen Noakes, commercial director
for mortgages at London-based Lloyds. “You could be missing an
opportunity to double the first-time buyer market.”  New home sales  have suffered after banks reined in lending
in the financial crisis and demanded larger deposits as a
percentage of a property’s value, excluding many first-time
buyers. Homebuilders, some of which offer their own lending
plans to aid customers, say the government should persuade banks
and insurers to do more to boost mortgages.  Mortgage indemnity insurance involves a lender purchasing
protection against a buyer who defaults on payments and has a
home repossessed. If the property is sold for less than the
amount outstanding on the loan, the bank can make a claim for
part of its loss.  ‘Guarantee Needed’  “We need a mortgage indemnity guarantee,” Mike Farley,
chief executive officer of  Persimmon Plc (PSN) , Britain’s No. 3
homebuilder by volume, said in a March 1 interview. “It was in
place many years ago and we need to reinstate it so we’re able
to offer and underwrite mortgages at 90 and 95 percent levels.”  Michael Coogan, director general of the  Council of Mortgage
Lenders , said he encouraged Housing Minister Grant Shapps at a
Feb. 15 meeting to promote “a more active mortgage insurance
market” to help lenders reduce the risk of higher loan-to-
values.  Banks curbed lending after mounting losses and plunging
asset values forced several to accept U.K. government bailouts.
The state ended up with a 41 percent stake in Lloyds after a
taxpayer-financed rescue. Loans for 95 percent to 100 percent of
a property’s value were common before the U.K. housing market
collapsed in 2008. Banks are asking for as much as 25 percent,
according to a presentation by  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the
U.K.’s biggest homebuilder by volume.  Mortgage Approvals  Mortgage approvals rose 8 percent to 32,300 in February
from the previous month, the CML said today. The reading is down
12 percent from a year earlier. The  Bank of England  said last
week that approvals rose to 46,967 in February, the most since
November. That’s still only half the average level recorded over
the last decade.  Approvals for first-time buyers have fallen more than 50
percent since 2006, to 194,600 last year, according to CML data.
They peaked at 612,700 approvals in 1986. The average age of a
person buying their first home has risen to 37 from 33 in 2007,
the National Housing Federation said.  “We’re looking for the government to help us create an
industry solution,” Bovis Homes Chief Executive Officer David Ritchie said in an interview. “We’re not short of houses to
build. We’re short of customers. Capacity in our industry could
step up significantly.”  Bovis pays Barclays Group Plc’s insurance to reduce the
bank’s risk under “The Perfect 10” product for first-time
buyers. Previously, lenders have been protected for around 15
percent of the value of the loan if a repossessed home is sold
at a loss, Ritchie said.  Jubilee Insurance , a Lloyd’s of  London  insurer which
provides mortgage indemnity coverage for homebuilder  Taylor
Wimpey Plc , said that others may add similar products.  Interest From Housebuilders  “There certainly is some interest from the housebuilders
in trying to club together with a group of lenders,” Jubilee
mortgage underwriter David Swan said in an interview. “We’re
not going to go from one mile an hour to 60 miles an hour in a
straight line.”  Mortgage indemnity insurance was “commonplace” in the
U.K. until the early 1990s, when a recession led to increased
claims and rising rates from insurers,  CML  spokeswoman Jayne
Chichester said in an e-mail. “It eventually fell out of favor
and is rarely used nowadays,” she said.  John Franklin, a spokesman for  Aviva Plc (AV/) , and Helene
Barnes, a spokeswoman for  Axa SA (CS) , said their companies don’t
plan to offer mortgage indemnity insurance. Erica Nelson, a
spokeswoman for  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , said: “It
isn’t general insurance and we’re not likely to become more than
a general insurer.”  Aviva, Axa and RBS are the three biggest U.K. non-life
insurers according to the  Association of British Insurers .  Triple-A Ratings  For the coverage to work now, insurance companies must have
triple-A credit ratings and provide insurance on mortgages with
95 percent loan-to-value rates, Noakes of Lloyds said in an
interview following a presentation to the Home Builders
Federation on March 31. Approvals could double if the coverage
was available, he said.  Private  mortgage insurance  has been available in the U.S.
since the 1950s, growing into a $759 billion industry, according
to the trade group Mortgage Insurance Companies of America.
Borrowers are required by lenders to pay a premium, typically
about $50 a month for every $100,000 loaned, to insure against
default. Milwaukee-based MGIC Investment Corp. is the largest
U.S. mortgage insurer, followed by Radian Group Inc. in
Philadelphia.  The U.K. faces a housing shortage of about 1 million homes
by 2015, with London worst affected, Savills Plc said last
month. A lack of homes for sales underpins prices even as banks
restrict lending and the economic recovery is exposed to the
biggest budget squeeze since World War II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  