-- 
Fisher Says Fed at ‘Tipping Point’ of Overstimulating U.S. Economic Growth

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-04-08T17:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/fisher-says-fed-near-tipping-point-must-normalize-policy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas 
President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank faces a
“significant” risk of providing record stimulus for too long
and should weigh curtailing its $600 billion bond-purchase plan.  “We at the Fed are near a tipping point,” the 62-year-old
regional bank chief said in a speech today in Dallas. “Just as
we pressed on in doing our duty through extraordinary, exigent
measures, we must now discipline ourselves to just as
persistently normalize our operations in a timely way.”  Policy makers have disagreed over whether to begin removing
record stimulus this year, based on the minutes of their most
recent meeting on March 15. Fisher, who votes on monetary policy
in 2011, is among the Fed officials who have criticized the
central bank’s current program of Treasury-securities purchases,
scheduled to end in June.  “Having done our job, I see many risks to the Fed
overstaying its welcome,” Fisher said during the Society of
American Business Editors and Writers 2011 Annual Conference.  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said today the central bank should take its time in withdrawing
stimulus.  “My view of the future permits a degree of patience as
regards monetary policy,” Lockhart said in a speech in
Knoxville,  Tennessee . “There is still a halting and fragile
quality to the economy. I think the process of restoration of
full economic strength with higher employment continues to
require support.”  Labor Market Improving  Economic data over the past month show the U.S. labor
market is improving, while  service-industries  growth has slowed
and inflation has increased.  The central bank’s preferred price measure, excluding food
and fuel, was up 0.9 percent from a year earlier in February,
the most since October, a Commerce Department report showed last
month.  “Inflationary impulses are gaining ground in the rest of
the world,” Fisher said today. With businesses grappling with
higher commodity prices, “my gut tells me that this will result
in some unpleasant general price inflation numbers in the next
few reporting periods,” and “there is the risk that we might
breach our duty to hold inflation at bay.”  The  unemployment rate  dropped to a two-year low of 8.8
percent in March, from 8.9 percent in February, and payrolls
rose by 216,000 workers, the Labor Department said April 1.  Less Than Forecast  Service industries expanded less than forecast in March, a
sign that segment of the economy is trailing manufacturing
gains, according to the  Institute for Supply Management ’s index
of non-manufacturing companies released April 5.  Fed officials are split over the future path of policy,
with a few members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  leaning
toward less-accommodative conditions this year and others noting
that “exceptional” accommodation might be needed beyond 2011,
according to the minutes released on April 5. The group is set
to next meet on April 26-27 in  Washington .  “Continued accommodation presents significant risks,”
Fisher said. “In my view, no amount of further accommodation by
the Fed would be wise,” whether it is adding more purchases or
“tapering” the plan to purchase Treasuries beyond June.  “Indeed, it may well be that we should consider curtailing
what remains” of the bond-purchase program, he said.  The district bank president told reporters after his speech
that he hasn’t made up his mind on how much the Fed should
reduce the program. Such a decision would be made by the FOMC,
he said.  “We’re there” in terms of the need to end accommodation
now, Fisher said, when asked whether he would prefer to wait
until June. He added that inflation is “not out of hand yet.”  U.S. stocks swung between gains and losses today as oil
rallied to a 30-month high of almost $112 a barrel, triggering
rallies in energy shares while dragging down transportation and
consumer companies. The  S&P 500  declined 0.1 percent to 1,331.55
at 1:20 p.m. in  New York  after dropping as much as 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  