-- 
Fixed-Income Trading Revenue May Fall 5% in 2011, Schorr Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-04-08T16:38:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/fixed-income-trading-revenue-may-fall-5-in-2011-schorr-says.html
Fixed-income trading revenue at Wall
Street’s biggest banks may fall as much as 5 percent in 2011
before rebounding to a long-term growth rate of 7 percent,
according to Glenn Schorr, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  Fixed-income trading revenue at firms including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is likely to be unchanged to
a decline of 5 percent after falling 27 percent in 2010, Schorr
wrote today in a note to investors. The business is likely to
rebound in future year, he wrote.  Fixed income, currency and commodity-trading businesses, or
FICC, have been “a main driver of global investment bank
revenues over the past 10 years and given the sharp decline in
FICC revenues last year, investors are concerned about the
future direction of this business,” Schorr wrote. “2010 was
more of a cyclical downturn which was exacerbated by clients
pulling in the risk reigns when macro concerns around sovereign
risk in  Europe  and U.S. municipalities flared up.”  Goldman Sachs doesn’t think that last year’s decline will
continue, Chief Financial Officer David Viniar told investors in
February.  Standard & Poor’s  predicted that same month that
revenue will continue to fall as banks trade fewer high-margin
securities and put tighter risk controls on trading desks.  About 35 percent of the FICC businesses face heavy
regulatory pressure from Basel III capital rules and Dodd-Frank
legislation, Schorr said. Those businesses include
securitization and structured credit, he wrote.  “Pending regulations will re-shape some, not all, FICC
businesses, but the firms have a history of successfully
adapting,” Schorr wrote.  First-Quarter Revenue  FICC revenue is likely to expand at a 7 percent compounded
annual rate in the long-term, below the 10 percent growth rate
from 2001 to 2010, Schorr wrote. First-quarter revenue is likely
to be “much better” than the fourth quarter, and last year’s
decline was dramatic in part because 2009 was a record year, he
wrote.  “While FICC revenues were down meaningfully from 2009
levels, trading revenues remained above 2006 levels and fairly
close to 2007 levels, which were considered fairly healthy
years,” Schorr said in the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  