-- 
Dairy Prices to Trade Near Record on Emerging-Market Demand, Fonterra Says

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-04-08T01:30:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/fonterra-s-ferrier-says-global-dairy-prices-to-remain-near-record-highs.html
Global dairy prices are likely to
remain near record highs, driven by strong demand from countries
such China and  India , said Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s largest exporter.  “We do think it’s going to be well in excess of historical
averages,” Andrew Ferrier, chief executive officer of the
Auckland-based company, said today in an interview with Susan Li
on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.” “Where we are now, having
come off the peak, is potentially a sustainable level.”  Global food prices tracked by the  United Nations  climbed to
a record in February while whole milk powder rose to an all-time
high of $4,958 a metric ton last month, buoyed by Asian usage
and concern dry weather in  New Zealand  may curb supply. Fonterra
is seeking to expand as rising incomes and populations fuel
demand for protein in emerging economies.  “The price was getting pretty high, it would have risked
burning demand off if the price had gone up much further,”
Ferrier said. “We’re not expecting a material decline, we just
think dairy prices are trying to find their place.”  Wholemilk prices fell to $3,984 a ton on April 6, the
lowest since Feb. 1, at Fonterra’s fortnightly GlobalDairyTrade
auction.  Fonterra said this week it estimates  China ’s dairy demand
will expand by 36 million tons by 2020 and consumption in India
will grow by 45 million tons. Chinese demand for New Zealand
milk products last year surged more than fivefold from 2008 to
about 353 million kilograms, the company said.  The company is planning to buy “multiple” dairy farms in
China and study the construction of farms in India and  South
America  to meet demand, Ferrier said April 5.  Fonterra, with NZ$16.7 billion ($13 billion) in annual
sales, sells milk, butter and cheese in 140 countries and
accounts for almost 40 percent of global trade in dairy products.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 