-- 
Fred Couples Leads Spikeless Golf Shoe Trend Few Pros Willing to Follow

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-04-08T19:24:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/fred-couples-leads-spikeless-golf-shoe-trend-few-pros-willing-to-follow.html
The spikeless shoes Fred Couples
wore during the opening round of the Masters Tournament can
hardly be found in highway golf shops or professional locker
rooms, for very different reasons.  Recreational golfers have stripped shelves bare of the
style since Couples, playing without socks, topped the
leaderboard with a first-round 66 at Augusta National Golf Club
a year ago.  His pro colleagues, who often set mass-market trends in
clothing and equipment, haven’t followed the pattern this time.
Only the 51-year-old Couples, the 1992 Masters champion, and 30-
year-old  Ryan Moore  were shod in  no-spike shoes  during the first
round of golf’s first major championship yesterday.  “The game of golf is a very traditional game,” David
Helter, who oversees the golf division of Denmark-based Ecco
Inc., Couples’ shoemaker, said in an interview. “Old habits die
hard. The golfer generally wants to wear cleated products. I
think Freddie has shown the world that they don’t really need
to.”  Many professional golfers, who swing their clubs as fast as
125 mph, have been reluctant to switch to spikeless shoes for
fear of losing traction while hitting shots. Other players are
also under contractual obligations, limiting their choice.  “Guys are wearing what they’re told to wear,” Moore, who
is tied for 14th after an opening-round 70, said in an
interview. “You don’t get to choose as much as people think.”  Owners, Designer  Moore, playing in his fourth Masters, wore Ecco last year
before investing in and helping design a line of casual-style
golf shoes for Dallas-based  True Linkswear .  Moore’s True shoes, which sell for about $160 a pair,
feature a wide, flexible toe area and flat sole, a design he
says allows him to “feel the course” while playing.  The Ecco shoes look like those worn by skateboarders, with
a soft rubber sole and tiny nubs to grip the turf. Couples
started wearing them to help ease back pain that has plagued him
for years. He has had an endorsement deal with Ecco since 2006.  “They’ve sold a lot of them,” Couples, who shot 4-under
par in his second round today, said in an interview. “I saw
 Jack Nicklaus  wearing them the other day. That was kind of fun.
At the clubs where I play, everyone wears them.”  For his early morning tee time today, Couples switched to
Ecco shoes with spikes for better traction on the course’s damp
fairways.  Couples followed last year’s opening round at the Masters
with a 3-over 75, then added subpar rounds on the weekend for a
 279 total  and sixth place, his best finish in Augusta, Georgia,
since 2006. Fans took notice of his footwear.  Fan Appeal  After seeing Couples wearing them, Stan Gorczyca, a 52-
year-old project manager for a roofing contractor near
Pittsburgh, purchased a pair of Ecco shoes and was wearing them
this week while walking around Augusta National.  “They’re the most comfortable golf shoes I have ever
worn,” Gorczyca said in an interview. “I put them on, walked
around the store a couple times, and knew they were what I
wanted.”  Helter said Ecco, a 45-year-old closely held company,
shipped 24 times more of the shoes than it had anticipated in
2010 and is sold out for the first six months of 2011. He
wouldn’t provide sales figures for the $140 shoes.  “It just went off the charts,” Helter said in a telephone
interview from the company’s U.S. headquarters in Londonderry,
 New Hampshire . “We made them as fast as we could and we still
never caught up to the business. It has been a very pleasant
surprise for us.”  Imitators Follow  A strong performance by top-level athlete endorsers in any
sport helps boost sales, Helter said. It also can lead to
copycats.  Taylor-Made Golf Co.’s  Ashworth , Puma AG and  Canada ’s
 Kikkor  Golf were among companies that followed Ecco with their
own casual-style golf shoes.  “A couple of them are extremely close to the same look,”
Couples said. “But that’s OK.”  Last month, Fortune Brands Inc.’s Foot-Joy, which says it
accounted for 53 percent of shoes sold in U.S. golf shops over a
12-month period ended November 2010, launched its own “street”
 shoes .  Unlike Ecco’s version, FootJoy’s street shoes, which sell
for about $90, have a combination of nubs and spikes, which it
says increases traction.  Ecco initially balked at Foot-Joy’s use of the term
“street” in its marketing.  “Unfortunately, we did not patent or coin the word
‘street’ in the U.S.,” Helter said. “That was, in hindsight,
probably a mistake.”  Spikeless Share  Spikeless, or street-style, footwear accounts for less than
10 percent of the 3.9 million pairs of golf shoes sold annually
in the U.S., according to Kissimmee, Florida-based  Golf
Datatech , which tracks sales of golf products. The company said
it couldn’t compare that figure with previous readings because
it was too small to be specific.  It may be some time before that trend reaches the top pro
tournaments such as the Masters at Augusta National, a 79-year-
old private club located about 150 miles east of Atlanta.  “The professional takes a little more to convince than the
casual player,” said Moore. “The average guy just wants to be
comfortable and doesn’t want his feet to hurt at the end of a
round.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Augusta,  Georgia  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  