-- 
French Reactor Checks Will Be Consistent With EU, Watchdog Says

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-04-08T15:19:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/french-reactor-checks-will-be-consistent-with-eu-watchdog-says.html
Safety reviews at Electricite de
 France  SA’s nuclear reactors will be in line with those being
planned in other European countries, according to France’s
atomic regulator.  “The tests being proposed at the European level are
coherent with” what has been asked for by the French
government, Olivier Gupta, a deputy director at the Autorite de
Surete Nucleaire, said at a press conference today.  Prime Minister Francois Fillon has asked the regulator to
evaluate whether French plants can withstand earthquakes,
floods, power outages and cooling-system failures. Following a
meeting of European enery ministers last month, officials said
the tests could also include threats from plane crashes and
terrorists. ASN head Andre-Claude Lacoste has said these risks
should be left out of probes ordered after the crisis in  Japan .  All European countries, including those without nuclear
reactors, are involved in drawing up tests, which should be
ready by the end of April, according to Gupta. Countries are
free to add their own criteria to the tests, he said.  The watchdog is preparing the so-called stress tests on
EDF’s 58 existing reactors and one being built at Flamanville in
Normandy following the accident at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant. Lacoste has raised the possibility of a construction halt
at Flamanville in the coming months if lessons learned from
Fukushima require changes to improve safety.  “We will look at robustness of installations, what happens
if defenses fail, what are the weak points,” Gupta said today.
“We will look at events that have never happened in  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  