-- 
French Sugar Yields May Rise on Early Planting, Researcher Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-08T16:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/french-sugar-yields-may-rise-on-early-planting-researcher-says.html
Sugar beet yields in  France , the
world’s biggest grower  of the root, may rise this year as an
early start to planting gives the crop more time to develop,
researcher Institut Technique de la Betterave said.  Sugar output per hectare (2.47 acres) of beets may rise 5
percent to 6 percent from 13.1 metric tons last year, based on
planting dates, Nicole Bouveris, an agronomist at the Paris-
based researcher, said in a phone interview today.  “That’s a potential yield based on the precociousness of
the sowing,” Bouveris said. Early planting means more sunlight
hours for the plants, which can boost sugar content, she said.  World sugar supply will exceed demand by 196,000 tons in
year through September after two years of production
cits, the  International Sugar Organization  said in February.
French farmers probably raised beet planting by 1.9 percent to
391,000 hectares this year, France’s Agriculture Ministry
estimates.  White, or refined, sugar prices have climbed 42 percent in
 London  in the past 12 months.  Sugar-beet sowing in France started “very early” this
year, with the first beets planted on March 4 and half of the
area sown as of March 16, the ITB said in a report earlier this
week. The halfway mark was reached five days earlier than in the
previous two years, according to the researcher.  Top Producer  Sugar beets in France are mostly  grown  in the northern part
of the country. The country is the biggest sugar-beet producer,
according to data from the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization.  Growing regions lacked rain in March, with a precipitation
deficit of more than 45 millimeters (1.8 inches) compared with
the normal amount of rainfall, according to the ITB. The deficit
in the beet-growing zone since the start of the year was 54
millimeters as of March 29, and showers in the last two days of
March should have eased the shortage, the group said.  “For the time being there is no concern” about dry
conditions, Bouveris said. The outlook for sugar production per
hectare is theoretical and will depend on weather conditions in
the remainder of the season, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  