-- 
Fu Chengyu Will Take Newly-Created Post of Chairman at China Petrochemical

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-08T17:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/fu-chengyu-to-join-sinopec-as-chairman-stepping-down-as-cnooc-president.html
China appointed Fu Chengyu to the
newly created position of chairman at China Petrochemical Corp.,
Asia’s biggest refiner, after he presided over a fivefold profit
increase at smaller state-controlled oil producer  Cnooc Ltd. (883)   Sinopec Group, as China Petrochemical is known, set up a
board of directors and will appoint a president separately,
according to a  statement  posted on its website yesterday. Su Shulin, its former president, has taken a government post in
Fujian province, according to the statement.  Cnooc’s profit was 54.4 billion yuan ($8.3 billion) last
year, up from 11.5 billion yuan in 2003, when Fu became
chairman. The stock price has climbed more than sevenfold in
Hong Kong under his tenure, twice as much as Sinopec. Undeterred
by a failed bid for Unocal Corp. in 2005, Fu has since led the
Beijing-based company to $17.6 billion of global acquisitions to
supply the biggest energy-consuming nation.  “Fu is a very well-respected manager of an integrated  oil
company ,” Peter O’Malley, head of the Asia-Pacific energy and
resources group at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong, said by
phone. “He has strategic vision and is the right person to take
Sinopec to the next level.”  Fu will also become chairman of Sinopec Group’s Hong Kong-
listed unit  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , Liu Xiaobiao, a
Beijing-based spokesman at Cnooc parent China National Offshore
Oil Corp., said yesterday. Fu quit his posts as president of
China National Offshore and chairman of Cnooc, Liu said.  The Sinopec Group statement did not mention management
changes at China Petroleum.  ‘Well Respected’  China National Petroleum Corp. Vice President Wang Yilin,
also a non-executive director at PetroChina Co., will fill Fu’s
posts at China National Offshore and Cnooc, Liu said. Mao Zefeng, a Beijing-based spokesman for PetroChina, declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg.  Fu, who turns 60 this year, has a master’s degree in
petroleum engineering from the University of  Southern
California . He joined China National Offshore in 1982, according
to his biography on Cnooc’s  website .  Fu will “further lift the company’s international profile
and enhance its market development,” Sinopec Group said
yesterday, citing Fu’s remarks to an internal conference
attended by Su and government and company officials.  Cnooc rose 0.2 percent to HK$20.75 in  Hong Kong  yesterday,
and Sinopec gained 0.6 percent to HK$8.19. PetroChina fell 1.2
percent to HK$12. The benchmark  Hang Seng  advanced 0.5 percent.  Fujian Job  Su, who’s also chairman of the listed company, is now
Fujian province’s deputy party secretary, the Fujian Daily
reported on April 3, citing an unidentified government official.
 Huang Wensheng , a Beijing-based spokesman at Sinopec, didn’t
reply to two phone calls seeking comment.  “The adjustment in Sinopec Group’s management reflects the
trust by the central government in Su and Fu,” Sinopec Group
said. The government told Sinopec to maintain “stable
operations” and work safety, according to the statement.  Former Chinese energy company executives who have taken
government jobs include Hainan provincial Governor Wei Liucheng,
Cnooc chairman before Fu’s appointment. PetroChina Chairman
 Jiang Jiemin  was previously a vice governor of Qinghai province.  Zhou Yongkang,  China ’s public security chief and a member
of the Politburo was a former president at China National
Petroleum.  --Chua Baizhen and  Wang Ying  in Beijing, Winnie Zhu in  Shanghai 
and Paul Gordon and John Duce in Hong Kong. Editors: Josh Fellman, Cecile Daurat  To contact the reporters on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 