-- 
Bunds Drop on Stock Gains, Export Rebound; Portugal Yields Rise

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-04-08T15:44:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/german-government-bonds-decline-as-stocks-advance-german-exports-rebound.html
German bunds fell as data showed the
nation’s exports rebounded in February, bolstering bets on
tighter monetary policy, while rallying stock and commodities
markets lessened the appeal of the safest assets.  Portuguese two-year yields reached a euro-era record as
 Europe ’s finance ministers meet to discuss the nation’s aid
package. European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
yesterday raised the benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.5 percent, while commodities
climbed to a two-year high.  “It seems to be a general risk-on tone today, to the
detriment of the benchmark AAA bonds,” said  Kornelius Purps , an
interest-rate strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “We can
see it in the commodities and currencies markets. There’s
considerable potential to price in another rate hike for this
year, especially for short-end maturities.”  The yield on the bund, the euro-region’s benchmark
government security, climbed six basis points to 3.48 percent at
4:23 p.m. in  London , extending its weekly advance. Today’s gain
was the most since March 17. The 2.5 percent security maturing
January 2021 slipped 0.465, or 4.65 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,443) face amount, to 91.995. Two-year note yields gained
eight basis points to 1.9 percent.  German exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, increased 2.7 percent from January, when they dropped 1
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said.  The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities jumped 1.2 percent,
with oil up as much as 1.6 percent and gold at an all time high.  Portuguese Bonds  Euribor futures dropped, sending the yield on the contract
expiring in December up seven basis points to 2.20 percent,
which indicates that traders may be adding to bets for higher
borrowing costs from the ECB.  Portuguese government debt headed for a third weekly drop
after it followed Greece and Ireland in seeking a European
Union-led bailout. Europe’s richer countries pushed  Portugal  to
make deeper-than-planned budget cuts in exchange for a rescue
package of as much as 90 billion euros ($130 billion).  Last month’s austerity plan “is a starting point,” EU
Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said after a
meeting of European finance ministers today in Godollo,  Hungary .  The yield on Portugal’s 10-year debt rose six basis points
to 8.66 percent. Two-year bonds slumped, pushing the yield five
basis points higher to 9.13 percent. It earlier reached a euro-
era record high of 9.3 percent.  The Iberian nation’s debt ranks as the worst performer in
2011, down 9.6 percent, according to indexes compiled by the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and
Bloomberg. Bunds lost 2.7 percent, while Spanish debt generated
returns of 2.6 percent.  ‘Rediscovered Trust’  The difference in yield, or spread, between Spanish 10-year
debt and equivalent German securities narrowed to as little as
178 basis points. That’s the least since Nov. 2.  “The market has rediscovered trust in the Spanish
government market, in the Spanish financial market as well,”
Christopher Rieger, head of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“On The Move” with  Mark Barton . “We do see these trends
continuing in the near to medium term. However, major risks
remain relating to the Spanish economy, so this spread-
tightening momentum now does not look set to be a one-way
street.”  Spanish government debt declined, with the 10-year yield
rising three basis points to 5.27 percent, while similar
maturity Greek yields jumped five basis points to 12.86 percent.
The yield on Ireland’s benchmark bonds were four basis points
lower at 9.23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 