-- 
DAX Index Heads for Third Weekly Rally; Deutsche Boerse, E.ON Pace Gains

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-04-08T15:53:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/german-stocks-advance-led-by-deutsche-boerse-e-on-shares.html
German stocks advanced, with the  DAX
Index (DAX)  posting a third weekly gain, as yesterday’s aftershock in
 Japan  failed to cause widespread economic damage.  Munich Re  and Allianz AG led gains among insurers.  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1)  climbed 2.9 percent as investors speculated that NYSE
Euronext will reject a rival takeover bid for the owner of the
New York Stock Exchange.  E.ON AG (EOAN)  rose 1.2 percent as UBS AG
added the shares to its “most preferred” list of European
stocks.  The benchmark DAX climbed 38.24, or 0.5 percent, to
7,217.02 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The measure lost
more than 50 points in late afternoon trading yesterday as an
earthquake hit Japan, which is still tackling the damage caused
by the larger March 11 tremor. Yesterday’s quake left two dead.
The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  also climbed 0.5 percent today.  “There is no fear out there,” said Luis Benguerel, a
trader at Interbrokers in Barcelona. “The bulls are happy to
focus on the underlying growth picture, which remains benign,
and dismiss short-term negative headlines.”  The DAX rose 0.5 percent this week, extending the rally
from this year’s low on March 16 to 11 percent, amid speculation
that the global economic recovery will withstand higher  interest
rates , Japan’s worst earthquake on record and popular revolts in
the Middle East and north Africa.  The European Central Bank yesterday lifted interest rates
to 1.25 percent from 1 percent, the first increase in almost
three years, in an attempt to quell inflation, while  Portugal 
became the third euro-area nation to ask for a bailout.  “Even the ECB rate hike has not removed any momentum from
equities,” said Benguerel.  Deutsche Boerse , E.ON  Munich Re, the world’s largest reinsurer, rose 2 percent to
115.85 euros. Allianz, the country’s largest insurer, climbed
1.6 percent to 103.65 euros, its fourth straight gain.  Deutsche Boerse jumped 2.9 percent to 54.45 euros. CNBC’s
David Faber yesterday said NYSE Euronext, which is the target of
a takeover bid by Deutsche Boerse, will “issue a resounding
rejection” of a rival offer from Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. Faber
didn’t cite anyone.  NYSE Euronext may still decide to stay independent, Faber
wrote on CNBC’s website.  E.ON rose 1.2 percent to 22.49 euros, its sixth straight
advance. UBS said that shutting nuclear power plants in Germany
will “put upward pressure on both power price and thermal
spreads,” while the company’s shares remain cheaply valued.  Sky Deutschland, Commerzbank  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  jumped 3.5 percent to 3.07 euros. The
German pay-TV operator controlled by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp.
will make its programs available on mobile phones,  laptop
computers  and Apple Inc.’s iPad as it attempts to add
subscribers in  Europe ’s biggest TV market.  “You hear a lot about TV everywhere, but right now that is
just a theory,” said Sky Deutschland Chief Executive Officer
Brian Sullivan in an interview today. “We deliver it today and
will expand it massively this year.”  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  fell 3.2 percent to 5.25 euros, taking the
decline this week to 3.9 percent after the bank said it’s
seeking to raise 8.25 billion euros from investors. European
regulators will use a tougher measure of capital on 90 lenders
in this year’s stress tests following criticism last year’s
weren’t stringent enough.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  