-- 
Giants Raise Security to Stop Retaliation Against Dodgers Fans for Beating

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-04-08T13:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/giants-raise-security-to-stop-retaliation-against-dodgers-fans-for-beating.html
The  San Francisco Giants  are
monitoring social media sites such as Facebook and adding
security for next week’s series against the  Los Angeles Dodgers ,
eight days after a Giants fan was beaten into a coma at Dodger
Stadium.  Bryan Stow, 42, was attacked by two men in a stadium
parking lot on March 31 following the Dodgers’ season-opening
win against the Giants. Stow was wearing a Giants jersey, and
his assailants were wearing Dodgers attire.  Jorge Costa, the Giants’ senior vice president for ballpark
operations, said he increased staffing for Los Angeles’s visit
to AT&T Park on April 11-13 after seeing online threats of
retaliation against Dodgers fans.  “We’ve been looking at Facebook and seeing some of the
postings,” Costa said yesterday in a telephone interview. “I
think you have to look at that now, because it’s such a
pervasive part of society, and you can learn a lot from that.”  Police Chief Charlie Beck and Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of
 Los Angeles  said they would increase the number of police on
patrol at Dodgers games.  “People will be awed by the response of the Los Angeles
Police Department to this, because we will not suffer this as a
city again,” Beck said yesterday at a news conference. “People
have a right to enjoy the American pastime and we are going to
assure that right.”  The Dodgers had announced a day earlier that they had hired
former  New York ,  Boston  and Los Angeles Police Chief William Bratton to evaluate Dodger Stadium security. Bratton now is
chairman of Kroll Inc., a New York-based company that focuses on
intelligence and security issues.  Team Responsibility  Major League Baseball  said each of the 30 teams is expected
to handle its own security arrangements.  “Regular-season game-day security programs are prepared
and performed by each club in consultation with local  law
enforcement , in consideration of the unique circumstances of
each location,” MLB spokesman Patrick Courtney said yesterday
in an e-mail. “We want and encourage every club to provide a
safe and secure environment for MLB fans.”  The Giants will dedicate their April 11 game against the
Dodgers to Stow, a paramedic from  Santa Cruz ,  California , and a
father of two, who was in critical condition at a Los Angeles
hospital.  The team will join Stow’s employer,  American Medical
Response , to collect donations at the gate and the Giants will
make a $10,000 contribution to the Bryan Stow Fund, the club
said in a news release.  ‘Brutal, Unconscionable’  “Bryan is a father, paramedic and lifelong Giants fan who
has dedicated himself to caring for others,” Giants Chief
Executive Officer Bill Neukom said in a statement. “Now he
needs our support as he fights for his life following this
brutal and unconscionable act of violence.”  The Giants already had planned to increase security for the
series against the Dodgers, Costa said, and added to the force
after the attack on Stow. Costa didn’t give details of how many
additional security personnel, including  San Francisco  Police
officers, would be used.  “We will have a profile that’s slightly bigger starting on
Monday both in the interior and exterior of the ballpark,” he
said. “Historically, the Dodgers always require more
staffing.”  The stronger security presence will be noticeable to all
fans, Costa said, and officials will have lower tolerance for
inappropriate behavior ranging from bullying to throwing objects
to bad language.  “There is an ebb and flow, and sometimes you need to make
assessments on the fly during a game,” he said. “It’s
situational. Considerations are given to who we’re playing, what
night of the week it is, the history of the rivalry with the
team that we’re playing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  