-- 
Google Will Face More EU Antitrust Complaints, Almunia Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-04-08T10:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/google-large-market-requires-eu-vigilance-almunia-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  will trigger more
complaints to European Union antitrust regulators given its
“extremely large” market share for Web search and advertising,
the EU’s competition commissioner said.  Joaquin Almunia , the region’s antitrust chief, said a
complaint about Google filed by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  last week will
“not be the last one” and regulators had received more than
500 responses to questionnaires sent to Web companies,
publishers, and advertisers earlier this year.  Google is under growing pressure from global regulators
who are probing whether the company uses its dominance of Web
search to thwart competition. While Microsoft and partner Yahoo!
Inc. have about a quarter of the U.S. search market and Google
the rest, Google has almost 95 percent of the market in  Europe ,
Microsoft said in a blog posting last week citing data from
regulators.  The EU’s antitrust agency would be “as firm as possible in
eliminating all kinds of barriers” that may prevent rivals from
challenging the world’s biggest search engine, Almunia said at a
competition law conference in St. Gallen,  Switzerland .  Almunia said he met Google’s former chief executive officer
 Eric Schmidt , who asked him to wrap up the probe “as soon as
possible.” The EU commissioner said he would “take care” not
to prolong it.  ‘Lot of Effort’  “This will continue to require a lot of effort,” Almunia
said, because the probe will need “a lot of information” to
help regulators understand how the Web market functions.  Google is working with the commission to address any
concerns, Al Verney, a spokesman for the company, said in an e-
mail today. It’s also “worked hard to do the right thing by our
users and our industry,” he said.  A Microsoft unit and two other rivals already lodged a
complaint with the EU last year. The EU competition watchdog
also took on other complaints made to three national regulators,
Almunia said.  Information technology is one of several industries where
regulators must be vigilant to keep competition open, Almunia
said. The EU may expand probes into wholesale financial services
and would look closely at pharmaceutical companies’ agreements
that may delay sales of generic drugs, he said.  EU regulators are also taking “a close look at pre-trade
and post-trade information” for financial markets, Almunia
said, citing ongoing investigations into  Standard & Poor’s  and
Thomson Reuters Corp.  There may be “more activity in this area in the near
future,” Almunia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in  St. Gallen  at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 