-- 
Google’s $700 Million ITA Deal Cleared by Justice Department

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-04-09T04:56:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/google-s-700-million-purchase-of-ita-is-approved-by-u-s-with-conditions.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  won U.S.  Justice
Department  approval for its $700 million purchase of  ITA
Software Inc.  on the condition it makes travel data available to
search-engine rivals and lets the government review any
complaints it’s acting unfairly.  Google agreed to license ITA’s travel information software
to third parties, put up firewalls protecting client data and
set up an arbitration process for disputes over fees. The
 Justice Department  reached the consent decree after an eight-
month review.  “The proposed settlement assures that airfare comparison
and booking websites will be able to compete effectively,
providing benefits for consumers,” Deputy Assistant Attorney
General Joseph Wayland said yesterday in a statement. The
proposed settlement must be approved by a federal judge.  The resolution of the matter allows the government to
consider a larger investigation of  Mountain View , California-
based Google, operator of the world’s largest search engine. The
Federal Trade Commission, which also oversees U.S. antitrust
laws, is exploring a possible probe of Google’s search business,
two people familiar with that matter said this week.  ‘Moving to Close’  “We’re moving to close this acquisition as soon as
possible,” Google said in an online posting. Google said it has
formally committed to let ITA’s customers extend their contracts
into 2016 and to let both current and new customers license
ITA’s QPX software on “fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms.”  There are no limits under this agreement as to what the
company can do in travel search, Google spokesman Adam Kovacevich added. He said Google agreed to forward any
complaints from online travel companies to the U.S. government
for two years. The consent decree lasts for five years.  Google is required to report to the Justice Department any
complaints it receives from companies that are directly or
indirectly related to the proposed settlement, a department
official said. This stipulation is in addition to the reporting
requirements commonly found in such agreements, the official
said. The company also will have to set up a website that shows
the consent decree, said the official, who declined to be
identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Band Together  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Kayak.com ,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and other Google
competitors banded together as FairSearch.org to oppose the
acquisition of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based ITA, which makes
software that provides data for online travel sites such as
 Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW)  They said the deal would reduce
competition and called on the Justice Department to impose
conditions for the transaction.  “By putting in place strong, ongoing oversight and
enforcement tools, the department has ensured that consumers
will continue to benefit from vibrant competition and innovation
in travel search,” FairSearch.org said in an e-mailed
statement.  Google fell $1.84 to $578.16 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
yesterday. The shares have dropped 2.7 percent this year.
Expedia rose $2.90, or 13 percent, to $25.30 while Microsoft
fell 13 cents to $26.07.  The Justice Department and FTC may vie for control of any
broader investigation of Google, the people familiar with the
matter said before the consent decree was announced. When both
agencies have expertise in an industry they want to probe, they
must negotiate which one will handle major antitrust
investigations under a formal clearance agreement.  ‘Clears an Acquisition’  “The consent decree clears an acquisition, but it does not
offer Google relief from concerns that it may be using its
market power to restrict competition,” D. Jarrett Arp, an
antitrust lawyer at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Washington,
said in an e-mail. “The consent decree suggests that antitrust
oversight of Google is increasing.”  Google’s settlement shows it can still make acquisitions of
$500 million or more in the face of rising regulatory scrutiny,
said Ross Sandler, an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets . Sandler,
who doesn’t own Google shares, rates them “outperform.”  “They’re making concessions because the deal is not going
to get done otherwise,” Sandler said. “If they can’t buy
anything except for little 20-person start-ups, that becomes a
growth issue at some point.”  ‘Remains Concerned’  Tom Barnett, outside counsel to Expedia, a FairSearch
member, said on a conference call that the consent decree “is a
signal that the department remains concerned about Google’s
general power on the Internet and its ability to expand that
power.”  Bert Foer, president of the Washington-based American
Antitrust Institute, opposed the merger because he said Google’s
rapid growth was turning it into a “monopoly” that couldn’t be
regulated. He said the company shouldn’t be allowed to expand
through acquisitions.  The European Commission and Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott have begun investigations into whether Google is skewing
its search results to favor its own businesses over competitors’
websites.  The European Union’s antitrust commissioner,  Joaquin Almunia , said yesterday that he expects more complaints about
Google given its “extremely large” market share for Web search
and advertising. Google has almost 95 percent of the market in
 Europe , Microsoft said in a blog posting last week, citing data
from regulators.  Senate Panel  U.S. Senator  Herb Kohl , the Wisconsin Democrat who heads a
Judiciary antitrust subcommittee, has said he will examine
Google’s business practices. Senator  Mike Lee  of  Utah , the
panel’s senior Republican, has called for hearings.  Google, which had 65 percent of the U.S. search market in
February, according to ComScore Inc., is buying companies to
boost its online services, spending about $1.8 billion on more
than 45 acquisitions last year, according to regulatory filings.  Before the ITA deal, which was announced in July, Google
bought mobile ad service AdMob Inc. in May for about $700
million and online advertising provider DoubleClick Inc. in 2008
for $3.2 billion. Both were cleared without restrictions by the
FTC.  In November 2008, the Justice Department threatened to sue
over a planned alliance with Yahoo! Inc., leading Google to
scrap an agreement to place ads with the Sunnyvale, California-
based Web portal.  Google had pressed the Justice Department to decide whether
it would challenge the ITA deal in December, prompting
government lawyers to prepare a lawsuit to block it, people
familiar with the situation said at the time.  Pattern of Conditions  The Justice Department is developing a pattern of approving
deals with conditions to remedy possible anticompetitive
concerns.  The U.S. reached a consent decree for Comcast Corp.’s
acquisition of  NBC Universal  in January and approved
Ticketmaster Entertainment Inc.’s merger with Live Nation Inc.
in January 2010.  The Comcast agreement, announced Jan. 18, included
safeguards so the largest U.S. cable company couldn’t restrict
online video content. The Live Nation merger called for
Ticketmaster to license its software to AEG Live, its largest
customer, and sell its Paciolan unit to a Comcast joint venture
or another suitable buyer.  Yesterday’s consent decree will let Google “go from
potential antagonism to collaboration” with U.S. regulators,
said  Scott Kessler , an analyst with  Standard & Poor’s  in  New
York  who rates the shares a “strong buy” and doesn’t own the
stock. “They perhaps look at this as a preemptive step.”  ---With assistance from Brian Womack in  San Francisco . Editors:
Jim Rubin, David E. Rovella.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 