-- 
Google CEO Page Is Said to Elevate Seven Managers to Top Posts in Shakeup

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-04-08T20:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/google-ceo-page-is-said-to-elevate-seven-managers-to-top-posts-in-shakeup.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Page  promoted seven of his managers to senior executive
positions in a shakeup aimed at streamlining decision making,
according to a person briefed on the changes.  Those promoted include Salar Kamangar, who leads the
YouTube video-sharing site, and  Andy Rubin , chief of mobile,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
changes haven’t been announced. Vic Gundotra, head of the
company’s social initiatives, and Susan Wojcicki, who runs
advertising, are also stepping into new roles. All the
executives will report directly to Page, the person said.  Page, who took on the CEO role April 4, is revamping
leadership to create clearer lines of accountability and
responsibility, said Chris Gaither, spokesman for Google. Page,
who succeeds  Eric Schmidt , aims to accelerate the drive into new
growth areas as Web users spend more time on social sites like
Facebook Inc. and Apple Inc. poses a threat in advertising.  “It was more of a significant change than we expected,”
said Clayton Moran, a Boca Raton, Florida-based analyst at
Benchmark Co., who rates the stock a buy and doesn’t own the
stock. “If they can be a little bit more agile and be faster,
that could certainly help them.”  Page’s changes are also designed to streamline engineering
and product development, placing a single manager in charge of
each product group, Gaither said. He declined to comment on the
specifics of the shakeup.  Other promotions include Sundar Pichai, who’s heading the
Chrome Web browser and operating system, and  Alan Eustace , who
leads engineering and research, said the person briefed on the
matter. Jeff Huber oversees commerce and local efforts, the
person said.  The promotions were previously reported by the Los Angeles
Times.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, fell $1.84 to
$578.16 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
shares have fallen 2.7 percent this year.  Editors:  Tom Giles , Nick Turner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  