-- 
Google Said to Agree to Consent Decree With U.S. Over Acquisition of ITA

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-04-08T16:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/google-said-to-reach-agreements-on-conditions-with-u-s-in-ita-acquisition.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s largest
search engine, agreed to  Justice Department  monitoring of travel
search and services to win approval of its $700 million purchase
of ITA Software Inc., two people familiar with the matter said.  Under the accord, the company would also be subject to
compulsory licensing and have to create firewalls on client
data, according to the people, who asked not to be identified
because the agreement hasn’t been announced.  The resolution of the merger with ITA, an online travel
information company, allows the Justice Department to consider a
larger antitrust investigation of Google. The Federal Trade
Commission, which also oversees U.S. antitrust laws, is
exploring a possible probe of Google’s search business, two
people familiar with that matter said April 5.  “The licensing condition provides a significant precedent
for future deals Google may cut, in particular if they acquire
an asset that is widely relied on,” said  Rebecca Arbogast , a
Washington-based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. “The
monitoring condition represents the first time Google comes
under ongoing oversight -- which also shows how the line between
a merger review and a larger investigation could blur.”  Broader Investigation  The ITA consent decree may clear the way for the two
agencies to vie for control of a broader investigation of
Google, the people said. When both agencies have expertise in an
industry they want to probe, they must negotiate which one will
handle major antitrust investigations under a formal clearance
agreement.  Rivals such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Kayak.com have accused
Mountain View, California-based Google of harming competition.  As part of the so-called consent decree on Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based ITA, which provides data for airline ticket
fares on online travel sites, the government will seek to ensure
that travel search results don’t unfairly favor Google-related
businesses, the people familiar with the agreement said.  Adam Kovacevich, a spokesman for Google, declined to
comment. Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  Google rose $1.40 cents to $581.40 at 12:06 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have dropped 2.1
percent this year.  Increased Scrutiny  Google is receiving increased scrutiny from antitrust
regulators as it expands into new business areas. The European
Commission and Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott have begun
investigations into whether Google is skewing its search results
to favor its own businesses over competitors’ websites.  European Union antitrust Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said
today he expects more complaints on Google, given its
“extremely large” market share for Web search and advertising.
Google has almost 95 percent of the market in  Europe , Microsoft
said in a blog posting last week citing data from regulators.  U.S. Senator  Herb Kohl , the Wisconsin Democrat who heads
the antitrust subcommittee, has said he’ll examine Google’s
business practices, and Senator  Mike Lee  of Utah, the panel’s
senior Republican, has called for hearings.  Google, which had 65 percent of the search market in
February, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) , is buying companies to
boost its online services, spending about $1.8 billion on more
than 45 acquisitions last year, according to regulatory filings.  FairSearch.org  Microsoft Corp., Kayak.com and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and other
Google competitors banded together as FairSearch.org to oppose
the acquisition of ITA, which makes software that provides data
for online travel sites such as  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW)  They had
called on the Justice Department to impose conditions around
licensing, search and firewalls if it decided to approve the
transaction.  A settlement agreement “is the best possible scenario,”
said Henry Harteveldt, an analyst at  Forrester Research  in San
Francisco, who wasn’t privy to the talks. “Google gets to
acquire a terrific technology company that can add a lot of
value to people. At the same time, companies that are using ITA
software get to continue to have access to something they rely
on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 