-- 
Libya May Risk Slip Into Somalia-Like Chaos, Russian Deputy Premier Says

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-08T09:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/libya-risks-somalia-like-chaos-as-fighting-drags-on-russia-s-ivanov-says.html
Libya  risks degenerating into chaos
similar to that in Somalia, said Russian Deputy Prime Minister
Sergei Ivanov, who didn’t rule out Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
being able to defeat the rebels fighting his forces.  “The worst-case scenario -- I think it wouldn’t be
realized but it’s theoretically possible -- is that Libya might
turn into another Somalia,” Ivanov said in an interview
yesterday in Miami, two days after meeting U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  in  Washington . “Nobody wants that, but
who knows?”  The conflict in Libya pitting the eastern-based opposition
against Qaddafi’s regime has become a “tribal war,” Ivanov
said. Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central government since
1991 and has become a breeding ground for pirates who attack
shipping. Clinton said March 2 the Obama administration was also
concerned that Libya may become a “giant Somalia,” providing a
base for al-Qaeda.  Russia, with power to veto United Nations Security Council
resolutions, abstained from last month’s vote that authorized
the airstrikes by the U.S. and its allies to protect civilians
from an offensive by Qaddafi’s army. It has criticized the NATO-
led campaign for violating the UN resolution by backing one side
in a civil war.  Stalemate Developing  Lacking heavy weapons and training, the rebel forces have
been unable to take and hold strategic cities in the center of
the country. A U.S. Army general said yesterday the overall
conflict is settling into a stalemate between regime forces and
rebel fighters.  General Carter Ham, who commanded the opening phase of the
alliance military operation, told a U.S. Senate committee that
the use of NATO air power is “increasingly problematic” when
it comes to hitting regime forces without endangering civilians
and opposition fighters.  “Is it a possibility to solve the matter diplomatically
and for example provide Qaddafi a dignified exit?” said Ivanov,
a former defense minister. “Or maybe he wouldn’t take that
proposition and continues fighting and maybe his soldiers and
his army finally prevail over the opposition, and he will simply
stay in power, that’s also a possibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .
Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at   lzelenko@bloomberg.net 
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  