-- 
Microsoft, Headwaters, American Eagle: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-08T11:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/microsoft-headwaters-american-eagle-intellectual-property.html
Microsoft Corp., the world’s largest
software company, sued a unit of the U.K.’s  Amphion Innovations
Plc (AMP) , seeking a court declaration that two patents are invalid.  According to the complaint filed yesterday in federal court
in  Manhattan , Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said Aphion’s
DataTern unit has sued other companies for infringing the
patents and, in their court papers, “referenced Microsoft
software.”  In dispute are patents 5,937,402, issued in August 1999,
and 6,101,502, issued in August 2000. Both patents deal with
relational databases and software. On April 4, DataTern filed a
patent infringement suit in federal court in Marshall,  Texas ,
accusing 11 companies in a variety of industries of infringing
one of the two patents that is the subject of the Microsoft case
against DataTern.  Among the companies DataTern sued in that case are  General
Mills Inc. (GIS) , Hewlett-Packard Co. and  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)   In its suit against DataTern, Microsoft said that some of
the defendants sued by DataTern have asked Microsoft to defend
them in the patent-infringement case, or to provide them with
indemnification. This has “placed a cloud over Microsoft and
its products” and has injured the Redmond, Washington-based
company’s business and business relationships, Microsoft said in
its pleadings.  DataTern has filed four additional infringement suits since
June 2009 relating to one or both of the patents that are the
subjects of Microsoft’s suits, according to court papers.  Microsoft claims a large number of defendants have been
dismissed from those cases, which, the software company says,
resulted in payment to DataTern.  Microsoft argued in its court papers that both patents are
invalid because elements of each invention were not new.  It asked the court to declare it hasn’t infringed either
patent or induces others to infringe them. It also asked for
awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Microsoft is represented by Dale M. Heist, Steve J. Rocci
Aleksander J. Goranin and Daniel J. Goettle of  Woodcock Washburn
LLP  of Philadelphia, and Danielle L. Rose,  Michael S. Kim  and
 Carrie A. Tendler  of  Kobre & Kim LLP  of  New York .  The case is  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  v. DataTern Inc., 1:11-cv-
02365, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  ZTE Says Ericsson Lawsuit Won’t Have Adverse Impact on Business  ZTE Corp. (763) , a Chinese telecommunications equipment maker
that’s being sued by Ericsson AB for alleged patent
infringement, said the lawsuit won’t have any “material and
adverse” impact on the company’s financial conditions and
operations.  Business in the U.K. accounted for a “very small share”
of ZTE’s overall operating revenue, the company said in a
statement filed to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Imperial Tobacco, BAT to Fight Aussie Cigarette Packaging Law  Imperial Tobacco Group plc (IMT)  and  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) 
have both threatened to sue  Australia ’s government over new
requirements that all cigarettes be sold in that country in
plain packages with no brands showing, the Australian
Broadcasting Corp. reported.  Scott McIntyre, a BAT spokesman, told ABC that the
government “is trying to take away our  intellectual property 
rights.”  An unidentified spokesman from Imperial Tobacco told ABC
“we will take whatever measures are open to us to protect our
valuable intellectual property and if that means going to court,
we will go to court.”  Professor Mark Davison , who teaches trademark law at
Australia’s  Monash University , told ABC the tobacco companies
chances of winning a trademark case are slim because “there is
no acquisition of property going on.”  Todd Thomson’s Headwaters Sued For Trademark Infringement  Headwaters Capital LLC , the private-equity fund begun in
2007 by Todd Thomson, the former chief financial officer of
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , was sued for trademark infringement by a Denver-
based merchant bank.  Headwaters MB LLC , which registered its name as a trademark
in July 2001, said it has invested almost $2.5 million in
advertising and promotion of its mark. The company claims that
consumers associate “Headwaters” as a provider of “top-level
investment and merchant banking and private-equity investment
services.”  According to the complaint filed April 5 in federal court
in Nashville,  Tennessee , the Colorado company became aware of
Headwaters Capital in August 2010, and the company claims it
received numerous calls and e-mails from people who mistakenly
believe the entities are connected.  The company sent Headwaters Capital a cease-and-desist
letter in October 2010, and, in a Nov. 2 letter, demanded that
the New York-based company agree to a three-month phase-out of
its use of the “Headwaters” trademark.  The two companies’ names and Internet domain names are “so
similar in terms of appearance, sound, meaning and connation”
that consumers are confused, according to court papers.  Headwaters MB asked the court to bar the New York company’s
use of the name, and for awards of money damages, profits
derived from Headwater Capital’s alleged infringement, extra
damages to punish the New York company for its actions, and
awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Andy Merrill, a spokesman for Thomson, said in an e-mail
statement that “the allegations contained in the complaint are
entirely without merit and we look forward to addressing them in
court.”  Headwaters MB is represented  by Paige Waldrop Mills  of  Bass
Berry & Smims PLC  of Nashville.  The case is Headwaters MB LLC v. Headwaters Capital LLC,
3:11-cv-00333, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Tennessee
(Nashville).  American Eagle Outfitters Sues Furniture Chain for Infringement  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) , a Pittsburgh-based clothing
chain with more than 900 retail outlets, sued a  Chicago 
furniture company for trademark infringement.  The complaint, filed April 1 in federal court in Chicago,
accuses  American Eagle Furniture Inc. , of infringing trademarks
by moving into retail operations in shopping malls beginning in
February 2010. Before that, the furniture company had
“historically operated as a wholesale vendor” and hadn’t used
“American Eagle Furniture” as a service mark or a trademark,
according to court papers.  The clothing company says it sent multiple cease-and-desist
letters to the furniture company and received no response. It
claims that the furniture company is using “American Eagle
Furniture” in “a deliberate and willful attempt to draw on the
goodwill and commercial magnetism” of the clothing stores’
marks.  It asked the court to order the furniture company to quit
using “American Eagle Furniture” and to cancel any advertising
in which it uses that mark. Additionally, it asked for an award
of three times the profits the furniture company derived from
its alleged infringement, plus money damages, and asked that the
damages be tripled.  American Eagle also asked for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  American Eagle Furniture didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment.  American Eagle Outfitters is represented by Debra R.
Bernard and Jeremy L. Buxbaum of Seattle’s Perkins Coie LLP.  The case is American Eagle Outfitters Inc., v. American
Eagle Furniture Inc., 1:11-cv-02242, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  Cleveland  Woman Acquitted of Criminal Trademark Infringement  A Cleveland, Ohio, resident was acquitted of a criminal
trademark case, WFMJ.com television news  reported.   Valerie Edwards was charged with criminal infringement
after police found counterfeit DVDs in the trunk of her car
during a traffic stop, according to WFMJ.com.  Edwards said she was given the videos to be donated to the
Boys Club of Cleveland, WFMJ.com reported.  Louboutin Sues Yves Saint Laurent Over Red-Sole Shoes  Christian Louboutin SA , the designer of  expensive red-sole
women’s shoes  popularized by characters on “Sex and the City,”
sued Yves Saint Laurent America Inc., alleging it violated
Louboutin’s trademark for the footwear.  Louboutin, based in Paris, said Yves Saint Laurent is
selling shoes with red soles that are “virtually identical” to
its own, according to a suit filed yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan. It seeks a court injunction against the sale of the
shoes and damages of at least $1 million.  Saint Laurent has been selling red-sole shoes under brand
names such as Tribute, Palais and Woodstock at high-end fashion
stores that also sell Louboutin footwear, including Saks Fifth
Avenue, Barneys New York and Bergdorf Goodman, according to the
complaint.  “Defendants’ use of a red sole on their infringing
footwear threatens to mislead the public, and has impaired
plaintiffs’ ability to control their reputation,” Louboutin
said in the complaint.  Bridget Helene, a spokeswoman for New York-based Yves Saint
Laurent America, said in an e-mail that the company had no
comment.  The designer Louboutin got the idea for the red-sole shoes
when he painted red nail polish on the black soles of a pair of
women’s shoes, the complaint states. He introduced the red soles
in 1992 and since then they have been on all of the company’s
luxury shoes, according to the lawsuit.  On  Barneys ’ website, Louboutin red-sole shoes are priced
from $445 to more than $4,000 a pair. Vanity Fair magazine
reported in May 2010 that San Francisco-based romance writer
 Danielle Steel  owns 6,000 pairs of Louboutin shoes, buying every
item in his collection each season.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office awarded Louboutin a
trademark for the red sole in 2008, according to the complaint.  Louboutin was informed by Yves Saint Laurent executives by
letter in January that they planned to “continue to sell the
infringing footwear,” the lawsuit states.  Yves Saint Laurent is a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , which owns
Gucci and other luxury brands.  Saint Laurent, the Algeria-born French fashion designer,
died in 2008.  Louboutin has filed three other trademark infringement
suits in federal court in Manhattan since December 2009,
according to Bloomberg data. All three have been dismissed, with
permanent court orders against the defendants barring future
infringement. None of those suits was against a well-known
couture house such as Saint Laurent.      The new case is
Christian Louboutin SA v. Yves Saint Laurent America Inc., 11-
2381, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Ax Murder Defendant Says IP Rights Violated by TV in Court  A man on trial for an ax murder in Portland, Oregon, has
raised copyright issues in efforts to keep television reporters
from showing his face during the trial, the Oregonian  reported .  David Wayne French, who is accused of smashing a pickax
into the skull of his roommate, asked the judge to order the
reporter to turn off his equipment because he didn’t want the
media telling his story, according to the Oregonian.  He said the court was “allowing a commercial entity to
make money off of this” and claimed they didn’t “have a right
to my name, likeness and . . . story,” the Oregonian reported.  French’s request was denied by Judge Michael Marcus, who
said that under Oregon’s open court system, lawyers and video
cameras are allowed in the court, according to the newspaper.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 