-- 
Middle East Tanker Rates Have First Weekly Gain in Four on Fuel

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-04-08T15:24:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/middle-east-tanker-rates-have-first-weekly-gain-in-four-on-fuel.html
The cost of shipping Middle East oil
to  Asia , the world’s busiest route for supertankers, gained for
the first week in four because of rising fuel charges.  Charter rates for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on
the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia to Japan route rose 8.2
percent for the week, after little change today to 54.86
Worldscale points, according to the Baltic Exchange in  London .
It was the first weekly gain since March 11.  The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, has gained 34 percent
this year to $676.10 a metric ton, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide. Fuel represents the shipping
industry’s biggest expense.  Freight rates “have been predominantly influenced by the
noticeable movements in the bunker price upwards,” London-based
E.A. Gibson Shipbrokers Ltd. wrote in an e-mailed report today.
The gains this week have “only been compensatory,” it said.  Rental income on the  Saudi Arabia  to Japan route rose 1
percent today to $8,049 a day, according to the Baltic Exchange.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a metric ton, are revised
annually by the  Worldscale Association  in London to reflect
changing fuel costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Each flat rate assessment gives owners and oil companies a
starting point for negotiating hire rates without having to
calculate the value of each deal from scratch.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, an overall measure of crude-
oil transportation costs, declined 0.9 percent to 876 points,
the lowest since Feb. 25, according to the  Baltic Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 Anightingal1@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  