-- 
IMF Welcomes Colombia’s Interest in a New Flexible Credit

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   K e v i n   C o s t e l l o e
-- 
2011-04-08T19:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/imf-welcomes-colombia-s-interest-in-a-new-flexible-credit-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
today said it welcomed  Colombia ’s interest in a new flexible
 credit line  worth $6.1 billion that would help protect the
Andean nation from external risks as the economy grows.  “The Colombian economy weathered the global crisis well,
and a recovery is underway,”  John Lipsky , the IMF’s first
deputy managing director, said in a statement. “Well-timed
countercyclical monetary and fiscal policies helped mitigate the
domestic effects of the global crisis. Sound macroeconomic
management provided the authorities with policy space to respond
to the adverse shocks.”  The two-year “precautionary” credit line is the third for
Colombia. The IMF in May 2009 extended a  $10.5 billion short-
term line  of credit to Colombia amid an economic slowdown and in
May 2010 the  IMF  renewed a  $3.5 billion credit line .  Since pulling out of its first recession in a decade in the
second half of 2009, the economy expanded 4.3 percent last year
and  South America ’s fourth-largest economy is on track to grow
as much as 6 percent this year, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said March 16. The IMF expects growth of 4.6 percent
this year as private consumption helps drive the economy, Lipsky
said.  Investment Grade, ‘Useful Protection’  Colombia’s credit rating was raised one-step to BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s , restoring the investment grade status lost in
September 1999.  The credit line may help protect Colombia from the
“adverse shock” of an uncertain global economic recovery and
market swings that could impact its exports growth and financing
needs, Lipsky said.  “The proposed amount would provide Colombia with useful
protection against external tail risks and, as with previous
arrangements, allow the country to preserve policy flexibility
in the face of global and regional uncertainties, while
maintaining continuous access to capital markets at favorable
terms,” Lipsky said.  The peso rose for a fourth day, gaining 0.4 percent to a
five-month high of 1817.55 per dollar at 2:02 p.m.  New York  time
from 1825.00 yesterday.  “The country continues to exhibit solid macro fundamentals
and disciplined macro management while enjoying easy access to
international capital markets at favorable terms,”  said
 Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group in New York,
in an e-mailed note to investors. “This reduces the likelihood
that such insurance will be called even if the economy is hit by
negative external shocks.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net 
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  