-- 
India’s SpiceJet to Start Turboprop Regional Links in July

-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e   a n d   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-04-08T13:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/india-s-spicejet-to-start-turboprop-regional-links-in-july-1-.html
SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) , India’s  second-
biggest  discount airline, will start flying turboprop planes in
July to the country’s smaller cities and towns.  The carrier’s purchase of the 15  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  Q400
planes will be funded by a loan from state-run Export
 Development Canada , Chief Commercial Officer Samyukth Sridharan
said in Hyderabad today. He declined to provide details,
including the amount and tenure of the borrowing.  New Delhi-based SpiceJet will get access to more cities in
India with turboprop planes because there are several airports
with runways too short for aircraft such as Boeing Co.’s 737s to
land, Sridharan said. Larger rival IndiGo has announced plans to
buy 180 Airbus SAS A320 jet planes and begin service to the
Middle East and  Southeast Asia  starting in August.  “The enormous potential in the Indian domestic market can
be further tapped by enhancing regional connectivity,” Neil Raymond Mills, chief executive officer at SpiceJet, said at a
news conference in Hyderabad today. “We see a very robust and
latent demand in these under-serviced sectors.”  Hyderabad Hub  SpiceJet, backed by billionaire Kalanithi Maran, will add
the 15 Q400s to its fleet by July 2012, Mills told Bloomberg-UTV
in an interview. The planes will cost $450 million at list
price, he said.  The airline last year ordered the turboprops and took
options for another 15. It also signed up for 30 Boeing 737s.
The southern Indian city of Hyderabad will be the first regional
hub for the Q400s, Mills said.  Shares of SpiceJet fell 3.8 percent to 43.25 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. They have declined 47 percent this
year, compared with a 5.2 percent drop in the benchmark
Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  Travel is surging in  India , where the economy is estimated
by the government to grow 9.25 percent in the current fiscal
year, the fastest since the 12 months ended March 2008. The
number of  domestic flyers rose 19.6 percent  in the first two
months of 2011 from a year earlier, the government said.  SpiceJet expects surging demand to help offset rising fuel
costs, Sridharan said.  “We expect supply will grow slower than demand, which
means that planes will be fuller,” he said. “Hence, giving the
airlines the ability to pass on the rising fuel prices to the
consumer.”  The price of aviation turbine fuel in Mumbai has jumped 25
percent this year, according to data on the Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net ;
Subramaniam Sharma in  New Delhi  at +91-
   ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  