-- 
Indonesia Rating Raised by S&P to Highest Since '97 Asian Financial Crisis

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-04-08T06:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/indonesia-s-rating-is-raised-one-level-to-bb-by-s-p-on-improving-finances.html
Indonesia ’s credit rating was raised
by Standard & Poor’s to the highest level since the Asian
financial crisis hit the country in 1997 because of the nation’s
“resilient” economy and improving finances.  The long-term foreign-currency rating was increased one
level to BB+ from BB, with a positive outlook, the company said
in a statement today. The rating, which was last increased in
March 2010, is now one level below investment grade.  Indonesia’s dollar bonds due March 2020 advanced, with
yields on the 5.875 percent notes falling nine basis points to
4.89 percent, the lowest level in almost three weeks.
Indonesia’s economy grew at the fastest pace in six years in the
final quarter of 2010 on rising consumer spending, and the
central bank in February increased its benchmark rate from a
record low to curb inflation.  “The rating upgrade reflects continuing improvements in
the government’s balance sheet and external liquidity,” said
 Standard & Poor’s  credit analyst Agost Benard.  The change comes
“against a backdrop of a resilient economic performance and
cautious fiscal management.”  Bank Indonesia  expects today’s upgrade to attract long-term
fund inflows,  Darmin Nasution , the governor, said in Nusa Dua,
Bali. Indonesia should deepen its financial market and boost
infrastructure development ahead of further rating upgrades,
Nasution said.  Rising Outlook  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service also rank
Indonesia one level below investment grade. Fitch in February
raised its BB+ outlook on Indonesia to positive from stable.  “We expect Moody’s, S&P and Fitch to upgrade Indonesia’s
credit rating to investment grade by the end of 2012,” said
Fauzi Ichsan, a Jakarta-based senior economist at Standard
Chartered Plc. “It is positive for capital inflows and once
Indonesia is investment grade it will open doors for a lot more
funds.”  Many investors will wait until the change before betting on
the country, said Dilip Shahani, Hong Kong-based head of
research in Asia-Pacific for  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   “It will affect Indonesian dollar bonds only when it
happens, not before it happens, because certain groups cannot
invest in sub-investment grade,” he said.  Rate Increase  Bank Indonesia avoided joining counterparts from  Malaysia 
to  India  in tightening policy last year before unexpectedly
raising rates in February by a quarter of a percentage point.
Policy makers left rates unchanged last month and economists
forecast the same outcome at a meeting next week.  Consumer prices in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy rose
6.65 percent last month from a year earlier, slower than the
6.84 percent pace in February. The central bank said last month
that it isn’t concerned about inflation in March, April and May
as pressure on prices eases.  “We may raise the ratings if inflation pressure
diminishes, the external debt burden declines, the sovereign’s
balance sheet improves, or reforms such as subsidy
rationalization suggest that fiscal and external vulnerabilities
are further reduced,” Benard said.  “Conversely, a stalling of reforms or the absence of
timely and adequate policy responses to renewed fiscal or
external pressures would result in the rating stabilizing or
weakening.”  Fuel Sales  Indonesia’s parliament last month approved a government
proposal to delay a planned cut in subsidized fuel sales that
was scheduled to begin April 1. The plan was postponed because
of the threat of faster inflation amid rising oil costs, and no
decision has been made on how long it will be delayed, according
to Teuku Rifky Harsya, chairman of the parliamentary commission
for energy affairs.  “It will still take time before Indonesia can reach
investment grade rating as inflation still remains a threat,”
said Handy Yunianto, a fixed income analyst at PT Mandiri
Sekuritas in Jakarta. “If  oil prices  continue to rise, this can
widen the  budget deficit  because of the fuel subsidies that the
government gives.”  The nation also remains vulnerable to external shocks
because of its shallow domestic capital markets, while the risk
has lessened, Benard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  