-- 
Intel Capital Leads $30 Million Funding of Education Startup Kno

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n ,   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-04-08T17:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/intel-is-said-to-lead-30-million-funding-of-education-tablet-startup-kno.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s venture-capital arm is
investing $20 million in digital textbook and tablet maker Kno
Inc., supplying funding that will be used to develop software.  Intel’s investment is part of $30 million in funds from a
group that includes Andreessen Horowitz, Advance Publications
Inc., First Round Capital, Floodgate Fund LP and SV Angels, the
 Santa Clara , California-based chipmaker said in a statement.  The funding boosts Intel’s involvement in the growing field
of educational technology, a market that may top $47 billion
this year, according to research firm  Compass Intelligence . The
alliance may also help Intel find wider distribution for its
chips in tablet computers.  “The increasing consumption of digital content has primed
the textbook market for disruption, creating an exciting
opportunity for technology innovation to fundamentally change
the way 1.4 billion students globally learn,” Arvind Sodhani,
president of Intel Capital, said in the statement.  Founded in 2009, Kno raised $46 million in equity and debt
financing last September from investors such as Andreessen
Horowitz, the venture capital firm co-founded by Web pioneer
 Marc Andreessen . Before the Intel-led investment, the Santa
Clara-based startup had raised a total of $65 million.  Kno said in November 2010 that it would charge $599 for its
single-screen tablet aimed at students and $899 for a dual-
screen version. The company shipped a limited number of the
devices in December and then suspended sales.  Investment Portfolio  At the end of last year,  Intel Capital  held a portfolio of
investments worth $2.27 billion. Since 1991, it’s invested more
than $9.8 billion in more than 1,100 companies. In that period,
189 portfolio companies have gone public and 258 were acquired
or participated in a merger, according to Intel’s website.  Intel Capital looks for technologies and products that will
support or create demand for its personal-computer chips.  Intel, whose processors power more than 80 percent of the
world’s PCs, has struggled to parlay that dominance into sales
in the faster-growing market for tablet computers.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPad runs on chips based on ARM Holdings Plc’s technology, which
is more widely used in mobile phones.  Kno is the second education-related startup founded by
Osman Rashid. In 2005, he co-founded online textbook rental
provider Chegg Inc. and led the company to $100 million in
annual sales in less than five years. While at Chegg, he raised
seed funding for Kno, which was then called Kakai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  