-- 
Lira Gains to Four-Month High on Industrial Output, Rate Bets

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-04-08T15:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/lira-gains-to-highest-in-four-months-on-turkey-rate-raise-bets.html
The lira appreciated to an almost
four-month high against the dollar as growth in Turkish
industrial production fueled speculation that the central bank
will raise its benchmark interest rate later this year.  Turkey ’s currency advanced 0.3 percent to 1.50671 versus
the dollar, the strongest on a closing basis since Dec. 13, at
6:24 p.m. in Istanbul. The lira appreciated 1.5 percent this
week.  Output rose an annual 14 percent in February from a year
earlier when adjusted for the number of working days, the
Ankara-based statistics agency said today. Without adjustment,
the annual figure gained 13.9 percent, compared with a median
forecast of 14.5 percent in a Bloomberg survey of seven
economists.  “This supports our view that the Turkish economy no longer
enjoys the disinflationary buffer against higher commodity
prices,” said  Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank AS in
Istanbul, said in a note to clients. “We expect further
tightening in monetary policy through reserve requirement hikes
to the tune of 400 basis points in weighted average terms in the
remainder of the year.”  Turkey’s currency has rallied 6.1 percent versus the dollar
in the past month, the best performance of more than 20 emerging
markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Turkey’s central bank may raise its key lending rate by 75
basis points to 7 percent by the end of the year, according the
median of six estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The bank has cut
rates by 75 basis points since December to help slow capital
inflows, while increasing  reserve requirements  to cap growth in
loans.  Bonds, Stocks Fall  Bonds fell, sending the yields on two-year benchmark debt 6
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, higher to 8.68 percent.
The main  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  dropped 2 percent to 68,093.3,
snapping a five-day rally and trimming this week’s rally to 3.6
percent higher.  The central bank increased the reserve requirements
to 15 percent for lira deposits of less than one month from as
low as 10 percent on March 23. The measures, which include
higher reserves for all lira deposits of less than a year, will
be effective April 15, the bank said in a statement on its Web
site. The measure will drain 19.1 billion liras ($12.2 billion)
of liquidity from the market, according to the statement.  “Next week is the payment time for banks to pay reserves
and people close risky positions on the expectation of selling
in the bonds,” Isik Okte, a trader at Finans Invest in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  