-- 
Iraqi Security Forces Attack Camp Housing Iranian Mujahedeen

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-04-08T20:55:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/iraqi-security-forces-attack-camp-housing-iranian-mujahedeen-4-.html
Iraqi special forces attacked a camp
northeast of  Baghdad  that is home to members of an exiled
Iranian group, prompting U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  to
express concern at reports of deaths and injuries.  Iraqi soldiers came from Baghdad early today for the
assault on Camp Ashraf, 57 kilometers (35 miles) from the
capital, an Iraqi military official said, speaking on customary
condition of anonymity. At least three Iranians were killed and
14 wounded, while six Iraqi soldiers were injured, the official
said. The Washington-based U.S. Committee for Camp Ashraf
Residents said more than 20 people died. Al Arabiya television
put the death toll at nine and said dozens were injured.  U.S. forces handed over responsibility for security at the
camp to Iraqi authorities in February 2009. Since then, the
group says its 3,400 residents have been mistreated by the pro-
Iranian Iraqi government. Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has
pledged to remove armed groups from  Iraq  and prevent them from
threatening the country’s stability.  “I urge the Iraqi government to show restraint and live up
to their commitments,” Gates  told  reporters in the northern
Iraqi city of Mosul today, according to a transcript of the
briefing posted on the  Department of Defense  website.  The group’s presence in Iraq “is not legitimate and is
unlawful,” Iraqi government spokesman Ali Al-Dabbagh said in an
interview with Al Arabiya television. There were no reliable
numbers for casualties, he said.  The Obama administration is “deeply troubled by reports of
the deaths and injuries,” State Department spokesman Mark Toner
said in a statement. The U.S. Embassy, United States Forces-Iraq
and the  United Nations  are all urging Iraqi officials to avoid
violence and show restraint, Toner said.  The camp houses members of the People’s Mujahedeen
Organization of  Iran  and their families. The group is considered
a terrorist organization by Iran and by the U.S., though it was
removed from the equivalent European Union list in 2009. The
People’s Mujahedeen says it wants to overthrow Iran’s clerical
regime by non-violent means.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  