-- 
IRS Focuses on Wealthiest Americans in Foreign Bank Account Reporting Plan

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-04-08T21:09:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/irs-focuses-on-wealthiest-in-foreign-bank-account-reporting-plan.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  is
focusing on the wealthiest Americans with money overseas as it
develops regulations that will require foreign banks to give the
government more information about those customers.  In new guidance released today, the IRS said it will direct
foreign banks to spend less time identifying and monitoring
accounts of people with less than $50,000 and more effort
focusing on U.S. account holders with more than $500,000 and
with private banking relationships.  The information provided today should help financial
institutions figure out the process of identifying U.S.-linked
accounts, even though the IRS didn’t answer every question that
companies have raised, said Barbara Angus, a partner at Ernst &
Young LLP in Washington.  “It has operational impacts on financial institutions, on
all aspects of their business, on IT systems, on the account
opening process,” she said. “That kind of impact, again, is
sort of why information is needed, and needed as soon as
possible.”  The requirements, passed by Congress last year, take effect
in 2013. They force foreign banks to tell the IRS about U.S.
account holders as part of the agency’s effort to combat
offshore  tax evasion . Banks based outside the U.S. face 30
percent withholding on certain payments from inside the U.S. if
they fail to share information with the IRS.  Implementing the Rules  An overall goal of the regulatory process is to get
information to stakeholders as quickly as possible, according to
a Treasury Department official who spoke on condition of
anonymity to describe the agency’s approach. The administration
is working on the regulation and knows that financial
institutions are anxious to know how to implement the rules by
the effective date, the official said.  Financial institutions from around the world, including
 Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Aegon NV (AGN)  and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , filed
comments with the IRS after the agency released its first set of
guidance on the law last August.  The rules are part of a broader effort by the U.S.
government and the IRS to combat offshore tax evasion.
Commissioner Douglas Shulman has made the issue one of his top
priorities.  Voluntary Disclosure  Separately, the IRS is operating a voluntary disclosure
initiative, which encourages taxpayers with undeclared accounts
and income to come forward, pay penalties and likely avoid
prosecution. The deadline for entering that program is Aug. 31.  About 15,000 taxpayers came forward during a similar
program in 2009, and the IRS has been using the information it
gleaned during that process to pursue others, Shulman said April
6. Yesterday, the agency asked a court for a summons that would
require  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to disclose information about its U.S.
clients with accounts in  India .  The information released today deals largely with foreign
financial institutions and doesn’t address other questions
attorneys have about how the new law will work, said  Charles
Kolstad , an attorney at Venable LLP in  Los Angeles  who
represents the owners and beneficiaries of trusts.  The law, he said, imposes new reporting requirements on
beneficiaries of foreign trusts, even in cases where the
beneficiaries may not know trust details. That’s an area where
the IRS will need to release future guidance.  “This really doesn’t answer most of the questions that
people have,” Kolstad said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  