-- 
Israeli Retaliation Kills Four in Gaza, Brings Toll to 11

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-04-08T17:46:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/israeli-airstrike-kills-two-hamas-militants-amid-an-escalation-of-violence.html
An Israeli strike on the  Gaza Strip 
left three people dead, bringing to 14 the number of
Palestinians killed after Israel was targeted with mortar
shells, rockets and a missile that hit near a school bus.  As violence escalates with some of the worst clashes since
Israel sent troops into Gaza in December 2008, the territory’s
Islamic militant rulers Hamas urged an emergency  Arab League 
meeting and said Arab governments must “raise their voices” to
get Israel to halt strikes. The  Palestinian Authority  called for
international protection.  Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  described
yesterday’s attack on the school bus, which injured two people
including a 16-year-old boy, as “a criminal act” of terrorism.
These incidents “clarify our proper expectations that the
international community, instead of pressuring Israel, will help
us overcome terror and defeat it,” Lieberman said today during
a visit to Munich, according to an e-mail from his office.  In the latest incident, three men belonging to the militant
wing of Hamas were killed in an Israeli air strike. The
Palestinian casualty toll in the past two days includes at least
50 injured, most of them civilians, as well as 14 dead according
to Adham Abu Selmeya, a Hamas health official. The civilian
fatalities include two elderly men, and a mother and daughter,
said Abu Selmeya, who accused  Israel  of violating
“international laws and conventions.”  Mortar Shells  Hamas said in a statement that it declared a cease-fire
beginning at 11 p.m. local time yesterday to avoid giving Israel
a pretext to launch further assaults. At least 20 rockets and
mortar shells have been fired from Gaza into Israel today, the
army spokesman’s office said, and one Israeli was injured today
by a mortar shell.  Earlier today, the al-Qassam Brigades, the armed wing of
Hamas, said two of its members were killed in another Israeli
air strike. The group yesterday took responsibility for the
attack on the bus and for firing mortar shells at Israel.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon expressed
concern about the “escalating violence” in southern Israel and
Gaza. Ban condemned the firing of the missile toward the bus and
urged Israel to act with “maximum restraint” to avoid civilian
casualties in Gaza, according to an e-mailed statement from the
UN spokesman’s office.  Palestinian leaders called for international protection as
the violence escalated, while Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
said Israel wouldn’t tolerate a renewal of the rocket attacks
from Gaza that led to an Israeli offensive more than two years
ago.  Won’t ‘Shy Away’  “We hope this situation will be contained, but we will not
shy away from any action -- offensive or defensive -- to protect
our citizens,” Netanyahu said yesterday while on an official
visit to  Prague . The prime minister reiterated the warning today
in the Czech capital, telling reporters, “Whoever tries to hurt
or kill children is responsible for his own death.”  The three-week operation that Israel launched in December
2008 left more than 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis dead.
Israeli officials have raised the possibility that the country
may conduct another large-scale military operation to stop the
attacks. Palestinians blame Israel for the increased violence.  “It is now time for the international community to
intervene and prevent another round of merciless and
illegitimate military escalation against Palestinian
civilians,”  Saeb Erakat , the Palestinians’ former chief peace
negotiator who remains an adviser to Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas , said in an e-mailed statement.  Air Strikes  Israeli air strikes and shelling yesterday killed five
Palestinians -- two of them militants -- and wounded more than
30 in Gaza.  Defense Minister Ehud Barak said Israel regards Hamas as
responsible for all attacks from Gaza. Hamas is considered a
terrorist group by Israel, the European Union and the U.S.  The U.S. condemned the Palestinian attacks. There was “no
justification” for targeting civilians, State Department
spokesman Mark Toner said.  The Israeli air force yesterday confirmed hits on nine
“terror-activity sites” in Gaza and two squads trying to
launch missiles at Israel, the army said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The army said Palestinians fired at least
50 mortar shells from Gaza. Netanyahu said the country’s new
“Iron Dome” missile defense system knocked down two
projectiles from Gaza.  “There is a clearly an escalation that recalls the events
of November 2008,” when Palestinians fired hundreds of rockets
before the Israeli offensive, said  Gerald Steinberg , a political
scientist at  Bar-Ilan University  near  Tel Aviv .  Israel’s TA-25 benchmark stock index fell 1.3 percent
yesterday to close at 1,317.69. “Clearly investors are looking
at overall political instability,” said Gilad Alper, senior
analyst at Meitav Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 