-- 
Israel-Gaza Strip Violence Escalates as Sides Exchange Blame

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-04-08T21:13:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/israel-gaza-strip-violence-escalates-as-sides-exchange-blame.html
Israeli strikes on the  Gaza Strip 
that killed 14 and Palestinian attacks on southern Israel that
wounded three are signaling a new round of violence that is
quickly becoming one of the worst clashes in more than two
years.  Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza,
called for an emergency  Arab League  meeting and said that Arab
governments must “raise their voices” to get Israel to halt
strikes. The Palestinian Authority called for international
protection.  Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  described as a
“criminal act” the April 7 anti-tank missile attack on a
school bus that marked the start of the fighting, and he said
the international community should help Israel “overcome terror
and defeat it.” A 16-year-old boy was seriously injured in the
attack.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon expressed
concern yesterday about the “escalating violence.”  He
condemned the attack on the bus and urged  Israel  to act with
“maximum restraint” to avoid civilian casualties in Gaza,
according to an e-mailed statement from the UN spokesman’s
office.  In December 2008, Israel launched a three-week operation in
Gaza that it said was aimed at stopping cross-border rocket
attacks. More than 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the fighting. Israeli officials have raised the
possibility that the country may conduct another large-scale
military operation to stop the attacks. Palestinians blame
Israel for the violence.  Warning to Hamas  “Whoever tries to hurt or kill children is responsible for
his own death,” Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said
yesterday upon his return from a visit to Prague and Berlin.
“We hope this situation will be contained, but we will not shy
away from any action -- offensive or defensive -- to protect our
citizens,” he said on April 7.  The Palestinian casualty toll in the past two days includes
at least 50 injured, most of them civilians, as well as the 14
dead, according to Adham Abu Selmeya, a Hamas health official.
Three Israelis have been wounded, including the teenager.  In Gaza, Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday that “the Israeli aggression will never
force the Palestinian people to kneel down and will fail to
break their will.”  Hamas, considered a terrorist organization by the U.S.,
Israel and European Union, rules Gaza after seizing control in
2007 and ending a partnership government with  Palestinian
Authority  President  Mahmoud Abbas . The group won parliamentary
elections the previous year.  Call for Intervention  “It is now time for the international community to
intervene and prevent another round of merciless and
illegitimate military escalation against Palestinian
civilians,”  Saeb Erakat , the Palestinians’ former chief peace
negotiator who remains an adviser to Abbas, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The French Foreign Ministry called on both sides to stop
the fighting “immediately” and added that “these events
recall, as if needed, the urgency of reaching a negotiated
solution to this conflict.”  In Berlin on April 7, Netanyahu asked that people “be
patient” while he figures out how to address Israeli-
Palestinian peace efforts in the face of a changing Middle East.  “The deadlock must be overcome,” German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  told reporters at a joint press conference. Progress is
“urgent -- more urgent than ever.”  Peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians stalled
last year, several weeks after being launched, when Netanyahu
refused to extend a 10-month partial construction freeze in West
Bank settlements. Abbas has said he won’t negotiate unless all
building is halted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  