-- 
Ivanov Says Russia Wants ‘Red-Button’ Rights on U.S. Missile-Defense Plan

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-08T08:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/ivanov-says-russia-wants-red-button-rights-on-u-s-missile-defense-plan.html
Russia wants to join in the planned
U.S. missile shield in  Europe  with “red-button” rights to
launch strikes at incoming weapons, Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov said.  Russia, which is pursuing talks on the issue with the U.S.,
will only accept an agreement that allows it to have a joint
role in operating the defense system, Ivanov said in an
interview yesterday in Miami, two days after meeting U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in  Washington .  “We insist on only one thing: that we’re an equal part of
it,” said Ivanov, a former KGB colleague of Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  and defense minister until 2007. “In practical
terms, that means our office will sit, for example, in Brussels
and agrees on a red-button push to start an anti-missile,
regardless of whether it starts from Poland,  Russia  or the
U.K.”  Russian leaders complain that the shield, which the U.S.
says is needed to guard against so-called rogue states such as
 Iran , will blunt their country’s nuclear capability. They have
warned of a new arms race within the next decade unless they can
cooperate with the U.S. and its allies on missile defense.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  offered during a visit
to Moscow last month to share missile-launch information and to
set up a joint data center in a bid to soften Russian opposition
to the system of radar stations and interceptors that can shoot
down rockets. Russian Deputy Defense Minister Anatoly Antonov
said last week that the proposal fell short of Russia’s
expectations.  ‘Anti-Russian Potential’  “This proposal doesn’t change the fact that a missile-
defense system with a significant anti-Russian potential will
appear on Russia’s borders,” Antonov said in an e-mailed
response to questions on April 1. “This will destroy decades of
strategic parity and that’s why ideas about cooperation and
building trust may well end up only on paper.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has made a priority
of mending relations with Russia after they sank to a post-Cold
War low following the ex-Soviet power’s war with Georgia in
August 2008.  Gates was the latest high-level Obama administration
official to visit Russia in recent weeks for talks on missile
defense, which the U.S. insists isn’t intended to weaken
Russia’s offensive capabilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at   lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  