-- 
Japanese Bonds Fall for Third Week on Stocks Rally, Global Recovery Signs

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-04-08T22:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/japanese-bonds-fall-for-third-week-on-stocks-rally-global-recovery-signs.html
Japanese bonds fell for a third week
as gains in shares and signs the global recovery is gathering
momentum damped demand for the nation’s government debt.  Ten-year yields climbed to the highest in seven weeks after
the  European Central Bank  raised  interest rates  on April 7 and
left the door open for further increases, while traders added to
bets the  Federal Reserve  will boost its benchmark this year.
China cut its holdings of Japanese debt for a fourth month in
February, according to a report yesterday from the Ministry of
Finance in Tokyo.  “Economic recoveries outside  Japan  are likely to
continue,” said  Tetsuya Miura , chief market analyst in Tokyo at
Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest banking
group. “As  Europe  starts a tightening cycle and the U.S. mulls
such a move, the BOJ is being left behind. The bias is for the
yield curve to steepen.”  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March 2021 rose four
basis points to 1.32 percent this week at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The price fell
0.352 yen to 99.824 yen. The yield climbed to 1.33 percent
yesterday, the highest level since Feb. 17.  Ten-year futures for June delivery dropped 0.57 this week
to 138.62 on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average rose 1.9 percent, completing a third week of gains.  Spread Widens  The difference between yields on 2-year notes and 10-year
bonds expanded to 111 basis points yesterday, the widest since
June. The so-called yield curve plots the rates of bonds of the
same quality, but different maturities. It steepens when yields
on shorter-maturity notes fall, those on longer-dated debt rise,
or both happen simultaneously.  German exports rose 2.7 percent in February from the
previous month, when they dropped 1 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office said yesterday. U.S. retail sales advanced 0.5
percent in March, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the April 13 report.  The ECB increased its benchmark to 1.25 percent from a
record low 1 percent, where it had been since May 2009. The
chance the Fed will raise rates by year-end climbed to 36
percent from 33 percent a month ago, federal funds futures
contracts showed on April 7.  China  sold 169.4 billion yen ($1.99 billion) more Japanese
securities than it bought in February, the ministry data showed.
China purchased a net 165.2 billion yen of long-maturity bonds,
while selling 334.5 billion yen of short-term debt.  “Japan’s securities were relatively expensive,”
especially short-term notes, said  Yuji Kameoka , chief foreign-
exchange strategist at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. in
Tokyo. “China’s foreign-exchange reserves have been increasing,
and it will have to buy yen-denominated assets in the long-
term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 