-- 
Johnson & Johnson Will Pay $70 Million Over Bribery Claims

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-04-08T20:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/johnson-johnson-will-pay-70-million-to-resolve-bribery-claims.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
second-biggest seller of medical products, will pay $70 million
after admitting that the company bribed doctors in Europe and
paid kickbacks in  Iraq  to win contracts and sell drugs and
artificial joints.  Subsidiaries of J&J paid bribes to doctors and hospital
administrators in Greece, Poland and  Romania , the Securities and
Exchange Commission and Department of Justice said today in
filings at U.S. District Court in Washington. The company also
made illegal payments to Iraqi officials to win contracts under
the U.N. oil-for-food program, the filings said.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , used slush funds,
sham contracts and off-shore companies in the Isle of Man to
carry out the bribery, the SEC said. Public health system
doctors and administrators who ordered J&J products such as
surgical implants or prescribed the company’s drugs were
rewarded in a variety of ways, including with cash and travel.  “Any competitive advantage gained through corruption is a
mirage,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a
statement. “J&J chose profit margins over compliance.”  From 1998 to 2006, J&J earned more than $24 million in
profits by bribing Greek doctors to buy surgical implants
including artificial knees and hips, the SEC said. The company
earned $4.3 million in  Poland  from 2000 to 2006 as a result of
bribes and about $3.5 million through illegal rewards in Romania
from 2000 to 2007, according to the filing.  Remediation, Compliance  The company agreed to pay $48.6 million in disgorgement and
interest to settle the SEC’s claims and a $21.4 million fine to
settle criminal charges filed by the  Justice Department . As part
of a deferred prosecution agreement with Justice, J&J admitted
to the allegations and agreed to report on remediation and
compliance measures every six months for three years.  J&J’s DePuy International Ltd. subsidiary was ordered to
pay 4.8 million pounds ($7.9 million) to resolve U.K. claims
related to the bribery in  Greece , the  Serious Fraud Office  said
in a statement today.  “We are deeply disappointed by the unacceptable conduct
that led to these violations,” J&J Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer William C. Weldon said today in a statement. “We have
undertaken significant changes since then to improve our
compliance efforts, and we are committed to doing everything we
can to ensure this does not occur again.”  Kickbacks  J&J admitted it paid kickbacks to the former government of
Iraq from 2000 to 2003 in exchange for contracts to provide
supplies under the UN oil-for-food Program, according to the
Justice Department agreement. The company, which made $6.1
million in profits through the Iraq bribes, resolved the SEC’s
claims without admitting or denying the agency’s allegations.  J&J funneled payments to Greek surgeons through an
“agent,” who drew funds from a private company set up in the
Isle of Man, the SEC said. The company’s internal audit group
discovered the payments in early 2006 after receiving a
whistleblower complaint, the SEC said.  J&J was charged under the 1977 Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, which prohibits making improper payments to government
official to win or retain business. The SEC and Justice
Department have in recent years stepped up the number of FCPA
cases, which have been among the most expensive regulatory
claims for companies to resolve.  Commuter Rail  In December 2008, Siemens AG,  Europe ’s largest engineering
firm, agreed to pay $800 million to the U.S. and $814 million to
German authorities to settle claims that units of the company
paid bribes to win contracts from Iraq’s government in the U.N.
oil-for-food program and for projects including commuter rail in
 Venezuela , mobile-phone networks in  Bangladesh ,  power plants  in
 Israel  and traffic-control systems in  Russia .  In November, Panalpina World Transport Holding Ltd., a
Swiss freight-forwarding company, Royal Dutch Shell Plc, and
five oil-services firms agreed to pay $237 million to settle
civil and criminal claims that they paid thousands of bribes to
African, Asian and South American officials on behalf of
customers in the oil and gas industry.  The SEC this year launched an inquiry into whether
investment firms have made improper payments ranging from
kickbacks to lavish gifts and entertainment to get business from
sovereign wealth funds.  Consent Decree  The settlement comes less than a month after J&J’s McNeil
Consumer Healthcare unit signed a consent decree giving the Food
and Drug Administration more oversight at three plants making
children’s Tylenol, Motrin and other over-the-counter drugs
recalled in the past year because of faulty ingredients or foul
odors caused by chemical contamination of storage pallets.  The March 10 agreement left the plants under enhanced
scrutiny for five years, and J&J faces fines of as much as $10
million a year if the FDA doesn’t approve of changes at the
facilities, the company said in a statement last month.  J&J has recalled more than 50 products since the start of
2010, from the consumer medications to failing artificial hips,
improperly rinsed contact lenses, insulin cartridges that may
leak and cracked syringes loaded with  prescription drugs . The
company installed a new corporate quality-control director and
announced companywide compliance standards in August.  In February, J&J reorganized its consumer division and
announced the head of its DePuy Orthopaedics unit had resigned.  Pfizer Inc., based in  New York , is the biggest maker of
health-care products by annual sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 