-- 
KBC Groep Awards Management Bonus for First Time Since 2007

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-04-08T08:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/kbc-groep-awards-management-bonus-for-first-time-since-2007-1-.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) , the recipient of 7
billion euros ($10.1 billion) in Belgian government-rescue
funds, awarded its management a bonus for the first time in
three years after swinging to a profit last year.  Chief Executive Officer Jan Vanhevel will receive a bonus
for 2010 of 478,934 euros in cash and stock-related instruments,
on top of his 712,500-euro salary, the Brussels-based bank and
insurer said today in its annual report. KBC deferred the 25
percent cash portion of the payment scheduled for this year to
2012 and linked it to reimbursement of state aid, according to a
separate statement from the company.  KBC awarded bonuses to executive management for a year in
which it reported per-share profit of 3.72 euros following two
years of losses and also resumed payouts to common stockholders.
The company hasn’t reimbursed any state aid so far and its stock
price dropped 16 percent last year. ING Groep NV’s management
board waived 2010 bonuses last month after the bailed-out
lender’s pay policy sparked criticism from lawmakers and Dutch
Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager.  “This is a recent decision, made in consultation with the
board and the remuneration committee,” Viviane Huybrecht, a
spokeswoman for KBC, said by telephone from Brussels in
reference to the deferred cash payment, which wasn’t mentioned
in the annual report. She reiterated that KBC plans to repay
most of the state aid it received by 2013, saying today’s
statement doesn’t include additional commitments about the
timing of reimbursements.  Bonus awards at KBC now also take into account non-
financial performance including  risk reduction  and progress made
in the restructuring plan as approved by the European
Commission, KBC said in the statement. The profit-linked portion
of the bonus awards has been reduced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  