-- 
Kenyan Finance Minister, Two State Officials Appear at Hague

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-08T14:09:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/kenyan-finance-minister-two-state-officials-appear-at-hague.html
The  International Criminal Court 
called a hearing for Sept. 21 to decide whether Kenyan Finance
Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  and two other state officials will stand
trial on accusations of crimes against humanity in the country’s
post-election violence three years ago.  Judge Ekaterina Trendafilova set the date at the
preliminary hearing today of Kenyatta as well as the head of
 Kenya ’s Public Service, Francis Muthaura, and former police
chief, Mohammed Ali Hussein, now postmaster general, at the
Hague-based court.  Yesterday, the first group of suspects including suspended
Higher Education Minister William Ruto, former Industrialization
Minister Henry Kosgey, and radio presenter Joshua Arap Sang,
made their initial appearance. They denied accusations of
murder, forced displacement and persecution. Kenyatta, Muthaura
and Hussein face the same proposed charges on top of allegations
of rape and other inhumane acts.  Ruto, Kosgey and Sang will return to court on Sept. 1 when
the judge will decide whether they should face charges.  The six men are accused of orchestrating two months of
post-election violence in 2008 that left 1,500 people dead and
displaced another 300,000. The ethnic clashes were triggered by
a December 2007 presidential election that returned Mwai Kibaki
to office, and which his political rival  Raila Odinga  said was
rigged.  Peace Accord  The two leaders later signed a peace accord, brokered by
former United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan, that left
Kibaki as president and installed Odinga as prime minister.  No one has been held accountable for masterminding the
bloodshed after Kenyan lawmakers failed on several occasions to
set up a local tribunal. That prompted ICC Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo to investigate those responsible for the unrest.  Kibaki is trying to block the ICC litigation by campaigning
for a one-year deferral so that East African nation can prepare
its own legal system to handle post-election violence cases. The
government filed applications last week challenging the court’s
authority to handle the six cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 