-- 
Koger & Partnerid, Estonian Builder, Seeks Bankruptcy Protection

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-04-08T10:38:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/koger-partnerid-estonian-builder-seeks-bankruptcy-protection.html
AS Koger & Partnerid, an Estonian
construction company, filed for  bankruptcy protection , citing
the effects of economic recession and difficulties with state
tenders.  Tallinn-based Koger filed a request yesterday with Harju
County court to reorganize its liabilities, it said in an e-
mailed statement. The company, which employs about 50 people,
added that the biggest creditors have agreed to begin
restructuring proceedings. It didn’t name any creditors.  The effect of the economic crisis on construction has been
bigger than expected, Koger said. “As a company fully based on
Estonian capital, we did not have a buffer similar to
international companies to finance long-term losses.”  Building volumes in  Estonia  shrank by two-thirds through
last year from a peak in 2007. A third of the construction
workforce was unemployed in 2009 as the country suffered the
European Union’s second-deepest recession behind  Latvia .
Building was Estonia’s worst-performing industry last year,
cutting economic growth by 0.6 of a percentage point, to 3.1
percent, according to the statistics office.  Koger, with rivals including Merko Ehitus AS and Nordecon
AS, the biggest listed Baltic builders, didn’t disclose its
debts or assets. It said Koger Projektijuhtimise AS, owned by
businessman Andres Koger, will assume all liabilities of the
group, while small shareholders have withdrawn.  RKAS, the state property agency, canceled last October an
agreement to build the Koidula rail station, on the border with
 Russia , with a group including Koger. It said the builders fell
too far behind the contract schedule.  The State Road Administration  terminated last month  an
agreement with Koger and SIA Binders, its Latvian partner in a
group, for construction of a bypass road around Paernu after the
contractors suspended work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  