-- 
Zuma Heads to Libya to Discuss Cease-Fire; NATO Confirms Airstrike Mishap

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-04-09T12:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/nato-says-strikes-killed-rebels-oil-output-gap-may-persist-2-.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
will travel to Libya to discuss a cease-fire with  Muammar Qaddafi  and rebel forces, while NATO confirmed its airstrikes
mistakenly killed Libyan rebels using tanks against government
forces near the eastern oil port of Brega.  Zuma will be part of an African Union delegation that will
make a two-day trip to Libya starting tomorrow and which has
been given permission to enter the country by NATO, according to
an e-mailed statement by  South Africa ’s Department of
International Relations and Cooperation. The AU team will meet
Qaddafi in Tripoli and rebel leaders in their stronghold of
Benghazi in the east.  “Key on the agenda of both meetings will be the immediate
implementation of a cease-fire from both sides and the opening
of a political dialogue between the two parties,” the statement
said.  The rebels’ six-week drive to topple Qaddafi’s 42-year rule
has reached a military impasse as regime forces outgun the
opposition and protect their military hardware, such as tanks
and armored vehicles, from NATO jets by moving it into cities.
Clashes continued in Misrata,  Libya ’s third-largest city, where
rebels have been fighting to keep government forces from
controlling the road leading to the port, the  Associated Press 
reported.  School Visit  Libya’s state TV showed footage of Qaddafi visiting a
school in Tripoli this morning. Children danced and sang songs
as Qaddafi moved through the school pumping his fists, smiling
and waving.  A North Atlantic Treaty Organization commander said two of
its strikes hit tanks operated by rebels April 7 during clashes
northeast of Brega. Rear Admiral Russell Harding countered
criticism from the rebels, saying that coalition forces hadn’t
previously seen rebels operating tanks, which have been used by
Qaddafi’s army to attack civilians.  “It is not for us -- trying to protect civilians of
whatever persuasion -- to improve communications with those
rebel forces,” Harding, the deputy commander of the NATO
mission, told reporters yesterday in Naples,  Italy . He offered
no apology, though NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen
later said: “I strongly regret the loss of life.”  Before heading to Libya, Zuma will meet today in Mauritania
with other African leaders to discuss the conflict.  ‘Trickle’  Oil output from Libya has dropped by about 1.3 million
barrels a day to a “trickle,” the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency  said last month. Oil production would still be
less than a third of its pre-conflict level even if the rebels
took control of the country’s oil fields, Nomura Holdings Inc.
said in a report.  Crude oil climbed above $112 in  New York  for the first time
in 30 months yesterday. Crude oil for May delivery rose $2.49 to
$112.79 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since Sept. 22, 2008. Futures advanced 4.5
percent this week and are 32 percent higher than a year ago.  In Yemen, President Ali Abdullah Saleh yesterday ruled out
mediation by Persian Gulf countries that have offered to seek a
compromise between his regime and a growing protest movement.
Hundreds of thousands of people protested against Saleh in the
capital, Sana’a. In the southern city of Taiz security forces
fired bullets and tear gas at a funeral procession, Hussein al
Suhaili, an activist, said by telephone.  Syrian Crackdown  In  Syria , authorities cracked down on a demonstration
yesterday that drew tens of thousands in the southwestern city
of Daraa. Witnesses and human rights activists said at least 25
people were killed and hundreds injured when security forces
fired on demonstrators, the AP reported, while state TV said 19
members of the security forces were killed by gunmen.  In Libya, NATO jets have struck 23 targets in the past two
days, including an air-defense facility near the Qaddafi
stronghold of Sirte, Harding said. The alliance has hit T-72
tanks, armored vehicles, rocket launchers and ammunition dumps
as its operations “steadily increase,” he said.  Rebel officials have complained that NATO isn’t doing
enough to hit government forces. Contrary to Harding’s
description, the number of NATO “strike sorties,” those
looking for targets, declined to 54 on April 7 from 73 a day
earlier. The total number of aircraft missions, including those
enforcing the no-fly zone, declined to 155 from 164.  Changing Tactics  Harding said the alliance is grappling with changing
tactics by the regime, whose forces have taken to driving
civilian vehicles, and by the confusion on the ground that makes
it difficult to distinguish between pro- and anti-Qaddafi troops
and civilians. He cited running battles on the highway between
Brega and Ajdabiya.  Rebel fighters pushed deeper into Brega today, taking two
prisoners, after clashes near the city’s main university, the AP
reported.  “The situation in the area is still very fluid, with tanks
and other vehicles moving in different directions, making it
very difficult to distinguish who may be operating them,”
Harding said. “If someone wants to define that as a stalemate,
that’s fine.”  The  U.S. Treasury  said yesterday it has imposed financial
sanctions on Libya’s prime minister, Ali al-Mahmoudi Al Baghdadi, its oil minister, finance minister, Qaddafi’s chief of
staff, the director of the internal security office, and two
groups associated with Qaddafi’s children, the Gaddafi
International Charity and Development Foundation and the
Waatasemu Charity Association.  Crowds Mourn  Crowds rallied in Benghazi to mourn those killed in the
Brega strike. At least five fighters were killed and more than
20 injured, the AP said.  U.S. Army General Carter Ham, who commanded the opening
phase of the allied military operation, told a U.S. Senate
committee April 7 that the conflict is in a stalemate and the
use of NATO air power is “increasingly problematic.” He cited
the rebel-held city of Misrata as the main failure of NATO
policy, saying air strikes haven’t been able to end the siege.  The situation in Misrata poses a challenge to NATO’s
mandate to protect civilians. Fighting between Qaddafi’s forces
and rebels in the city was “heavy” yesterday, according to
 Agence France-Presse .  Former Libyan Energy Minister Omar Fathi bin Shatwan, who
fled to Malta on a fishing boat April 1, described Misrata in an
interview April 7 as a city where “there is no food or
medicines, there is nothing but fear and dead bodies all over
the place.”  Aid Unloaded  An aid ship reached the city’s port April 7 and its cargo
of food, medicine and water purification equipment was unloaded
yesterday, according to an e-mail from Patrick McCormick, a
spokesman for UNICEF, which provided medical supplies. The port
area was reported to be secure enough to unload the cargo,
according to Naeema al-Gasseer, a crisis operations manager with
the UN’s  World Health Organization .  Two surgeons from the Arab Medical Union, who arrived on
the ship, performed five operations yesterday at a medical
center now provided with electricity and water, al-Gasseer said
in an e-mail.  A vessel chartered by the International Committee of the
Red Cross is scheduled to arrive today, and a Turkish charity
planned to send an aid ship to the city next week, the AP
reported.  Foreign workers have fled from Libya’s oil fields since
anti-government protests broke out in mid-February and escalated
into armed conflict, meaning the country’s oil output would
remain below a third of its previous level in the immediate
aftermath of a cease-fire, Michael Lo, a Hong Kong-based
analyst, wrote in the Nomura report.  Full Swing  “If all the Libyan national oil company-operated fields
were to join the rebels and production goes into full swing,
total production can likely reach only 450,000 barrels a day,
28.5 percent of pre-crisis levels,” according to Lo.  “The remaining fields were operated by independent  oil
companies , who have fled the country,” he wrote. “The shortage
of human capital makes it difficult to bring all the fields back
into production.”  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon plans to
convene a meeting of representatives of Arab, African, Muslim
and European nations in Cairo on April 14 to “enhance
coordination” of efforts to end the conflict, UN spokesman
 Martin Nesirky  said yesterday. Also, NATO foreign ministers are
scheduled to meet April 14 and 15 in Berlin to discuss Libya.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  