-- 
NATO Says Strikes Killed Rebels; Oil Output Gap May Persist

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-04-08T18:05:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/nato-says-strikes-may-have-killed-rebels-as-brega-battle-leads-to-impasse.html
NATO confirmed its air strikes
killed Libyan rebels battling Muammar Qaddafi’s forces in a
stalemate near the oil port of Brega, as a study showed crude
oil output won’t rebound even when the fighting ends.  A North Atlantic Treaty Organization commander said two of
its strikes hit tanks operated by rebels during clashes
northeast of Brega yesterday. Rear Admiral Russell Harding of
NATO fended off criticism from the rebels about the strikes,
saying that coalition forces hadn’t previously seen rebels
operating tanks, which have been used by Qaddafi’s army to
attack civilians.  “It is not for us -- trying to protect civilians of
whatever persuasion -- to improve communications with those
rebel forces,” Harding, the deputy commander of the NATO
mission, told reporters today in Naples,  Italy . He offered no
apology, though NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen
later said: “I strongly regret the loss of life.”  The rebels’ six-week drive to topple Qaddafi’s 42-year rule
has reached a military impasse as regime forces outgun the
opposition and hide their military hardware from NATO jets.
Heavy fighting continued in the besieged city of Misrata, the
 Associated Press  reported.  Oil Rises  Oil output from Libya would still be less than a third of
its pre-conflict level even if the rebels took control of the
country’s oil fields, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a report.
Libya was  Africa ’s third biggest oil producer before the
conflict began, according to the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. Oil output from Libya has dropped by about
1.3 million barrels a day to a “trickle,” the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency  said last month.  Crude oil climbed above $112 in  New York  for the first time
in 30 months. Crude oil for May delivery rose $2.12, or 1.9
percent, to $112.42 a barrel at 1:44 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest intraday price since Sept. 22,
2008. Futures are up 4 percent this week and are 30 percent
higher than a year ago.  NATO jets have struck 23 targets in the last two days in
Libya, including an air-defense facility near the Qaddafi
stronghold of Sirte, Harding said. The alliance has hit T-72
tanks, armored vehicles, rocket launchers and ammunition dumps
as its operations “steadily increase.”  Harding said the alliance is grappling with changing
tactics by the regime, whose forces have taken to driving
civilian vehicles, and by the confusion on the ground that makes
it difficult to distinguish between pro- and anti-Qaddafi troops
and civilians. He cited running battles on the highway between
Brega and Ajdabiya.  Battlefield Confusion  “The situation in the area is still very fluid, with tanks
and other vehicles moving in different directions, making it
very difficult to distinguish who may be operating them,” he
said. “If someone wants to define that as a stalemate, that’s
fine.”  The  U.S. Treasury  said today that it has imposed financial
sanctions on five additional Libyan government officials and two
entities controlled by Muammar Qaddafi’s children. The sanctions
were imposed on Libya’s prime minister, Ali al-Mahmoudi Al Baghdadi, its oil minister, finance minister, Qaddafi’s chief of
staff, the director of the internal security office, and two
groups associated with Qaddafi’s children, the Gaddafi
International Charity and Development Foundation and the
Waatasemu Charity Association.  Mourners  Crowds rallied in the rebel stronghold Benghazi to mourn
those killed in the Brega strike, while rebels approached the
oil port in Ajdabiyah to see whether Qaddafi forces had
exploited the confusion in the aftermath of the strike, the
Associated Press reported. At least five fighters were killed
and more than 20 injured in the strike, AP said.  U.S. Army General Carter Ham, who commanded the opening
phase of the allied military operation, told a U.S. Senate
committee yesterday that the conflict is in a stalemate and the
use of NATO air power is “increasingly problematic.”  The U.S. and its allies have debated delivering arms to the
rebels, without announcing any decision. General Ham warned
against sending arms until U.S. officials have a “better
understanding of exactly who the opposition force is.” He also
cited the rebel-held city of Misrata, which is besieged by
Qaddafi loyalists, as the main failure of NATO policy, saying
air strikes haven’t been able to end the siege.  Aid Ship  An aid ship chartered by the UN World Food Program reached
Misrata through fighting in the port to deliver food, medicine
and water purification equipment. Former Libyan Energy Minister
Omar Fathi bin Shatwan, who fled to Malta on a fishing boat
April 1, described Misrata in an interview as a city where
“there is no food or medicines, there is nothing but fear and
dead bodies all over the place.”  Foreign staff members have fled from  Libya ’s oil fields
since anti-government protests broke out in mid-February and
escalated into armed conflict, meaning the country’s oil output
would remain below a third of its previous level in the
immediate aftermath of a cease-fire, Michael Lo, a Hong Kong-
based analyst, wrote in the Nomura report.  “If all the Libyan national oil company-operated fields
were to join the rebels and production goes into full swing,
total production can likely reach only 450,000 barrels a day,
28.5 percent of pre-crisis levels,” according to Lo.  “The remaining fields were operated by independent  oil
companies , who have fled the country,” he wrote. “The shortage
of human capital makes it difficult to bring all the fields back
into production.”  ‘Road Map’  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said last night
that he’s working on a “road map” to end the Libyan conflict.  Initial steps should include an immediate cease-fire, with
Qaddafi’s troops withdrawing from cities they have besieged, and
the establishment of secure zones for the passage of aid, the
premier told reporters in Ankara. That should be followed by
“comprehensive democratic change,” with the Libyan people
choosing their rulers, Erdogan said.  Erdogan’s initiative falls short of opposition demands
because he didn’t mention Qaddafi’s departure, Al Arabiya
television cited Ahmed Bani, a spokesman for the rebel military,
as saying. Libya’s government welcomed the proposals, Deputy
Foreign Minister Khaled Kaim told the channel. He said Qaddafi
wants to remain as “a leader and a symbol of the nation’s
unity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  