-- 
New York Mets Have Sellout for Home Opener With Nationals, MLB Team Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-04-08T16:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/new-york-mets-have-sellout-for-home-opener-with-nationals-mlb-team-says.html
New York  Mets fan Chris Senior
bought a partial season-ticket plan and will brave a less-than-
perfect spring day for the club’s home opener today against the
 Washington Nationals .  “It’s going to be about 49 degrees and damp,” Senior, a
deputy town supervisor on  Long Island , New York, said two days
ago. “The opening-day weather’s a sign of what may be to
come.”  Senior said he is skeptical because of his team’s on-field
prospects and the off-season turmoil surrounding its
franchise owners amid a lawsuit tied to the  Ponzi scheme  run by
Bernard L. Madoff.  The Mets, 3-3 after losing two of three road games to the
 Philadelphia Phillies , will sell out for today’s contest, and
early ticket sales for the season are encouraging, said Dave Howard, the team’s executive vice president for business
operations.  “We’re pleased with where we are,” Howard said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “We renewed over 85 percent of our
season-ticket holders from last year, and sales thus far have
been good. We’re actually, on a year-to-date basis, ahead of
where we were last year.”  Secondary-market ticket prices for the opener have fallen
by an average of 31 percent in the last two weeks, said
Christian Anderson, a spokesman for FanSnap.com, the  Palo Alto ,
California-based Internet search engine that compares prices of
ticket resellers.  The average price of tickets to the game on FanSnap dropped
to $104 from $150 since March 25. They averaged $127 on April 1,
the opening day of the Mets season.  High Demand  “Sometimes you’ll see ticket prices go down prior to a
game, but typically not for high-demand games, and opening day
is usually high demand,” Anderson said in a telephone
interview.  The Mets’ owners, the Wilpon family, have announced plans
to sell a 25 percent stake in the franchise and are considering
selling as much as 49 percent as they contend with a lawsuit
filed by  Irving Picard , the trustee who is liquidating the
business of Madoff, the jailed Ponzi-sheme operator. Picard is
seeking $700 million in principal and $300 million in profits
from Sterling Equities Inc., which owns the Mets, his lawyer,
 David Sheehan , said on Feb. 11.  The team has received interest from three parties willing
to acquire a minority stake that fits the terms the owners find
acceptable, according to the New York Post.  Senior, who during the offseason gave up a 15-game plan
that he said he had for the past eight or nine years, decided to
buy a six-game package because it included the home opener.  “I hadn’t been to a home opener in a long time, so I
figured even if they have an awful season, they can’t be so bad
on opening day,” Senior said.  Cloudy Skies  Weather.com is predicting a 55 percent chance of rain with
a temperature of 52 degrees Fahrenheit (11 Celsius) at 4 p.m.,
when the game at Citi Field is scheduled to start.  The Mets’ 2010 attendance of 3.2 million fans was about
600,000 fewer than the previous year, the biggest drop among the
30 major-league franchises. The team finished the season 79-83,
missing the playoffs for the fourth straight year and ninth time
in the last 10.  The club made no high-priced offseason acquisitions and
started the season with a $119 million payroll, about $15
million less than last season. In contrast, the defending
division champion Phillies increased payroll $31 million to $173
million.  The Mets replaced their front-office and on-field
leadership, bringing in  Sandy Alderson  as general manager and
J.P. Ricciardi as his assistant, Paul DePodesta to head player
development and Terry Collins to manage the team.  Anti-Mets Fans  It was too late for Marc Baskin, a 40-year-old Mets’ fan
from Morristown,  New Jersey , who said his children -- ages 10, 9
and 5 -- came to him when the season started last week, “and
they were resolute.”  “They said, ‘We’re not going to be Mets’ fans, and we want
to root for the Yankees,’” said Baskin, who suggested a
compromise, with the family rooting for a team such as the  Texas
Rangers . “Nope. They’re disobeying me.”  Bolstered by the steady start to the season, Senior isn’t
ready to completely give up hope, referencing Tug McGraw’s
catchphrase from the 1973 season, when the Mets reached the
 World Series .  “Ya gotta believe,” he said. “That’s the old slogan,
right?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 