-- 
Sky ‘Breaks Down Walls’ in Germany With TV on IPad, Laptop to Gain Clients

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-04-08T09:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/news-corp-s-german-pay-tv-will-offer-programs-on-mobile-phones-computers.html
Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD) , the German pay-
TV operator controlled by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp., is making
its programs available on  mobile phones  and laptop computers in
a bid to add subscribers in  Europe ’s biggest TV market.  Dubbed “Sky Go,” the 12 euro-a-month ($17) add-on package
includes all Sky’s sports and movie content and can be accessed
on demand on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and iPhone, and on a laptop or
desktop computer, Chief Executive Officer  Brian Sullivan  said in
an interview. It will be the first time a content provider has
created a “seamless” flat-fee service for all devices, he said.  “It really is breaking down all the walls,” Sullivan said
in Berlin. “You hear a lot about TV everywhere, but right now
that is just a theory. We deliver it today and will expand it
massively this year.”  Shipments of handsets that allow users to surf the Web and
download movies may gain 49 percent this year to more than 450
million units, according to International Data Corp. Sky
Deutschland, whose 2.65 million subscribers at the end of 2010
trailed  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) ’s 8.8 million, has posted
five consecutive annual losses as it struggled to retain and win
clients in a market with a wide choice of free TV channels.  Within the next 18 months, Sky plans to introduce the Sky
Go on devices that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform as well
as on games consoles and Internet-enabled televisions.  High-Definition TV  “We see it as revolutionary,” Sullivan said in the
interview yesterday in Berlin. “There are many who are doing
bits and pieces, but there’s nobody doing a complete multi-
platform, multi-device seamless service. We think it is the way
television will be consumed over the next ten to 20 years.”  The subscription will come on top of a Sky TV package that
costs between 16.9 euros and 59.9 euros a month. In the fourth
quarter, Sky customers paid about 30 euros a month on average.  Since Sullivan took over a year ago, he helped Sky raise
400 million euros to invest in premium services such as high-
definition TV. The CEO has struck deals with other cable
companies to deliver Sky content, and said he’s now in talks
with  Kabel Deutschland  and Unitymedia.  Sky also faces competition from the very companies it
relies on to carry its content, such as  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,
with its Web TV Entertain, and cable companies.  Immature Market  Kabel Deutschland,  Germany ’s largest cable operator, began
offering video-on-demand in March in Berlin, Hamburg and Munich.
Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH & Co KG, the cable operator that
agreed to be bought by U.S. billionaire  John Malone ’s  Liberty
Global Inc. (LBTYA) , has a similar offer. Liberty Global’s Unitymedia
plans to start offering video-on-demand in the “foreseeable
future,” said spokeswoman Katrin Koester.  “Pay TV in Germany is relatively immature and the
technology is probably ten years behind everywhere else,”
Sullivan said. “We took a view that instead of trying to catch
up, we’re going to try to skip a few steps and leap ahead.”  About  73 million  western European households subscribed to
pay TV at the end of 2010, or 42 percent of all TV households in
the region, up 11 percent from 2009, according to E-Media
Institute. Pay-TV adoption may slow to growth of 4 percent to 5
percent a year from 2011 to 2014, the London-based research
forecasts.  Turning operations around in Germany may become a test case
for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s TV ambitions in Europe. The German pay-TV
market, which led to the collapse of media magnate  Leo Kirch ’s
Kirch Holding GmbH in 2002, has resulted in reported losses of
1.21 billion euros at Sky, formerly known as Premiere AG, since
Murdoch’s initial stake purchase in 2008.  Best Performer  Sky, 49.9 percent owned by News Corp., reported a 2010 loss
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 268.6
million euros and forecast its results will improve this year.
First-quarter subscriber growth showed “underlying continued
momentum,” Sullivan said.  The company’s stock, up 81 percent this year, is the best
performer in Germany’s MDAX index, which has risen 4.2 percent.
The shares added 10.7 cents, or 3.6 percent, to 3.07 euros at
11:11 a.m. in  Frankfurt , giving the company based near Munich a
market value of 2.2 billion euros. The stock has more than
tripled from an all-time low of 82 cents in October.  “A year ago, everybody thought we were on life support and
most people didn’t believe we were going to last very long,”
Sullivan said. “That is not the case anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  