-- 
Nigerian Voters Return to Parliamentary Elections; Bomb Hits Polling Unit

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-09T14:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/nigeria-hopes-for-third-time-lucky-as-voters-elect-parliament.html
Nigerian voters are choosing members
of parliament in  Africa ’s top oil producer today in an election
that had to be rescheduled twice because voting materials failed
to arrive on time.  The Action Congress of Nigeria and the Congress for
Progressive Change, Nigeria’s main opposition parties, aim to
cut the majority that President Goodluck Jonathan’s People’s
 Democratic Party  won in both houses four years ago by saying it
has failed to reduce poverty, corruption and violence.  Voters started lining up at polling centers across the
country at 8 a.m. local time for the election in which 73.5
million people are registered to cast their ballots, the
 Independent National Electoral Commission  said. The vote,
originally set for April 2, won’t be held until April 26 in 15
of the Senate’s 109 districts and 48 of the 360-member  House of
Representatives  constituencies because of problems with the
ballot papers, according to the commission known as INEC.  “The reports we have show that turnout has been relatively
low, at about half of the people that came out last week,”
Jibrin Ibrahim, director of the Abuja-based Center for  Democracy
and Development , which is monitoring the elections, said by
phone today. “In general it’s going smoothly apart from a few
incidents of violence.”  Intimidation  Violent intimidation of voters and attempts to snatch
ballots were reported in some constituencies in the southern
oil-rich Niger River delta and Lagos, the country’s commercial
capital, he said. Several people were injured by an explosion at
a polling unit in the Unguwar Doki district of the northeastern
city of Maiduguri, Yushau Shuaib, spokesman for the National
Emergency Management Agency, said by phone today from Abuja.  At least 12 people died in an explosion that hit an INEC
office yesterday in the central city of Suleja, Yemi Ajayi, a
police spokesman, said by phone today from Abuja. In the
northern city of Kaduna, a suspected bomber died yesterday when
an explosive he was handling went off prematurely, he said.  Suleja, which is about 50 kilometers (31 miles) north of
Abuja, was rocked by an attack on March 3 that killed 10 people
when explosives were hurled a rally of the PDP.  Jonathan ordered security agencies to bolster protection at
all INEC premises, his spokesman Ima Niboro said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement.  More than 50 people have died in election-related violence
since July, according to  Amnesty International , while sectarian
clashes in the north have claimed the lives of at least 200
since Dec. 24.  Presidential Contest  Today’s vote is a prelude to the presidential contest next
week that pits Jonathan against 18 rivals, including former
military ruler Muhammadu Buhari and the ex-head of the anti-
graft agency, Nuhu Ribadu. Voters on April 26 will choose the
governors and legislatures of  Nigeria ’s 36 states.  The electoral commission has promised that it “is fully
ready to deliver credible polls to Nigerians,” Jonathan said in
a national broadcast on April 7.  Jonathan was leading in the latest public opinion poll
conducted by  Ipsos  for  ThisDay , the Lagos-based newspaper
reported on April 6. The survey said 62.1 percent of the voters
favored Jonathan for next week’s vote, compared with 23.6
percent for Buhari and 6 percent for Ribadu, with more than 6
percent undecided.  To win in the first round, Jonathan must obtain a simple
majority and secure 25 percent of the vote in two-thirds of the
states. The Ipsos/ThisDay poll showed him getting 25 percent in
32 states and the  Federal Capital Territory of Abuja .  Ballot-Snatching  Nigeria’s last election, in 2007, was condemned by local
and international observers for being marred by violent
intimidation of opponents, falsification of figures and ballot-
snatching. Jonathan, who succeeded former President Umaru Yar’Adua on his death in May 2010, pledged to conduct free
elections and appointed Attahiru Jega, a respected academic, to
head INEC.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation of more than 140
million, is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports. Hague-
based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of  San Ramon ,  California ,  Total SA (FP)  of
 France  and  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-
owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90
percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Since Nigeria’s return to civilian government in 1999 after
15 years of military rule, the PDP has presided over the
spending of more than $300 billion in oil export revenue. During
that time income disparities have widened, with 54 percent of
the population living on less than $1 a day, about 22 million
citizens illiterate, and maternal mortality of 800 per 100,000
live births, a rate among the highest in the world, according to
the  United Nations Development Programme .  Foreign Currency  Investor concern about the recent surge of election and
sectarian violence triggered increased domestic demand for
foreign currency, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a
March 15 interview in Abuja. That has weakened the naira, which
reached an 18-month low against the dollar on March 17.  While an armed insurgency in the Niger River delta that cut
more than 28 percent of the nation’s oil output from 2006 to
2009 remains relatively quiet, parts of the north have been hit
by a mounting campaign of violence by Islamist militants
inspired by  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement.  “If Nigeria’s elections are not a significant improvement
over 2007, and if the current elections do not meet the
expectations of a majority of voters, the Nigerian people will
lose confidence in their leaders, their democratic institutions,
and the capacity of Nigeria to sustain a positive democratic
trajectory,” U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for African
Affairs Johnnie Carson said in April 5  remarks  at the Woodrow
Wilson Center for Scholars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  