-- 
Nigerians Voters Return to Legislative Election After Two False Starts

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-08T18:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/nigerians-voters-return-to-legislative-election-after-two-false-starts.html
After two false starts, Nigerian
voters go to the polls tomorrow to choose members of parliament
in the first of a three-stage general election in  Africa ’s top
oil producer.  The  Independent National Electoral Commission  twice delayed
the vote, originally set for April 2, because election materials
didn’t arrive in time. The INEC yesterday announced a further
delay until April 26 in 15 of the Senate’s 109 districts and 48
of the 360-member  House of Representatives  constituencies.  “The expectation we all have is that they have put their
house in order and are now prepared to deliver on credible
elections,” Clement Nwankwo, executive director of the  Policy
and Legal Advocacy Centre , said by phone yesterday. “There’s no
more room for excuses.”  The vote is a prelude to the presidential contest next week
that pits Goodluck Jonathan against 18 rivals, including former
military ruler Muhammadu Buhari and the ex-head of the anti-
graft agency,  Nuhu Ribadu , who is the candidate of the Action
Congress of Nigeria. On April 26, voters choose the governors
and legislatures of Nigeria’s 36 states.  The main opposition parties, the ACN and Buhari’s Congress
for Progressive Change, aim to cut the majority Jonathan’s
People’s  Democratic Party  won in both houses four years ago by
saying it has failed to reduce poverty, corruption and violence.  Violence  An explosion hit an INEC office today in the central city
of Suleja, a spokesman for the agency said. The number of
casualties wasn’t clear, Kayode Idowu said today in a phone
interview from, Abuja, the capital.  Suleja, which is about 50 kilometers (31 miles) north of
Abuja, was rocked by an attack on March 3 that killed 10 people
when explosives were hurled a rally of the PDP.  More than 50 people have died in election-related violence
since July, according to  Amnesty International , while sectarian
clashes in the north have claimed the lives of at least 200
since Dec. 24.  “I deeply share with all Nigerians the understandable
feeling of disappointment and frustration that was caused by the
postponement,” Jonathan said in a national broadcast yesterday.
The electoral commission has promised that it “is fully ready
to deliver credible polls to Nigerians,” he said.  Jonathan was leading in the latest public opinion poll
conducted by  Ipsos  for  ThisDay , the Lagos-based newspaper
reported on April 6. The survey gave Jonathan 62.1 percent for
next week’s vote, compared with 23.6 percent for Buhari and 6
percent for Ribadu, with more than 6 percent undecided.  First-Round Vote  To win in the first round, Jonathan must obtain a simple
majority and secure 25 percent of the vote in two-thirds of the
states. The Ipsos/ThisDay poll showed him getting 25 percent in
32 states and the  Federal Capital Territory of Abuja .  Nigeria ’s last election, in 2007, was condemned by local
and international observers for being marred by violent
intimidation of opponents, falsification of figures and ballot-
snatching. Jonathan, who succeeded former President Umaru Yar’Adua on his death in May, pledged to conduct free elections
and appointed Attahiru Jega, a respected academic, to head INEC.  Jega said further delays were needed in some parliamentary
constituencies because votes had already been cast during the
aborted election a week ago. In other cases, names of parties
and candidates were missing from ballot papers.  Accreditation of 73.5 million registered voters is expected
to start tomorrow at 8 a.m. and close by noon in the 120,000
polling stations, according to the electoral commission. Voting
will follow and results will be announced at each voting place.  Oil Exporter  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation, is the fifth-
largest source of U.S. oil imports. Hague-based  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
of  San Ramon ,  California ,  Total SA (FP)  of  France  and  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI) 
run joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian National
Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90 percent of the West
African nation’s oil.  Since Nigeria’s return to civilian government in 1999 after
15 years of military rule, the PDP has presided over the
spending of more than $300 billion in oil export revenue. During
that time income disparities have widened, with 54 percent of
the population living on less than $1 a day, about 22 million
citizens illiterate, and maternal mortality of 800 per 100,000
live births, a rate among the highest in the world, according to
the  United Nations Development Programme .  Investor concern about the recent surge of election and
sectarian violence triggered increased domestic demand for
foreign currency, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a
March 15 interview in Abuja. That has weakened the naira, which
reached an 18-month low against the dollar on March 17.  Unrest  While an armed insurgency in the Niger River delta that cut
more than 28 percent of the nation’s oil output from 2006 to
2009 remains relatively quiet, parts of the north have been hit
by a mounting campaign of violence by Islamist militants
inspired by  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement.  “If Nigeria’s elections are not a significant improvement
over 2007, and if the current elections do not meet the
expectations of a majority of voters, the Nigerian people will
lose confidence in their leaders, their democratic institutions,
and the capacity of Nigeria to sustain a positive democratic
trajectory,” U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for African
Affairs Johnnie Carson said in April 5  remarks  at the Woodrow
Wilson Center for Scholars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 