-- 
Japan, Russia Won't Take on New Kyoto Targets, UN's Climate Chief Says

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-04-08T14:16:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/no-nation-fundamentally-opposes-extending-kyoto-treaty-un-s-figueres-says.html
Japan and  Russia  reject new targets
under the  Kyoto Protocol  climate treaty, whose current goals
expire in 2012, the top United Nations climate diplomat said.  “What they’re saying is they will not participate in a
second commitment period” of Kyoto, UN Framework Convention on
Climate Change Executive Secretary Christiana Figueres told
reporters today in Bangkok as a week of climate talks concluded.
“They have not said, ‘none of you can do a second commitment
period.’”  Japan and Russia both argued at the UN’s last round of
treaty negotiations in Cancun,  Mexico , that taking on new
emissions reduction goals under the 1997 Kyoto deal would be
pointless if the two biggest emitters, the U.S. and  China , don’t
have binding targets. The U.S. never ratified the treaty, which
doesn’t set enforceable goals for developing nations.  The absence of Japan and Russia, added to that of the U.S.,
China and India, would leave the Kyoto Protocol without targets
for the five biggest emitters of carbon dioxide from burning
fossil fuels. Divisions between richer and poorer nations made
for slow progress in Bangkok, with 3-1/2 days spent negotiating
the agenda, U.S. envoy Jonathan Pershing said.  “Progress has been slow and we, along with many other
countries, are concerned,” Pershing said. “We are not prepared
to go forward with a binding obligation for ourselves which
would not apply to the other major economies.”  Major emitters such as China and  India  contend that they
shouldn’t be given legally binding emissions targets because
industrialized nations should act first.  ‘Catastrophe’ Scenario  Non-binding emissions goals that nations have pledged for
2020 leave developing countries carrying out more emissions
reductions than developed ones, Bolivian envoy  Pablo Solon  said.
That leaves the planet “very far away” from stopping
temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6
degrees Fahrenheit) since industrialization began, he said.  “Where we are now after Cancun is in a scenario of 4
degrees Celsius, and that is a scenario of catastrophe,” Solon
told reporters. Decisions made in the Mexican resort “were very
good for diplomacy, for multilateralism, but for climate change
they weren’t very good.”  Negotiators have conducted the talks on two tracks: one to
extend the Kyoto Protocol and another to set out what the U.S.
and  developing countries  will do to fight climate change. In
Cancun, delegates agreed to a package of measures aimed at
protecting forests and channeling aid and technology to poorer
nations to help them cope with the effects of global warming and
reduce their own greenhouse-gas output.  ‘Come Along’  The ideal outcome would be a single, legally-binding
instrument, though that looks like it won’t be possible, said
European Commission negotiator Artur Runge-Metzger, speaking on
behalf of the 27  European Union members . He said nations can’t
expect to continue after 2012 with the Kyoto Protocol covering
just 10 percent of global emissions and no other instruments
binding other countries.  “We want to fight climate change but we need the other
countries to come along with us,” Runge-Metzger said. “That
requires a legal certainty that they are going to do this.”  Delays in extending Kyoto threaten the future size of the
Clean Development Mechanism, the UN pollution offset trading
program that’s worth about $2.7 billion a year in new offsets.
Still, the demand in the market is fueled mainly by European
nations that plan to use it even if new commitments aren’t
agreed to under the  Kyoto treaty .  Countries still need to decide on when global greenhouse
output should peak and what mid-term and long-term global
emissions goals to adopt, the UN’s Figueres said. They also need
to decide whether the next round of commitments will be legally
binding, she said.  ‘Sense of Predictability’  She said that while a binding treaty would provide a
“certain sense of predictability,” it’s up to envoys to decide
the format of any new deal.  In Bangkok, delegates discussed the institutions needed to
carry out the decisions made last December in Mexico and laid
the groundwork for talks at the end of the year in Durban,  South
Africa , where  Bolivia ’s Solon said countries need to agree to
new legally-binding measures to fight climate change.  “In Cancun, we threw a bucket of water at a forest on
fire. We cannot throw a new bucket of water to this forest that
is on fire,” Solon said. “We really have to contain the
fire.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  