-- 
TNT Falls Most in 2 1/2 Years as Mideast, Floods Hurt Express Unit Profit

-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 
2011-04-08T07:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/tnt-shares-drop-as-political-turmoil-natural-disasters-cause-volatility-.html
TNT NV (TNT) , the Dutch mail carrier
that’s spinning off its express division, fell the most in
almost 2 1/2 years in Amsterdam trading after saying the unit’s
earnings were hurt by natural disasters and political turmoil.  TNT dropped as much as 9.2 percent to 16.64 euros, the
biggest intraday decline since Oct. 27, 2008, and was down 8.9
percent as of 9:58 a.m. The stock has fallen 15 percent this
year, valuing the company at 6.28 billion euros ($9.05 billion).  “Volatility has been caused by a sharp increase in the oil
price” as well as political unrest in the Middle East and
flooding early this year in  Australia  that reduced delivery
volume, TNT said today in a statement. Underlying operating
income at the express unit fell by about 25 million euros ($36
million) from a year earlier in the first 12 weeks of this year.  TNT, which had a legal monopoly on letter delivery in its
home country until 2009, began dividing the express and postal
businesses a year ago. The Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based company
said today that demerger preparations have been completed, and
the TNT Express business’s stock should be ready to trade on
May 26, a day after shareholders vote on the separation.  “It is clearly a disappointment” that the express unit is
showing “weak performance into the ongoing recovery with little
visibility on the actual issues and actual solutions to the
problem,” Axel Funhoff, an analyst at ING Groep NV in Brussels
with a “buy” recommendation on TNT, said in an e-mail. “The
chance to become a takeover target may well increase with
ongoing underperformance, however, obviously at a downward-
adjusted price.”  ‘Corrective Measures’  Earnings were also hurt by “unforeseen effects,”
including a decline in volume, at a Brazilian unit that the
express division is integrating, TNT said. The company said it’s
taking “a full range of corrective measures” to counter
“continuing negative performance” in the Americas. Asian and
Pacific operations are expected to recover “partially” in the
remainder of this year, TNT said.  Revenue at the business’s European, Middle Eastern and
African business will rise “modestly” in 2011, and the
underlying operating margin will about match the 9 percent of
sales reported last year, TNT said. The margin in the medium
term for the region is targeted to rise to 10 percent to 11
percent, while Asian, Pacific and Americas sales will grow at a
“double-digit” rate in the period, it said.  TNT Express is  Europe ’s second-largest express-delivery
service after  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL division. TNT’s Dutch mail
operations will be renamed PostNL when the split is completed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  