-- 
Wrangle Over U.S. Budget Compromise Defines Next Two Years' Fiscal Debate

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-04-09T17:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/obama-leaders-fail-to-reach-budget-deal-after-third-meeting-in-two-days.html
U.S. Congress leaders and President
 Barack Obama  agreed last night to cut about $38 billion from
federal spending this year while jettisoning Republican
proposals to defund Planned Parenthood and block environmental
rules, pulling the government back from the brink of a shutdown.  The agreement was announced less than two hours before the
government’s funding authority was due to expire, which would
have started a partial shutdown of services and offices.  “It’s been a grueling process.” Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said on the Senate floor with
less than an hour to go before the midnight deadline for a
shutdown. “We didn’t do it at this late hour for drama; we did
it because it’s been very hard to arrive at this point. Both
sides have had to make tough choices.”  The Senate and the  House of Representatives  quickly passed
a temporary measure that makes $2 billion of the agreed-upon
cuts and keeps the government open through April 14 while they
work on a longer-term agreement to fund the government through
the Sept. 30 close of the current fiscal year. Both chambers
will vote on that measure next week. Obama today signed the
temporary measure to keep the government open.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said he was
“pleased” with the outcome of what he called a “long fight”
over the 2011 budget.  “We fought to keep government spending down, because it
really will affect and help create a better environment for job
creators in our country,” he told reporters.  Furlough Averted  The deal averted the furlough of 800,000 federal employees,
including what would have been the delay of pay to U.S. armed
service personnel even as officials such as Obama, Boehner and
Reid continued to receive their salaries. A shutdown also would
have closed federal facilities such as national parks and the
Smithsonian Institution in  Washington , delayed processing of tax
returns and frozen the release of some economic data.  While the political drama played out in Washington, with
officials warning of consequences from a shutdown, financial
markets showed little concern about the fiscal health of the
U.S.  Bond yields are lower now than when the government was
running a budget surplus a decade ago even as Treasury
Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007.  Market Expectations  The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield was at 3.58
percent yesterday, below the average of 7 percent since 1980,
reflecting expectations that a deal would be reached, said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group.  Similarly, derivatives tied to  U.S. government debt  show
investor perceptions of America’s creditworthiness are
improving. Credit-default swaps on Treasuries stood 41.12 basis
points as of late yesterday in  New York , according to data
provider CMA Datavision. The swaps are down from this year’s
high of 51.5 basis points on Jan. 27 and last year’s high of
59.7 in February. The  price levels  are the seventh-lowest of 51
sovereign debt markets tracked by Bloomberg and CMA.  Low borrowing costs mean the U.S. is spending less to
service its debt as a percentage of gross domestic product.
Interest expense fell to 2.7 percent of GDP in fiscal 2010 from
3.8 percent in 2001, the last time the U.S. had a  budget
surplus , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign Investor Confidence  Foreign investors have continued to purchase U.S. financial
assets. The class of investors that includes foreign central
banks bought 60 percent of the $66 billion in benchmark 10-year
U.S. notes sold this year, up from 42 percent in 2010, according
to the Treasury Department. As of January, foreign investors
increased their ownership of Treasuries to $4.45 trillion from
$3.7 trillion a year earlier, according to the latest government
data.  The dollar’s share of global currency reserves stood at
61.4 percent at the end of 2010, little changed from 61.5
percent in 2009, the  International Monetary Fund  in Washington
said March 31. The euro’s share dipped to 26.3 percent from 27.9
percent.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. rose for a second
consecutive week as an improving job market helped ease the
burden of higher fuel costs. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index climbed to minus 44.5 in the period ended April 3 from
minus 46.9 the previous week.  ‘Different Beliefs’  At the White House, Obama, who after weeks on the sidelines
stepped in this week to prod an agreement, said the deal was
possible because “Americans of different beliefs came
together.”  “Like any worthwhile compromise, both sides had to make
tough decisions,” Obama said. “Some of the cuts we agreed to
will be painful.”  The Washington Monument, honoring America’s first
president, loomed through a window behind Obama in his televised
comments. He began his remarks with a reference to the landmark,
saying, “I’m pleased to announce that the Washington Monument,
as well as the entire federal government, will be open for
business.”  The deal came together after days of negotiations at the
Capitol and the White House among Boehner, Reid, Obama and their
aides over how much spending to cut and from which programs, as
well as over so-called policy riders Republicans proposed to
direct how federal money could be used.  Final Compromise  The final compromise slashes about $23 billion less than
Republicans had initially sought, yet tens of billions more than
Democrats originally said they could accept. It stripped most of
the dozens of policy limits Republicans were seeking to impose
on the Obama administration, while narrowing a handful of others
Democrats said they could tolerate.  A provision barring federal funding for Planned Parenthood,
the women’s health provider that offers abortions in some
locations, was dropped in exchange for a commitment that the
Senate would vote on defunding the organization.  Republicans dropped their bid to use the measure to cancel
funding for the health-care overhaul enacted last year, and
Democrats in turn agreed to hold a separate Senate vote on
repealing the law, according to a summary of the deal released
by Boehner’s office.  Several provisions that would have barred the Environmental
Protection Agency from regulating greenhouse gas emissions or
other pollutants were abandoned.  Abortion Funding  Among the riders that survived were a ban on taxpayer
funding for abortions in the  District of Columbia  and $2 million
for a voucher program that is a personal cause of Boehner’s and
provides low-income students in the District with federal money
to attend private schools.  As part of the deal, studies will be conducted of the
financial regulation measure enacted last year. Critics have
said some of the law’s requirements place onerous requirements
on business.  The agreement would include funding for  National Public
Radio , which Republicans had attempted to end. It also would
strip Republican riders that sought to block the Federal
Communications Commission’s “net neutrality” Internet rules as
well as the Education Department’s efforts to clamp down on for-
profit colleges.  In a closed-door meeting last night at which he described
the agreement to colleagues, Boehner said it was the best
Republicans could get out of Democrats, according to an aide who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  Months-Long Dispute  The months-long dispute over the 2011 budget stemmed from
the failure of last year’s Democratic-controlled Congress to
enact a spending plan before the fiscal year started Oct. 1.
Since then, the government has been funded by a series of
temporary laws.  Republicans took control of the House following November’s
elections vowing to make deficit reduction one of their prime
missions. The spending cuts agreed to yesterday exceed what
House Republican leaders had proposed earlier this year before
their rank-and-file forced them to push for $61 billion in
reductions in the budget bill the chamber passed in February.  Debt Ceiling  The accord clears the way for potentially even tougher
conflicts over the government’s finances. A spending plan for
the 2012 fiscal year prepared by House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, and scheduled for a vote in
the chamber next week would phase out the traditional Medicare
program -- a proposal Democrats have denounced. It also would
cut spending by $6 trillion over a decade and reduce the top  tax
rate  to 25 percent.  Also looming is a fight over raising the government’s $14.3
trillion debt limit, expected to be breached by May 16. Many
Republicans are demanding that the Obama administration commit
to deep spending cuts as the price for their votes to raise the
limit.  “In order to raise the debt ceiling, we need to do
something significant about the debt,” Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, said yesterday. “My
definition of ‘significant’ is that the markets view it as
significant, the American people view it as significant and
foreign countries view it as significant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark Silva at
   msilva34@bloomberg.net  