-- 
Obama Campaign Tries to Recreate '07 Start-Up Feeling in Hometown Chicago

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-04-08T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/obama-campaign-tries-to-recreate-07-start-up-feeling-in-chicago.html
In a  Chicago  high-rise overlooking
the site of a historic 2008 victory celebration, Obama 2012 is
under construction.  Four years after hosting what began as a start-up with
about a dozen employees, President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
campaign is poised to bring hundreds of workers and global
attention back to his hometown.  Obama For America will be the first time in at least four
decades that an incumbent president has tried to win re-election
with a campaign based outside the Washington area. It also will
test whether his team can recreate for a sitting chief executive
the history and urgency that propelled Obama’s original run.  “There is going to more sobriety to the effort because of
the nature of the years we have been through and the reality
check of what governing means,”  David Axelrod , 56, the
president’s top political strategist said in an interview
yesterday. “But I think people are mature enough to see that
and understand that.”  The president has acknowledged the challenge of reigniting
the energy his campaign generated during a grueling two-year
drive for the White House.  “We may not have the exact same newness that we had in
2008,” Obama, 49, told supporters on a conference call April 4,
the day he launched his re-election bid. “That core spirit
about what this campaign has always been about, I think, is
still there.”  Fraternity House  The Chicago headquarters four years ago was driven by a
sense of irreverence and a fraternity house atmosphere
reminiscent of a web start-up. Suits and ties were non-existent,
and workers bunked together to save on rent.  Obama’s early success with online fundraising and social
networking in 2007 and 2008 won’t seem so new, now that other
campaigns have mastered the techniques as well. There also will
be  White House  protocols to observe.  The president will face additional challenges running as an
incumbent with a record, compared with 2008 when he was able to
draw on the idealism and enthusiasm of many young and first-time
voters. At the same time, he’ll have the presidential stage to
help get his message out.  Aware of the distance that the presidency inevitably
creates because of security, Obama and campaign manager  Jim Messina , 41, a former White House deputy chief of staff, have
stressed the importance of grassroots involvement.  ‘Find the Spark’  Taking the re-election campaign outside Washington will
help recreate some of the novelty of the first campaign, said
Paul Begala, a Democratic strategist and onetime political
adviser to former President  Bill Clinton .  “You can always find the spark,” Begala said. “People
have second honeymoons.”  Phil Singer, a Democratic strategist who was spokesman for
 Hillary Clinton ’s 2008 presidential bid, agreed that basing the
campaign in Chicago gave Obama an advantage last time and will
do so again. Clinton, then a U.S. senator from  New York  and now
secretary of state, based her campaign near  Washington .  “You are constantly seeing the entire political community,
and it creates a series of distractions,” he said, adding that
the 700 miles (1,127 kilometers) between Washington and Chicago
can easily be bridged by technology.  “There will inevitably be some communication gaps because
things will get lost in e-mail,” Singer said. “But the
advantages outweigh the disadvantages.”  One Hotel Suite  Obama’s campaign began in early 2007 with one room about
the size of a hotel suite. In a money-saving move, campaign
workers had to pay for the printing of their own business cards.
Travel to join the candidate for events in  Iowa  often involved a
five-hour road trip, not a ride on Air Force One.  Obama’s 2008 headquarters expanded to 33,000 square feet of
 office space , occupying the entire 11th floor of a Michigan
Avenue high-rise. This time, the headquarters eventually will
cover about 50,000 square feet inside  One Prudential Plaza , a
41-story building that is a few blocks from  Grant Park , where
Obama delivered his victory speech.  Axelrod, who left the White House as a senior adviser in
January, told a luncheon audience yesterday that being back in
Chicago will allow him to “sit back and think about the
landscape and the case we want to make,” away from the
political noise of Washington.  He said he’s already working every day on the campaign and
that the 2012 effort will use cutting-edge tools, just as it did
in 2008.  “The technology is only meaningful in so far as it allows
people to participate in your campaign,” Axelrod said in the
interview. “The technology has advanced and we have to advance
with that technology, and we will.”  He declined to offer an estimate on how quickly the
campaign office in Chicago would grow in size.  “It is going to ramp up quickly, not just here, but in the
states,” he said. “Obviously, we’re not going to hit full tilt
for a while.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  