-- 
Lockhart Says Fed Should Take Time in Removing Stimulus as Recovery Modest

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-08T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/lockhart-says-fed-should-take-time-in-removing-stimulus-as-recovery-modest.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the central bank should take its
time in withdrawing economic stimulus amid moderate growth and a
quickening of inflation that will probably prove temporary.  “My view of the future permits a degree of patience as
regards monetary policy,” Lockhart said today in the text of a
speech in Knoxville,  Tennessee . “There is still a halting and
fragile quality to the economy. I think the process of
restoration of full economic strength with higher employment
continues to require support.”  Policy makers, while noting a stronger economy and voicing
concern over inflation, differed over whether to begin removing
record stimulus this year after completing $600 billion in
purchases of U.S. Treasuries through June, according to minutes
of their March 15 meeting.  The European Central Bank yesterday lifted  interest rates 
for the first time in almost three years to curb inflation. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said April 4 at an Atlanta Fed
conference that he expects higher commodity prices to create a
“transitory” boost in inflation and that the central bank
would act if the increase were lasting.  Lockhart echoed that assessment, calling inflation from
commodities prices “transitory” and “muted” to the Knoxville
Economics Forum. He described inflation expectations of the
public for the long term as “stable.”  “Roughly two-thirds of  consumer spending  is on services,
which are not materials-intensive,” Lockhart said. “To the
extent that some goods and services have these commodity inputs,
the pass-through to ultimate consumer prices is limited” by
competitive pressures and higher productivity.  Strengthening Labor Market  Fed officials will update their economic forecasts at their
April 26-27 meeting amid a strengthening labor market. The  U.S.
economy  added 216,000 workers last month, more than forecast,
and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to a two-year
low of 8.8 percent, figures from the Labor Department showed
April 1.  “Although the economy may have lost some momentum at the
start of the year, and notwithstanding the factors exerting a
drag on growth, I still expect a continuing moderate pace of
expansion,” Lockhart said. “This moderate growth will
gradually bring down the level of unemployment.”  Inflation will probably “level off around a rate
consistent with the Fed’s price stability mandate,” he said.  The central bank’s policy committee said March 15 that the
U.S. economic recovery “is on a firmer footing,” while the
labor market is “improving gradually.”  Lockhart spent much of his speech discussing a “relatively
strong rebound” in manufacturing. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s manufacturing index was little changed at 61.2 in
March, after February’s 61.4 reading that was the highest since
May 2004, the Tempe, Arizona-based group reported April 1.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed regional bank presidents
rotate voting on monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in  West Palm Beach , Florida, at 
1310 or  smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  