-- 
Appeals Court to Hear Arguments on Gulf Drill-Permit Delay

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-04-08T15:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/oil-industry-s-gulf-drill-ban-appeal-to-get-june-hearing-in-new-orleans.html
A three-judge federal appeals court
panel said it will hear arguments in early June on the oil
industry’s challenge to the Obama administration’s deep-water
drilling policy.  “The hearing is scheduled for the week of June 6th,’’
Geralyn Maher, calendar supervisor for the 5th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in  New Orleans , said after the ruling was
posted on the court’s website.  The oil industry, led by  Ensco Plc (ESV) , sued Interior Secretary
Kenneth Salazar last year after he imposed a ban on drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet. Regulators called for the ban in
the wake of the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill, the worst offshore spill in
U.S. history, to give the industry time to improve drilling
safety and spill-cleanup capabilities.  U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman, also of New Orleans,
threw out the deep-water moratorium last year, along with
enhanced drilling-safety rules regulators had also implemented,
finding that the agency had acted improperly. Salazar promptly
imposed an almost identical second ban to keep drilling rigs
idle, then withdrew it before Feldman could rule on its
validity, after the industry sued to block that measure too.  Ensco broadened its complaint to accuse the agency of
continuing a de facto drilling moratorium by intentionally
dragging out the permitting process. The lawsuit claims
regulators have revoked previously issued permits and required
drillers to submit new applications and new drilling plans the
agency didn’t require before the  oil spill .  Feldman ordered the Interior Department in February to act
within 30 days on seven specific stalled permits associated with
the industry lawsuit. The appeals court stayed Feldman’s order,
at the government’s request. The hearing in June will focus on
the permitting delay claims.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New
Orleans). The appeal case is 11-30225, 5th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 