-- 
Oil Climbs Above $112 a Barrel on Libyan Armed Revolt, Weakness of Dollar

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-04-08T19:53:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/oil-climbs-above-111-a-barrel-on-libyan-armed-revolt-weakness-of-dollar.html
Crude rose above $112 in  New York 
for the first time in 30 months and Brent topped $126 on
skepticism that Libyan output will rebound when fighting ends
and as a weaker dollar increased demand for raw materials.  Oil climbed 2.3 percent in New York as  Barclays Capital 
said strikes on Libyan fields by forces loyal to Muammar Qaddafi
ended hopes for a prompt export resumption and may send prices
toward $130 a barrel. Commodities also gained as the dollar fell
to the lowest level in more than a year against the euro.  “Since the Libya unrest began, there’s been a re-coupling
of the inverse relationship between the dollar and oil,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “The Middle East is being used as cover by
speculators looking to send oil higher.”  Crude oil for May delivery rose $2.49 to $112.79 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
since Sept. 22, 2008. Futures advanced 4.5 percent this week and
are 32 percent higher than a year ago.  Brent oil for May settlement increased $3.98, or 3.2
percent, to end the session at $126.65 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest settlement
since July 30, 2008.  The European benchmark was at a $13.86-a-barrel premium
over West Texas Intermediate, the oil traded in New York. London Brent, traditionally cheaper than WTI, has been higher than the
Nymex grade since August because of ample U.S. stockpiles.  Since anti-government protests in  Libya  began Feb. 15, oil
in New York has increased 34 percent while the dollar has
declined 6.6 percent versus the euro.  NATO Strikes  North Atlantic Treaty Organization jets have struck 23
targets in the past two days in Libya, Rear Admiral Russell
Harding, the deputy commander of the NATO mission, said in
Naples,  Italy . The rebels’ six-week drive to topple Qaddafi’s
42-year rule has reached a military impasse as regime forces
outgunned the opposition.  Three oilfields with a combined output of 400,000 barrels a
day have been targeted by Qaddafi’s troops, Barclays analysts
led by London-based Amrita Sen, said in a report. Production
would be less than a third of its pre-conflict level even if the
rebels took control of the country’s fields, Nomura Holdings
Inc. said in a report.  “Libya is down for the count,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief
energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  Washington . “ Kuwait  is
the only country to come back 100 percent after a major
disruption over the last 30 years. Iran, Iraq and Venezuela
haven’t been able to get back to pre-disruption production
levels, so the outlook for Libya isn’t promising.”  Falling Output  Iran, the second-biggest oil producer in  the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries , increased output by 45,000
barrels a day to 3.7 million in March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The country pumped more than 5 million
barrels a day before the 1979 revolution.  Output in OPEC member Iraq hasn’t recovered since the
country’s invasion of Kuwait in 1990 touched off the Persian
 Gulf War . Venezuelan production hasn’t rebounded since a strike
in 2002 and 2003 crippled the country’s oil industry.  “The Libyan oil has been off the market for a while now,”
said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures in
New York. “Oil continues to rise on worries about Libyan oil
production and the continued weakness of the dollar. The rally
in  oil prices  should start to have an impact on the economy;
maybe it already is.”  Nigerian Poll  The gain accelerated after an explosion hit an office of
Nigeria’s electoral commission. Voters in Nigeria, Africa’s
biggest oil-producing country, go to the polls tomorrow to
choose members of parliament in the first of a three-stage
general election.  “We could easily come in Monday and see further
disruptions because of the Nigerian election,” said Phil Flynn,
vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “This is
critical because  Nigeria  produces high-quality crude that’s
similar to the missing barrels from Libya.”  The dollar slipped as much as 1 percent to $1.4444, the
lowest level since Jan. 10, 2010. A weaker U.S. currency reduces
the appeal of commodities, which are priced in dollars.  “If you want to know why commodities are up, take a look
at the dollar,” said Phil Flynn, vice president of research at
PFGBest in Chicago. “The dollar is dropping because the Fed is
out of whack with the rest of the globe when it comes to rate
expectations.”  The European Central Bank yesterday increased  interest
rates  for the first time in almost three years. Federal Reserve
Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said in Knoxville,
 Tennessee , that the ECB’s decision to raise borrowing may put
pressure on the dollar.  Commodity Rally  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
climbed 1.2 percent to 368.70, the highest since Sept. 25, 2008.
Gold for June delivery rose $14.80, or 1 percent, to settle at
$1,474.10 an ounce on the Comex in New York. The metal touched
an intraday record of $1,476.20 today.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 618,141 contracts as of 3:16
p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 696,794 contracts yesterday, 14
percent below the average of the past three months. Open
interest was 1.57 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  