-- 
Long Government Shutdown Would Harm U.S. Economy, Hit Washington Hardest

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-04-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/long-government-shutdown-would-harm-u-s-economy-hit-washington-hardest.html
An extended U.S. government shutdown
would cause increasing harm to the nation’s economy, with the
 Washington  area -- home to about 350,000 federal workers --
bearing the brunt of the damage.  “The economic damage would mount pretty quickly,” in a
two- or three-week shutdown, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester , Pennsylvania. “The
longer this drags on, the greater the odds it undermines
confidence more broadly.”  The direct costs of lost income to federal workers and
contractors would be about $6 billion a week, said Zandi. “The
dollars and cents would start to add up.”  Congressional leaders remain stalemated over funding the
U.S. government, with President  Barack Obama  unable to broker a
compromise after several White House meetings -- the most recent
one last night -- with House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat. The lawmakers’ staffs were continuing negotiations
into the night.  In brief remarks after last night’s session with Boehner
and Reid, Obama said that a shutdown could severely hamper the
economic recovery and job growth.  “We’ve been working very hard over the last two years to
get this economy back on its feet,” he said. “For us to go
backwards because Washington couldn’t get its act together is
unacceptable.”  Midnight Deadline  Failure to reach a deal on funding for the remaining six
months of the fiscal year would trigger a government shutdown at
midnight tonight, causing more than 800,000 “non-essential”
federal workers to be furloughed without pay.  Among services that would be halted are some mortgage
processing by the  Federal Housing Administration  and loan
approvals by the  Small Business Administration , while some tax
refunds would be delayed. Air traffic control, emergency
management and federal law enforcement would continue.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense
contractor, said it would keep its factories open and pay its
employees’ salaries and benefits.  “We have no plans to furlough anyone,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Bob Stevens said yesterday in a memo to
employees that was posted on the Bethesda, Maryland-based
company’s website. The company employs about 132,000 people and
has operations in 500 cities in the U.S., according to its
website.  A shutdown lasting two or three days would cause little
economic disruption.  “You’ve got a short-term impact that is likely to be
relatively minor, but it really does depend obviously on how
long it goes,” said  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff Economic
Advisors in Holland,  Pennsylvania .  Stocks Fall  Still, concern that an impasse over the federal budget may
lead to a shutdown helped push down stocks yesterday. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  slipped 17.26 points, or 0.1 percent,
to 12,409.49 at 4 p.m. in  New York , and the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index dropped 0.2 percent.  The Securities and Exchange Commission  said  an “extremely
limited” number of staff would be available to respond to
emergency situations, according to the agency’s website. The SEC
would be unable to process or review filings, provide
interpretive advice or issue no-action letters, it said.  Hardest hit of all local economies would be the Washington
area, which fared better than other cities during the recession
because of government employment.  ‘Tethered at the Hip’  It “will get hammered if this drags on for more than a few
days,” Zandi said. “The city’s economy is tethered at the hip
with the federal government.”  With museums and the National Zoo shuttered, tourism
dollars would decline.  Representative Jim Moran, a Virginia Democrat whose
district lies just outside the capital, is advising constituents
who work for the government to hold onto their cash, warning
that a shutdown may stretch into next week.  With so much concern over the U.S. deficit, it will be
difficult for lawmakers to approve legislation providing back
pay once the impasse is resolved, he said.  “They’re going to have to conserve their money to make
their mortgage and car payments,” Moran said. ‘They’re going to
have to determine what are the essentials.’’  He estimated that 100,000 federal workers in the Washington
area could be furloughed.  Government employees who live in Northern Virginia will see
paychecks halted and federal contractors may be forced to
furlough workers, hurting small businesses, he said.  Business Confidence Concerns  On a national scale, a big concern is the potential that a
shutdown would further erode business confidence “at a time
when a lot of companies and investors have inventory and cash
that could help accelerate the recovery,” said  Mike McNamara , a
former Commerce Department economist who is now a partner
specializing in public policy at  SNR Denton  law firm in
Washington.  The international community also will “look at this and
say ‘What’s happening in the  United States ?’” he said.  The  Business Roundtable , a Washington-based association
representing corporations, said in a statement that “a shutdown
would have negative and unforeseen consequences, including
heightening uncertainty and disrupting basic business services
to government agencies.”  Debt Ceiling  One potential bright spot: A shutdown over this year’s
budget may avert one later over a more contentious debate, as
early as May, over raising the nation’s debt ceiling, both
McNamara and Zandi said.  “There is a school of thought that if you do have a
shutdown, and everyone can win what they need to win and lose
what they are going to lose, you may pave the way for a more
favorable debate and outcome on the debt ceiling,” McNamara
said.  A closing of the federal government would come during the
week of the Labor Department’s employment survey period, when
the agency canvasses businesses and households to calculate this
month’s payroll and jobless figures.  The  unemployment rate  wouldn’t be affected, said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income economist at State Street Global
Markets LLC in  Boston .  A household survey is used to calculate the jobless rate.
The odds of contacting a significant enough number of the
800,000 furloughed workers to influence the rate are slim. Even
if reached, most of those employees would probably say they had
a job.  Effect on Payrolls  The influence on payrolls, a separate survey of employers,
would be more difficult to predict and would depend on the
length of furloughs, Herrmann said.  Elected officials, including Boehner, Reid and Obama, all
would be paid during a shutdown, unless Congress changes the
law. Soldiers,  law enforcement  officers and other government
employees whose jobs are deemed “essential” would keep working
yet wouldn’t get paychecks until the standoff is resolved.  There is no guarantee, though, that workers furloughed as
“non-essential” will be paid at all for time off when the
government closes for business.  The Senate has passed a measure to dock the pay of
lawmakers for the duration of a shutdown. A House measure, part
of the largely symbolic Prevention of Government Shutdown Act
approved last week, would dock the pay of the president in
addition to members of Congress. Neither proposal has taken
effect.  ‘Pretty Heavy Blow’  Illinois  Republican Representative Bobby Schilling, a
freshman, said a government shutdown would deal “a pretty heavy
blow” economically to his congressional district, which
includes the U.S. Army’s  Rock Island Arsenal .  “We have a large contingent of arsenal folks,” he said.  The arsenal is the largest employer in Rock Island County,
part of the  Quad Cities  area of western Illinois and eastern
Iowa, Schilling said.  The arsenal, which makes armor kits for the Army’s Humvee
vehicles and the carriage for the M-109 Howitzer artillery
cannon, employs more than 6,000 civilian government workers,
said spokesman Eric Cramer. It provides work for an additional
1,326 employees of private contractors, he said.  “I don’t think a shutdown would be good for the American
people whatsoever, not only in my district” but for “the men
and women across the country,” Schilling said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  