-- 
Morris Twins Forego Last Year as Kansas Jayhawks to Enter the NBA Draft

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-04-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/morris-twins-forego-last-year-as-kansas-jayhawks-to-enter-the-nba-draft.html
University of  Kansas  twins Marcus
and Markieff Morris decided to forego their senior year to enter
the National Basketball Association draft.  The brothers hired Tony Dutt of Rival Sports Group LLC,
based in  Beverly Hills ,  California , as their agent.  “Both have a great future,” Dutt said in a telephone
interview. “They’re quite special.”  Marcus was the leading scorer in 20 of 38 games during his
final season with the Jayhawks and led Kansas with 17.2 points
per game last season. Markieff was second with 13.6 points on
average. Markieff led the Big 12 by hitting 59 percent of his
field-goal attempts -- his twin was second at 57 percent.  “We’ve won a ton of games in the last three years and the
twins were a big part of that,” Jayhawks coach Bill Self said
in a statement.  Kansas finished last season with a 35-3 record. The
Jayhawks led the Big 12 regular-season standings with a 14-2
record and won the conference championship. They reached the
final eight in the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  as a
top seed, where they were upset 71-61 by Virginia Commonwealth
University.  “This was one of the most difficult decisions we have ever
made,” Marcus said in a statement. “When we say F.O.E. we are
saying Family Over Everything and that includes the Jayhawk
Nation.”  During their three-year career, the Jayhawks won three Big
12 regular-season titles and two Big 12 championships. Kansas
went 95-17 during with the pair on the team.  “This decision was tugging at both our hearts,” Markieff
said. “Coach Self thinks this is a good time and we feel this
is the best for us and for our family.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  