-- 
Howard Hughes Reports Narrower Quarterly Loss After Recording Tax Benefit

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-04-08T13:08:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/howard-hughes-reports-narrower-quarterly-loss-after-recording-tax-benefit.html
Howard Hughes Corp. (HHC) , the U.S.
property company spun off last year from  General Growth
Properties Inc. (GGP) , reported a narrower fourth-quarter loss after
recording a tax benefit.  The net loss was $4.6 million, or 12 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $535.9 million, or $14.21 a share, a
year earlier, the Dallas-based company said in a statement
yesterday. The company recorded a $651 million tax benefit in
the fourth quarter.  Howard Hughes  owns master-planned residential communities
and commercial real estate, including Summerlin, a 22,500-acre
(9,100 hectare) residential project in  Las Vegas , the
metropolitan area with the highest foreclosure rate in the U.S.
Among other Howard Hughes properties is South Street Seaport, a
shopping center in  Manhattan  that Chicago-based General Growth
tried to sell prior to its April 2009 bankruptcy.  “We are establishing a comprehensive long-term strategic
plan for each of our assets which will allow us to focus our
resources on the most attractive opportunities within our
portfolio,” David Weinreb, the company’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “The company’s unique
collection of assets provides us with a great opportunity to
create long-term value for our stockholders.”  Howard Hughes sold $24.5 million in land in its master-
planned developments in the fourth quarter, compared with $3.9
million a year earlier.  ‘Difficult to Value’  The company recorded $503.4 million in writedowns in 2010,
$405.3 of which was in its master-planned communities business
as demand for homes slumped. Purchases of new homes fell in
February to the slowest pace on record and prices dropped to the
lowest level since December 2003, Commerce Department data
showed March 23.  “The difficulty is that the real estate assets owned by
HHC are notoriously difficult to value,” Chairman  William Ackman  said in a letter to shareholders yesterday. “First, you
should consider that their long-term value -- the value that can
be achieved by a long-term owner -- is, in my opinion,
materially higher than their liquidation value.”  The earnings statement was released after the close of
regular U.S. trading. Shares of Howard Hughes fell $1.62, or 2.3
percent, to $68.25 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
yesterday. They gained 77 percent since the spinoff in November
from General Growth, the second-largest U.S. mall owner after
 Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , based in Indianapolis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 