-- 
Lloyds Said to Hire McKinsey to Plan Future After Bank Report

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-04-08T13:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/lloyds-said-to-hire-mckinsey-to-plan-future-after-bank-report.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  hired
McKinsey & Co. to advise on possible asset sales and
restructuring after the U.K. government-appointed  Independent
Commission on Banking  reports next week, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  The consulting firm is providing advice on ways the 41
percent state-owned bank might reorganize its operations as the
biggest mortgage lender and provider of checking accounts in the
U.K., the people said, declining to be identified because the
discussions are private. Other U.K. banks have held meetings
with Treasury ministers and officials in recent weeks, a third
person said.  The commission, led by  John Vickers , a former chief
economist at the  Bank of England , will announce its interim
findings on April 11 after examining possible measures to
improve competition and make the financial system more resilient
in the event of a banking crisis. It will provide a final report
to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  in September.  Lloyds became the largest U.K. mortgage lender after
acquiring Edinburgh-based HBOS Plc at the height of the credit
crisis in early 2009. The government-brokered takeover required
more than 20 billion pounds ($33 billion) of taxpayer aid and
saddled Lloyds with 13 billion pounds of losses.  Most at Risk  Lloyds and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  are most at
risk from the commission’s proposals because of their share of
the business-lending and current-account markets, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analysts including Frederik Thomasen wrote in a note
to clients yesterday. In an extreme scenario, the panel could
recommend the breaking-up of Lloyds’ takeover of HBOS, the
analysts said.  Vickers said in January he was looking at the ring-fencing,
or subsidiarization, of investment and consumer-banking units,
while ruling out a full breakup. RBS, which is 83 percent state-
owned,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  all oppose such a
move.  The commission may also recommend operational
subsidiarization, the separation of payment systems and retail
deposits from other banking operations, people familiar with the
situation said last week.  Business Secretary Vince Cable said in February he expects
the commission’s findings will lead to “radical surgery” to
protect banks’ retail arms from the activities of their
investment units.  Cable, a Liberal Democrat member of the Conservative-led
government, said ministers had appointed to the panel “expert
surgeons” whose conclusions would trigger “greater competition
and some form of breakup or separation of the different
activities of the banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  