-- 
Toyota to Resume Output at All Japan Plants After Disruptions From Quake

-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-04-08T07:55:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/toyota-to-resume-output-at-all-japan-plants-production-in-may-undecided.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the last of
Japan’s major automakers to announce plans to reopen domestic
auto plants after the nation’s record earthquake, will resume
output at all local factories on April 18.  Toyota will restart production at about 50 percent of full
capacity and continue manufacturing through April 27, said  Paul
Nolasco , a spokesman for the Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker.
The company may briefly halt factories on April 20 and hasn’t
decided on a production plan after Japan’s Golden Week holidays
in early May, Nolasco said.  Nissan Motor Co. said March 31 it will begin restarting
car-assembly plants from April 11, while Honda Motor Co. said
the same day it would restart  Japan  parts production this week
and auto plants from April 11. Toyota, the world’s largest
carmaker, closed most domestic factories after the 9-magnitude
earthquake and tsunami on March 11 damaged parts suppliers and
crippled a nuclear power plant, causing power shortages.  “By starting output gradually, Toyota can adjust
production as suppliers slowly get back to normal,” said
Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at consulting company Carnorama in
Tokyo. “There’s still a possibility for Toyota to meet its
production target for the financial year.”  Toyota rose 1.4 percent to 3,340 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo. The stock has fallen 8.5 percent since March
10, the day before the temblor.  Lost Earnings  Toyota has said it lost 260,000 units of production from
March 14 to April 8 after closing 18 factories, citing a
shortage of electronic parts, rubber and plastics.  The natural disaster may cost Toyota at least 100 billion
yen ($1.2 billion) for the fiscal year that ended March 31 and
200 billion yen this year, according to Koji Endo, an analyst at
Advanced Research Japan in  Tokyo .  The carmaker resumed output of three models at two
factories on March 28, prioritizing hybrids including the Prius.
Toyota built 3.28 million cars in Japan in 2010.  Toyota may have to slow production after April 27, said
Satoshi Yuzaki, an analyst at Takagi Securities Co. in Tokyo.  “It would be wrong to see this as Toyota coming back,”
Yuzaki said. “It is highly likely for production to stop again
as it will take a while for smaller suppliers to recover.”  Nissan, Honda  Honda aims to restart auto production at half the normal
rate next week, after resuming making parts for export plants
this week.  The Tokyo-based company has resumed production much faster
than expected, Chief Executive Officer Takanobu Ito said today
at the company’s quake-damaged research and development center
in Tochigi, north of Tokyo. It will take two to three months for
the factories to reach full levels of operation, he said.  Honda, Japan’s third-largest automaker after Toyota and
Nissan, has lost 58,000 units of production after closing
plants, Ito said. The company prefers to help existing suppliers
rather than seeking alternative vendors, he said.  The company has no plan to close the research center and
has sent 1,500 of 10,000 engineers to other locations, Ito said.  Nissan aims to begin 50 percent operation at parts and auto
assembly plants starting from April 11. Its damaged engine plant
in Iwaki, northern Japan, will resume output on April 18 as will
its car-assembly plant in Tochigi, Nissan said today. Other car-
assembly plants will reopen April 11 or April 13, it said.  Honda closed 1.4 percent higher in Tokyo at 2,969 yen.
Nissan fell 0.8 percent to 714 yen.  Credit Ratings  Among smaller Japanese automakers, Daihatsu Motor Co.,
Toyota’s minicar-making unit, still hasn’t decided when it will
open two plants in Osaka and Kyoto. the two plants are closed
through April 15, the company said.  Production constraints may also weigh on Japanese
automakers’ credit ratings. Moody’s Investors Service this week
said it may cut Toyota’s credit rating after the quake.  While Toyota’s plants haven’t suffered significant damage,
the disaster disrupted the shipping of about 500 types of
components, Moody’s said in a statement. Moody’s currently rates
Toyota Aa2, its third-highest investment grade.  “Toyota’s financial and operating performance will worsen
in the aftermath of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami and the
resulting supply chain disruptions,” Moody’s analysts Curt Beaudouin and Robert Young in  New York  wrote in a report.  Moody’s rates Nissan Baa2, while Honda has an A1 rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  