-- 
Toyota Cuts North America Output as Parts Shortage Reaches U.S.

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-04-08T21:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/toyota-n-a-vehicle-plants-suspended-april-15-18-21-22-25.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  will cut output
at North American plants starting next week because of a parts
shortage caused by last month’s earthquake in  Japan .  Toyota will suspend production at North American vehicle
factories on April 15, 18, 21, 22, and 25, and engine and parts
plants in the region will follow the same schedule, the Toyota
City, Japan-based company said yesterday on its website. The
plant in Georgetown,  Kentucky , will remain open April 21.  “It was inevitable that disruptions to suppliers in Japan
would trickle down to North American operations,” Bill Visnic,
an analyst with Santa Monica, California-based researcher
Edmunds.com, said in an e-mailed statement.  Toyota said production plans after the April closings will
be determined later. The company said it gets about 85 percent
of the parts and materials for its 12 North American-built
Toyota and Lexus models from suppliers on the continent.  Toyota has about 25,000 employees in  North America . Workers
not needed on days when production has stopped can either take
vacation, unpaid time off or report to the factory for training
and “plant improvement activities,” Toyota said.  “We are slowing down to conserve parts yet maintain
production as much as possible,” Steve St. Angelo, executive
vice president of Toyota Motor Engineering and Manufacturing
North America, said in the statement.  While the parts shortage hasn’t disrupted Chrysler Group
LLC’s regular production, the automaker is cutting some planned
overtime this week and next to conserve components, Katie
Hepler, a spokeswoman for the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
company, said yesterday in an e-mail.  General Motors Co. (GM) , based in Detroit, canceled overtime
yesterday at a sport-utility vehicle assembly plant in
Arlington,  Texas .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  