-- 
Greek Debt Restructuring Neither Necessary Nor Desirable, Papademos Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-04-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/papademos-says-losses-on-greek-debt-neither-desirable-nor-needed.html
Lucas Papademos , the former vice-
president of the  European Central Bank , said a restructuring of
Greek debt entailing losses for investors isn’t necessary and
the government’s priority is to apply its economic plan.  Restructuring that “involves haircut losses for investors
is not desirable and it’s not necessary,” Papademos said at a
conference in  Washington  yesterday. “It is not desirable
because its potential adverse consequences are likely to exceed
the perceived benefits. And it’s not necessary if the adjustment
program is implemented appropriately as I believe it can be and
it should be.”  Papademos, a former head of the central bank of Greece, is
now an adviser to Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou , who is
implementing wage and pension cuts as part of a deficit-trimming
drive in return for 110 billion euros ($158 billion) in funds
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund . With
debt rising to 159 percent of economic output in 2012,
economists and ratings companies say the country may restructure
its debt load to revive growth amid spending cuts.  There is “confusion in the public debate,” Papademos
said, adding concepts of debt restructuring can have different
meanings and consequences. The first can entail so-called
haircuts, or losses for bondholders. The second can involve a
voluntary agreement to extend the maturity structure with terms
and conditions that effectively don’t result in any significant
change in the net present value of the securities, he said.  ‘Implicit’  When asked whether he saw the second possibility in the
future, Papademos said: “I’m not responding formally to your
question but this was implicit.”  Billionaire investor  George Soros  said Greece should
“reprofile” its debt without losses for private bondholders,
according to an interview in  Kathimerini  this week.  A reorganization of Greek debt should mean cutting interest
paid to about 3 percent, lengthening the maturity of the bonds
by more than 10 years while keeping the same nominal value and
thus avoiding losses on holdings of Greek  government bonds , the
newspaper cited Soros saying. That would prevent problems for
Greek banks, Kathimerini cited Soros as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Paris at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  