-- 
Peru Raises Benchmark Rate to 4% as Growth Surges, Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-04-08T19:25:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/peru-raises-rate-to-4-as-gdp-surges-inflation-accelerates.html
Peru ’s policy makers raised their
benchmark lending rate yesterday for the ninth time in 12 months
after inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in almost three
years amid booming economic growth.  The central bank’s seven-member board raised its benchmark
rate by a quarter-point to 4 percent from 3.75 percent, matching
15 of 19 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Four
analysts forecast a half-point increase.  Central bank President Julio Velarde last week said that
surging prices for grain and crude oil risk pushing annual
inflation above the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target
range. Rising employment, wages and revenue from copper and gold
exports fueled year-on-year economic growth of 9.5 percent in
the first quarter after 2010’s 8.8 percent expansion, Finance
Minister Ismael Benavides said yesterday.  “If the central bank sees inflation going beyond 3
percent, they won’t hesitate to tighten further,” said Augusto Saldarriaga, head of analysis at Banco Internacional del Peru.
“ Monetary policy  is pretty neutral. They may have to keep
tightening to keep inflation under control.”  The bank will continue to raise rates at a pace dictated by
available data and will do so as inflation expectations rise,
Adrian Armas, the bank’s research director, said today in a
conference call with reporters from Lima.  Prices, Risk  Consumer prices rose 0.7 percent last month, the steepest
rise since June 2008, led up by higher food costs. About half
the increase was due to the higher cost of imports such as corn,
according to the national statistics agency. The annual rate
rose to a 20-month high of 2.66 percent.  Yields on Peruvian bonds have risen ahead of April 10’s
first-round presidential vote amid investor concern that former
renegade army Colonel Ollanta Humala may win.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 has risen 35 basis points, or
0.35 percentage point, since March 20 to 6.65 percent, according
to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  The sol gained 0.1 percent to 2.7985 per dollar at 3:20
a.m. New York time, from 2.8024 yesterday. The currency has
declined 1.1 percent since March 18, the worst performance
against the dollar among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  Projections  “This measure aims to limit the impact on inflation
expectations from increases in international food and fuel
prices, in a context of high growth in domestic demand,” the
central bank said in a  statement  posted on its website. “Future
adjustments in the benchmark rate will depend on new information
about inflation and its determinants.”  BBVA Banco Continental, Peru’s second-largest bank,
projects consumer prices will rise 3.4 percent in 2011.
Scotiabank Peru, the country’s third-largest lender, expects
rising food costs will push 12-month inflation to 3 percent in
April and to 3.5 percent this year.  Policy makers’ statement explaining their decision dropped
language describing the move as “preventative,” Citigroup
Global Markets Inc. Latin America economists Joaquin A. Cottani
and Camilo Gonzalez noted in a research note e-mailed to
investors.  “We believe the BCRP will have to undertake a more
aggressive policy stance, in order to prevent demand-driven
inflationary pressures from rising,” the economists wrote.  ‘Major Cut’  Though the central bank expects a correction in
agricultural commodity prices in the second half of 2011, “the
risk is these price pressures persist for longer than
anticipated,” said Scotiabank economist  Mario Guerrero , who
predicted policy makers would raise the benchmark rate by 50
basis point to 4.25 percent yesterday.  The government is doing all it can to tame consumer prices,
including a “major cut” in spending, to keep 2011 inflation at
3 percent to 3.5 percent, Benavides said last week.  The government has cut the  sales tax  this year, lowered
import tariffs on some food products, frozen fuel prices, and
proposed a fuel tax cut to mitigate the rise in international
grain and crude  oil prices . Peru is a net importer of oil,
soybeans, corn and wheat.  A “lax” fiscal policy has “super-charged” the expansion
of the $153 billion economy which is in danger of overheating,
Morgan Stanley said in a March 21 report.  Gross domestic product rose 8.5 percent to 9 percent in
February from a year ago, after 10 percent growth in January,
Benavides told reporters in Lima yesterday.  Credit Demand  The central bank tightened  reserve requirements  for a third
straight month on April 1 to rein in bank lending after credit
grew 20 percent in February from a year earlier and 1.3 percent
from January.  Demand for credit will slow, bringing the annual growth
rate for 2011 to 16 percent, Velarde said March 31. Armas today
said that credit had risen 21 percent from a year ago.  Peru,  South America ’s sixth-largest economy, will probably
expand 7 percent this year as rising private investment offsets
slower growth in public spending, the central bank said last
month. It previously projected 2011 growth of 6.5 percent.  “The central bank is worried because the economy and
inflation is so strong,” said Saldarriaga. “Overheating is
their main concern. They need to put the brakes on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  