-- 
Petroleos Mexicanos May Increase Shallow-Water Rigs to 40

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-04-08T17:54:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/petroleos-mexicanos-may-increase-jack-up-rigs-to-40-this-year.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , Latin America’s
largest oil producer, plans to operate “around 40” shallow-
water drilling rigs in the  Gulf of Mexico  as it aims to boost
annual output for the first time in seven years.  The  Mexico  City-based company will lease 15 more jack-up
rigs and renew contracts to operate offshore drilling equipment
in the Gulf of Mexico, said  Carlos Morales , head of production
and exploration at Pemex. Jack-ups are units with retractable
legs that extend as much as 400 feet to the sea floor.  “We’re ramping-up our leasing of jack-ups,” Morales said
yesterday in an interview in Buenos Aires. “We’re going to
renew lease contracts and we’re going to add new rigs.”  Pemex, the state-owned  oil company , is targeting 85 percent
of its $23 billion investment budget for exploration and
production as it seeks to boost output for the first time since
2004. Morales said in August the company planned to lease rigs
to get newer equipment and better prices.  A U.S. ban on Gulf of Mexico drilling that halted rig use
in the region was lifted in October. The U.S. froze deep-water
drilling permits after  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well exploded in April
2010, causing the largest U.S. offshore oil spill.  “Hopefully, we will see some jack-ups return to work in
Mexico very quickly,”  Noble Corp. (NE)  Chief Executive Officer David
Williams, said at a Feb. 9 energy conference. “Pemex has said
they’re committed to the jack-up business, they keep telling us,
we keep telling you, but it remains to be seen whether or not
they can actually do that.”  Noble owns the world’s second-largest fleet of offshore
drilling rigs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 