-- 
Petrobras Urged to Boost Ethanol Output as Prices Jump, Minister Says

-- B y   K a t i a   C o r t e s
-- 
2011-04-08T18:48:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/petrobras-urged-to-boost-ethanol-output-as-prices-jump-minister-says.html
Brazilian Mining and Energy Minister
Edison Lobao said he ordered state-run oil producer Petroleo
Brasileiro SA to boost ethanol output and stockpiles to ensure
supplies after the biofuel’s priced soared.  Petrobras will raise production and build up enough
stockpiles in two years to help the government keep prices and
supply in check, Lobao said in a program broadcast live on TV
and radio today. The government increased financing to ethanol
and may propose the fuel, which is made from sugar cane in
 Brazil , be regulated by the National Petroleum Agency, he said.  “We’re studying several measures to guarantee ethanol
supply to drivers,” Lobao said. “I ordered Petrobras to enter
more strongly in production and become a regulating agent in the
ethanol market.”  The government is seeking to stem a 23 percent price jump
in ethanol prices and supply shortages after rising sugar prices
last year led mills to produce more sweetener than fuel. Cosan
SA Industria & Comercio, which controls the world’s largest
sugar-cane processor with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , fell the most
in 10 months in  Sao Paulo  trading yesterday amid concerns that
the government may intervene in ethanol production.  Ethanol reached a record 1.694 reais ($1.07) per liter in
the Paulinia distribution hub in northern Sao Paulo state on
March 23, after doubling in a year, according to the University
of Sao Paulo’s Cepea research unit index. It has since fallen,
declining to 1.419 reais per liter yesterday. One liter is equal
to about a quarter of a gallon.  Price Control  President Dilma Rousseff and Lobao have prevented Petrobras
from raising gasoline prices at its refineries on bets oil will
“reach stability,” the minister said. Crude oil climbed above
$111 in  New York  for the first time in 30 months today and is 30
percent higher than a year ago.  Brazil’s annual inflation rate rose more than expected in
March to 6.3 percent compared with a year earlier, close to the
upper 6.5 percent limit of the government’s target range, the
national statistics agency said yesterday. The central bank
raised the benchmark lending rate by 50 basis points at each of
their two meetings in 2011 to 11.75 percent in a bid to curb
price increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Cortes in Brasilia at  at
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  