-- 
PetroChina Denies Report of Possible Plan to Purchase China Gas Holdings

-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 
2011-04-08T04:29:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/petrochina-has-no-plan-to-buy-gas-company-spokesman-mao-says.html
PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest
energy producer, denied a report by a news service owned by the
Financial Times that the company is considering buying Hong
Kong-listed  China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384)   “We’ve no plan to buy a listed gas company in the
foreseeable future,”  Mao Zefeng , a Beijing-based spokesman for
PetroChina, said in a telephone interview, when asked if the
energy producer may acquire China Gas.  PetroChina is working with Bank of America Merril Lynch on
a possible purchase of China Gas and may use its gas unit Kunlun
Energy Co. to buy the company should it push ahead with a bid,
dealReporter reported, citing unidentified people familiar with
the matter. The report is wrong, Eric Leung, joint managing
director at China Gas, said by phone, declining to elaborate.  China Gas shares pared gains after rising as much as 11
percent to HK$3.93 today, the highest since Dec. 2. The stock
was up 6.8 percent at the midday break. The gas supplier said in
a statement released during the recess that it hasn’t received
any bid from PetroChina.  In addition to its piped-gas business, China Gas operates
102 gas filling stations for vehicles and 44 liquefied petroleum
gas distribution projects. PetroChina’s parent China National
Petroleum Corp. owns a 4.8 percent stake in China Gas, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  CNPC isn’t planning to buy China Gas, Liu Weijiang, a
Beijing-based spokesman at the state-controlled energy producer,
said by phone, when asked if the company was considering a bid.  PetroChina fell 0.3 percent to HK$12.18, while Kunlun
Energy gained 3.6 percent to HK$13.70. The benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  advanced 0.6 percent. Patrick Lau, secretary of Kunlun
Energy, couldn’t be reached by telephone for comment.  Police Probe  China Gas slumped to the lowest in more than a year in Hong
Kong in February after dismissing its former managing director,
who was arrested by police for suspected embezzlement.  Managing Director Liu Ming Hui and Executive President
Huang Yong were detained by the Shenzhen Public Security Bureau
on Dec. 18 for suspected “embezzlement of the assets of an
organization in which they have duties,” China Gas said Jan. 25.  The police probe may focus on the acquisition of five gas
projects in Hubei province in 2004, Leung said on Jan. 31. In
the worst-case scenario, this may lead to the company having to
write off assets worth HK$178 million ($23 million), Leung said.  China Gas is rated a “buy” by nine out of 20 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Five recommend holding the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Duce in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 