-- 
Philippine Bonds, Peso Gain for Week on Inflation, Deficit Data

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-04-08T08:43:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/philippine-bonds-peso-gain-for-week-on-inflation-deficit-data.html
Philippine  government bonds  and the
peso gained this week after a government report showed consumer
prices rose less than economists predicted and the  budget
deficit  narrowed.  “The fear that interest-rate increases would be rapid has
dissipated after the inflation report, while the latest budget
data showed the government has its finances under control,”
said Bunny Bernardo-Recto, vice president at Chinatrust
Philippines Commercial Bank Corp. in Manila.  Five-year notes completed a fourth weekly gain after data
on April 5 showed the inflation rate was 4.3 percent in March,
the same as the previous month, and less than the 4.6 percent
median estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
central bank increased borrowing costs last month for the first
time in more than two years and Governor Amando Tetangco
signaled yesterday that further tightening may be necessary.  The yield on the 7 percent bond due January 2016 fell 35
basis points, or 0.35 percentage point, this week to 5.33
percent as of 4:39 p.m. in  Manila , according to Tradition
Financial Services. The rate climbed 10 basis points today.  The peso rose 0.9 percent to 43.00 per dollar this week,
its strongest level since Nov. 8, according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. The currency advanced 0.2 percent today.  The budget deficit in the first two months of the year was
8.1 billion pesos ($188 million), compared with 70.3 billion
pesos in the same period a year earlier, the government reported
on April 5.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas still sees inflation risks and
may “take further action if necessary,” Governor Tetangco said
in Bali,  Indonesia  yesterday.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  