-- 
Poland May Need ‘Decisive’ Rate Increases to Curb Prices, Kazmierczak Says

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-04-08T14:38:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/poland-may-need-decisive-rate-increases-to-curb-prices-kazmierczak-says.html
Poland ’s central bank may need to
consider “bigger, more decisive” increases in its key interest
rate if commodity prices push annual inflation above 4 percent,
Andrzej Kazmierczak of the Monetary Policy Council said.  Inflation accelerated in March beyond the 3.6 percent rate
recorded in February and will stay near 4 percent in subsequent
months, Kazmierczak said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday.
Last month’s annual consumer-price increase matched the fastest
pace in 17 months. The zloty firmed against the euro.  “If inflation reaches 4 percent, that’s the danger
signal,” said Kazmierczak, who voted against all motions for
higher rates in 2010, central bank records show. “If it exceeds
that level then further rate increases are unavoidable. We may
even have to consider whether bigger, more aggressive hikes are
needed, especially if inflation expectations aren’t quelled.”  Policy makers across the globe are struggling to contain
accelerating inflation, driven by surging food and fuel prices.
Central bankers in Warsaw this week lifted the benchmark seven-
day rate by a quarter-point to 4 percent, the second increase
this year.  The decision came after consumer-price growth remained
above the upper end of the central bank’s tolerance range of
between 1.5 percent and 3.5 percent for a fifth month in
February and consumers predicted inflation will accelerate to
4.6 percent in 12 months, the  biggest one-month jump  in the
inflation-expectations survey in a decade.  ‘Main Opponent’  Kazmierczak’s comments indicate a shift within the Narodowy
Bank Polski’s rate panel as he previously was “the main
opponent of monetary policy tightening,” said Jaroslaw Janecki,
chief economist at  Societe Generale  in Warsaw.  “Inflation will probably hit the maximum acceptable level
indicated by Kazmierczak pretty soon,” he said by phone. “This
brings us closer to rate increases he’d support.”  The zloty rose to as high 3.9508 per euro, advancing 1.6
percent this week for its biggest rise since the beginning of
January. The currency posted the steepest advance among more
than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
zloty traded at 3.963 at 3:30 p.m. in Warsaw, up from 3.969 late
yesterday.  Investors in interest-rate derivatives have raised their
bets for higher borrowing costs this year. Nine-month forward-
rate agreements rose 4 basis points today to 5.23 percent and
are now trading 0.98 percentage point above the three-month
Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate.  Inflation Accelerates  Inflation probably accelerated to 3.8 percent last month,
the fastest since April 2009, according to the median estimate
of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The statistics office
will release the figures on April 13.  Faster inflation may decrease consumers’ propensity to
save, weakening the banking system’s role as a financial
intermediary, Kazmierczak said, adding that price growth is also
pressuring wages.  “The inflation problem has gotten serious,” he said. “It
will necessarily lead to second-round effects by boosting wage
demands as we can already see this happening in industries where
unions play a strong role, like power utilities and mining.
Other industries may follow suit.”  Kazmierczak’s change of tone contrasts with his comments
last year that monetary policy is powerless to curb supply-
driven inflation, while Poland’s economy was growing too slowly
to exert price pressure. Policy makers voted four times last
year on motions to increase borrowing costs, rejecting them all.  ‘Pragmatic, Not Dogmatic’  “I’m not an advocate of hasty, frequent rate increases
because I’m convinced they have negative consequences for the
real economy,” Kazmierczak said. “At the same time, I’m
pragmatic, not dogmatic. I haven’t forgotten that high inflation
poses grave risks to economic growth.”  Poland’s decision on April 5 to keep raising rates came the
same week  China  increased its one-day lending rate and the
 European Central Bank  lifted borrowing costs for the first time
in almost three years.  Inflation probably won’t slow to the central bank’s 2.5
percent target by the end of this year and even the government’s
forecast of 2.8 percent in 2012 “seems unrealistic,”
Kazmierczak said.  “The inflation rate will fall in the second half of the
year to the top end of the target range rather than to 2.5
percent,” he said. “We don’t see the global drivers of price
growth disappearing; instead, we expect them to strengthen.”  While March inflation will accelerate from 3.6 percent in
February, policy makers won’t be forced to respond if the rate
stays below 4 percent, Kazmierczak said.  “Then we can heave a sigh of relief and say the worst is
over,” he said. “Until we breach 4 percent, we have some
breathing room and further tightening isn’t absolutely
necessary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  