-- 
Polish Zloty Has Best Week in Two Months on Rates; Bonds Fall

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-04-08T15:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/polish-zloty-has-best-week-in-two-months-on-rates-bonds-fall.html
The zloty had the biggest weekly
gain in two months and bonds fell after a policy maker said the
central bank may need to raise rates in larger increments to
quell inflation.  Poland ’s currency gained 0.2 percent to 3.9619 per euro as
of 4:46 p.m. in Warsaw. It advanced 1.4 percent this week for
the biggest increase since the first week of February, the best
performer among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The yield on bonds due in January 2013 rose 1
basis point to 5.04 percent, snapping a four-day decline.  Policy makers may need to consider “bigger, more
decisive” increases in the key interest rate if commodity
prices push annual inflation above 4 percent, Monetary Policy
Council member Andrzej Kazmierczak said in an interview
published today. He voted against all motions for higher rates
in 2010, according to central bank voting records.  Kazmierczak “seemed to have changed his tune a lot and it
looks like a hardcore group of hawks is now forming,”  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital, said
by phone from  London . “The zloty has really picked up momentum
with the central bank sounding more hawkish this week and after
the comments this morning.”  Policy makers raised the main interest rate for the second
time this year on April 5, saying surging commodity prices posed
the risk that inflation will stay high for a sustained period.
It was too early to tell whether Poland is nearing the end of
its monetary-tightening cycle, according to Governor  Marek Belka .  Inflation Concern  The decision came after February consumer-price growth
remained above the upper end of the central bank’s target range
for a fifth month and consumers predicted inflation will
accelerate to 4.6 percent in 12 months, the biggest one-month
jump in the inflation-expectations survey in a decade.  Investors in interest-rate derivatives have raised their
bets for higher borrowing costs. Nine-month forward-rate
agreements rose 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
5.22 percent and are now trading 0.96 percentage point above the
three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate.  Poland’s inflation rate probably rose to an annual 3.8
percent in March, the highest level in 23 months, from 3.6
percent in February, the statistics office may say on April 13,
according to a median estimate from 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The central bank’s goal is to keep price growth
within 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net 
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  