-- 
Portugal Told to Make Deeper Deficit Cuts to Gain $116 Billion EU Bailout

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-04-09T14:37:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/portugal-may-be-forced-to-make-deeper-cuts-than-ones-rejected-by-lawmakers.html
Europe’s wealthy countries looked to
 Portugal  to resolve the year-old euro debt crisis by coming up
with “sustainable” deficit cuts to pave the way to an 80
billion-euro ($116 billion) bailout.  Confident that Portugal will be the last aid seeker, German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  pushed the feuding political
parties in Lisbon to unite behind an austerity package in the
thick of an election campaign.  “It’s up to Portugal to decide,” Schaeuble told reporters
today at a meeting of European finance officials in Godollo,
 Hungary . Portugal “has to deliver sustainable measures for
reducing the deficit.”  Bond markets reflected optimism that Spain will escape the
turmoil, while speculation mounted that Greece might need
further help to deal with the billowing debt that triggered the
crisis last year.  Finance ministers agreed yesterday to send European
Commission,  European Central Bank  and International Monetary
Fund officials to Lisbon next week to start negotiations over
the package, with the goal of wrapping it up on May 16, three
weeks before Portugal’s June 5 election.  Portugal’s bond yields surged to euro-era highs after the
opposition party balked on March 23 at a program of additional
savings of 4.5 percent of gross domestic product over three
years, leading Prime Minister Jose Socrates to step down and
prompting downgrades in the country’s credit rating.  Extra Yield  Yesterday’s European pledge failed to buoy the Portuguese
market. Ten-year yields rose 5 basis points to 8.66 percent,
leaving the extra yield over German bonds at 518 basis points.  Europe’s effort to return to fiscal health is also dogged
by the threat of higher borrowing costs after the ECB this week
lifted its main interest rate for the first time in almost three
years.  In a sign of how Portugal has surrendered control of its
fate, the European Union will intrude on the political campaign
by trying to broker a cross-party budget-cutting deal between
Socrates and the opposition party led by  Pedro Passos Coelho .  Anibal  Cavaco Silva , the largely ceremonial Portuguese
president, said he will play a role in forging an initial accord
on an economic overhaul that will be followed up by the future
government.  Interim Program  “What we need now is an interim program so the next
government can participate in the final negotiations because it
is the next government that is going to implement the program,”
Cavaco Silva told reporters at a separate event in Budapest
today.  Both parties “are sticking to the general budgetary
objectives” of shaving the deficit to 4.6 percent of GDP this
year, 3 percent in 2012 and 2 percent in 2013, Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said.  “Discussing deeply unpopular measures ahead of elections
will not be easy,”  Gilles Moec , a London-based economist at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in a research note. “Some volatile
newsflow is likely to emerge in the next few days from Lisbon.”  In addition to budget cuts and the sale of state assets,
Portugal will be pressed to lessen regulations that have helped
keep its annual economic growth rate below 1 percent for the
past decade, one of  Europe ’s worst records.  The 80-billion-euro aid estimate is “very, very
preliminary,” EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn
said in Godollo. He said Portugal’s loans would be “most
likely” for three years, shorter than the 7 1/2-year maturities
on joint EU-IMF packages of 110 billion euros for Greece and
67.5 billion euros for Ireland.  ‘Move Expeditiously’  As with the first two bailouts, two-thirds of the loans
would come from the EU and one-third from the IMF. The
Washington-based global lender is “prepared to move
expeditiously,” Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said
in a statement yesterday.  “I never write I check before I see the bill,” French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said. “Work has to be done
quickly.”  Politics in the bill-paying countries will also play a role,
with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s popularity suffering and
polls showing a surge in support for a euro-skeptic party in
 Finland ’s April 17 elections.  Finnish Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen, a candidate for
prime minister, said Portugal must enact deficit cuts that go
beyond the measures rejected last month in parliament.  “The package must be really strict because otherwise it
doesn’t make any sense,” Katainen said yesterday. “The package
must be harder and more comprehensive than the one the
parliament voted against.”  Debt Crisis  Finance ministers also took steps to loosen the economic
noose around  Greece , the country that triggered the debt crisis
when it veered toward default a year ago.  Plans to lengthen Greece’s maturities to 7 1/2 years from 3
years were confirmed at the meeting, along with a cut in the
average lending rate by 1 percentage point to around 3.5 percent.  Ireland has made less progress in winning a cut in its 5.8
percent aid rate, facing pressure from  Germany  and  France  to
first lift its 12.5 percent business tax rate, about half the EU
average.  Investors are charging Greece 938 basis points more than
Germany to borrow for 10 years and Ireland 577 basis points.
Spain’s spread has been compressed to 178 basis points from 283
basis points on Nov. 30, a sign of growing confidence in  Spain ’s
financial management.  “I do not see any risk of contagion -- we are totally out
of this,” Spanish Finance Minister Elena Salgado said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Godollo, Hungary at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Godollo, Hungary at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  