-- 
Portugal Aid Should Focus on First Tranche Before Final Deal, Nowotny Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-04-08T08:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/portugal-aid-should-focus-on-first-tranche-before-final-deal-nowotny-says.html
European Union leaders should
provide a first lifeline to  Portugal  “as fast as possible”
after the government asked for external aid, European Central
Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said.  “The best approach is to agree as fast as possible on a
first tranche and then to go for the final program,” Nowotny
told Bloomberg News late yesterday in Budapest before a meeting
of European finance ministers and central bank governors. “It’s
the right thing to do,” he said about the aid request.  Portugal is the third euro-region nation in less than a
year to seek an EU-led bailout after  Greece  sparked a sovereign-
debt crisis that threatened to splinter the currency union.
While the ECB yesterday raised its key rate by 25 basis points
to 1.25 percent to fight inflation risks, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the bank had encouraged Portugal to ask for aid.  The challenge for Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos will be negotiating an interest rate on
bailout loans that doesn’t strangle an economy that’s barely
grown in the past decade.  “It is in our interest to have a quick negotiation,” dos
Santos told reporters at today’s meeting. “That will be
demanding, given the political situation in Portugal.”  Portugal’s package may be worth as much as 90 billion euros
($130 billion), Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  told
reporters today. Portugal may pay rates similar to what Greece
is being charged for its rescue loans, which were renegotiated
last month, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  