-- 
Sellers of Portfolios-To-Go May Become Wall Street’s Next Thundering Herd

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-04-08T14:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/portfolios-to-go-may-become-wall-street-s-next-thundering-herd.html
Andy Cohen, 47, uses exchange-traded
fund portfolios recommended by  MarketRiders Inc.  to manage his
 retirement plan  and children’s college savings. He’s charged
about $10 a month.  “I don’t have enough money that I have a dedicated wealth
manager,” said Cohen, who lives in  San Mateo ,  California , and
is chief executive officer of  Caring.com , which offers resources
for children helping aging parents. “It got me a much more
diversified portfolio than I could have ever done on my own.”  The next thundering herd on  Wall Street  may be the ranks of
low-cost portfolio managers such as MarketRiders and  Folio
Investing , which cater to self-directed investors like Cohen.
Sites that sell prepackaged portfolios have attracted more than
$3 billion in assets over the last three years as more investors
leave their full-service brokers.  “Individual investors have started to realize they can
actually do some things as self-directed investors reasonably
well, if they’re given a platform that allows them to invest
more intelligently,” said Steven Wallman, chief executive
officer of Folio Investing, where investors can purchase
predesigned and customized index portfolios for $29 a month.  Some of the firms, such as  Flat Fee Portfolios , are too new
to have any performance history. MarketRiders can’t track the
actual performance of its customers’ accounts, since it doesn’t
have custody of their assets.  Covestor  and  Wealthfront Inc. ,
which give users access to third-party investors, publish
performance history for the managers they work with on their
sites.  Performance History  “Who are the people that are advising me when I’m going to
a faceless website?” said Chris Walters, head of wealth
management for  Pasadena , California-based CitizensTrust. He said
investors should be concerned by the lack of performance history
available from some of the firms.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney, the top two full-service brokerages by client
assets, had combined outflows of about $150 billion during 2009,
the most recent year for which data is available, and about
10,600 financial advisers left the firms that year, according to
Aite Group, a Boston-based research firm. Merrill Lynch hasn’t
seen a trend of investors leaving the broker, said Selena Morris, a spokeswoman for the bank.  Change in Focus  “The number one source of accounts is what we would refer
to as full-commission brokers,” said Peter Sidebottom,
executive vice president of product, marketing and client
experience for Omaha, Nebraska-based  TD Ameritrade Holding
Corp. (AMTD) , which caters to do-it-yourself investors. Accounts with
TD Ameritrade increased by 14 percent over the two years through
December and assets are up 65 percent over the same period, to
$386 billion.  Traditional brokerages are focusing more on their
wealthiest clients in an effort to improve profitability, so the
customers leaving these firms tend to be the ones with the
smallest accounts, said Katharine Wolf, senior analyst for
Cerulli Associates, a Boston-based research firm.  “They’re not looking to target a client that has, say,
under $250,000 to invest,” she said.  Those investors are potential customers for services such
as Flat Fee Portfolios, which began opening accounts in
February. Clients with assets of less than $250,000 are offered
several predesigned portfolios with an annual review for a fee
of $129 a month.  It’s the “Wolfgang Puck Express” of  portfolio management ,
said Mark Cortazzo, founder of Flat Fee Portfolios, referring to
the celebrity chef who sells gourmet dishes for low prices at
his fast-food restaurants. The portfolios are managed by Macro
Consulting Group in Parsippany,  New Jersey .  Accessible Price  “It’s for people who want good quality asset management,”
at a price that is “accessible to a much wider demographic,”
he said. The firm charges $199 a month and provides semiannual
reviews for accounts with at least $250,000.  At  Hedgeable Inc. , investors can choose from among 20
different exchange-traded fund or stock model portfolios. Fees
for the service, which began opening accounts through its
website in December, range from 0.75 percent to 1.5 percent.
Investors like the transparency of the Web-based business
models, said Mike Kane, founder of the New York-based firm.  “Traditionally in the investment advisory world you hand
over to your adviser say $100,000, and they invest it how they
see fit. You meet with them once a quarter or once a year and
you really don’t have any control beyond that,” Kane said.
Hedgeable investors can view up-to-date account information
including transactions and holdings on their mobile phones, he
said.  E-Mail Exchange  Some of the services leave investors in control of their
assets and others take discretionary authority over client
accounts. With Flat Fee Portfolios, managers have discretion
over client assets. MarketRiders gives advice on investment
decisions, such as rebalancing, and investors may then choose
whether to apply it to their own brokerage accounts. Other than
Folio Investing, which is a broker-dealer, all of the firms are
registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as
investment advisers.  “The beauty of it for me is that monthly e-mail that just
says ‘Here’s how to do it,’” said Cohen, who has been using
MarketRiders for about two years. “If I didn’t get that e-mail
I’d never do it.”  Prepackaged portfolios from Folio Investing may contain
individual stocks, mutual funds or exchange-traded funds. The
McLean, Virginia-based company’s moderate portfolio for
investors planning on retiring in 2040 is composed of 10
exchange-traded funds and notes that track stocks, real-estate
investment trusts and commodities, including the PowerShares QQQ
fund, which follows the Nasdaq-100 stock index.  Viewable Actions  That portfolio returned 3 percent annualized over the three
years to April 6, compared with average returns of 1.3 percent
for 2040 target-date mutual funds, according to Folio Investing
and data from Chicago-based research firm Morningstar Inc.  Covestor, which began managing money in November 2009,
tracks the portfolios of about 30,000 users who choose to make
their investment actions viewable to others on the site, and
users may have their accounts track the trades of about 150 pre-
screened managers on the site.  “It’s like an open-source hedge fund,” said Perry Blacher, chief executive officer of London-based Covestor. Some
of the managers on the Covestor site are professional investment
advisers registered with the SEC and some aren’t. The managers
range from  Atlas Capital Advisors , a San Francisco-based
registered investment adviser that manages $175 million for
high-net-worth investors, to “an ophthalmologist in
 Wisconsin ,” Blacher said.  Global Reach  “Investors should always be very careful to check out the
people providing investment advice,” said Patricia Struck,
administrator for the division of securities of the Wisconsin
Department of Financial Institutions, “especially when what
they’re giving you is not tailored to your needs.” SEC
spokeswoman Florence Harmon declined to comment on the Covestor
business model.  These sites don’t represent a competitive threat to
traditional brokerages, said  Jim Wiggins , a spokesman for  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney.  “People don’t come to Morgan Stanley Smith Barney for
discount trading,” he said. “They come for professional  money
management  and to access some of the products and services that
are only available through a global investment bank.” He
declined to provide the range of fees full-service brokerage
customers pay.  ‘Cookie-Cutter Approach’  MarketRiders, based in  Palo Alto , California, has $2.7
billion in user portfolios. Traditional brokerages had about
$4.7 trillion in assets under management at the end of 2009 and
account for about 38 percent of all U.S. wealth-management
assets, according to Aite data. Folio Investing, which is
closely held, has “multiple billions” invested, said Wallman,
who wouldn’t provide a specific figure. Covestor’s Blacher, who
wouldn’t disclose assets, said the company is gaining about 15
percent in assets each month.  “I have yet to see a cookie-cutter approach that is as
appropriate as a customized approach, and that’s what you give
up when you go to one of these types of services,” said Walters
of CitizensTrust, which is the  wealth-management  division of
Ontario, California-based Citizens Business Bank. Walters’s firm
has an average client account size of $4 million.  Mass Management  Wealthfront, which started in October 2009, lets users
invest as little as $10,000 among 40 different registered
investment advisers who normally have account minimums of $1
million. The firm has about $180 million in assets invested
through its site.  “We’re trying to deliver institutional-class asset
management to the masses,” said Andy Rachleff, chief executive
officer of Palo Alto, California-based Wealthfront. He said the
firm chooses investment managers to participate the same way
endowments do, by examining managers’ historical trade details
rather than just their performance history. Rachleff is the vice
chairman of the University of Pennsylvania’s endowment
investment committee.  Wealthfront managers have returned an average of 30 percent
from the site’s start in October 2009 through Feb. 18, compared
with a 27 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The
managers charge average fees of 1.3 percent.  Richard Ferri, founder of Troy, Michigan-based Portfolio
Solutions, builds index fund and exchange-traded fund portfolios
for clients and rebalances them periodically for a fee of 25
basis points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.
Rebalancing during times of market turmoil may add about one
percentage point to returns annually, he said. The firm has
almost $1 billion in assets under management.  Saving Money  Investors could save more money on their investments and
improve their returns by skipping services such as MarketRiders
and making decisions themselves, said Burton Malkiel, professor
of economics at  Princeton University  and author of “A Random
Walk Down Wall Street.” The 10th edition of the book was
published in January.  He recommends investors hold a mix of the Vanguard Total
World Stock Index exchange-traded fund and a broad-market bond
exchange-traded fund such as the  iShares Barclays Aggregate Bond
Fund (AGG)  or the Vanguard Total Bond Market exchange-traded fund, and
rebalance annually.  “I don’t want to pay 25 basis points to anybody to do that
for me,” said Malkiel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 