-- 
Protesters Killed as Syrian Security Cracks Down on Dissent

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-08T16:12:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/protesters-killed-as-syrian-security-cracks-down-on-dissent.html
Several people were killed and
dozens injured as Syrian security forces cracked down on
protesters in the southwestern city of Daraa.  At least 13 died today when the security forces fired on
demonstrators during a rally attended by thousands, the
 Associated Press  reported, citing an unidentified witness who
said he had helped to take people to the city’s hospital.  The wave of uprisings in the Arab world that began in
 Tunisia  in December has in the past month spread to  Syria , where
President Bashar al-Assad’s Baath party has been in power since
1963. His government’s crackdown in response has left dozens
dead. Assad last week announced plans to ease emergency rule and
political restrictions, while insisting that change won’t be
rushed and calling the protests a foreign-backed conspiracy.  Gunfire was heard in Harasta and Douma, suburbs of the
capital, Damascus, and in the towns of Homs, Bayyadah and
Hawleh, said Ammar Abdulhamid, a Syrian dissident who lives in
 Maryland  and said he is in touch with the demonstrators. Police
in the capital used electric batons against protesters, he said
by phone. Abdulhamid, a former visiting fellow at the  Brookings
Institution , said he was aware of at least four deaths in Daraa,
with dozens wounded.  The state-run Syrian Arab News Agency said a member of the
security forces and an ambulance driver transporting injured
people were among several killed by gunmen during the protests
in Daraa. The Interior Ministry urged residents of Daraa to give
the authorities information on armed groups and not to shelter
any of their members.  Latakia  The port of Latakia, which was one of the centers of anti-
government demonstrations last month, is “calm,” Aktham
Nuaisse, a prominent pro-democracy and human rights activist,
said by phone from the city.  Assad’s regime is an ally of  Iran  and a power broker in
neighboring Lebanon, where it supports the Shiite Muslim
Hezbollah movement, which is designated a terrorist organization
by the U.S. and  Israel . Syria ranked 152 of 167 countries in the
Economist Intelligence Unit’s 2010 Democracy Index, below
 Afghanistan .  Assad should immediately order his security forces to stop
using “unjustified lethal force” against anti-government
protesters, New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said in an April 5
report in which it gave a death toll of at least 100 in the
unrest, which started in mid-March.  Vow of Change  Assad told Syria’s parliament on March 30 that elections
for the assembly and local administrations are due this year and
promised reforms in due course. “Our duty is to provide the
Syrian people with the best, not the fastest,” he said.  The government has promised to release more than 200
prisoners, change the law on political parties, combat
corruption, introduce a media law guaranteeing more freedom,
improve  living standards  for residents of border areas and make
legal changes to ban random arrests.  Assad granted citizenship yesterday to Kurds, the country’s
largest ethnic minority, who have been holding demonstrations
for years to demand citizenship for tens of thousands of their
community.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 