-- 
Quinn’s Income Tax, Walker Union Curbs Lead Governors to Drops in Polls

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-04-08T04:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/quinn-s-income-tax-walker-union-curbs-lead-governors-to-drops-in-polls.html
Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a
Republican who promised to cut spending and taxes, has watched
his disapproval rating double since attempting to do just that.  In  Illinois , where Democratic Governor Pat Quinn signed
into law a 67 percent increase in the personal income-tax rate,
voters disapprove of his performance by a 2-to-1 margin,
according to We Ask America,  a polling website .  Just months after winning office in an election defined by
voters’ ire at the status quo, governors across the country --
Democrats and Republicans alike -- have become increasingly
unpopular, polls show. They have been tarnished by fights with
public unions, tax increases, spending cuts or just a faltering
economy largely beyond their control.  “There are very few popular governors in the country right
now,” said  Nathan Gonzales , who tracks state politics for the
 Rothenberg Political Report  in Washington. “When the top issue
is the economy and that’s central in people’s minds, reality
sets in quickly. The honeymoon lasts a couple of hours.”  Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , a Republican whose curbs
on collective bargaining sparked weeks of protests and a court
challenge, is viewed unfavorably by 53 percent of residents,
 according to a poll  conducted in late February and March by the
Wisconsin Policy Research Institute. In November, 35 percent of
respondents disapproved of Walker.  Lingering Effects  Governors are grappling with the lingering effects of the
18-month recession that ended almost two years ago,  the longest
slump  since the Great Depression. With tax collections still
below their 2008 peak, federal aid disappearing and rising costs
for health-care programs, states are facing budget deficits of
as much as $112 billion in the next fiscal year, according to
the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities .  The strain is forcing them to anger tax-averse voters and
slash deeper into budgets that, by the end of the current year,
will have already been cut by $42 billion, or 6 percent, from
2008, according to the  National Governors Association . States
also have raised taxes by $33 billion over the  past two years ,
according to the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  “We’re still in the Great Recession in terms of the state
fiscal situation,” said Ray Sheppach, the former executive
director of the governors association and now a professor at the
Frank Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy at the
 University of Virginia  in Charlottesville. “This is just huge,
relative to anything they have seen.”  Luxury Tax  Connecticut Governor Dan Malloy, a Democrat who leads the
wealthiest state by per-capita income, is seeking to close a $3
billion shortfall with $1.5 billion in tax increases, including
those on retail sales,  luxury goods  and household incomes above
$100,000. He’s also asking workers for $1 billion in concessions
and proposing $758 million in spending cuts, stressing the need
for what he called “shared sacrifice.”  Voters aren’t happy about it. More than half disapprove of
his handling of the budget, according to a Quinnipiac University
 poll released last month .  Some governors still enjoy the goodwill of voters,
including  California ’s  Jerry Brown ,  New York ’s  Andrew Cuomo  and
 Chris Christie  of  New Jersey , according to polls, and most have
more than three years before they face voters again. Even so,
they may contend with several years of difficult decisions bound
to anger large swaths of their constituencies, said Sheppach.  No End Sighted  “Normally, what a governor tries to do when they first
come in and get elected is do all the hard things so that you
get it behind you,” he said. “I just don’t think they have
that luxury. They’re going to be back the next year, then the
next year. I don’t see this correcting.”  Republicans like Walker and Scott, who were swept in during
the party’s November landslide, have since suffered a drop in
public esteem.  In  Ohio , where Republican Governor  John Kasich  won with 49
percent of the vote, a Quinnipiac poll released March 23 found
that only 30 percent approve of the job he is doing. Fifty-three
percent said his budget proposal with spending reductions and no
tax increases was unfair.  As the economy is forcing governors to push through large
changes, Kasich’s standing may reflect a failure to adequately
explain the need for fiscal discipline to voters.  “John Kasich is not terribly popular in the state of Ohio
these days,” Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the
Quinnipiac Polling Institute in Hamden,  Connecticut , told
reporters March 23. “That shouldn’t be terribly surprising,
given the magnitude of the changes that he has sought to make in
Ohio government. But clearly, Mr. Kasich has not sold his ideas
to the voters of Ohio at this point.”  Michigan  Disapproval  An effort to tackle the chronic budget problems in Michigan
has also weighed on Republican Governor Rick Snyder, said Tom
Shields, president of  Marketing Resource Group , a Lansing,
Michigan, polling company.  Snyder’s approval rating held steady at 42 percent by mid-
March, little changed from January, said Shields. However, those
who disapprove of his performance jumped to 38 percent from 7
percent in January.  Snyder, who ran as a pragmatic problem-solver, has proposed
cutting aid to cities and universities and imposing income taxes
on pensions that have been exempt. He signed a law that would
allow state-appointed managers to overturn labor contracts in
fiscally distressed cities.  Last month, Snyder also signed into law a measure reducing
 unemployment benefits  by six weeks to 20 beginning next year, a
step sought by business groups concerned that taxes would rise
to cover the cost of Michigan’s insolvent trust fund.  Shields said the rise in his unpopularity reflects the mix
of his proposed solutions, which have drawn criticism from both
Democrats and Tea Party supporters, who are at opposing ends of
the political spectrum. He said it’s a result of challenging the
status quo.  “He’s trying to mold the state into a different shape than
it has been in the past,” he said. “It happens every time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  