-- 
Raiffeisen Increases Dividend Five-Fold, May Sell Shares

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-04-08T16:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/raiffeisen-raises-dividend-fivefold-beats-expectations-1-.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
eastern  Europe ’s third-biggest lender, raised its 2010 dividend
more than five-fold as the merger with units of its parent
company boosted profit.  Raiffeisen proposed paying out 1.05 euros ($1.50) a share,
the Vienna-based bank said in a statement today. That exceeded
the 50 cents projected in research and analysis by Bloomberg.
Predecessor Raiffeisen International Bank-Holding AG paid 20
cents a share for 2009.  The new company was formed last year in a merger of
Raiffeisen International and divisions of its parent Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG. RZB, which is owned by regional
cooperative banks, holds 78.5 percent of Raiffeisen following
the combination.  “The dividend increase is not good for minority
shareholders,” said  Dirk Becker , an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets who has a “reduce” recommendation on the shares. “It
would have been better for them if a bit more capital had stayed
in the bank.”  Raiffeisen’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, which includes 1.75
billion euros of state capital, was 8.9 percent a the end of
2010, up from 8.8 percent three months earlier. The government
funds will have to be repaid to avoid penalty payments, which
has led to concern Raiffeisen may have to boost its capital. The
Tier 1 ratio is a measure of financial strength.  ‘Nothing Concrete’  The lender will consider a share sale if markets are
“vivid,” Chief Executive Officer Herbert Stepic told analysts
in Vienna today.  “Depending on how fast and vivid the market will
redevelop, we will consider a capital increase,” he said.
“There is nothing concrete. If the market will develop, we will
not exclude the possibility to come to the market.”  Standard & Poor’s  said Feb. 7 it may cut Raiffeisen’s debt
rating if the lender doesn’t sell new shares in the “short to
medium term.” A majority of 14 analysts polled by Bloomberg in
February expects the bank to sell shares for about 1.5 billion
euros this year.  “Given the thin capital level, I would have preferred a
lower dividend,” said Daniele Brupbacher, an analyst at UBS AG.
“If you subtract the state capital you’re at 6.2 percent core
Tier 1. That there will be a capital increase is certain, the
only question is when.”  Raiffeisen pared gains in early trading to close little
changed at 39.445 euros in Vienna, giving the company a market
value of about 7.7 billion euros.  Return on Equity  Raiffeisen’s annual report was the first since the merger.
Full-year net profit more than doubled to 1.1 billion euros,
compared with pro-forma results for 2009. Net income in the
fourth quarter was 304 million euros, beating the average
estimate of 177 million euros in a Bloomberg survey of nine
analysts. The quarterly result was boosted by a one-time gain of
146 million euros due to deferred tax assets.  Delinquent loans rose for the eighth straight quarter, to 9
percent of all loans, driven by  Hungary ,  Serbia ,  Croatia  and
 Bulgaria . The average analyst estimate was 9.2 percent in the
Bloomberg survey. Raiffeisen said it expects bad debt to peak in
the second half of the year.  “Now that the crisis is tailing off and amidst mounting
signs of an overall economic recovery,” Raiffeisen targets a
return on equity before tax of 15 percent to 20 percent in the
“medium term,” it said in today’s statement. “This is
excluding future acquisitions, any capital increases, as well as
unexpected regulatory requirements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  