-- 
Rajaratnam’s Expert Witness Gregg Jarrell Can Testify at Trial, Judge Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-08T17:48:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/rajaratnam-s-expert-witness-gregg-jarrell-can-testify-at-trial-judge-says.html
Gregg Jarrell, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission’s top economist from 1984 to 1987, can
testify as an expert witness for Galleon Group co-founder Raj Rajaratnam at his insider-trading trial, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in  Manhattan , who is
presiding over the case, said today when the trial resumes
Monday, Jarrell can give his expert testimony about eight issues
concerning the operations of hedge fund trading and the impact
of market events on a stock. Holwell also told lawyers they
should be prepared to deliver closing arguments to the jury as
early as next week.  Holwell said Jarrell could testify about the customs and
practices of sophisticated investors, about the large percentage
of Galleon’s total trades compared with those that prosecutors
said Rajaratnam conducted based on inside information. Jarrell
will testify about the concept that confidential information is
the subject of “leakage” into the marketplace long before it’s
publicly released.  Holwell said today in a hearing outside the jury’s presence
that he would deny the government request to keep Jarrell off
the stand “in light of the greater prejudice to the defendant
to exclude the expert testimony.”  ‘Reasonable’  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of trading on tips leaked by corporate
insiders and hedge-fund traders. He has denied wrongdoing and
says his trades were based on legitimate research.  Jarrell, who teaches at the University of Rochester’s
graduate school of business in New York, would testify he found
nothing improper about Rajaratnam’s trades in  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  stocks and dozens of other companies, defense lawyers
said in court papers.  At the hearing today, Jarrell said “it would have been
reasonable for a well-informed professional investor to trade in
the stock in the manner that occurred here.”  At the end of court today,  John Dowd , a defense lawyer,
said he hadn’t decided if Rajaratnam would testify, saying he’d
spoken to prosecutors Jonathan Streeter,  Reed Brodsky  and Andrew Michaelson.  ‘Timely Way’  “I told them I would advise them in a timely way,” Dowd
told the judge. Holwell didn’t press him for further details.  Terence Lynam, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, told Holwell that
the defense would like to call at least five witnesses,
including two people who can impeach the testimony of  Adam
Smith , a former Galleon hedge fund manager.  Smith, who testified for the U.S. as a cooperating witness,
was the first witness to take jurors inside Galleon, telling
them about the company’s structure, the role of analysts and
portfolio managers, and how Galleon operated.  Smith testified he passed information from insiders at
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest semiconductor maker,  Intersil
Corp. (ISIL) , Synaptics Inc. and other publicly traded companies.  Lynam said they wanted to call John Pernell, president of
Polaris Investment Partners Inc., and Robert Hotz, a partner at
his law firm Akin Gump, to have them describe what Smith told
them about his criminal activities at Galleon. The defense has
said Smith’s statements to these two people were different from
his testimony at the trial.  Lynam also said the defense intended to call Rick Schutte,
the former chief operating officer of Galleon and Stephen
Granoff, a Galleon analyst.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 