-- 
Rand Advances to Three-Month High After Central Bank Says Curbs Unsuitable

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-08T11:56:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/rand-advances-to-three-month-high-after-central-bank-says-curbs-unsuitable.html
The rand gained to a more than
three-month high after the central bank said measures to curb
capital inflows to weaken the currency “would not be
appropriate” for  South Africa  and as gold rallied to a record.  The rand advanced as much as 0.7 percent to 6.63017 per
dollar, its strongest level since Jan. 4. It traded 0.4 percent
up at 6.6452 at 1:24 p.m. in Johannesburg. The currency is
headed for its third consecutive weekly gain against the dollar.  South Africa “carefully studied” measures adopted by some
emerging-market countries to curb capital inflows, including
limits and taxes on bond investments by foreigners and reserve
requirements on foreign-exchange swaps and forward trades,
Reserve Bank Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said last night. It
is “rather doubtful” such measures would stem rand strength
and they “would not be appropriate for South Africa at this
stage,” he said in  Pretoria .  “This seems sensible,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan,
currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said
in a research note. “As much as the country may want or need a
weaker rand, the available evidence suggests that capital
inflows taxes or restrictions would be completely ineffective.”  The Brazilian government this week extended a tax on
foreign-based loans to stem the real’s gains after it reached a
2 1/2-year high this week, making the nation’s exports less
competitive and imports cheaper. That hasn’t stopped the real
from continuing a rally that took it beyond 1.6 per dollar for
the first time since August 2008 on April 7.  Gold Record  The rand could strengthen to 6.60 after advancing
“decisively” through 6.68, a level where the dollar had strong
support, Cairns and Ramkhelawan wrote.  Gold climbed to a record today and the price of platinum
gained, fueling the rand’s advance. The two metals together
account for a fifth of South Africa’s exports. Manufacturing
expanded at the fastest pace in seven months in February,
Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa reported yesterday,
adding to evidence that economic growth is accelerating.  “The rand is still strong on firm commodity prices, the
resilient euro, encouraging South African manufacturing data,
and further indications that the  Reserve Bank  will refrain from
capital control measures to stem rand strength,” Standard Bank
analysts led by Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan said in a
research note.  Rand-Euro  The rand depreciated against the euro, and headed for its
first weekly decline in three against the 17-nation currency,
after a report showed German exports grew more than forecast,
adding to signs a recovery in the euro region’s largest economy
is gathering pace. The euro rallied against the dollar and all
but two of its 16 major peers.  The rand weakened as much as 0.5 percent to 9.5933 per
euro, bringing its weekly drop to 0.6 percent.  South African  government bonds  rallied. The 13.5 percent
bond due 2015 rose 17 cents to 121.48 rand, driving the yield
down 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.67 percent,
the lowest since Jan. 19. The 10.5 percent security due 2026
climbed 72 cents to 115.89 rand, cutting the yield 8 basis
points to 8.63 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 