-- 
Tribune Says Some Creditors Switched Their Votes in Favor of Company Plan

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-04-08T15:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/tribune-says-some-creditors-switched-votes-favor-company-plan.html
Tribune Co. said a group of
creditors owed money by its operating units switched their votes
in favor of the newspaper publisher’s plan of reorganization.  The company yesterday asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey to approve the vote changes, saying it happened after
Tribune changed its plan to satisfy the group of creditors, who
include funds that specialize in buying bankruptcy debt.  Tribune made its request to change the votes yesterday in
court papers filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  The change means the majority of all creditors owed money
by Tribune’s newspapers and television subsidiaries have now
voted in favor of the company’s plan, one of two reorganization
proposals competing for Carey’s approval.  The creditors, who include Longacre Opportunity Fund LP and
Fair Harbor Capital LLC, changed their votes after Chicago-based
Tribune removed a $150 million cap on what general unsecured
creditors of the subsidiaries can collect.  Without being allowed to change the votes, the company
would face the “absurd situation” in which the plan was
changed specifically to win support of a group of creditors who
no longer object to Tribune’s plan.  Rival Proposals  The change in the votes would not affect the battle over
how to reorganize Tribune.  The rival proposals for bringing Tribune out of bankruptcy
differ mainly over how to settle allegations that the company’s
2007 leveraged buyout made the company insolvent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the other lenders who financed the
$8.2 billion transaction back Tribune’s proposal to settle the
claims by paying more than $500 million to the pre-buyout
creditors.  The pre-buyout creditors, led by hedge fund Aurelius
Capital Management LP, rejected that settlement. They want
lawsuits over the buyout to go forward after Tribune exits
bankruptcy.  Under both plans, JPMorgan and the other lenders would be
the majority owners. The company filed for bankruptcy in 2008,
one year after the buyout, which was led by real-estate
billionaire  Sam Zell .  Today Tribune is worth about $6.75 billion. It has about
$13 billion of debt, most if it from the buyout.  Tribune owns eight newspapers, including the  Los Angeles
Times  and the  Chicago Tribune , with a combined daily circulation
last year of 1.9 million. The company owns 23 TV stations,
including broadcasters in the three biggest U.S. markets,  New
York ,  Chicago  and  Los Angeles .  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 