-- 
Rupiah Posts Weekly Advance as Central Bank May Tolerate Gains

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-04-08T10:04:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/rupiah-posts-weekly-advance-as-central-bank-may-tolerate-gains.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah strengthened for
a fourth week on speculation the central bank will tolerate
appreciation to curb inflation stemming from rising import costs.
Benchmark bonds advanced.  The currency may continue recent gains, and the central
bank is monitoring its appreciation, Bank Indonesia Governor
Darmin Nasution told reporters yesterday. The rupiah has
strengthened 0.7 percent since March 31 as global funds bought
$133 million more of the country’s stocks than they sold this
month through yesterday, exchange data show.  “The central bank is allowing the rupiah to strengthen,”
said Bambang Eko Joewono, head of the global-markets division at
PT Bank UOB Buana in Jakarta. “Capital inflows are strong. We
aren’t seeing any selling pressures as yet.”  The rupiah gained 0.6 percent this week to 8,648 per dollar
as of 4:29 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency strengthened 0.2 percent today.  Consumer prices rose 6.65 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with an increase of 6.84 percent in February,
according to official data on April 1.  Standard & Poor’s  increased the country’s long-term foreign
currency sovereign rating to BB+ from BB today, one level below
investment grade, citing the Southeast Asian nation’s
“resilient” economy and improving finances. The upgrade will
“bolster” investor confidence and “help lessen volatility in
portfolio flows over time,” DBS Group Holdings Ltd. wrote in a
research report.  Overseas investors increased holdings of government debt to
212.43 trillion rupiah ($24.6 billion) as of April 7, from
211.57 trillion at the end of last month, according to finance
ministry  data .  Ten-year  government bonds  rose this week. The yield on the
8.25 percent note due July 2021 dropped 19 basis points to 7.80
percent, according to closing prices from the Inter-Dealer
Market Association. The rate climbed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net 
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  