-- 
Russia’s Ivanov ‘Not Happy’ With Oil Above $100, Prefers $80

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u   a n d   J e r r y   H a r t
-- 
2011-04-08T15:23:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/russia-s-ivanov-not-happy-with-oil-above-100-prefers-80.html
Oil prices  above $100 a barrel are
discouraging  Russia  from diversifying its economy, Deputy Prime
Minister Sergei Ivanov said.  Ivanov said the current price was unsustainable and that
Russia’s budget will fall into a deficit when it drops. He would
prefer oil and gas prices to be “around maybe $80 per barrel,”
which is a “more realistic” level.  “When the gold rain is pouring on your head, you are not
motivated to diversify,” Ivanov said in an interview yesterday
in Miami, where he was speaking at the Everest Capital Emerging
Markets Forum. “I wouldn’t say I hate high oil and gas prices,
but I am not happy with them.”  Oil today climbed above $111 in  New York  for the first time
in 30 months. Crude for May delivery rose $1.25, or 1.1 percent,
to $111.55 a barrel at 11:10 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Higher oil prices have helped boost Russia’s international
reserves to $504.5 billion, the most since 2008. The cost of
protecting Russian bonds against default also fell to its lowest
level yesterday since August 2008, according to data provider
CMA.  Once prices fall, running a long-term budget shortfall is
not an option for Russia, Ivanov said. “We can’t live for long
with a deficit budget. We are not like the” U.S., he said.  Space, Nuclear  He said that even with high oil prices, the country was
taking steps to diversify, including investing in technology
industries, space and aviation programs, and nuclear energy.  Ivanov stopped in Miami after meeting with U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton , Trade Representative Ron Kirk and
several lawmakers to discuss Russia’s entrance into the  World
Trade Organization .  The “political window of opportunity” for Russia to enter
the WTO may “start to close down” at the end of the year as
the U.S. and Russia enter election years, Ivanov said. He is
hopeful an agreement will be reached before then, he said.  Ivanov said Russian arms exports, which doubled to $10
billion in 2010 over the previous five years, may rise to $10.6
billion to $11 billion this year.  Ivanov, 58, was appointed first deputy prime minister in
2007 after serving as the country’s defense minister since 2001,
according to the Russian government’s  website . The former KGB
officer was regarded as a potential successor to then-President
 Vladimir Putin  before the 2008 election.  Ivanov also said he would resign as chairman of the board
of Rosavtodor, a federal toll-road operator, and United Aircraft
Corp., an airplane manufacturer, after Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  called for government officials to step down from their
posts at state-owned companies and be replaced by independent
directors.  “I will leave with a light heart because apart from those
two boards I have lots of other fish to fry,” he said. Whether
the independent directors will improve corporate governance
“remains to be seen” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .
Jerry Hart in Miami at   jhart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at   lzelenko@bloomberg.net  