-- 
Rwanda Expects Six State-Owned Companies to List on Bourse in Three Years

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-04-08T10:55:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/rwanda-expects-six-state-owned-companies-to-list-on-bourse-in-three-years.html
Rwanda ’s government plans to offer
shares in six companies on the stock exchange over the next
three years as part of a plan to attract foreign investors to
the East African country, the financial market regulator said.  Among the companies preparing to list are MTN Rwanda, a
unit of  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s biggest mobile-phone company;
Commercial Bank of Rwanda; Sonarwa Insurance and other
businesses partly owned by the government, said Robert Mathu,
executive director of the Capital Market Advisory Council.  “We have a list of companies that the government has
clearly identified that will be privatized through the stock
exchange,” he said in an interview on April 6.  Rwanda held its first initial public offering in November
when the state sold 25 percent of Brassieries et Lemonaderies du
Rwanda SA, a unit of  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-biggest
brewer. Shares in Bralirwa, as the company is known, began
trading in January and brought to three the number of companies
whose shares trade in the country.  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) 
and  Nation Media Group Ltd. (NMG) , which have their primary listings
in neighboring Kenya, have cross-listed on the Rwandan bourse.  In December, Bank of Kigali Ltd., Rwanda’s biggest lender
by assets, announced plans to sell a 25 percent stake in an
initial public offering by July. Mathu said he expects the next
company to follow about six months later, though he couldn’t say
which company it might be.  “We depend on the state of preparedness of the company at
the time,” he said.  Other East African companies have also expressed an
interest in cross-listing on the Rwanda exchange, including
airlines, insurance businesses, banks and hotels. He declined to
identify them.  Rwanda’s economy is recovering from a genocide in 1994 that
left more than a million people dead, according to Rwandan
government statistics. In the years that followed the country
has changed dramatically, maintaining an average annual GDP
growth of 7.5 percent between 2004 and 2009, according to the
 World Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 