-- 
RWE’s Coal-Power Plant in Tilbury to Become Britain's Largest Wood Burner

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-04-08T11:40:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/rwe-s-coal-power-plant-in-tilbury-to-become-britain-s-largest-wood-burner.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Europe ’s biggest emitter of
greenhouse gases, plans to convert its 1,050-megawatt coal-power
station in southeast  England  to run entirely on wood pellets.  The U.K. is encouraging utilities to burn biomass, such as
wood pellets and other plant-matter, to help reach a European
Union target of getting 15 percent of its energy from renewable
sources. Britain changed subsidies known as Renewable Obligation
Certificates in July 2010 to support biomass plants.  “There are great benefits in turning from coal to biomass
from an environmental point of view,” Dan Meredith, a Swindon,
England-based spokesman for RWE, said yesterday by telephone.
Testing the ability to convert the coal-power station at Tilbury
completely to biomass “allows us to put the investment in
without committing to a new plant.”  Tilbury is one of nine U.K. power plants with a limited
number of hours left to operate under EU laws to curb the
release of gases linked to acid rain. The stations must close by
2016 or when the allotted hours are used.  RWE will operate the converted plant under the same
European restrictions and may decide to re-license the power
station if burning biomass proves profitable, Meredith said.
That may allow the power station to operate outside the EU’s so-
called Large Combustion Plant Directive.  “It’s very much dependent on the electricity market reform
and what that’s telling us to do,” Meredith said.  Renewable Certificates  British generators that mix biomass with coal are eligible
for at least half a renewable certificate for every megawatt-
hour they produce. These are tradable and were worth about 49.89
pounds a megawatt-hour in the last certificate auction on March
29. The U.K. is  considering changing aid  later this year and may
create a new band of subsidy to accommodate conversions.  The U.K. introduced a carbon-dioxide tax on power emissions
starting in 2013 and plans further changes to encourage
investment in low-carbon power generation. RWE may also consider
whether to close the Tilbury plant and build a natural-gas fed
station, Meredith said.  The Tilbury station emitted 2.8 million metric tons of CO2
last year, EU emissions data compiled by Bloomberg show. While
burning biomass spews about the same amount of greenhouse gas
into the atmosphere as coal, it doesn’t require emissions
permits under the EU’s cap-and-trade program because trees and
plants absorb carbon-dioxide when they are growing.  Emissions Permits  In the five years through 2012, power stations get a
portion of EU allowances for free. Tilbury receives an annual
allocation of 1.5 million permits in those years. These can be
sold in the market if unused.  The power station will continue to receive free EU permits
through the end of 2012, said Isaac Valero-Ladron, a climate
spokesman at the European Commission in Brussels.  “This is an inherent and important feature of cap-and-
trade,” he said by e-mail. “If one would take away allowances
once emissions are reduced, it would take away the incentive to
invest.”  Ships carrying coal up the  River Thames  to dock at Tilbury
will switch to transporting wood pellets after RWE converts the
facilities at the power station to handle plant material,
Meredith said. A “large proportion” of fuel for the plant will
travel across the Atlantic from RWE’s wood-pellet plant in
Waycross,  Georgia , he said.  RWE will use  Green Gold Label  wood pellets, an
independently certified standard to assure the fuel is sourced
sustainably, Meredith said.  The conversion, which would make Tilbury the largest
biomass plant in the U.K., will be completed by the end of the
year, he said. RWE plans to halt the entire station until the
end of November, data submitted to National Grid Plc show. The
power station will be able to produce 750 megawatts by the end
of the year, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  