-- 
Ryan Budget Cuts Are Based on Economic Theory Rejected by Bernanke, IMF

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-04-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/ryan-budget-cuts-are-based-on-economic-theory-rejected-by-bernanke-imf.html
The jobs and housing boom promised
by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  relies upon an
economic theory that has been rejected by both the chairman of
the Federal Reserve Board and the International Monetary Fund.  The proposal Ryan announced April 5 would make significant
budget cuts starting in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, even
as the economy contends with an 8.8 percent unemployment rate.
Next year’s deficit would shrink to $995 billion from the $1.1
trillion President Barack Obama forecasts, the first step in
trimming future red ink by a cumulative $4.4 trillion over 10
years. That, Ryan says, would revive housing, spark corporate
investment and drive unemployment down to 4.3% by 2021.  “This budget is a jobs budget,” Ryan, a Wisconsin
Republican, said this week at the American Enterprise Institute
in Washington. “It sends a signal to investors, entrepreneurs
and job creators that a brighter future is still possible --that
America can still be the growth engine that it ought to be.”  Powering that turnaround is a phenomenon known as an
“expansionary fiscal contraction,” in which private-sector
growth is unleashed by a reduction in public spending. The
theory of expansionary contractions, which advocates say have
occurred in countries such as  Canada ,  Sweden  and  New Zealand , is
now a cornerstone of Republican economic policy.  The idea that cutting government spending will so improve
business and consumer confidence as to cause an immediate
upswing in growth finds little support on  Wall Street .
“Realistically, most of the evidence leans toward an adverse
impact on growth in the near term,” said  Michael Feroli , chief
U.S. economist at J.P. Morgan Securities in  New York .  ‘Hit on Growth’  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist for IHS Global Insight,
the firm whose macroeconomic model was used in a Heritage
Foundation analysis commissioned by Ryan, also played down
expectations of a quick acceleration. “Normally, you would
expect to take a hit on growth,” said Gault, who is based in
Lexington,  Massachusetts .  Last month, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told the House
Financial Services Committee that budget cuts “would probably
lead to some reduced growth in employment in the short run.”
Reductions of $61 billion in the current fiscal year, approved
by the House in a largely party-line vote, would cost about
200,000 jobs and shave as much as 0.2 percentage points of
annual economic growth in the first year, he testified.  Bernanke said efforts to cut the deficit would be “most
effective if we did that over a time frame of five or 10 years
and not try to do everything immediately.”  Long-Term Benefits  The  International Monetary Fund  last fall concluded that
deficit-cutting does produce long-term economic benefits. A
lower stock of public debt allows  interest rates  to fall,
encouraging investment, and lower interest payments permit the
government to cut taxes.  Still, reducing the size of government would carry larger
short-term output and employment costs if a country could not
offset the pain by lowering interest rates or if several
countries simultaneously retrenched, the fund warned. And IMF
economists rejected the theory of expansionary contractions.  “The idea that fiscal austerity triggers faster growth in
the short term finds little support in the data,” they wrote in
a chapter of the fund’s World Economic Outlook.  Obama administration officials and Republican leaders in
Congress agree that the U.S. must reduce its budget deficits to
avoid the risk of a financial crisis. The political dispute is
over enacting significant budget cuts now, as Republicans
demand, or agreeing on enforceable limits on future spending to
take effect once the economy heals, which many Democrats prefer.  ‘Temporary Downside’  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. likewise said last
month that the $61 billion in cuts would lower annualized growth
rates for two quarters by one-and-a-half to two percentage
points. “The long-term benefit of fiscal consolidation comes
with a temporary downside,” the New York-based firm said in a
research note.  That has been the case in European nations that have
embraced austerity amid concerns over governments’ ability to
repay their debts. In the United Kingdom, Prime Minister David Cameron’s Conservative government, elected in May 2010, has
enacted the sharpest cuts in  government spending  since World War
II in a bid to slash the  budget deficit  to 1.9 percent of gross
domestic product by 2015 from 11.1 percent.  Earlier this week, the U.K.’s Office of National Statistics
reported that industrial output fell 1.2 percent in February.
The latest figures, following the economy’s fourth-quarter
contraction of 0.5 percent, “would seem to point to genuine
economic weakness,”  Marc Chandler , chief currency strategist at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, said in an April 6
note to clients.  Cuts in Ireland  Ireland is in the third year of public spending cuts in a
bid to shrink its budget deficit, which ballooned following an
October 2008 decision to guarantee Irish banks’ liabilities.
After two years of contraction, the Irish economy resumed growth
in early 2010, only to shrink again in two of the following
three quarters. The  unemployment rate  rose to 14.7 percent in
March 2011 from 12.9 percent a year earlier.  Ireland featured prominently in the first academic research
on the expansionary contraction hypothesis. In 1990, two Italian
economists, Francesco Giavazzi and Marco Pagano, published
research arguing that fiscal consolidation increased an
economy’s growth rate if the private sector were convinced the
government share of the economy would permanently shrink. They
cited Ireland and Denmark, whose late 1980s deficit-fighting led
to economic rebounds.  Boosting Spending  In the U.S., Alberto Alesina of  Harvard University  in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, has argued that shrinking government
spending eliminates concerns that consumers and businesses may
have about even sharper adjustments -- including tax increases -
- in the future, encouraging them to boost spending and
investment.  “Many even sharp reductions of budget deficits have been
accompanied and immediately followed by sustained growth rather
than recessions even in the very short run,” Alesina wrote last
year.  Such arguments helped shape Republican economic thinking.
On March 15, the Joint Economic Committee’s Republican staff
released an 18-page assessment of academic studies, including
those by Alesina and Giavazzi, arguing that austerity programs
based largely or entirely on reductions in government spending
“may even boost the real GDP growth rate in the short term
under certain circumstances.”  Joseph Gagnon , a former Federal Reserve economist, said
cutting government spending now would not lead to higher growth.
Historical examples of expansionary contractions, such as
Ireland, “simply don’t seem relevant for the U.S.,” he said in
a telephone interview.  Irish Boom  Amid a fiscal crisis in 1987, Ireland reduced its budget
deficits, producing growth rates that inspired the term “Celtic
Tiger.” The Irish boom was supported by devaluation of the
currency, robust demand from Ireland’s trading partners and
falling interest rates. “Those things aren’t going to happen
for the U.S.,” said Gagnon, a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington .  In the U.S., the Fed’s benchmark interest rate is already
close to zero. The yield on the two-year Treasury bill was 0.78
percent yesterday. Key U.S. trading partners, including  China ,
peg their currencies to the dollar. Major European economies and
 Japan  also would be unlikely to tolerate a pronounced decline in
the dollar’s value, Gagnon said.  The IMF’s October report concluded that previous academic
research identifying several expansionary contractions had been
flawed. Using a different methodology, the IMF reviewed 30 years
of case studies and found “that fiscal consolidation typically
reduces output and raises unemployment in the short term.”  ‘More Painful’  A fiscal contraction equal to 1 percent of gross domestic
product reduced GDP by 0.5 percent within two years and
increased the unemployment rate by 0.3 percentage point, the
study found. The IMF also said the economic impact of budget
cuts would be “more painful” with interest rates near zero
because the Fed could not cushion the blow of reduced government
spending with easier monetary policy.  The fund’s economists provided support for Republicans’
preference to rely on spending cuts rather than tax increases to
close future deficits.  This week, the Ryan plan suffered a setback when William Beach, the Heritage Foundation economist who directed the
economic analysis, conceded that its initial unemployment
estimates were wrong. On April 5, Heritage said Ryan’s deficit-
cutting plan would cause the jobless rate to plunge to 6.4
percent next year and 2.8 percent in 2021, which would be its
lowest level since 1953.  A day later , Heritage corrected the figures to 7.9 percent
for next year and 4.3 percent in 2021. Beach said yesterday that
the errant figures had resulted from a mistake in programming
the IHS Global Insight model. “That kinda slipped by,” he
said. “We may not have been as vigilant as we should have
been.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  