-- 
Scene Last Night: Clapton, Blankfein, Jain, Colbert, Hendricks

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/scene-last-night-clapton-marsalis-blankfein-jain-colbert-hendricks.html
 A New Orleans-style “Layla” with
a gospel kick was the surprise addition to the concert Wynton Marsalis and  Eric Clapton  performed Thursday night in Jazz at
 Lincoln Center ’s Rose Hall.  It was the one Clapton song in a program focused on
traditional blues.  “Wynton brought it up in rehearsals, and Eric said the
only way he’d do it is if it’s New Orleans-style,” trumpeter
Marcus Printup said at the post-concert gala dinner at Roseland
Ballroom. Marsalis arranged the song overnight “and Eric took
care of the rest,” said Printup.  Preparing to dig into a chocolate cupcake, Printup then
recalled his own favorite moment of the concert: when Clapton
said he was nervous.  “He looked nervous, too! What it reminds me of is that I’m
a firm believer that you can always learn more,” Printup said.  The combination was winning on stage and off. The gala
event raised $3.6 million for Jazz at Lincoln Center, drawing an
eclectic crowd including”  Lloyd Blankfein , chairman and chief
executive of Goldman, Sachs & Co.; Newark,  New Jersey , Mayor
 Cory Booker ; singer John Legend; and Glenn Lowry, director of
the Museum of  Modern Art .  InMotion Photography  A few blocks away, 1,400 guests gathered for the annual
photography auction to support  InMotion , which provides legal
services to disadvantaged women.  Four ballrooms of the Sheraton New York Hotel swelled with
mergers-and-acquisition deal-makers, advisers, lawyers and
investors, as well as new friends in private equity and hedge
funds.  Guests included  Ajit Jain , president of reinsurance at
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ; Jeffrey Aronson, managing principal at
Centerbridge Partners LP; Lori Lesser, partner at Simpson
Thacher & Bartlett LLP, and Daniel Celentano, senior managing
director of Evercore Partners LLC. The event raised $2.2
million.  “We have a great feeling about helping people who are
down,” Coleman said. “It’s what we do for a living.”  Last year the organization served 2,091 women and their
2,596 children. Lawyers at top firms do the bulk of the work on
a pro bono basis.  “What really convinces people is our leverage,” said
Catherine Douglass, founder and executive director of InMotion.
“For every dollar we raise we deliver $5 worth of legal
services to clients.”  Sondheim’s ‘Company’  Stephen Colbert  threw Martha Plimpton in the air and caught
her, then kicked up his legs for a chorus line, all in a frumpy
maroon sweater and baggy pants.  Clearly he wasn’t the cast member charged with sexing up
the New York Philharmonic production of  Stephen Sondheim ’s
“Company.” That job went to Christina Hendricks, the buxom,
curvy star of “Mad Men.” Flanked by parental figures in long
nightgowns, Hendricks wore a navy flight attendant’s uniform.
With some very clever coaxing, Neil Patrick Harris got her to
take it off in just a few minutes.  This gala fare got everyone’s hearts racing, among them
Alec Baldwin, a new board member of the Philharmonic; fashion
designer Michael Kors; Broadway legend Elaine Stritch; and Gary Parr,  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  managing director and chairman of the
Philharmonic. The event raised more than $1.2 million.  At intermission, many audience members pronounced Harris
the best “Bobby” they’d seen. He’d certainly taken advantage
of the staging, which had the conductor Paul Gemignani stationed
right in a spot that in one scene, turned into a wall of his
apartment. Hendricks admires the spot, in gushing praise of
Harris’s apartment decoration.  “Oh this,” Harris said, giving Gemignani a poke in the
back. “I never really look at this.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 