-- 
SEC, CFTC Prepare Shutdown Plans for ‘Bare Minimum’ Oversight

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-04-08T16:25:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/sec-cftc-prepare-shutdown-plans-for-bare-minimum-oversight.html
In the event of a government
shutdown, federal securities and derivatives regulators would
keep less than a tenth of their employees on hand to ensure
financial markets continue to be supervised.  Twenty-five of the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission ’s 675 employees would stay on the job to ensure a
“bare minimum” of oversight and enforcement for derivatives
markets, the agency said today. “The vast bulk of the CFTC’s
oversight and surveillance functions will cease during a lapse
of appropriations,” the agency  said  in a six-page contingency
plan.  At the  Securities and Exchange Commission , 332 of the
agency’s 3,969 employees will handle emergency enforcement
matters, monitor tips and complaints and oversee brokers
reported as under financial distress, according to the agency’s
 plan  published today. Ongoing litigation, non-emergency
rulemakings and the work of the Office of the Inspector General
will be put on hold, according to the plan.  Unlike other financial regulators, including the  Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.  and the  Federal Reserve , which are
funded through industry assessments, the CFTC and SEC rely on
congressional appropriations for their budgets and would be
forced to shut down if Congress cannot pass spending legislation
today.  The CFTC prepared its contingency plan this week, relying
on a 1995 opinion from the U.S.  Justice Department  that said
financial markets would be threatened without regulatory
oversight. “In the absence of government supervision, the stock
markets, commodities and futures exchanges would be unable to
operate,” the Justice Department said on Aug. 16, 1995.  “This is dangerous territory,”  Bart Chilton , a Democratic
commissioner at the CFTC, said today in a statement. “The costs
for lack of oversight during a shutdown both in terms of
economic loss and possible market harms done could be
enormous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  