-- 
Shell Shifts Biofuel Technology Focus to Brazil Sugar-Cane Waste

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-04-08T09:03:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/shell-iogen-shifting-biofuel-technology-focus-to-brazil-sugar-cane-waste.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the world’s
biggest  distributor  of biofuels, is shifting research to waste
from sugar-cane farming after ending an algae project in  Hawaii .  Shell, Iogen Corp. and  Codexis Inc. (CDXS)  have been researching
enzymes to produce cellulosic ethanol from wheat stalks and
sugar-cane bagasse, a sugar industry waste product. The Anglo-
Dutch company has set up a $12 billion venture with Cosan SA
Industria & Comercio to produce and market traditional sugar-
cane ethanol in  Brazil , where it’s used to fuel cars.  “Brazil still leaves a lot of plant material on the fields
to burn,”  Mark Williams , downstream director at Shell, said in
an interview in Paris. “The idea is to apply this technology
with existing plants or next to existing plants” and to
“accelerate the application of these things, if they work
technically, by a substantial fraction.”  The Hague-based Shell, Europe’s largest oil company by
market value, expects the share of renewable energy in transport
fuels worldwide to double over the next 10 years. In January,
Shell exited its  Cellana  algae biofuel research joint venture in
Hawaii that was formed in 2007 with closely held algae biofuels
company  HR BioPetroleum Inc.   “It just wasn’t getting adequate yields to be sensible to
continue,” Williams said. .  Some other companies, such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  are
continuing research in biofuels from algae.  $12 Billion Venture  Shell and Cosan, which controls the world’s largest sugar-
cane processor, last year  agreed to combine  ethanol-making and
fuel distribution assets in Brazil. Shell agreed to contribute
about $1.6 billion of cash and assets including 2,740 service
stations, while Cosan put up 23 cane-crushing mills, 1,730 gas
stations and other assets.  Shell has also contributed its shares in Codexis and  Iogen
Energy  to the partners’ venture, called  Raizen SA , which is
worth $12 billion, Williams said.  “The initial position of the venture will be that it’s
actually remain short of ethanol and we have to buy ethanol
locally in Brazil to meet needs,” he said. “The ambition is to
grow the ethanol output of the venture and if arbitrage opens
globally there’s opportunity to trade Brazilian ethanol in
 Europe  or in the U.S.”  Raizen’s ethanol annual output will more than double to 5
billion liters within five years, Chief Executive Officer Vasco
Dias forecast in February.  The cellulosic ethanol technology will let Shell and Cosan
further grow fuel output in Brazil. The partners need to scale
the process to a pilot project from a demonstration plant to see
if it works and that may take as long as five years. If
successful, industrial-scale production may start by the end of
the decade, according to Shell.  “The technology even hasn’t been scaled to this sort of
magnitude,” Williams said. “We have more work to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  