-- 
Shunning Chavez Fuels Humala’s Rise in Peru Presidential Polls

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-04-08T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/shunning-chavez-fuels-humala-s-rise-in-peru-presidential-polls.html
Ollanta Humala campaigned for Peru’s
presidency in 2006 wearing red T-shirts and expressing
admiration for Venezuelan socialist leader  Hugo Chavez . This
year, he’s donning business suits and vowing to expand ties with
investor-favorite  Brazil .  The former army officer’s change in raiment and rhetoric
has helped boost him into first place in polls ahead of the
first round of voting April 10. Investors including  Barclays
Capital , who in December dismissed him as a “radical” also-ran
after Peru grew 8.8 percent last year, now say the outcome of a
likely runoff on June 5 is too close to call.  While abandoning the anti-capitalist rhetoric has allowed
Humala to build support beyond his rural base, it’s unclear if
he’d govern with the same restraint, said political analyst
Alvaro Vargas Llosa. Peru’s stocks, bonds and currency fell in
the past three weeks as Humala overtook congresswoman Keiko Fujimori and two other rivals who are tied for second place.  “There is real reason to fear that Humala won’t be part of
the modern left,” said Vargas Llosa, a senior fellow at the
Independent Institute in  Washington . “It’s a real risk because
we’ve never had it so good.”  Humala had 26 percent support in a nationwide poll taken
March 26 to April 1 by Lima-based researcher  Ipsos Apoyo , up
from 21 percent a week earlier and 10 percent in January.
Fujimori, the daughter of jailed former President  Alberto Fujimori , trailed him with 18 percent support, while former
President  Alejandro Toledo  had 17 percent support and Toledo’s
former Finance Minister Pedro Pablo Kuczynski had 16 percent.
Fujimori, Toledo and Kuczynski support outgoing President  Alan Garcia ’s policies promoting free trade and foreign investment.  Market Selloff  Humala’s surge and fading support for Toledo has caused
investors to reassess the threat of a nationalist government
increasing state control over Latin America’s fastest-growing
major economy the last five years.  The cost of insuring Peru’s debt against default rose to
its highest since 2009 this week on concern a Humala presidency
would jeopardize $50 billion of mining, energy and
infrastructure investment that the government expects will fuel
6.5 percent growth over the next five years. Peru is the world’s
second-largest producer of copper and No. 1 in silver.  Peru’s sol has declined 1.2 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
since March 20, when Humala began gaining in the polls, making
it the worst performer among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Lima General Index has fallen 7.4
percent in the past month, the fourth worst performance among 90
primary stock indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  “Foreign investment is not going to be as rosy if Humala
wins,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , who helps manage about $6 billion
of emerging market debt at Aberdeen Asset Management in  London .
“Higher royalties and higher taxation in the mining sector is a
viable threat.”  Lula’s Advisers  After the sell-off, Humala on March 28 issued a “ Letter to
the Peruvian People ” vowing to maintain Garcia’s fiscal
policies and support for an independent central bank.  He’s also downplayed his ties to Chavez, which sparked
controversy during the 2006 campaign, when he lost by 5
percentage points to Garcia. Instead, he’s seeking advice from
Brazilian campaign advisers Luis Favre and Valdemir Garreta, who
helped former union leader  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  sweep to
power in 2002. Chavez last month on state TV called Humala a
“good soldier.”  “It’s a long time since I’ve been to  Venezuela ,” Humala,
48, said in a March 23 interview in Trujillo. “I’ve traveled
more to Brazil. Peru has a historic opportunity, having a
frontier with a country that is a world power.”  Armed Rebellion  Still, investors worry the changes are cosmetic. Like
Chavez, who as a paratrooper led a failed coup in 1992, Humala
has been dogged by his past support for armed rebellion. In
2000, as a lieutenant colonel, he led 50 soldiers who seized and
occupied for a week one of Phoenix-based  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ’s
mines to protest corruption that beset Fujimori’s government.  Humala’s platform includes proposals to raise royalties on
mining output and ban gas exports to bring down domestic fuel
costs. He also said he’ll renegotiate free trade agreements with
the U.S.,  China  and the European Union that Garcia says will
double Peru’s exports to $70 billion in 5 years.  “Humala will use taxes to finance his social projects for
four or five years, but that will run out when no one does any
mining exploration,” said Carlos Galvez, Chief Financial
Officer of Cia. De Minas Buenaventura SA, Peru’s biggest
precious metals producer, in a March 25 telephone interview.
“Then he’ll have to start expropriating like Chavez.”  Toledo’s Decline  The 65-year-old Toledo, who negotiated a free trade
agreement with the U.S. while president from 2001 to 2006, is
the only candidate capable of defeating Humala in a runoff,
according to the Ipsos Apoyo poll. A candidate needs to win half
of all ballots cast in the first round to avoid a runoff.  After staking out a lead in January, Toledo became the
target of attacks by other candidates. While his indigenous
heritage allowed him to peel votes away from Humala’s base,
Toledo awoke too late to voters’ anti-establishment sentiment
while focusing on pro-business rivals like Kuczynski and former
Lima mayor Luis Castaneda, said Vargas Llosa.  In a runoff scenario, Humala trailed Toledo by four
percentage points and was tied with Fujimori and Kuczynski,
according to Ipsos Apoyo.  Barclays, in a December report, said “support for a
radical political proposal to reverse the economic reforms of
the past two decades seems to have been neutralized.” The
Eurasia Group, a Washington-based political risk firm, said in
January that Humala was unlikely to reach the runoff.  Gridlock in Congress  If Humala wins the presidency, his government will lack the
majority in Congress needed to push through controversial
proposals, said Fernando Tuesta, a professor of politics at the
 Catholic University  in Lima.  Humala’s Nationalist Party may win about 32 of the 130
seats in  Peru ’s unicameral  legislature , compared with 31 for
Fujimori’s “2011 Force” and 25 for Toledo’s “Possible Peru”
movement.  Gridlock may force Humala to follow the path of other Latin
American leaders such as Lula and former Chilean President
 Michelle Bachelet , who despite their socialist roots maintained
policies that bolstered investment and growth, said Tuesta, a
former chief of Peru’s electoral authority.  Vargas Llosa isn’t as sure.  “You don’t need a majority in congress to dismantle
democratic institutions or the economic model,” said Vargas
Llosa, the son of 2010 Nobel Prize literature laureate Mario Vargas Llosa. “If Humala wins with a big mandate and there is a
fervor going along with the caudillo, I don’t see how you’re
going to stop him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  