-- 
Simon Property Board Working on Long-Term Agreement for CEO David Simon

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-04-08T22:06:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/simon-property-ceo-pay-jumps-as-board-says-compensation-should-be-higher.html
Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) ’s board is
working on a long-term employment agreement with Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  David Simon .  The compensation committee is attempting to structure a
long-term deal to keep Simon as leader of the Indianapolis-based
company “for a substantial period of time,” according to a
proxy statement filed today by the biggest U.S. mall owner. The
proxy indicated Simon hasn’t been paid enough.  “The committee has considered for several years that David
Simon’s compensation has not been commensurate with his
contributions to our success and creation of long-term
stockholder value,” the company said in the filing. “The
committee is aware that David Simon’s compensation has been
significantly less than the compensation of chief executives of
many private and publicly held real estate companies as well as
non-real estate companies of comparable size and complexity,
many of which have not performed as well as we have.”  Simon’s total compensation under Securities and Exchange
Commission reporting requirements was $24.6 million last year,
compared with $4.6 million in 2009, according to the proxy
statement. The 2010 figure included the award of $13 million in
incentive-related stock grants that may be paid out in 2011 and
2012 depending on certain performance targets, as well as a $3.5
million equity award paid for 2009 performance.  Co-Founder’s Son  Simon, 49, son of the company’s co-founder, the late Melvin
Simon, has been chief executive officer since 1995 and chairman
since 2007.  Simon Property  shares gained 25 percent last year as
revenue rose 4.8 percent to $3.96 billion. The share increase
was in line with the Bloomberg REIT Index.  The company’s market value was $59 billion in 2010,
compared with $48.8 billion in 2006, according to the proxy.  Simon Property ended its pursuit of rival  General Growth
Properties Inc. (GGP) , the second-biggest U.S. mall owner, last year
after being rebuffed by the Chicago-based company. General
Growth, in bankruptcy at the time, favored a rival proposal to
keep it independent and proceeded with that deal.  Simon Property bought Prime Outlets Acquisition Co. in
August for $2.3 billion to expand its outlet-mall business.  The company abandoned a takeover pursuit of  Capital
Shopping Centres Group Plc (CSCG)  in January after the London-based
company declined to share due-diligence information. Purchasing
Capital Shopping would have enabled Simon to enter the U.K.,
 Europe ’s largest economy outside the euro region.  Simon Property fell 72 cents to $105.65 as of 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
climbed 6.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 