-- 
Most Swiss Stocks Retreat; Adecco, UBS Fall as Holcim Advances

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-04-08T16:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/smi-benchmark-advances-swiss-re-gains-as-givaudan-drops-in-zurich-trading.html
Most Swiss stocks declined, trimming
the  Swiss Market Index (SMI) ’s third straight weekly advance, after
shares erased their gains in the final two hours of trading.  Adecco SA (ADEN)  retreated for a second straight day, extending
its weekly loss to more than 5 percent.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s
second-largest cement maker, rose 1.5 percent for its highest
close in almost four months.  The SMI slipped 0.1 percent to 6,457.93 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich as 11 stocks fell and eight gained. The broader
Swiss Performance Index declined less than 0.1 percent.  The SMI, a benchmark of the biggest and most actively
traded companies in  Switzerland , still climbed 0.3 percent this
week as banks climbed after  Portugal  asked for financial
assistance from the European Union.  “Usually on Friday afternoon the market takes the opposite
direction of the week’s movement,” said Cyril Nedelec, an
analyst at Market Securities in Geneva.  Work at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant wasn’t affected by
yesterday’s quake, Tokyo Electric spokesman Takashi Kurita said
by telephone today. There have been no signs of changes in
radiation levels or damage at the plant, he said.  The magnitude-7.1 temblor was measured at a depth of about
49 kilometers, the  U.S. Geological Survey  reported. A tsunami
alert for a possible two-meter wave was canceled by  Japan  about
two hours later.  ‘Normal Situation’  “Yesterday’s earthquake didn’t have any real impact on
 market sentiment  today,” said Nedelec. “Equity investors are
pricing a return towards a normal situation in Japan with
carmakers resuming production this month a positive signal.”  Adecco, the world’s largest supplier of temporary workers,
dropped 2.2 percent to 58.9 Swiss francs, bringing its weekly
loss to 5.2 percent.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, slipped
0.9 percent to 17 francs.  Holcim advanced 1.5 percent to 72.7 francs for the biggest
gain in the SMI.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  rose 3.5 percent to 164.2 francs, its
fourth straight gain. A gauge of European insurers increased 1.1
percent today, the second-largest increase of 19 industry groups
in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  OC Oerlikon surged 4.4 percent to 7.56 francs, the highest
in more than 10 months. The Swiss textile machinery maker has
advanced 38 percent since March 16.  “Textiles are doing very well,” said Michael Foeth, an
analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, said by phone. “I don’t see
much upside from here,” added Foeth who has a “hold” rating
on the stock.  Edipresse SA (EDI)  soared 24 percent to 470 francs, the biggest
gain since 2008, after the Lausanne, Switzerland-based publisher
said it will merge with  Tamedia AG (TAMN) , owner of the Tages-Anzeiger
newspaper, in the coming months. The companies previously
intended to combine Swiss businesses in January 2013, they said
in a statement today. Tamedia climbed 1.6 percent to 119.9
francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 