-- 
Sokol Exit Makes Hansell NetJets CEO Two Years After Leaving Iowa Law Firm

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-04-08T13:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/sokol-exit-makes-hansell-netjets-ceo-two-years-after-leaving-iowa-law-firm.html
Jordan Hansell, who was working with
his father at an  Iowa  law firm two years ago, now reports to
 Warren Buffett  after David Sokol’s departure created a vacancy
at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s NetJets business.  Hansell was president at the luxury-aviation unit under
Sokol, who was considered a possible successor to Buffett, 80,
as chief executive officer of Berkshire. Hansell, whose resume
includes a clerkship with Supreme Court Justice  Antonin Scalia ,
distinguished himself in Iowa with legal discipline and an
involvement in government, according to his father  Ed Hansell ,
who practices business law.  “There’s probably bench strength in a lot of these
Berkshire subsidiaries,”  Paul Howard , director of research at
Solstice Investment Research, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. Hansell has been “under Sokol’s wing and got enough
of a flavor of the job to be able to take it over.”  Hansell, 40, will need to recruit millionaires willing to
purchase time on the aviation unit’s expanding fleet. Under
Sokol, who took over at Columbus, Ohio-based NetJets in 2009 and
resigned last week, the business returned to profit and struck a
deal to order as many as 120 jets from  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  in
anticipation of a rebound in corporate aviation.  Gregory Abel, who heads Berkshire’s MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Co., recruited Hansell for NetJets in 2009, according
Ed Hansell. The unit was a pioneer in so-called fractional-
ownership programs, which allow customers to acquire a
percentage of an aircraft and flight hours.  NetJets Profit  NetJets reported a  $207 million  pretax profit in 2010,
helped by a 7 percent increase in sales, compared with a loss of
$711 million a year earlier, according to Berkshire’s 2010
annual report. It posted an aggregate pretax loss of  $157
million  in the 11 years through 2009.  “NetJets’ problem was they weren’t making money in the
good times,” said  Richard Aboulafia , an aircraft consultant and
analyst at Teal Group, based in Fairfax, Virginia. “They were
focusing on market share and growth to the exclusion of profits.
And what Sokol was doing and what I suspect his successor will
continue to do is focus on pricing and profit, rather than
volume and market share.”  The aviation unit said in November that it will make loans
to clients after sales declined during the financial crisis. The
financing minimum is $100,000 and the loans are available only
to commercial customers, according to a statement.  Scalia, Buffett  Jordan Hansell declined to comment, Lynn Wombacher, a
NetJets spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Buffett didn’t respond
to a message left with an assistant. Scalia declined to comment,
Kathy Arberg, a court spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Sokol, 54, bought 96,060 Lubrizol Corp. shares in January,
less than two weeks before recommending the firm as a Berkshire
takeover target, Buffett said in a March 30 statement announcing
the resignation. Buffett said he believes Sokol’s trades were
legal. Berkshire’s $9 billion agreement to acquire Lubrizol, a
maker of engine additives, was announced March 14.  Sokol also stepped down from the board of BYD Co., the
Chinese automaker in which MidAmerican has a stake, according to
a Hong Kong stock exchange filing. He also resigned as chairman
of MidAmerican, and that post was given to Abel.  Hansell attended  Duke University , then received a law
degree and a master’s in public policy from the  University of
Michigan . He clerked for U.S. Court of Appeals Judge Harvie Wilkinson as well as Scalia. He spent about 10 years at
Nyemaster, Goode, West, Hansell & O’Brien PC, a  Des Moines ,
Iowa-based law firm.  ‘Big Picture’  “I thought someday he might very well end up at a
company,” Ed Hansell said in a interview. “He’s always been a
good thinker. He can step back and see the big picture and see
ways things can be resolved and solved. Sometimes it’s difficult
for lawyers. We’re not trained to do that.”  In August 2009, MidAmerican Energy’s Abel, who lives in the
Des Moines area, recruited Jordan Hansell to become general
counsel of NetJets, Ed Hansell said.  In November, Hansell was promoted to president, about the
time NetJets bought private-jet-card firm Marquis Jet. He
learned the NetJets business from Sokol, and that should help
him make a transition to CEO, his father said.  “He had the benefit of  David Sokol ’s guidance, because
David is a very astute businessman,” Ed Hansell said.  Berkshire, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , has a track record of
hiring and promoting little-known managers, said Solstice
Investment Research’s Howard. Buffett, also the company’s
chairman and biggest shareholder, prepares for sudden departures
by asking unit CEOs to name candidates to replace them.  Letters to Buffett  “Please send me a letter (at home if you wish) giving your
recommendation as who should take over tomorrow if you should
become incapacitated overnight,” Buffett said in a  memo  to
managers dated July 26 and included in his most recent annual
report. “Please summarize the strengths and weaknesses of your
primary candidate as well as any possible alternates you may
wish to include.”  NetJets had to be ready for a leadership transition,
Hansell told the Columbus Dispatch.  “We knew this was coming in a general sense,” Hansell
said of Sokol, according to the newspaper. Sokol had “been
saying he was going to step back for a long time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 