-- 
Sony, Canon Plants Knocked Out by Aftershock, Setting Back Japan Recovery

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-04-08T07:18:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/sony-suspends-operations-at-two-miyagi-plants-after-blackouts.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Canon Inc. (7751)  were among
manufacturers that shut plants in Japan following a 7.1-
magnitude earthquake yesterday, delaying their recovery from
last month’s record temblor.  Sony, Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics,
said it suspended operations at two plants in Miyagi prefecture
because of power outages caused by last night’s aftershock of
the 9-magnitude temblor that struck March 11. Canon,  Nikon Corp. (7731) ,
 Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) ,  Tokyo Electron Ltd. (8035) ,  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  and  KDDI Corp. (9433) 
also reported disruptions today.  The aftershock, the strongest to hit Japan since March 11,
sets back the recovery as manufacturers from Sony to Honda Motor
Co. reel from last month’s disaster that killed thousands,
knocked out plants, triggered a nuclear crisis and caused
electricity shortages. The damage from the initial disaster may
total as much as 25 trillion yen ($293 billion), or 0.5 percent
of  Japan ’s economy, the government has said.  “Everyone was hoping to restart production and get back on
track, and this aftershock will bring fresh interruptions,”
said Steven Zhang, a technology analyst at DBS Vickers
Securities in Hong Kong. “This will have a negative impact on
the supply chain.”  Power Plants  Two people died and more than 90 were injured by
yesterday’s earthquake, the Fire and Disaster Management Agency
said, as more than 3.6 million households lost power. The
temblor struck at 11:32 p.m. near the site of the March 11
earthquake, Japan’s strongest on record, which left more than
27,000 people dead or missing.  Tohoku Electric Power Co., the main power supplier to the
areas devastated last month, said five units at three of its
thermal plants were shut after yesterday’s temblor.  The company restarted the 350-megawatt, oil-fired unit No.
2 at its Akita plant this morning, said Kazuya Sugawara, a
spokesman for the utility. No radioactive water leaked from its
Onagawa nuclear station after being spilled from spent fuel
pools and a pumping room during yesterday’s earthquake, he said.  There have been about 900 aftershocks since last month’s
disaster, which crippled  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, causing radiation leaks and electricity
shortages. Yesterday’s aftershock didn’t affect ongoing efforts
to bring the plant under control,  Tokyo Electric  said.  Sony, Canon  The suspended Sony factories had resumed output March 28
after recovering from the earlier disaster,  Mami Imada , a
spokeswoman for the Tokyo-based company, said today by phone.  Sony rose 0.7 percent to 2,614 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo. The shares have dropped 8.9 percent since
March 10, the day before the initial earthquake.  Canon, the world’s largest camera maker, halted one plant
in Aomori prefecture today because of a  power outage  after last
night’s earthquake, said Gota Fumoto, a spokesman for the Tokyo-
based company.  Nikon suspended production at two plants in Miyagi, the
prefecture closest to the earthquake’s epicenter off the coast
of northeastern Japan. The company is assessing damage at the
plants, said Sayaka Suzuki, a spokeswoman for the Tokyo-based
camera maker.  Tokyo Electron, DoCoMo  Tokyo Electron, the world’s second-largest maker of
semiconductor equipment, halted operations at three plants in
Miyagi and Iwate prefectures, said Yumi Ota, a Tokyo-based
spokeswoman.  NTT DoCoMo, Japan’s largest mobile-phone operator, said
1,220 base stations on its network in northern Japan were
offline after yesterday’s earthquake. The stations account for
about 11 percent of DoCoMo’s network in the region, said Naoko
Minobe, a company spokeswoman.  At rival KDDI, 489 base stations were affected, partially
disrupting service in three prefectures, the Tokyo-based company,
Japan’s second-largest mobile-phone operator, said in a
statement.  Fujitsu suspended output at a chip plant in Iwate, said
Takashi Koto, a Tokyo-based spokesman. The company is checking
on a chip factory in Miyagi and another that makes products for
computers and printers in Fukushima prefecture, he said.  Power Shortages  Tokyo Electric has said it expects a daily power shortage
of 8,500 megawatts this summer as seasonal demand may peak at
about 55,000 megawatts. The March 11 earthquake shut about 11
percent of Japan’s electricity-generating capacity, according to
estimates by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Honda Chief Executive Officer Takanobu Ito said today he
expects Japan’s government to set limits on electricity use. The
Tokyo-based carmaker has lost production of about 58,000
vehicles since March 11 and may not return to full output for
another two to three months, Ito said today at Honda’s damaged
research-and-development center in Tochigi prefecture.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest carmaker, said
today it planned to resume output at all its Japanese factories
from April 18 to April 27, after halting most domestic output
since March 14 because of parts shortages. Production plans for
May haven’t been decided, said  Paul Nolasco , a spokesman for the
Toyota City, Japan-based company.  “Japanese corporations will have to think about how to
diversify their production facilities,” said Khiem Do, the Hong
Kong-based head of Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset
Management ( Asia ) Ltd., which oversees about $10 billion.  “They’ll need to see where to locate those production
facilities offshore, which should be close to the end market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  