-- 
Soros Says ECB Rate Increase ‘Inappropriate’ Amid Sovereign Debt Crisis

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c K e e ,   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   S r e e   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-04-08T20:21:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/soros-says-ecb-rate-increase-quite-inappropriate-during-sovereign-crisis.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
said the  European Central Bank ’s decision to raise its benchmark
lending rate was “quite inappropriate” because several euro
member countries are suffering from too much debt.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
yesterday raised the benchmark interest rate to 1.25 percent
from a record low of 1 percent, where it had been since May
2009. Policymakers will bring the rate to 1.5 percent in July
and 1.75 percent in October, according to the median of 20
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The rate increase may lift borrowing costs and hurt
peripheral euro-region countries already struggling to service
their debt. The  International Monetary Fund  said today it had
received a financial aid assistance request from  Portugal , which
earlier this week followed Greece and Ireland in asking the
European Union for aid.  Raising rates “is not appropriate in current circumstances
when you have a number of countries that are suffering from too
much debt and high  interest rates ,” Soros said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Michael McKee  and Sara
Eisen at the Bretton Woods conference in  New Hampshire .  States in the U.S. will face a tightening of their budgets
and are in a “similar situation as Spain and Portugal,”
because they cannot issue their own currency, Soros, 80, said in
the interview. Still, the U.S. government “could actually
absorb some more debt in order to get the economy going.”  ‘Wise Thing’  The benefit of more debt would depend on how it is used, he
said. Stimulating consumption would have little impact, while
spending on infrastructure “would be a very wise thing to do.”  Soros said he was concerned about inflation in  China , where
the government is trying to control price increases after
stimulating the economy “full force.” As a consequence, a
“shadow banking” system has developed that is “growing very
rapidly,” he said.  Consumer prices jumped 4.9 percent in February from a year
earlier, topping the government’s full-year target of 4 percent.
Inflation probably accelerated to 5.2 percent in March, which
would be the highest level since July 2008, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists.  “There’s a real danger there of wage-price inflation,”
Soros said. “The Chinese government made a mistake not allowing
its currency to appreciate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McKee in New York at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  