-- 
South African Utility Sees Risk of Blackouts Amid Insufficient Maintenance

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-04-08T15:55:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/south-african-utility-sees-risk-of-blackouts-amid-insufficient-maintenance.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd., the utility
that supplies about 95 percent of  South Africa ’s power, forecast
an increased risk of electricity shortages this quarter as
“tight” supply prevents it from carrying out sufficient plant
maintenance.  Eskom has scheduled work on about 7 percent of its
generation capacity in the financial year that started April 1,
compared with a target of 10 percent, Chief Executive Officer
 Brian Dames  told reporters in Johannesburg today.  State-owned Eskom is building plants in a 485 billion-rand
($73 billion) expansion and asking customers to use less
electricity as it tries to avoid a repeat of the 2008 blackouts
that temporarily shut mines and halted work in factories in
 Africa ’s largest economy.  The risk of power cuts will increase as the country enters
the winter, Public Enterprises Minister Malusi Gigaba said
today. Eskom, with net maximum capacity of 40,870 megawatts last
year, expects winter demand to peak at 37,000 megawatts.  “There is not enough of a window to do the necessary
levels of maintenance required to ensure that the winter peak
electricity demand can be sustained,” Gigaba said. Demand rises
by 600 megawatts to 700 megawatts with every 1 degree Celsius
decline in temperature, according to Eskom.  Duvha Damage  Damage caused during routine tests at the Duvha plant in
February increased strain on power supplies that are already
“tight,” Dames said. Supply is “even more vulnerable” after
the Koeberg nuclear station’s No. 2 reactor halted in mid-March
for a 57-day refurbishment and refueling, Gigaba said.  Eskom expects surplus capacity to shrink to 14.4 percent
this year from 14.9 percent last year. The Johannesburg-based
company, which targets a 15 percent surplus, has warned
repeatedly that supplies will be constrained until the first
unit of its Medupi coal-fired plant in the north of the country
starts generating power late next year.  Eskom expects electricity demand to increase by about 2
percent this year. In the first quarter demand rose by 1.5
percent from a year earlier, Dames said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  