-- 
South Africa Inflation-Bond Demand at Highest in Six Sales on Price Signs

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-08T10:20:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/south-africa-inflation-bond-demand-at-highest-in-six-sales-on-price-signs.html
Demand for South African inflation-
linked bonds was the biggest in six sales at a government
auction today after the central bank said rising food prices may
boost inflation.  Investors bid for 2.9 times the amount of inflation-linked
bonds, or linkers as they are known, on offer at the weekly
auction, the most since Feb. 25. Yields on two of the three
securities declined.  The  Reserve Bank  has less room to maneuver as rising food
prices threaten to drive inflation to the upper end of the 3
percent-to-6 percent target range, Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said in  Pretoria  last night. Investors use linkers to
lock in real returns when inflation accelerates.  With inflation expectations on the rise, “you may see
better demand” for linkers, Deon van Zyl, who oversees about 13
billion rand ($1.9 billion) of debt at Cape Town-based
Metropolitan Asset Managers, said by phone before the auction.
“Over a one-year period you’ll do exceptionally well out of
them.”  The Treasury sold 440 million rand of 2.75 percent linkers
maturing in 2022 at a yield of 2.7 percent, one basis point
lower than at the previous auction on April 1. It allocated 50
million rand of 2.6 percent securities due 2028 at a yield of
2.71 percent, one basis point lower than the previous auction,
and 110 million rand of 3.45 percent linkers due 2033 at a yield
of 2.69 percent, two basis points higher than at the previous
auction.  Inflation may quicken to an annual 5.67 percent over the
next two years, according to the yield difference, or breakeven
rate, between two-year inflation-linked bonds and standard notes
of similar maturity. The country’s inflation rate was unchanged
at 3.7 percent in February.  Linkers pay interest on a principal amount that is indexed
to the  consumer price index . When inflation is low, their value
declines relative to fixed-interest debt.  The securities returned 11 percent last year, according
index data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  