-- 
South Africa Needs Savings to Cut Dependence on ‘Hot Money,’ Gordhan Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-04-08T10:12:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/south-africa-needs-savings-to-cut-dependence-on-hot-money-gordhan-says.html
South Africa  needs to boost savings
to lower its reliance on unstable “hot money” inflows, Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  “South Africa’s savings is at a very low rate, therefore
South Africa is highly dependent on the flows of capital,”
Gordhan said at a conference held by a state pension fund in
 Pretoria  today. He distinguished between “good flows of
capital, where that results in long-term investment” and “not-
so-good flows of capital, what we call hot money, which is
creating huge amounts of instability and volatility.”  Africa’s biggest economy relies mainly on foreign
investment in stocks and bonds to finance its import
requirements. Record bond inflows last year helped push the rand
up 11 percent against the dollar, undermining the recovery in
manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy.  The currency is little-changed against the dollar this year
and was trading at 6.64055 as of 11:05 a.m. local time today.  South Africa’s savings rate was 17 percent of gross
domestic product in 2010, little changed from 16 percent a
decade before, according to data from the central bank.  “It’s crucial that we build our savings base,” Gordhan
said.  A surge in foreign portfolio inflows last year prompted
countries such as  Brazil ,  China  and  Turkey  to take steps to curb
gains in their currencies, including building reserves and
imposing taxes on inflows.  South Africa’s central bank has boosted gross reserves by
almost $10 billion to $49.3 billion since the beginning of 2010
to help cap the rand’s gains.  Taxes and other forms of control may not suit South
Africa’s case, partly because the lack of savings “makes us
dependent on portfolio flows,” Reserve Bank Deputy Governor
Daniel Mminele said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in London at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 