-- 
South Korea's Won Heads for Third Weekly Gain on Fund Inflows; Bonds Rise

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-04-08T01:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/south-korea-s-won-heads-for-third-weekly-gain-on-fund-inflows-bonds-rise.html
South  Korea ’s won headed for its
third weekly advance after overseas investors purchased more
stocks than they sold and traders bet the central bank will seek
a stronger currency to curb inflation.  Foreign investors were net buyers of South Korean stocks
for 17 straight days, the longest period this year. South Korea
will let the won rise to curb inflation,  Barclays Capital  said
ahead of an interest-rate setting meeting next week. Bonds
advanced.  “Continued net purchases by foreign investors are
supporting the won,” said Byeon Ji Young, a currency analyst at
Woori Futures Co. in Seoul. “Still, there are concerns in the
market that authorities will step in to halt excessive gains in
the won, narrowing movements.”  The won gained 0.1 percent to 1,087.68 against the dollar
as of 9:47 a.m. in  Seoul , rising 0.3 percent this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bank of Korea will leave its policy rate at 3 percent
at its April 12 rate meeting, according to all but one of 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One forecast a quarter of a
percentage point increase. The central bank raised rates in
March after inflation exceeded its target ceiling for two
months.  “The bias for Korea is still to appreciate” because it’s
more dependent on energy imports than nations like  Indonesia ,
said Wai Ho Leong, a regional economist at Barclays Capital in
 Singapore . A stronger currency reduces the cost of food and oil
imports that are mainly denominated in dollars.  South Korea  buys
all its oil overseas.  Government bonds  rose, with the yield on the 3 percent note
due December 2013 falling three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 3.67 percent, according to prices from Korea Stock
Exchange. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Inflation pressures will likely start to ease
“considerably” in April, Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said
yesterday. The nation’s consumer prices climbed 4.7 percent in
March from last year, the most since October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  