-- 
South Africa to Auction Inflation-Linked Bonds as Food Prices Accelerate

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-08T08:15:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/south-africa-to-auction-inflation-linked-bonds-as-food-prices-accelerate.html
South Africa  is offering 600 million
rand ($90 million) of inflation-linked bonds today, hoping to
lure investors wanting to lock in real returns after the central
bank said rising food prices may boost inflation.  The  Reserve Bank  has less room to maneuver as rising food
prices threaten to drive inflation to the upper end of the 3
percent-to-6 percent target range, Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said in Pretoria last night. Investors use linkers, as
they are known, to keep returns when inflation accelerates.  The Treasury is offering inflation-linked bonds maturing in
2022, 2028 and 2033 at its regular weekly auction at 11 a.m. In
the previous two auctions, the bank allocated less than the
amount on offer as relatively low yields failed to attract
investors.  With inflation expectations on the rise, “you may see
better demand” for linkers, Deon van Zyl, who oversees about 13
billion rand ($1.9 billion) of debt at Cape Town-based
Metropolitan Asset Managers, said by phone. “Over a one-year
period you’ll do exceptionally well out of them.”  Inflation may quicken to an annual 5.68 percent over the
next two years, according to the yield difference, or breakeven
rate, between two-year inflation-linked bonds and standard notes
of similar maturity. The country’s inflation rate was unchanged
at 3.7 percent in February.  Linkers pay interest on a principal amount that is indexed
to the  consumer price index . When inflation is low, their value
declines relative to fixed-interest debt.  The securities returned 11 percent last year, according
index data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  