-- 
Stagecoach’s Souter Bids $861 Million for Istanbul Ferry Co

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-04-08T11:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/stagecoach-s-souter-bids-861-million-for-istanbul-ferry-co-2-.html
Souter Investments LLP , owned by
U.K.-based  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) ’s founder Brian Souter, and
three Turkish partners won an auction to buy Istanbul ferry
company IDO, bidding $861 million.  Souter’s consortium beat off rivals including shipping and 
ferry operator Stena AB and  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) ,  Turkey 's biggest
group of companies, Adem Basturk, head of the auction 
committee, told bidders and reporters in the city today.  IDO Istanbul Deniz Otobusleri Sanayi & Ticaret AS , as the
company is also known, had sales of 347 million liras
($231 million) last year, carrying 50 million passengers in the
city and to adjacent islands and towns around the Marmara Sea.  Souter, 56, who also runs Fullers Ferries of  New Zealand ,
bid with  Akfen Holding AS (AKFEN) , Tepe Insaat Sanayi AS and Sera
Gayrimenkul Yatirim & Isletme AS. Souter has a 30 percent share
in the consortium. Tepe and Akfen own rights to operate
Istanbul’s Ataturk airport, the largest in Turkey.  “We are experienced in this business and we have a similar
business operating in New Zealand,” Andy Macfie, who runs
Souter Investments for Brian Souter, told reporters in Istanbul
after winning the auction.  IDO runs 10 high-speed ferries, 25 sea buses and 17 car
ferries, according to a press release handed to reporters before
the auction. It also carried 7 million motor vehicles on its
boats in 2010.  Loans  The group will finance three-quarters of the purchase of
IDO with loans, Irfan Erciyas, a board member of Akfen, told
reporters after the auction. The transaction, which is subject
to Turkish regulator approval, may be completed in three to four
months, he said.  Shares of Akfen rose 5.5 percent to 11.55 liras on the
 Istanbul Stock Exchange  at 2:20 p.m.  The sale price values IDO at 8.6 times its 2010 earnings
before tax, interest, depreciation and amortization, Erkan Kurt,
corporate director of broker EFG Istanbul, an advisor to Souter
and Akfen for the purchase, said in an interview.  Souter Investments LPP, based in Edinburgh,  Scotland , has
stakes in listed companies such as Stagecoach, which is valued 
at 1.53 billion pounds ($2.5 billion), according to the company's 
share price. It also owns stakes in unlisted firms including 
Fullers Ferries,  Sunseeker Yachts , insurer  Esure , and U.K. bus 
maker Alexander Dennis, according to its  2010 Investment Review .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  