-- 
Sutton Foster Barely Sizzles in ‘Anything Goes’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-04-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/sutton-foster-barely-sizzles-in-anything-goes-jeremy-gerard.html
On paper, the  Roundabout Theatre
Company ’s revival of “Anything Goes” must have looked like a
sure thing.  Leggy, clarion-voiced, star to play evangelist-turned
speakeasy chanteuse Reno Sweeney? Check. Twinkle-eyed aging
trouper to play Public Enemy #13, Moonface Martin? Check. Hot-
as-a-griddle director-choreographer? Check. Lavish Art Deco
settings on an ocean liner? Check.  Watch a YouTube clip of Sutton Foster strutting her stuff
in “The Drowsy Chaperone” and you know there’s nothing this
irrepressible hoofer can’t -- and won’t -- do onstage to win
your heart. Here, too, there’s little she doesn’t try on the
stage of the Stephen Sondheim Theatre as Reno. She taps, mugs,
swings, sways and sings her way through Cole Porter’s 1934
trove of musical gems and vaudeville foolishness with dazzle
and relish.  Reno is the role that made Ethel Merman a star and was
played, in a performance still ripe in the memory, by Patti LuPone in  Lincoln Center Theater’s  smashing 1987 revival.  Yet this appealing performer generated more heat being
wooed by an ogre in “Shrek” than she does here. With her eyes
constantly darting around as if unsure of her place on the
stage, Foster seems uncharacteristically out of sync both
physically and vocally with her partners.  No Chemistry  This may be due to a fatal lack of chemistry with her
charmless partner, Colin Donnell, as the striver Billy Crocker.
What she sees in him, I’ll never know and anyway, Billy’s in
love with the heiress Hope Harcourt, played by Laura Osnes with
strained earnestness.  The sexlessness may also be the result of Kathleen
Marshall’s generic choreography, in which the romantic leads are
several steps too far apart and the chorus is frequently off in
the distance. Most of “Blow, Gabriel, Blow,” set on the ship’s
several decks, seems to be taking place in a different theater.  As Moonface, Joel Grey is so puppy-dog cute you may be
inclined to toss him overboard along with a pet dog named
Cheeky. Jessica Walter shows proper hauteur playing Hope’s
dowager mother (and Cheeky’s mistress). As Hope’s British
intended, Lord Evelyn Oakleigh, Adam Godley honks through “The
Gypsy in Me,” in one of the more painful musical numbers I’ve
ever sat through.  Best of the older generation is the reliably smooth John McMartin, as Billy’s boozy boss, Elisha Whitney.  Timothy Crouse and John Weidman’s re-revised book (first
undertaken for the Lincoln Center production) turns the silly
original into a dopey groaner. Fortunately, they couldn’t harm a
score that also includes “You’re the Top,” “It’s De-lovely”
and “Friendship.” And don’t worry: Cheeky survives, even if
little else does.  At the Stephen Sondheim Theatre, 124 W. 43rd St.
Information: 1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  Rating: *  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 