-- 
Sweden to Boost Spending on Railway After Period of Neglect

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-04-08T12:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/sweden-to-boost-spending-on-railway-after-period-of-neglect.html
Sweden proposed increasing spending
on its railway network to 14.3 billion kronor ($2.3 billion)
this year as the largest Nordic economy experiences the fastest
economic rebound in  Europe .  The government will invest 800 million kronor more on
maintenance than anticipated last year after “this winter
clearly showed the consequences of a long period of neglect,”
according to a statement released today in Stockholm.  Sweden is adding to spending plans as it expects an
economic rebound this year to generate a  budget surplus  as other
nations in Europe such as the U.K. struggle with deficits. Prime
Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt, who won a second four-year term in
September, has cut income taxes four times since 2006 and
refrained from doing so this year to safeguard public finances.  The government is responding to criticism after decades of
scant investment in the railway has decreased the reliability of
trains, especially during the snow-heavy winter months of the
past two years. State-owned SJ AB,  Sweden ’s biggest train
operator, will face competition from other passenger train
operators for the first time next year.  Sweden last month raised growth forecast for the economy to
4.8 percent this year from an October estimate of 3.7 percent.
Gross domestic product will also expand 3.5 percent in 2012 and
3.2 percent in 2013, according to the forecasts.  Sweden’s four-party government will on April 13 present the
rest of its spring fiscal policy bill. The bill outlines the
government’s ambitions for initiatives in the next few years and
measures such as today’s railway investment. Most new
initiatives for the following year are announced in the budget
bill in the autumn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  