-- 
U.K. Watchdog Should Take Account of Asset Sales, Lawmakers Say

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-04-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/u-k-watchdog-should-take-account-of-asset-sales-lawmakers-say.html
Britain’s  Office for Budget
Responsibility  should take account of potential asset sales when
it makes its forecasts, lawmakers said.  Leaving out prospective disposals makes the watchdog’s
fiscal projections too pessimistic, Parliament’s cross-party
Treasury Committee said in a report in  London  today. The OBR
excludes such revenue on the grounds that it is not certain to
materialize.  “We are concerned that caution in the treatment of asset
sales may lead to a bias in the central forecast,”  Andrew
Tyrie , the Conservative Party lawmaker who chairs the panel,
said in a statement. “A forecast is no longer central if
decisions are made which have the effect of entrenching ‘upside
risk.’”  The government is selling assets as part of its plan to
tackle the national debt, forecast by the OBR to reach 71
percent of gross domestic product by 2014.  Targets include the state-owned bookmaker, the Tote; a 40
percent stake in Actis Capital Ltd., a private-equity firm that
focuses on emerging markets; Royal Mail Group Ltd.; and National
Air Traffic Services Ltd. The government is also selling mobile
broadband spectrum in an auction that may raise as much 2.6
billion pounds ($4.3 billion.)  In November, the government sold a concession to run the
68-mile (109-kilometer) High Speed 1 rail line linking the
Channel Tunnel with central London for 2.1 billion pounds.  A sale of the British taxpayer’s 65.8 billion-pound stake
in  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
would create a one-time budget windfall before the next election
in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  