-- 
U.K. Lawmaker Taylor Convicted of Expenses Fraud

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-04-08T13:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/u-k-lawmaker-taylor-convicted-of-expenses-fraud-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of Illsley’s first name in second
paragraph in a story published Jan. 25)  U.K. lawmaker  John Taylor  was
convicted of fraudulently claiming thousands of pounds of
expenses following a trial in  London .  Taylor, 58, became the first lawmaker to be convicted by a
jury of expenses fraud since the scandal swept through
parliament in 2009, tainting members of all parties. Two other
lawmakers,  David Chaytor  and Eric Illsley, have pleaded guilty
to fraud charges. Chaytor was sentenced to 18 months in jail,
Illsley hasn’t been sentenced yet.  In a seven-day trial, prosecutor Helen Law claimed that in
2006 and 2007 Taylor lied when making six reimbursement claims
for travel and accommodation. Taylor told Parliament’s expenses
office he lived in Oxford and needed to pay for accommodation in
London, where he commuted during the week, Law said. In reality,
he was living in the capital, she said.  Taylor, who is a member of the U.K.’s second lawmaking
chamber,  the House of Lords , had denied wrongdoing. During the
trial his lawyer Mohammed Khamisa said the House of Lords’
expenses system was “unclear” and “ill-defined.”  Thomas Brownlow, one of Taylor’s lawyers, didn’t respond to
a message seeking comment. The court hasn’t yet set a date for
Taylor’s sentencing.  Illsley and Chaytor were both formerly Labour party
lawmakers. Taylor was formerly a Conservative lawmaker.  “Today, a jury has seen through his dishonesty by finding
him guilty of theft by false accounting,” Stephen O’Doherty, a
lawyer for  Crown Prosecution Service  special crime division,
said in an e-mailed statement after Taylor’s conviction. “He
will now face the consequences of his actions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 