-- 
U.K. March Inflation May Have Stayed at 4.4%, Economists Say

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-04-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/u-k-march-inflation-may-have-stayed-at-4-4-economists-say.html
U.K. inflation probably stayed at
the highest in almost 2 1/2 years in March as soaring commodity
costs and a weaker pound fed price pressures in the economy.  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier,
matching the gain recorded in February, according to the median
forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The  Office
for National Statistics  will publish the data at 9:30 a.m. on
April 12 in  London .  The  Bank of England  kept its key interest rate at a record
low of 0.5 percent for a 26th month this week, judging the risks
to growth from the government’s fiscal squeeze were greater than
the threat from inflation. Three of the nine-member Monetary
Policy Committee were defeated in their push for a rate increase
last month to keep price gains that are more than double the
bank’s 2 percent target from getting entrenched.  “Rates were set at these levels for emergency purposes,
and one could argue they are no longer needed to address an
emergency situation,” said  George Buckley , an economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London, who forecasts inflation accelerated
to 4.5 percent in March. “We see an increase in August, but
there’s a risk that they move earlier.”  Crude oil has surged about 36 percent in the last six
months amid Middle East unrest, while the most-active corn
contract this week reached the highest since July 2008. The
pound is down about 23 percent on a trade-weighted basis since
the start of 2007, raising import costs.  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research,
whose clients include the Bank of England and the U.K. Treasury,
said this week the recovery remains “uncertain.” It estimates
the economy grew 0.7 percent in the first quarter after a 0.5
percent drop in previous three months.  The central bank also held its bond-purchase plan at 200
billion pounds ($327 billion) this week as the  European Central
Bank  raised its main rate to 1.25 percent, the first increase
since July 2008. President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the ECB will
continue to monitor price risks “very closely.”  The U.K. inflation forecasts ranged from 4.2 percent from
Westpac Banking Corp., UBS AG, Credit Agricole SA and BNP
Paribas SA to a 4.8 percent projection by Moody’s Economy.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  