-- 
U.S. Northeast May Be Warmer Than Average Next Week, CWG Says

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-08T11:35:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/u-s-northeast-may-be-warmer-than-average-next-week-cwg-says.html
The Eastern U.S. will probably be
warmer than average until the middle of next week when it will,
with the exception of the Ohio Valley and the Northeast, return
to more seasonal weather, said  Matt Rogers , president of
 Commodity Weather Group LLC .  Rogers said computer-generated weather models are having
difficulty producing consistent results more than a week out.
This time of year is often referred to by meteorologists as the
“spring barrier,” a period when forecasting is hard.  From April 13 to April 17, Rogers is forecasting a high
probability of warmer air in the Ohio Valley and U.S. Northeast,
which is a change from yesterday when he foresaw a much wider
area with a chance of higher-than-average temperatures.  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures. Commodity traders
watch precipitation forecasts for potential impact on planting
and yields.  New York ’s average temperature in mid-April is about 51
degrees Fahrenheit (11 degrees Celsius), according to
 Gaithersburg, Maryland-based MDA . In  St. Louis  it is about 55;
in Boston, 48; in Philadelphia, 51; in Atlanta, 61; and in
Dallas, 65, according to MDA.  In his 11- to 15-day outlook covering April 18 to April 22,
Rogers is forecasting that the U.S. from the Pacific Northwest
to western New York and as far south as Arkansas may be cooler
than normal. The U.S. Southwest and southern  California  may be
warmer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  