-- 
U.S. Report Highlights Iran’s Amputations, State Killings

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-04-08T21:49:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/u-s-report-highlights-iran-s-amputations-state-killings.html
Iran  pursued a campaign of violence
and intimidation against its own people in 2010, committing
extrajudicial killings and using amputation and flogging as
punishments, according to a State Department report released
today.  The 35th annual human rights report, which covers 194
countries, documents in a detailed 69-page chapter the torture,
beatings, rape and group executions carried out by Iran’s
security forces.  “We have multiple reports that the government summarily
executed more than 300 people in 2010,” Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said today. She cited the case of four Kurdish
men who were arrested for human rights advocacy and hung in May.
“They were reported to have confessed to terrorism under
torture,” Clinton said.  The U.S. has no embassy in Iran and relied heavily on non-
U.S. government sources, according to a footnote.  Switzerland 
represents U.S. interests in Iran.  In 2010, Iranian officials cracked down on women’s rights
activists, ethnic minorities such as the Kurdish men, student
activists, religious minorities and homosexuals.  In Iran, even a call to prayer is considered a call to
dissent. One female student, Saeedeh Pouraghai, was arrested in
September 2009 for chanting “Allahu Akbar” or “God is Great”
from the rooftop of her Tehran home. Two days later, authorities
summoned Pouraghai’s mother to identify and claim her body,
which reportedly had been partially burned to hide evidence of
rape and torture.  Confiscations  The government confiscated property of religious
minorities, especially members of the Baha’i faith, and used
Iran’s national security law to try others in court.  Clinton mentioned, in particular, discrimination against
homosexuals. “I believe, and our government believes, that gay
rights are human rights,” she said. “We remain extremely
concerned about state-sanctioned homophobia.”  In 2008, Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  called
homosexual activity an “unlikable and foreign act” that
“shakes the foundations of society.” Under Iranian law,
consensual sex between men is a capital crime.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  