-- 
U.S. Report Sees ‘Explosive’ Growth in Demand for Democracy

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-04-08T18:10:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/u-s-report-sees-explosive-growth-in-demand-for-democracy-1-.html
Middle Eastern protesters calling
for greater freedom, economic opportunity and meaningful
political participation have the potential to improve human
rights in that region and beyond, according to a State
Department report released today.  “These citizens seek to build sustainable democracies in
their countries with governments that respect the universal
human rights of their own people,” the report noted. “If they
succeed, the Middle East region, and with it the whole world,
will be improved.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , speaking at the State
Department, said the U.S. is “particularly disturbed” by
crackdowns on democracy activists. She cited arrests of
dissidents in such countries as  China  and  Venezuela .  The 35th annual report examined 194 countries, singling out
 Colombia , Guinea and  Indonesia  for improvements in human rights
in 2010. Ukraine, China and Cambodia, where “security forces,
acting with impunity, committed arbitrary killings,” were among
countries censured for their abuses.  The report identified three trends that have driven change
in the Middle East and elsewhere, as it documented attempts by
governments worldwide to repress them. All of them are of
concern to the U.S., Clinton said.  The “explosive” growth of advocacy groups devoted to
human rights, democracy and public wellbeing was one factor, the
report said.  “For countries to progress toward truly democratic
governance, they need free and vibrant civil societies that can
help governments understand and meet the needs of their
people,” Clinton said.  Repression  “As we have seen in the Middle East and elsewhere,
governments cannot repress civil society indefinitely, and they
can never suppress it legitimately,” the report said.  Another factor driving change is the dramatic growth of the
Internet, mobile phones and other connective technology that
allow instantaneous communication. Egyptians and Tunisians
mobilizing in the streets used the social networking services of
Facebook Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Twitter Inc.  Clinton noted that more than 40 governments now restrict
the Internet by censoring websites, using spyware or firewalls.
The beating and death of an Egyptian blogger sparked unrest
there and the top U.S. diplomat noted that in other places,
“digital activists have been tortured so they would reveal
their passwords and implicate their colleagues.”  Mistreatment of Women, Minorities  A third trend, that the report says is headed in a negative
direction, is an escalation of violence, persecution and
official discrimination against women, religious or ethnic
minorities, lesbian and gay people, and those with disabilities.  Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor,
Michael Posner, pointed to  Pakistan ’s discrimination against
minority Muslim groups and Christians. In the first two months
of 2011, two ministers who sought to reform the country’s
blasphemy law were targeted by a fatwa and assassinated.  “Issues of intolerance in Pakistan trouble us greatly,”
Posner said. “We are particularly concerned about the Urdu
press and the role it plays” in fomenting such intolerance.  Colombia saw “notable” improvements in its human rights
situation under President  Juan Manuel Santos , who has
strengthened the government’s relationship with public advocacy
and democracy groups.  Extra-judicial executions decreased “substantially” from
2008 to 2009 and several senior military officers were convicted
of human rights abuse, the report said.  Cambodian Abuses  Cambodia was singled out for arbitrary arrests, child
labor, restrictions on freedom of assembly and expression, and
the use of defamation lawsuits to target opposition voices.  A new law in  Cambodia  is “emblematic” of international
efforts to squash pro-democracy and public advocacy groups, the
report said. The law would bar groups with fewer than 11 members
from getting legal status, create barriers to registration for
foreign non-governmental groups and then require them to
collaborate with the government.  Ukraine, which began the year with free and fair
presidential elections, saw an negative trend due to problematic
local elections, media intimidation, and perceived selective
prosecution of opposition figures, the report said.  China’s ‘Negative Trend’  Disappearances, arbitrary detention and limits on the
Internet and the work of journalists and lawyers marked China’s
worsening human rights record in 2010.  The report identified a lengthy list of human rights abuses
in China, including extra-judicial killings, torture, a lack of
due process in politically controlled courts, discrimination
against women and forced sterilizations and abortions.  Chinese officials restrict and monitor Internet use,
particularly to block news of public protests in the Middle
East. The networking website LinkedIn was blocked after postings
about the so-called Jasmine revolution in  Tunisia . LinkedIn
Corp. operates the largest networking site for professionals.  “A negative trend in key areas of the country’s human
rights record continued, as the government took additional steps
to rein in civil society, particularly organizations and
individuals involved in rights advocacy and public interest
issues,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  