-- 
U.S. Treasury Delays Currency Report Due April 15 Until After China Talks

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-08T22:02:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/u-s-treasury-delays-currency-report-due-april-15-until-after-china-talks.html
The U.S. Treasury Department today
said it would delay its twice-yearly report on foreign-exchange
markets until after U.S.-Chinese talks next month.  The report was due on April 15. The previous report, due on
Oct. 15, 2010, was released on Feb. 4.  The Treasury cited a series of upcoming international
meetings, in a statement released in  Washington . In addition to
the next U.S.- China  Strategic and Economic Dialogue, set to take
place in Washington in May, the delay also will encompass next
week’s meetings of Group of 20 finance ministers, the  World Bank 
and the  International Monetary Fund .  In February, the Obama administration declined to brand
China a currency manipulator while saying the No. 2 U.S. trading
partner has made “insufficient” progress on allowing the yuan
to rise. The Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers say China’s
currency policy gives the nation’s exporters an unfair
competitive advantage. U.S. concerns have grown as China’s
rising economic power put the economic relationship off balance.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told a congressional
panel this week that the U.S. continues to work to encourage
China to let the yuan rise “more rapidly.” The Treasury’s
previous report said China should follow through on President Hu Jintao’s commitments to allow more  exchange-rate  flexibility and
boost domestic demand, the Treasury Department said in a report
to Congress yesterday on foreign-exchange markets.  The yuan “remains substantially undervalued,” according
to the report, which was originally due in October and says no
major trading partner meets the legal standard of improperly
manipulating its currency. “It is in China’s interest to allow
the nominal exchange rate to appreciate more rapidly.”  The yuan rose 0.19 percent this week, the biggest weekly
advance since the period ended Feb. 14, to close at 6.5354 per
dollar in Shanghai as of 4:30 p.m., according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The currency touched 6.5350 today, the strongest level
since the country unified official and market exchange rates at
the end of 1993. Financial markets were closed on the first two
days of the week for public holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  