-- 
University of California to Continue Varsity Baseball After Contributions

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-08T20:50:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/university-of-california-to-continue-varsity-baseball-after-contributions.html
The  University of California,
Berkeley , will continue to offer varsity baseball, next year and
into the future, after fund-raising efforts from alumni, former
players and other supporters raised $9 million for the program.  In September, the school announced that it lacked the money
to finance its baseball team, launching a fund-raising effort to
save the sport. The program’s formal reinstatement will come
when the school raises the final $1 million to reach its $10
million goal, the university said today in a release on its
website.  “The baseball team’s preservation is yet another example
of how our alumni are stepping up to support their alma mater
during a time of unprecedented financial challenges,”
Chancellor Robert Birgeneau said in the release.  The Golden Bears (19-7) are ranked 18th in the
nation, according to the USA Today/ESPN poll. The team won
College World Series titles in 1957 and 1947, and produced
Major League Baseball players including five-time
All-Star infielder Jeff Kent and former New York Yankees
outfielder Xavier Nady.  California’s budget crisis has led to funding reductions
for higher education, and Governor  Jerry Brown  in January
proposed additional cuts of $500 million from the  University of
California ’s budget. Berkeley is one of 10 campuses in the
University of California system.  Rugby, women’s lacrosse and men’s and women’s gymnastics
were also originally dropped as varsity sports because of
financial difficulties. In February, the school announced that
rugby, women’s gymnastics and women’s lacrosse were preserved
thanks to more than $12 million in donations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 