-- 
Vale Bids $1.1 Billion for Metorex to Gain Copper Reserves

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-04-08T18:42:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/vale-offers-to-buy-south-african-miner-metorex-for-1-1-billion-in-cash.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world‘s second-largest
mining company, offered to buy South African copper producer
 Metorex Ltd. (MTX)  for about 7.5 billion rand ($1.13 billion) as it
seeks to boost output of the metal almost fivefold by 2015.  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale offered 7.35 rand a share in
cash, a 21 percent premium over the stock’s average price in the
previous 20 sessions in Johannesburg, according to a statement
today from Metorex. Investors holding about 25 percent of the
Johannesburg-based company´s capital agreed to the offer, which
is conditional on Vale gaining approval from at least 75 percent
of Metorex’s shareholders, Vale  said  in a separate release.  Mining takeovers are accelerating as companies struggle to
replace aging deposits and  China ’s industrial growth stokes
demand for copper in construction and appliances. Announced
deals rose about 58 percent to $18.6 billion in the first
quarter from a year earlier, Bloomberg data show. Vale is
targeting 1 million tons of copper output within the next four
years, compared with production of about 207,000 tons last year.  Metorex owns the Ruashi copper and cobalt open-pit mine in
the Katanga province of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as
well as the Chibuluma underground copper mine and the Sable zinc
operation in Zambia. The DRC holds about 4 percent of global
copper reserves and is among the world’s largest cobalt
producers, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  Mining Geology  “The quality of the mining geology of the area is very
good,” Marco Saravalle, an equity analyst at Coinvalores
Corretora de Valores in Sao Paulo, said today in a telephone
interview. “It’s close to markets in  Europe  and  Asia .”  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, is pursuing
copper acquisitions as it seeks to diversify from its
steelmaking ingredient business. The Metorex deal may be the
last for Chief Executive Officer Roger Agnelli after he was
ousted by the Brazilian government because of disagreements
about the company’s investments in the country. Agnelli spent
about $33.3 billion on acquisitions during the past decade.  Murilo Pinto de Oliveira Ferreira, the former head of
Vale’s nickel business, will take over on May 22 after Agnelli’s
mandate expires, Vale said April 4.  “Vale is still lagging in copper, which makes us view the
potential acquisition positively,” Leonardo Correa and Renato Antunes, Barclays Capital analysts in  Sao Paulo , said in a note
to clients today. “While the acquisition is economically small,
we consider Vale’s move to increase its copper exposure to
be strategically sensible,” they wrote.  Rising Production  Metorex produced 26,358 metric tons of copper and 2,021
tons of cobalt in the six months through Dec. 31. Vale expects
to boost copper output to 332,000 metric tons this year as it
starts operating its Salobo project in Brazil and its nickel and
copper Totten mine in Sudbury,  Canada , the company said Oct. 28.  Metorex fell 5 cents, or 0.7 percent to 7.05 rand at the 5
p.m. close of trade in Johannesburg, giving the company a market
value of 7.07 billion rand.  Vale  gained 19 centavos to 47.61
reais as of 2:49 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading.  Metorex Chairman Rob Still and board member Alberto
Barrrenechea will sell a combined 1.02 billion rand worth of
stock at Vale’s offer price, the South African company said in a
separate regulatory filing. The shares pledged by the executives
are part of commitments secured by Vale, Jacques de Bie, a
spokesman for Metorex in Johannesburg, said by phone today.  A Vale official in  Rio de Janeiro , who declined to be named
citing corporate policy, said the company had no further
comment.  Acceptable Risk  Vale is investing “heavily” in  Africa  and doesn’t see any
problem to implement its investments there, Agnelli said on a
conference call July 30. “Everybody feels it is a risky
continent but we understand very well the needs that they
have.”  During the global recession two years ago, Vale fired 1,300
employees and said 5,500 more would be put on paid leave. The
company pared investments by about half to $9 billion, from an
announced $14.2 billion, a decision criticized by then-President
Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who said it had “no reason” to cut
spending as it had “lots of cash” to help the economy grow.  Agnelli also faced government criticism for buying ships in
China when  Brazil  was setting up its own shipyards. The former
president urged Vale to spend more on fertilizers and, between
April and September 2009, asked the company to build steelworks
at least half a dozen times.  Copper futures for May delivery gained 9 cents, or 2
percent, to $4.5065 a pound at 1:50 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . A close at that level would leave the metal up 5.8 percent
this week, the most since the week that ended Dec. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net  or
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  