-- 
Vallar Completes Acquiring 75% Berau, Recapital Says

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-04-11T01:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/vallar-completes-purchase-of-75-of-berau-coal-director-says.html
(Corrects Rothschild’s position at Atticus Capital in last
paragraph of story first published on April 8.)  Vallar Plc (VAA) ,  Nathaniel Rothschild ’s
investment vehicle, completed acquiring a 75 percent stake in
Indonesia’s PT Berau Coal Energy from PT Bukit Mutiara today,
Recapital Group said.  The transfer was completed at 10:40 a.m. Jakarta time,
Thomas Warren Shreve, chief executive officer of Recapital, the
parent of Bukit Mutiara, said in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg News. Shreve is also a director at Berau Coal.  Vallar agreed in November to invest $3 billion in PT Bumi
Resources and Berau Coal in a stock and cash transaction to tap
access to an emerging market in Indonesia, the world’s largest
thermal-coal exporter, amid surging demand for the fuel from
 China  and  India . Vallar will be renamed Bumi Plc after the
completion of the deals.  “The acquisition has brought together significant holdings
in  Indonesia ’s largest and fifth-largest coal producers to
create a London-listed Indonesian coal champion,” Rothschild,
co-chairman of Vallar, wrote today in an e-mailed statement to
Bloomberg. “Both Bumi and Berau have strong organic growth
profiles, with operations and projects that are perfectly
positioned to take full advantage of the current high demand for
coal from the fast growing markets of  Asia .”  Vallar planned to buy 26.2 billion shares of Berau Coal at
540 rupiah each or for a total of 14.1 trillion rupiah ($1.63
billion), Recapital, which helped sell the stake, said in a
statement to the stock exchange April 6.  Vallar completed the acquisition of a 25 percent stake in
Bumi last month. Bakrie Group, the owner of Bumi, and Bukit
Mutiara, received shares in Vallar as part of the transactions.  Bumi Stake  After the purchases, Bakrie Group will own about 54.6
percent of Vallar and Bukit Mutiara will have about 13.2 percent
in the  Jersey , Channel Islands-based company, Vallar said in a
statement March 4.  PT Bakrie & Brothers rose 1.5 percent to 66 rupiah at the 4
p.m. close in Jakarta trading. Berau Coal was unchanged at 560
rupiah.  Vallar plans to increase its stake in Bumi to as much as 50
percent in the near term and expects to complete the transaction
in the second quarter, Rothschild said by e-mail.  “There is no firm deadline for the plan, rather it is an
ongoing process that we do expect to take place during the
course of April,” Rothschild said. Bumi fell 0.8 percent to
3,250 rupiah apiece.  Vallar may raise its stake in Bumi this year to 51 percent,
the Financial Times reported yesterday, citing Andrew Beckham,
chief financial officer of both Vallar and Bumi.  Rothschild was most recently co-chairman of New York-based
hedge-fund firm Atticus Capital LLC and the only son of British
financier Lord Jacob Rothschild. Vallar raised 707.2 million
pounds ($1.2 billion) in an initial public offering on the
London Stock Exchange in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  