-- 
Vapores Falls in Santiago as Shipper Forecasts ‘Ugly’ Result

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-04-08T18:18:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/vapores-falls-in-santiago-as-shipper-forecasts-ugly-result-2-.html
Cia Sudamericana de Vapores SA (VAPORES)  fell
in Santiago trading after Latin America’s largest container
shipper said its first-quarter results will be “ugly” on
increased fuel costs and lower shipping rates.  Vapores declined as much as 3.2 percent to 372 pesos. The
stock was trading at 375 pesos at 2:06 p.m. New York time, down
2.4 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Juan Antonio Alvarez made the
comments at a meeting today in Valparaiso, Chile, where
shareholders approved a proposal to sell as much as $1 billion
in new shares to shore up the company’s finances.  The Luksic family’s  Quinenco SA (QUINENC)  bought an additional 8
percent stake in Vapores this week from the Claro family’s
holding company, saying in a regulatory filing it intends to
enter into a shareholder agreement for control of Vapores. While
the Luksic entry has bolstered an already “optimistic” longer-
term outlook, the shipping business is yet to stabilize, Alvarez
said. Global rates may rise later this year, he said.  Vapores shares dropped 22 percent in the week ended March
18 after it unveiled plans to sell new shares and a stake in a
port unit. The stock is down 36 percent this year, the worst
performance in  Chile ’s benchmark stock index.  The company plans to sell as many as 1.5 billion new shares
in two stages of about $500 million each.  “While it’s a complex industry, we believe with the
capacities we can add to the Claros’ experience and the
financial backing, we can turn Vapores into what it once was and
probably much more,” Guillermo Luksic told reporters today
after the meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  