-- 
Vedanta Sees Ore-Export Ban Lifted by Indian Court in May

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-04-08T13:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/vedanta-sees-ore-export-ban-lifted-by-indian-court-in-may-1-.html
Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , the largest
copper producer in  India , expects a ban on iron-ore exports from
the country’s Karnataka state to be lifted permanently when the
 Supreme Court  has a hearing in May.  Karnataka , a state in India’s south, barred iron-ore
exports last July to increase local supplies of the steelmaking
ingredient. This month India’s Supreme Court allowed shipments
to restart from April 20. Miners in the state had appealed
against the ban. China, the world’s biggest steelmaker, got 14
percent of its iron ore from India in February.  “We feel that going forward the ban will be permanently
taken off when the Supreme Court is called for the next hearing
in the first week of May,” Prasun Kumar Mukherjee, head of
Vedanta’s  iron-ore  division, said today on a conference call.
“We make our plans for the current financial year of 2012 as
there will be no restriction on exports.”  Vedanta plans to produce 7 million to 8 million metric tons
of iron ore in Karnataka this year, Mukherjee said. Iron ore
will account for 37 percent of all dry-bulk goods, including
iron ore, thermal coal, grain and minor bulk commodities, hauled
at sea this year, Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker,
forecast.  Higher Taxes  Iron ore shipments from India, the world’s third-largest
exporter of the commodity, will probably fall 25 percent in the
next financial year following an increase in export taxes,
Siddharth Rungta, president of the  Federation of Indian Mineral
Industries , said on Feb. 28. Overseas sales may decline to 64
million metric tons in the year starting April 1 from a revised
forecast of 85 million tons this year, he said.  The lifting of the Karnataka ban should, in theory,
increase the amount of spot cargoes coming from India, Thomas
Baldwin, an iron-ore, freight and steel trader with Deutsche
Bank AG in  London , said in a note yesterday.  “In practice, we’re waiting to see the full impact as
increased tariff and transport costs along with a clampdown on
the illegal mining activity may mean that the volumes returning
to the market are not as great as some predict,” he said.  India plans to increase its export tax on all grades of
iron ore to 20 percent in the next financial year. The price of
iron ore shipped to  China  from India has increased 5.1 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net 
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net 
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  