-- 
Vietnam Dong at Record Low as Fixing Weakest in Six Years

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-08T05:08:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/vietnam-dong-at-record-low-as-fixing-weakest-in-six-years-2-.html
Vietnam fixed the dong  reference
rate  at the weakest level since at least January 2005, sending
the currency to a record low against the dollar, as the central
bank seeks to narrow the gap between official and unofficial
exchange rates.  Policy makers are stepping up efforts to reduce the
disparity between the black market and official rates after the
central bank devalued the dong by about 7 percent on Feb. 11,
the fourth such move in 15 months. The  State Bank of Vietnam 
will manage monetary policy in a flexible manner to temper
inflation and stabilize economic growth, Deputy Governor Nguyen Van Binh said Feb. 26.  “If the reference rate is creeping toward the market rate
that’s a good thing. We want them unified because we want people
to be trading at banks and not on the curb,” said Jonathan
Pincus, a Ho Chi Minh City-based economist with the  Vietnam 
Program at the  Harvard Kennedy School . “The way to do that is
not to close the curb market but effectively make the curb
market unattractive, enabling people to get foreign exchange in
the banks.”  The  State Bank  of Vietnam fixed the reference rate 0.2
percent lower at 20,718 per dollar, according to its website.
The dong is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side of
the daily fixing.  The currency was little changed at 20,913 in the  spot
market  as of 11:41 a.m. in Hanoi, according to prices from banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It dropped 0.5 percent to a record low of
20,925 earlier.  Trade Deficit Widens  The dong traded at 21,100 in the unofficial market
yesterday, state-run newspaper Vietnam News reported today,
without saying where it got the information. A telephone service
run by Vietnam Posts & Telecommunications stopped providing
details of exchange rates in the black market on March 9.  Vietnam’s trade deficit widened in March even after the
government devalued the nation’s currency the most since at
least 1993 to try and curb the shortfall.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has lowered the target for
credit growth and ordered a tighter monetary policy to try and
prevent a further climb in inflation spurred by costlier fuel
and electricity, and a weaker currency.  The central bank raised the seven-day repurchase rate in
open-market operations by one percentage point to 13 percent on
April 1. Consumer prices rose by 13.9 percent in March from a
year earlier, the most since February 2009.  “This is another in a series of moves to tighten rate
policy after inflation got out of control,” Dariusz Kowalczyk,
a Hong Kong-based senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB, said
after the rate increase. “The tightening should have a
stabilizing effect on the foreign-exchange market as policy
makers are clearly making the right steps to stabilize the
economy.”  --Nick Heath. With assistance from Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi.
Editors: Simon Harvey, Andrew Janes  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  