-- 
Warren Says Proposed Consumer Bureau Changes Would Aid Banks

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-04-08T22:53:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/warren-says-proposed-consumer-bureau-changes-would-benefit-banks.html
Republican lawmakers are doing Wall
Street’s bidding by trying to restructure the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau’s funding and leadership, Obama administration
adviser  Elizabeth Warren  said today.  “This is precisely the goal of the forces at work to
politicize the CFPB’s funding,” said Warren, the special
adviser in charge of setting up the bureau, in remarks at the
Society of American Business Editors and Writers conference in
 Dallas . “If they succeed, the beneficiaries will be some of the
same institutions that precipitated the financial crisis.”  Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who
leads the House Financial Services Committee, has introduced
legislation to replace the CFPB director position created by the
Dodd-Frank Act with a five-person commission. Representative
Randy Neugebauer, a Texas Republican on the Financial Services
panel, has proposed making the bureau’s budget subject to
congressional appropriations.  Without independent funding, the bureau would have to
“kowtow to powerful banking opposition, making it less
accountable to the American people,” Warren said, rejecting the
lawmakers’ contention that the changes would make the consumer
agency more accountable.  “In the guise of greater accountability, it would be
possible to restructure the new consumer agency to make it less
-- not more -- likely to achieve its stated goals,” Warren
said.  Bachus said “cheerleaders” have diverted attention from
substantive questions Republicans have raised about the
structure, power and accountability of the consumer bureau,
which was signed into law by President  Barack Obama  last year
after being approved by a Congress controlled by Democrats.  “The truth is it is virtually unheard of for an
independent agency to be governed by one single director,”
Bachus said in a statement released today. “The bill I’ve
purposed to place the CFPB under the leadership of a five-
member, bipartisan commission is identical to what a majority of
the House voted for last year.  A bipartisan commission would
help take the partisan politics out of the CFPB and ensure it
produces rules that are fair and effective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  