-- 
Yemen’s Saleh Rejects Mediation From Gulf Nations; Four Dead in Taiz Clash

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-04-08T21:38:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-08/yemen-s-saleh-rejects-gulf-peace-initiative-as-protests-swell.html
Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh
ruled out mediation by Persian Gulf countries that have offered
to seek a compromise between his regime and a growing protest
movement, calling the effort “blatant interference.”  “We were born free, and we have free will, and they have
to respect our wishes,” Saleh told supporters gathered near the
presidential palace in Sana’a today. “We reject any coup
against democracy, the constitution and our freedom.” Elsewhere
in the capital, hundreds of thousands of demonstrators joined a
rally to demand an immediate end to Saleh’s rule.  In the southern city of Taiz, the site of clashes in the
past week that left at least 15 protesters dead, security forces
fired bullets and teargas on a crowd, killing four and injuring
hundreds, Sadek al-Shujaa, head of the field clinic in Taiz,
said by telephone.  “This is a massacre,” al-Shujaa said. “We live in an
atmosphere of a war.” More than 100 protesters have gunshot
wounds and another 400 suffered from teargas inhalation, he
said.  Saudi Arabia  had invited Saleh and representatives of
Yemen’s opposition for talks in  Riyadh  to end more than two
months of nationwide protests and escalating violence by
security forces. Police and snipers killed 46 protesters in
Sana’a on March 18, prompting several military and government
officials to abandon Saleh’s regime.  GCC Initiative  The U.S. welcomed the Gulf Cooperation Council initiative
today. “We strongly encourage all sides to engage in this
urgently needed dialogue to reach a solution supported by the
Yemeni people,” the acting State Department spokesman, Mark Toner, said in an e-mailed statement.  Qatar’s prime minister, Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber Al Thani,
said this week that the GCC effort aimed at reaching a deal that
would involve Saleh stepping down. The main coalition of
opposition parties had agreed to attend the talks.  “Our power comes from the power of our great people, not
from Qatar, not from anyone else,” Saleh said in his speech.
“This is blatant interference in Yemeni affairs.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 