-- ‘Gravity’ Leads for Third Week While WikiLeaks Flops
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-10-21T21:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/-gravity-leads-u-s-box-office-for-third-week-with-31-million.html
(Corrects top 10 in second to last paragraph, table)  “Gravity” collected $31 million to
lead the box office for a third week, as a film about WikiLeaks
founder Julian Assange failed to find an audience.  “Gravity,” the space thriller from  Warner Bros ., has
taken in $170.6 million in U.S. and Canadian theaters since Oct.
4, researcher  Rentrak Corp. (RENT)  said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “The Fifth Estate,” starring Benedict Cumberbatch
as Assange, opened in eighth with $1.7 million for DreamWorks
Pictures and distributor Walt Disney Co.  “Gravity” is the first film to to lead for three weeks
straight since “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey” in December
2012. The movie has won critical acclaim for its star,  Sandra Bullock , and director Alfonso Cuaron, while packing in
audiences. Debuts this week failed to slow it down, including
the reboot of the horror classic “Carrie,” which came in third
with $17 million.  “It’s a direct reflection of good word of mouth,” said
 Paul Dergarabedian , senior media analyst at Rentrak. “It
doesn’t matter what the competition is. It steamrolls along.”  3-D tickets accounted for more than 80 percent of
“Gravity’s” sales the first two weekends, according to
Boxoffice.com, another researcher.  Cast Adrift  Made for $100 million, “Gravity” has helped lift Warner
Bros. to No. 1 in domestic sales this year. Together with
“Prisoners,” the kidnapping drama starring  Hugh Jackman ,
“Gravity” has given  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s studio the No. 1 film
in four of the past five weekends.  In “Gravity,” Bullock plays Ryan Stone, a new-to-space
medical engineer, opposite  George Clooney , a veteran astronaut
who talks Stone through her panic when debris from a satellite
hits their shuttle and damages it. The two, left adrift, try to
make it to a Chinese  space station  before their oxygen runs out.  “The Fifth Estate,” made for an estimated $28 million
according to Box Office Mojo, missed modest estimates. The movie
is a portrait of Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, who gained
notoriety for releasing thousands of U.S. classified military
and diplomatic cables through his anti-secrecy website.  Daniel Bruhl co-stars as Daniel Domscheit-Berg, Assange’s
associate, on whose book the movie partly draws from. It was
projected to take in $4.2 million, according to BoxOffice.com.  Blood Bath  “Carrie,” a remake of the 1976 Brian De Palma movie,
stars Chloe Grace Moretz as the shy prom queen who unleashes
supernatural terror on her small town after a humiliating prank.
The picture, based on the novel by  Stephen King , was made for
$30 million, according to Box Office Mojo. It was projected to
take in $24 million in its debut, according to BoxOffice.com,
another researcher.  The remake “is never able to get past De Palma’s singular
imprint to make a distinctive statement of its own,”  wrote 
Betsy Sharkey in the Los Angeles Times.  “Captain Phillips,” the acclaimed Somali-pirate shipping
drama with  Tom Hanks , generated $17.3 million in ticket sales
its second weekend, to place second for Sony. The movie is based
on the true story of the hijacking of the U.S. cargo ship, the
Maersk Alabama, in 2009.  “Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs 2,” the animated
sequel also from Sony, dropped to fourth place, collecting $10.1
million.  Slave Saga  “Escape Plan,” about a prison escape, was the third debut
shown widely in theaters. It features  Sylvester Stallone  and
 Arnold Schwarzenegger  and took in $9.8 million to place fifth
for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  It was projected to collect
$9 million in its debut.  Two award contenders opened in limited release.  “12 Years a Slave,” from Fox Searchlight and British
director Steve McQueen, is an adaptation of an 1853 memoir by
Solomon Northup. A free black man, Northup was kidnapped, sold
and sent to a Southern plantation, where he survived a dozen
years of backbreaking labor and mistreatment.  “All Is Lost,” from Roadside Attractions, stars  Robert Redford  as a yachtsman adrift at sea.  Both movies have drawn rave reviews, with Redford “giving
the performance of his life,” the  New York  Times said. Chiwetel Ejiofor delivered a “shattering central performance” in the
main role of “12 Years a Slave,” according to  Bloomberg News .  Weekend revenue for the top 10 films fell 19 percent to $94
million from a year earlier, Rentrak said. Revenue is up less
than 1 percent to $8.57 billion year to date.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Rentrak. The amounts are based on gross
ticket sales for Oct. 18 and Oct. 19, and estimates for
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  