-- Dollar Gains as Treasuries, Oil Fall; Stocks Fluctuate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-21T20:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/asian-futures-signal-gains-from-5-month-high-yen-weakens.html
The dollar rose from an eight-month
low, while Treasuries fell and U.S. stocks closed little
changed, as investors prepared for tomorrow’s employment data.
The yen weakened after  Japan ’s exports trailed estimates, while
oil slid below $100 a barrel as American inventories grew.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , a gauge of the currency
against 10 major peers, rose 0.2 percent at 4 p.m. in  New York 
after last week slumping to the lowest level since February.
The yen lost 0.4 percent to 98.184 per dollar. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  closed little changed at 1,744.66, maintaining
a record high set last week. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
increased 0.3 percent for an eighth straight gain, the longest
rally this year. Ten-year Treasuries snapped a three-day advance
while oil lost 1.6 percent to help lead commodities lower.  The Labor Department’s jobs assessment for September will
be released tomorrow after a partial government shutdown delayed
the report, with data on construction spending and foreign
purchases of U.S. securities also scheduled. The  Bank of Japan 
will continue pumping cash into the economy to spur inflation,
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said today. The  Federal Reserve  won’t
taper bond purchases until March because the budget impasse
slowed growth, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “We’ve seen this tendency for safety trades ahead of big
numbers this year,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a phone
interview. “Markets are short dollars, especially against the
likes of the euro, sterling. There’s an element of caution, of
taking back risk and positioning ahead of the numbers.” A short
positions is bet that a currency will fall in value.  Japan Exports  The dollar strengthened against all 16 major peers except
the Swedish krona, rising more than 0.5 percent versus the  New
Zealand dollar , South African rand and Mexican peso.
The yen depreciated against 13 of 16 major peers, dropping 0.4
percent versus euro. Europe’s 17-nation currency decreased less
than 0.1 percent to $1.3680.  Japan’s exports grew 11.5 percent in September from a year
earlier, the  finance ministry  said in  Tokyo  today. That missed
the 15.6 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Imports
exceeded exports by 932.1 billion yen ($9.5 billion). The BOJ
will continue easing until 2 percent inflation has been
sustainably achieved, Kuroda said today at a central bank branch
managers’ meeting in Tokyo.  U.S. companies including Texas Instruments Inc. and Netflix
Inc. were among S&P 500 members scheduled to report quarterly
earnings after exchanges close today. Adjusted earnings-per-share beat analyst estimates at 71 percent of the 106 companies
in the index that have released their results so far in the
reporting period, while 54 percent exceeded sales projections,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Profit rose 4.5 percent for the
group.  GE, McDonald’s  General Electric Co. (GE)  rose 2.3 percent today and added 5.9
percent in two days, its biggest rally since December 2011. GE,
buoyed by demand for  jet engines  and locomotives, last week
assured investors that its industrial business is poised to meet
a goal for profit-margin growth.  McDonald’s Corp. fell 0.6 percent after reporting global
comparative sales rose less than analysts estimated. Boeing Co.,
UnitedHealth Group Inc. and WalMart Stores Inc. lost at least
0.7 percent to lead declines the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
down 7.45 points. AT&T Inc. advanced 1.8 percent after agreeing
to sell or lease 9,700 wireless towers to Crown Castle
International Corp.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. slipped less than 0.1 percent after
rising as much as 1 percent and falling as much as 0.8 percent.
The bank was said to have reached a tentative agreement to pay a
record $13 billion to end civil claims over its sales of
mortgage bonds. The negotiations and terms were described by two
people with knowledge of the situation who asked not to be named
because the meetings were private.  Brian Fallon , a Justice
Department spokesman, declined to comment.  Fed Predictions  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes were up two basis points
at 2.60 percent after a three-day decline. German 10-year bund
yields added 1.7 basis points to 1.85 percent.  The Fed will reduce its monthly bond purchases to $70
billion from $85 billion at its March 18-19 meeting, according
to the median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg survey conducted
Oct. 17-18.  Existing home sales fell in September for the first time in
three months, retreating from an almost four-year high as rising
prices and mortgage rates discouraged would-be buyers.  Sales dropped 1.9 percent to a 5.29 million annual rate,
the National Association of Realtors reported today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 67 economists in a Bloomberg
survey called for the pace to slow to 5.3 million. Prices
climbed 11.7 percent, pushing affordability down to a five-year
low, the group said.  Economic Data  The September U.S. jobs report, originally scheduled to be
released on Oct. 4, will be issued tomorrow after a delay caused
by the 16-day partial federal shutdown. The median forecast of
economists is for a gain of 180,000 jobs, with the  unemployment
rate  predicted to hold at 7.3 percent.  Money has been flowing in and out of financial markets more
rapidly than ever before this year, a bullish signal as the
threat of a U.S. government default fades.  About $47 billion has gone to exchange-traded funds that
track everything from stocks to bonds to commodities since Sept.
1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That followed about
$18 billion pulled in August, $40 billion added in July and $11
billion pulled in June, making it the most volatile period on
record for flows. Almost $7 billion went to ETFs on Oct. 17
alone, as Congress passed legislation to avoid a default.  ETF Flows  The unleashing of investor funds this year has coincided
with the  broadest  U.S. stock-market rally in at least a quarter
century as fresh cash helped overcome slowing profit growth and
concern the Fed will cut stimulus. Resolution of the budget
impasse sends an all-clear signal that will spur another round
of deposits, according to  David Kelly , the chief global
strategist at JPMorgan Funds in New York, which oversees about
$400 billion in long-term assets.  The Stoxx 600 closed at the highest level since June 2008
as earnings at Royal  Philips (PHIA)  NV and Akzo Nobel AG beat
estimates. Trading volumes were 21 percent less than the 30-day
average today according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Philips, the world’s largest lighting company, and Akzo
Nobel, the Dutch maker of chemicals and Dulux paint, jumped more
than 5 percent after reporting profit that beat analysts’
estimates. Actelion Ltd. rose 5.9 percent to a six-year high
after winning U.S. approval for the Opsumit lung drug.  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate bonds
rose, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default
swaps on 125 investment-grade companies increasing one basis
point to 86 basis points.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index retreated was little
changed after rising for four straight days and reaching a five-month high. The South African rand, Turkish lira and Chilean
peso led developing nations’ currencies lower versus the dollar.  The Shanghai Composite Index advanced 1.6 percent, the most
in a week, after the government called for “unrelenting”
implementation of economic policies including increased domestic
consumption. Turkey’s Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index jumped
3.5 percent as trading resumed after being closed most of last
week for an Islamic holiday.  Oil declined 1.6 percent to $99.22 a barrel, the lowest
settlement since July 1. The U.S. Energy Information
Administration said stockpiles increased 4 million barrels to
374.5 million barrels in the week ended Oct. 11. Inventories
were forecast to gain 3 million barrels, according to the median
of nine analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey before
publication of the inventory report. The report was delayed from
last week because of the partial government shutdown.  Commodities  Coffee, oil, wheat and natural gas lost at least 0.9
percent to lead declines in 14 of the 24 commodities tracked by
the S&P GSCI Index, dragging the index down 0.6 percent.  Nickel and silver rose more than 1 percent. The global glut
of nickel will extend into a fourth year in 2014 as new
technology lowers costs for Chinese furnaces producing record
amounts of a lower-grade substitute that helped drive prices
into a  bear market .  Chinese producers will supply 456,000 metric  tons  of nickel
pig iron in 2014, or 49 percent more than last year, Morgan
Stanley estimates. Costs at their rotary kiln electric furnaces
more than halved to $11,000 a ton in five years, according to
Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. That implies they’re
still profitable even after prices slumped 16 percent since the
start of 2013, reaching a four-year low of $13,205 in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  