-- AT&T Agrees to $4.85 Billion Tower Deal With Crown Castle
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-10-21T20:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/at-t-agrees-to-4-85-billion-tower-deal-with-crown-castle.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  is banking $4.85 billion
from yesterday’s cell-tower deal with  Crown Castle International
Corp. (CCI) , giving it extra cash for network upgrades, new spectrum
and a possible European expansion.  The agreement, which involves leasing or selling 9,700
wireless towers to Crown Castle, makes AT&T the latest carrier
to offload antenna sites to independent operators -- a
transaction that lets the company focus on growth areas or more
profitable parts of the business.  The money will bolster AT&T’s balance sheet as it
undertakes a $14 billion network upgrade, plans a stock buyback
that may top $11 billion and contemplates acquisitions in
 Europe . AT&T Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  spoke at
a carrier industry event in Brussels this month, outlining a
wish list of wireless policy changes that could make the region
a more attractive market. The cash also could come in handy if
it needs to buy more wireless airwaves.  “AT&T is selling when tower values are at a historical
high,” said Colby Synesael, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in New
York. “It’s helpful to have a stronger balance sheet. They’ve
been interested in making acquisitions abroad and probably
looking to get spectrum when the auction comes up.”  AT&T rose 1.8 percent to $35.22 at the close in New York.
The stock has climbed 4.5 percent this year. Crown Castle, up
3.5 percent in 2013, fell 1.7 percent to $74.66.  Cash Pile  The deal would double AT&T’s cash holdings, which stood at
$4.5 billion at the end of the second quarter. Crown Castle will
buy 600 AT&T towers and get the exclusive right to lease and
operate about 9,100 others for an average of 28 years, the
companies said yesterday. Crown Castle also will have the option
to buy the leased towers for $4.2 billion beginning in 2032.  “This gives them cash and financial flexibility,” said
 Roger Entner , a wireless-industry strategist with Recon
Analytics in Dedham,  Massachusetts . “It also gets them out of
owning towers, which isn’t core to being a service provider. You
don’t need to own the supermarket building to be in the
supermarket business.”  AT&T, based in  Dallas , is exploring possible acquisitions
in Europe. The company plans to look at buying  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) ’s assets after the U.K. company sells its stake in a
wireless joint venture to  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , people
with knowledge of the matter have said.  Network Upgrade  Even as it unloads its towers, AT&T is spending billions to
upgrade its network. Last November, the company said it would
invest $14 billion over three years to improve the system, which
delivers wireless communications, high-speed Internet access and
television services.  AT&T has about 10,000 towers, which generate roughly $326
million in annual revenue as other companies pay to lease space
on the sites, according to JPMorgan research analyst Phil Cusick. The towers may contribute cash flow of about $216
million a year, he said in a note in August.  Crown Castle and top competitor  American Tower Corp. (AMT) ,
meanwhile, have been increasing their role in the wireless
industry, with many carriers selling their cell sites to the
companies and leasing space back.  “We are very pleased with our agreement with AT&T, which
strengthens our position as the largest provider of shared
wireless infrastructure in the U.S.,” Ben Moreland, president
and CEO of Houston-based Crown Castle, said in its statement.  Lease-Back Strategy  The industry shift is similar to the move by corporations
to sell their office buildings and lease them back from real-estate companies. Tower operators can lease space on their sites
to multiple carriers to squeeze more profit out of the assets.  Crown Castle today reported a 9 percent increase in third-quarter net income to $45.8 million, as sales rose 21 percent to
$749 million. The company plans to initiate a quarterly dividend
of 35 cents a share at the start of next year.  AT&T will lease capacity on the towers from Crown Castle
for a minimum of 10 years for $1,900 a month per site, with a 2
percent annual rent increase. AT&T has the option to renew for a
total of 50 years. The company also said it will have access to
additional reserve capacity on the towers for future use to meet
growing network traffic demands.  AT&T was advised on the sale by bankers at  TAP Advisors LLC 
and JPMorgan Chase & Co., said  Brad Burns , a spokesman for the
carrier. Sullivan & Cromwell and Bryan Cave LLP were legal
advisers. Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP provided legal counsel to
Crown Castle.  Global Tower  U.S. tower owners also have been consolidating themselves,
with fewer companies controlling the infrastructure needed to
transmit wireless signals. American Tower agreed last month to
buy the parent company of Global Tower Partners for $4.8
billion, including debt.  American Tower also made a deal in August to buy almost
4,500 wireless sites from  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  in Brazil and  Mexico 
for a total of $811 million. A year ago,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s
 T-Mobile USA  agreed to sell the rights to operate 7,200 cellular
towers to Crown Castle for $2.4 billion.  For AT&T, the multibillion-dollar payday gives it more
firepower as it goes hunting for deals, even it will still have
to use financing for a major purchase, Entner said.  “This is $5 billion more they can play with, and it’s that
much less money they need to get from the financial markets,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  