-- Wildfire Emergency Declared in Australia State as Homes Lost
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   S i n
-- 2013-10-21T05:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/australian-state-declares-wildfire-emergency-as-weather-worsens.html
Australia ’s most populous state
declared an emergency as wildfires tore through bushland west of
Sydney, destroying hundreds of homes and threatening mountain
townships.  New South Wales state Premier Barry O’Farrell signed the
order late yesterday, giving emergency services personnel the
power to forcibly evacuate people, tear down threatened
buildings and cut off power and gas supplies.  More than 2,000 firefighters are battling 58 blazes across
the state, including 14 that are uncontained, Rural Fire Service
Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons told reporters today. The
nation’s bushfire season has started early after the warmest
September on record, and the emergency measures reflect receding
chances of rain to douse flames engulfing the Blue Mountains
region 80 kilometers (50 miles) west of Sydney.  “This is still a very volatile, very long, uncontained
fire edge,” Fitzsimmons said. Conditions will be at their worst
on Oct. 23 and two of the three main fires in the Blue Mountains
have the potential to merge, he said.  The fires have destroyed 208 properties and damaged 122
others, the fire service said. About 855 claims have been
received totaling A$93 million ($90 million), according to the
 Insurance Council  of Australia.  Insurance Australia Group Ltd. (IAG) ,
the nation’s biggest car and home insurer, was little changed at
A$5.83 at the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney today.  Prime Minister  Tony Abbott , a regular volunteer with his
local Rural Fire Service brigade, did a 14-hour night shift at
the weekend in the Blue Mountains to help with backburning, his
office said in an e-mailed statement.  Sydney Skyline  A haze from the fires shrouded Sydney’s skyline for part of
the day as smoke blew in from the mountains. The state’s
environment department warned that Sydney faced  poor air quality 
today that could affect people with heart and lung disease.  Wildfires are a regular feature of Australia’s warmer
months. In February 2009, bushfires across Victoria state killed
173 people and destroyed 150 homes in the worst blazes in
Australian history.  A 63-year-old man died protecting his home from a fire at
Lake Munmorah on the NSW Central Coast, about 110 kilometers
north of Sydney on Oct. 17, NSW police said in a  statement .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sin in Sydney at 
 msin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  