-- Australian State Declares Wildfire Emergency as Weather Worsens
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-10-20T07:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/australian-firefighters-brace-for-worsening-conditions-in-nsw.html
Australia ’s most populous state
declared a wildfire emergency as temperatures are predicted to
rise and winds strengthen, fanning flames across New South
Wales.  State Premier Barry O’Farrell signed the order today after
consulting with the police minister, and appointed the Rural
Fire Service commissioner to control and coordinate the
emergency declaration.  “This is not an action taken lightly,” O’Farrell said in
a statement. “But it’s important the Rural Fire Service and
other emergency services have the powers and the resources they
need to combat this threat.”  Firefighters battling more than 60 blazes, including about
15 that are uncontained, are bracing for renewed wild weather
across the state. Australia’s bushfire season has started early
after the warmest September on record, and the intensified
warnings reflect receding chances of rain to douse flames
engulfing swathes of the Blue Mountains region about 80
kilometers (50 miles) west of Sydney.  “The RFS commissioner has advised weather conditions over
the next few days will deteriorate significantly and that there
is potential for a significant and widespread danger to life and
property across the state,” O’Farrell said in the statement.
“We are planning for the worst but hoping for the best.”  Evacuation Orders  The government said the declaration will give  emergency
services  personnel the power to direct the public to evacuate an
area; order power and gas supplies to be shut off; and shore up
or pull down buildings.  More than 2,000 firefighters are battling blazes and have
conducted backburning operations in the past two days, taking
advantage of a lull in the weather.  “These conditions are a whole new ballgame,” RFS
Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons told reporters earlier today.
“The predictive charts indicate there will be a significant
impact on populated areas should all these forecasts materialize
as is being suggested.”  A hospital in the Blue Mountains town of Springwood was
evacuated yesterday, with 24 patients transferred to the city.  About 200 firefighters from interstate are reinforcing
crews in NSW.  Police  charged  two girls aged 12 and 13 with lighting a
fire in Sydney’s west two days ago. Firefighters were able to
extinguish the small blaze. The girls will appear in a
Children’s Court on Dec. 4, police said in a statement.  A 63-year-old man died protecting his home from a fire at
Lake Munmorah on the NSW Central Coast, about 110 kilometers
north of Sydney on Oct. 17, NSW police said in a  statement .  The fires have destroyed a total of 208 homes and damaged
another 122, the fire service said.  Wildfires are a regular feature of Australia’s warmer
months. In February 2009, bushfires across Victoria state killed
173 people and destroyed 150 homes in the worst blazes in
Australian history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  