-- Banks Face Risk-Model Clampdown in Basel Trading-Book Review
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-21T09:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/banks-face-risk-model-clampdown-in-basel-trading-book-review.html
Banks face an overhaul of how they
calculate possible losses on securities they hold in their
trading books as global regulators target discrepancies in how
lenders measure the riskiness of their investments.  In a bid to address weaknesses uncovered by the financial
crisis, the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  may publish
draft proposals as soon as this month on capital rules for
assets that banks intend to trade, according to members of the
group.  It may mean “less freedom for the banks using their own
models” for measuring whether they have enough capital, Sabine Lautenschlaeger, vice president of the Bundesbank and a member
of the Basel committee, said in an e-mail. “The potential for
banks to optimize their models with respect to capital
requirements will decline too.”  Banks’ ability to reduce their capital requirements by
changing how they measure the risk of losses on their assets has
prompted regulatory reviews and calls from some supervisors for
more reliance on non-risk-sensitive capital rules. Bankers
including  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , have said that flexible implementation of previous rounds
of Basel rules in the European Union has allowed European
lenders to hold less capital against some assets compared to
their U.S. counterparts.  A study of large banks found “substantial” differences in
how much capital lenders thought was needed to guard against
possible losses on assets, the Basel committee said earlier this
year. Differences in the risk-models used by banks was an
“important source” of the variation, the group said.  Undesirable Variations  Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney , in his capacity as
chairman of the international Financial Stability Board, has
also warned of “worryingly large differences” in the results
produced by different banks’ risk models.  The Basel proposals will address variations in different
banks’ risk measurement and will go beyond toughening rules on
how much information banks have to disclose about their models,
Wayne Byres, the Basel committee’s secretary general, said in an
e-mail.  “We want the new methodology to be more robust, and
produce more consistent outcomes, than is currently the case,”
he said.  Risk Measurement  While the Basel plans are meant to tackle risk measurement
on bank’s trading books, work is also under way to tackle
similar issues affecting lenders’ banking books, where they log
assets intended to be held to maturity, Byres said. The
committee will propose measures on that front next year, he
said.  These plans “could include improved disclosure, greater
supervisory scrutiny of a bank’s choices in defining its modeled
risk parameters or constraints on the use of, and/or inputs
into, risk models,” he said.  International standards set by the Basel committee require
banks to meet minimum  capital requirements , calculated as a
percentage of their assets. The amount of capital that must be
held is linked to the riskiness of the banks’ investments.  Banks must calculate their capital requirements using
either internal models, or a standardized approach prepared by
regulators, under Basel rules. The latter is based on a mix of
credit ratings and minimum risk-weightings for the amount of
reserves that must be used to back a particular asset.  The committee is weighing “the merits of introducing the
standardized approach as a floor or surcharge to the models-based approach, which should avoid that capital requirements
could be reduced below a certain level,” Lautenschlaeger said.  Impact Studies  The Basel group will carry out further consultations and
impact studies once the draft plans are published, she said.  The European Banking Authority, which coordinates the work
of supervisors in the 28-nation EU, said earlier this year that
it may force lenders to publish more information on what’s in
their portfolios because of risk-measurement inconsistencies.  Risk-model variations may affect how different banks fare
in an asset-quality review to be carried out next year by the
 European Central Bank , Jordi Gual, chief economist of  Spain ’s La
Caixa financial group, said in a phone interview.  “Within the EU and in particular the Eurozone it is
critical that this is sorted out,” Gual said. “I don’t think
we’re going to fix it at the global level. Globally it is much
harder to deal with than at the European level. The best we can
probably hope for is that we get more transparency in the way
different banks compute their numbers.”  Financial Crisis  The review of Basel trading-book rules follows changes
approved in 2009 to address what regulators said were serious
failings exposed by the financial crisis. Those amendments,
known as Basel 2.5, “did not fully address the shortcomings,”
the Basel group said last year.  A draft version of the latest Basel plans, published last
year, would change the system banks should use for calculating
losses, moving from a measurement method known as Value-At-Risk, or VaR, to an alternative known as “expected shortfall.”
Regulators have said that the revised approach is better at
capturing the extreme losses that can occur in crises.  “The fundamental review of the trading book is dealing
with the boundary between the trading book and the banking book,
the fact that value at risk is inadequate as a metric when it
comes to dealing with tail risk, the fact that current rules
don’t take account of liquidity, and that the original rules
don’t take account of credit risk in market risk exposures,”
 Stefan Ingves , the Basel group’s chairman, said in an interview
last month.  Inherently Complex  “Trading books at large banks are inherently complex,
volatile affairs,” Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of
Washington-based research firm Federal Financial Analytics Inc.,
said in an e-mail.  “Alternatives to VaR may better balance risks versus
industry need, but this can only be determined after review of
the proposal,” Petrou said. Even if the move away from VaR is
“less subject to gaming by banks, it will create tremendous
arbitrage opportunities that could move trading out of the
banking system. This may be Basel’s desired result, but if so,
it should say so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  