-- Broadbent Says BOE to Raise Rates Only After Recovery Is Secure
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/broadbent-says-boe-will-raise-rates-only-after-recovery-secure.html
Bank of England  policy maker Ben Broadbent said officials will only consider an  interest-rate 
increase once the recovery is secure, with inflation unlikely to
prompt monetary tightening earlier than they have signaled.  “We want to ensure that this recovery, which is only just
beginning in a way, continues and is not choked off by a
premature rise in interest rates,” Broadbent said in a
television interview on  Sky News  yesterday.  BOE Governor  Mark Carney  introduced forward guidance in
August, saying policy makers will keep the  key interest rate  at
a record low 0.5 percent at least until unemployment, now at 7.7
percent, drops to 7 percent. While officials forecast that won’t
happen before 2016, investors are betting on a rate increase
before then as one of the policy’s inflation-linked clauses is
triggered or joblessness declines faster than the monetary
authority predicts.  It’s “unlikely” that one of the inflation knockouts will
be breached, Broadbent said. “It’s more likely that we would
only consider raising interest rates once  unemployment  falls
below 7 percent.”  The aim of guidance is to give more information on the
conditions under which the BOE would think about raising
interest rates, Broadbent said. “The purpose is to reassure
people that we’re only going to do that when the recovery is on
a secure footing.”  Recovery Momentum  The U.K. economic recovery has gained momentum this year
and the  International Monetary Fund  this month raised its growth
forecast for the country.  Data this week will show U.K. economic expansion
accelerated to 0.8 percent in the third quarter after 0.7
percent growth in the three months through June, according to
the median forecast of 40 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .
The number will be released by the  Office for National
Statistics  on Oct. 25.  In an interview published in the Sunday Telegraph
yesterday, former BOE Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said the
impact of the central bank’s stimulus had increased as concerns
spurred by the euro-area sovereign debt crisis eased.  It was too early to say whether the U.K. economy had
achieved “escape velocity” and forward guidance means BOE
policy makers “won’t commit to exit prematurely when there’s
still slack in the economy,” Tucker was cited as saying by the
newspaper.  Tucker, who left the BOE on Oct. 18, will be replaced by
Jon Cunliffe next month.  Strong Growth  “We’re only going to start considering raising rates when
we see a sustained period of strong growth, rising real incomes,
and falling unemployment, unless that causes any risk with
financial stability or price stability,” BOE Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said in a video  interview  on the BBC’s website on
Oct. 18. “My best guess is I don’t think it’s likely to happen
next year. I think we’re talking definitely years rather than
months.”  With his  Conservative Party  lagging in opinion polls, Prime
Minister  David Cameron  is counting on the economy continuing to
pick up pace and a more buoyant housing market to help him
retain power at the next general election in May 2015. This
month, he accelerated a plan to boost mortgage lending,
prompting comments from the IMF that the move may stoke a
housing bubble.  Narrowing Lead  The Conservatives narrowed the opposition  Labour Party ’s
lead in October to its smallest level in 19 months, according to
a ComRes survey commissioned by the Independent on Sunday and
Sunday Mirror newspapers and  published yesterday . Support for
Labour fell one percentage point to 35 percent from last month,
while the Conservatives saw a four-point gain to 32 percent,
ComRes said. That’s the smallest gap since March 2012.  ComRes, which interviewed 2,001 Britons Oct. 16-18 for the
poll, didn’t give a margin of error.  “The housing market has been sort of frozen for several
years and we’re starting to see that thaw,” Dale told the  BBC .
“A healthy housing market is good for the U.K. economy. We’re
aware that it could over time start to overheat and we’re
watching that very carefully, but that’s not where it is at the
moment.”  BOE officials have said mortgage borrowers should ensure
they can still afford repayments when borrowing costs rise.  “Although interest rates will at some point start to rise,
it’s worth remembering quite how low a level we’re starting
from,” Broadbent said. “I think there’s a fair amount they
could go up before borrowers got into great difficulty.”  Banker Bonuses  On changes to bankers’ bonuses, Tucker told the Telegraph
that the focus should be about the structure of remuneration
rather than the level, and they should be “paid partly in bonds
that can be written down or become worthless if their bank went
into liquidation,” the newspaper reported. The former deputy
governor for financial stability also said that while the
culture in banking “has started to be fixed,” it is “a long
road,” the Telegraph reported.  A major  U.S. bank  could collapse now without requiring
taxpayers’ money and the U.K. is just “a year or so behind,”
Tucker was cited as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  