-- Charterhouse Said to Mull $1.6 Billion Offer for G4S Unit
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-10-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/charterhouse-said-to-mull-1-6-billion-offer-for-g4s-unit.html
Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP, a
London-based private-equity firm, is considering a 1 billion-pound ($1.6 billion) offer for  G4S Plc (GFS) ’s cash-solutions
business, according to three people familiar with the matter.  Charterhouse approached banks and its investors over
financing a deal for the unit, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the talks are private. G4S, the world’s
largest security-services provider, is aware of the proposal and
discussed the sale option internally, said one of the people.  G4S, based in Crawley,  England , hasn’t entered formal
discussions with Charterhouse or mandated an external adviser
for the unit, which provides transportation of cash using high-security vehicles and manages ATM machines, the person said. G4S
may decide against a sale of the unit, one of the people said.  G4S in August agreed to sell its cash-solutions unit in
 Canada  and a data business in  Colombia  as new Chief Executive
Officer Ashley Almanza tries to reduce debt and revamp the
company following a series of blows to its reputation. G4S
replaced former CEO Nick Buckles in May after it failed to
provide enough guards for last year’s  London  Olympics. The
Serious Fraud Office this year started probing the company for
allegedly overcharging the government for the electronic tagging
of prisoners.  Investor Pressure  Other private-equity firms have also shown interest in
G4S’s cash-solutions business, said one of the people.  Piers
Zangana , a spokesman for G4S, said the company doesn’t comment
on speculation. Gary Sunderland, a spokesman for Charterhouse,
declined to comment. G4S said in August it’s considering further
disposals.  Cevian Capital AB, a Stockholm-based hedge fund and
shareholder in G4S, has pressed the company to sell units
including the cash solutions business, the Sunday Times reported
Sept. 29, without saying how it got the information. Cevian’s
representatives couldn’t immediately be reached for comment
outside regular business hours.  Charterhouse, formed in a  management buyout  from HSBC
Holdings Plc 12 years ago, manages a 4 billion-euro ($5.4
billion) private-equity fund. Its portfolio includes companies
such as catering company Elior, clothing and footwear retailer
Vivarte and insurance company Acromas.  G4S’s cash solutions business made a profit before
interest, tax and amortization of 135 million pounds on revenue
of 1.29 billion pounds in 2012, according to G4S’s  website . The
business accounted for 24 percent of total profit.  G4S shares have dropped 20 percent in London trading in the
last six months, valuing the company at 3.8 billion pounds,
while the British FTSE 100 index gained 5.3 percent.  Government Orders  The U.K. government, accounting for 10 percent of G4S’s
sales last year, has said it may exclude the company from
tendering for future tagging contracts.  Justice Secretary Chris Grayling said July 11 the company
overcharged for the electronic tagging of offenders, including
billing for dead people. The  Serious Fraud Office  said it is
examining the tagging allegations, dealing another blow to the
company after the bungled 2012 London Olympic Games contract.  In July, U.K. prosecutors also said they were reconsidering
whether to charge former employees of G4S after a jury in London
ruled that a man in their custody was unlawfully killed while
being deported to  Angola . In October, a U.K. parliamentary panel
said G4S was providing “squalid” and “run-down” housing to
asylum seekers under government contracts.  Former CEO Buckles told lawmakers last year that G4S’s
reputation was “in tatters” and that he agreed the bungled
Olympics contract was a “humiliating shambles.”  G4S’s profit before interest, taxes and amortization was
little changed in the first half at 201 million pounds. Sales
climbed 7.2 percent and G4S flagged a contract pipeline worth 4
billion pounds a year. It generated 218 million pounds in cash
from operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  