-- China Inc. Battles Big Oil for Century’s Biggest Find
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-10-21T15:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/china-inc-battles-big-oil-for-century-s-biggest-find.html
For Chinese  oil companies , competing
in Brazil’s auction today for the giant Libra field represents a
change in strategy. A successful bid would be their riskiest
Latin American investment.  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and  China  National Petroleum Corp. are among
companies  registered to bid  for what may become one of the
world’s two largest deep-water fields, requiring an estimated
$184 billion investment. Libra holds as much as 12 billion
barrels, or three years of China’s consumption, Brazil’s oil
regulator estimates. Other bidders include Royal Dutch Shell Plc
and  France ’s Total SA.  “This is too big an opportunity for them to miss,” Ivan Cima, head of Latin American research at  Wood Mackenzie , said in
a telephone interview from Houston.  Only one successful well has been drilled at Libra, part of
subsea prospects known as pre-salt that contain the biggest oil
discoveries this century. Winning the license would shift
strategy for Chinese state producers to one of drilling and
developing new deposits, after years of buying into operating
fields and more advanced exploration projects in  Latin America .  China’s state-controlled companies have less experience
drilling in deep waters and would work in partnership with
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the world’s biggest producer in waters
deeper than 1,000 feet. Brazil requires state-run Petrobras to
take at least 30 percent in concessions for the deposits that
lie beneath a layer of salt below the Atlantic seabed.  New Model  “The Chinese usually prefer to pay a bit more for
production” rather than exploration assets, Caio Carvalhal, an
oil equity analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by phone from
 Sao Paulo . State-owned bidders may find it more appealing to
work with Petrobras than private oil drillers, he said. No U.S.
companies registered for this auction.  Other potential bidders are Ecopetrol SA of  Colombia ,
Mitsui & Co. of  Japan ,  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. of  Malaysia , and a partnership between
Galp Energia SGPS SA and China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., or
 Sinopec. (600028)   Repsol SA (REP) , which had planned a separate partnership with
Sinopec, has dropped out of the contest, Kristian Rix, a
spokesman for the Madrid-based company, said today by phone. He
declined to give further information. The government deployed
army troops to protect the Rio de Janeiro hotel where the
auction is being held as masked protesters threw stones and
tried to set a car on fire close to the beach-side venue.  While Petrobras will automatically join the winning
consortium, it also has the option to bid as part of one. The
bidders haven’t disclosed which partners they plan to take.  Biggest Spenders  The first auction of pre-salt fields using a production-sharing model will require an investment of 400 billion reais
($184 billion) over the 35-year concession, which will include
12 to 15 offshore oil platforms, according to the Brazilian
regulator, known as ANP. Production is forecast to exceed 1
million barrels a day when fully ramped up.  Today’s bidding round follows another held in May for
onshore and offshore blocks that are not pre-salt. May’s
auction, which included permits to drill in virgin waters off
the northern coast, was the first in Brazil since 2008 and
attracted 39 bidders including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  No Chinese companies participated as standalone
competitors in that round.  Since 2010, China has picked up developed assets or fields
with advanced exploratory activity in  Ecuador ,  Argentina ,
 Venezuela , Brazil and Colombia. Sinopec is the third biggest
spender in the region since 1998, according to deals data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to that year.  Gaining a pre-salt foothold is enticing Chinese companies
into an earlier stage project, according to Wood Mackenzie.  ‘Pay More’  Located more than 50 kilometers (31 miles) from Brazil’s
southeastern coast and discovered in 2007, the pre-salt gets its
name from the layer of Cretaceous-era salt formed at a time when
dinosaurs still lived and which traps the crude under the
Atlantic seabed. Sinopec is the only Chinese company with stakes
in the area, through minority partnerships in joint ventures
with Repsol and Galp.  Sinopec’s venture with Repsol was formed in 2010 through
the acquisition of 40 percent of the Spanish producer’s
Brazilian assets in the second-biggest oil deal in the country
since at least 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cnooc said in an e-mailed response to questions on Libra
that it will keep the market informed of significant
developments. Lv Dapeng, a Beijing-based spokesman for Sinopec,
didn’t answer a call to his office.  ‘Limited’ Data  Brazil ’s regulator doubled reserve estimates at Libra to 8
billion to 12 billion barrels on May 23 after CGG Veritas, a
geophysical services company, conducted a study of the first
exploration well. ANP encountered a layer of oil 326 meters deep
at the well and did imaging of the surrounding area. Lula, the
first producing pre-salt field, has estimated reserves of about
6.5 billion barrels.  Petrobras expects pre-salt deposits to double its output by
2020. The state-run company was hired to drill two wells at
Libra. The first was abandoned after problems with well
construction.  The Sinopec ventures, Cnooc, CNPC and the other
participants registered for Libra will face “important risks,”
according to Bank of America Corp.  “The estimates are still based on relatively limited
information and could be subject to important adjustments as
more information becomes available,” Frank McGann and Vicente Falanga Neto wrote in a report to clients dated Oct. 14. “The
information on the quality of the reservoir remains limited.
This is an important variable to define flow rates, and
therefore return levels, and remains a key risk.”  Disappointing Turnout  Brazil increased its control over the oil industry after it
announced in 2007 the discovery of at least 50 billion barrels
in the pre-salt region. Now the government is setting up a state
company, Pre-Sal Petroleo SA, or PPSA, with the power to veto
decisions at pre-salt projects, including Libra.  The number of participants was about a quarter of the more
than 40 companies expected by Magda Chambriard, who heads the
ANP, she told reporters in Rio on Sept. 19. The government
responded on Oct. 11 by easing terms of the auction.  Companies probably will form two or three bidding groups,
Energy and Mines Minister Edison Lobao said last month in
Brasilia. He told reporters Oct. 19 that nine companies
presented guarantees to participate in the auction, which will
proceed even if there is a single bidder.  CNPC and Cnooc can only bid as part of the same consortium
because they share the same controlling stakeholder, China,
according to the ANP.  Profit Oil  JPMorgan’s Carvalhal said China’s interest makes sense
because Libra isn’t as risky as it may look. While Chinese
producers’ strategy has been “pay more, have less risk,” he
said “this doesn’t change with Libra, because there’s high
certainty that it will be developed.”  The winner will be the group offering to pay the government
the highest percentage of profit oil, or the barrels remaining
after all costs are covered, with a minimum of 41.65 percent.
The successful bidder will pay a 15 billion-real signing fee.  Petrobras Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster
has personally sought to lure Chinese investments to Libra by
traveling in August to meet with executives in the Asian
country. Chambriard also visited China as part of efforts to
market the auction.  “Libra is potentially one of the top two biggest deep-water fields in the world,” together with Petrobras-operated
Lula, according to Wood Mackenzie’s Cima. “It’s something that
hasn’t been seen before and maybe won’t be seen again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  