-- CN Rail Cars Burning After Yesterday’s Alberta Derailment
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-10-21T19:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/cn-rail-cars-burning-after-yesterday-s-alberta-derailment.html
Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  cars
are still burning and residents remain evacuated today after an
derailment Oct. 19 west of  Alberta ’s capital  Edmonton .  CN Rail began a controlled burn of propane last night in
the rural hamlet of Gainford, Warren Chandler, a CN Rail
spokesman, said in a media briefing today. He declined to
provide a timeline for completion and said the company’s main
east-west rail corridor remains shut as the company
investigates.  “It is our hope in the very near future to have some good
news for these residents,” Chandler said. “It’s too early to
speculate on a cause at this point.”  The derailment of 13 CN cars, nine of which contain propane
and four carrying crude, comes as regulators boost scrutiny of
oil transport by rail in  Canada  and the U.S. The industry is
drawing heightened attention after a train carrying oil jumped
the tracks and exploded in Lac-Megantic,  Quebec , in July,
killing 47.  There are 126 evacuees registered as displaced, who won’t
be allowed to go home until it’s safe, Jackie Ostashek, a
spokeswoman for Parkland County, said at media conference on
Global News today.  Railroads are facing new rules that may raise costs as
energy companies move more oil on trains amid delays in building
new pipelines such as TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL from
Alberta’s oil sands to the U.S. Gulf Coast. Across the
continent, trains are forecast to move as much as 2 million
barrels a day by the end of 2014, according to Calgary-based
pipeline operator  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)   Shares Fall  “We run a safe railroad, but we do have incidents,” CN
Rail Chief Operating Officer Jim Vena said in a news conference
on the weekend, according to a  video  posted online by Parkland
County.  CN Rail shares fell 0.4 percent to C$109.39 at 3:16 p.m. in
Toronto, after touching an intraday record of C$110.05 shortly
after the open. The stock has gained 21 percent this year.  CN Rail’s weekend crash in Gainford followed the derailment
last week of a CN Rail train carrying anhydrous ammonia in
Sexsmith, Alberta and a derailment last month of a CN Rail train
that sent 17 cars off the track, one of them leaking oil, in
Landis, Saskatchewan. There were no injuries in each of the
incidents.  Fuel Spill  In 2005, CN Rail spilled 1.3 million liters of bunker fuel
into Wabamun Lake, Alberta, about 5 kilometers (3 miles) east of
Gainford, when 43 cars derailed on the railway’s main line
through western Canada.  A  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  train carrying so-called
diluent, a light petroleum product used to dilute oil-sands
bitumen, also derailed last month in one of the Calgary
company’s rail yards, less than three months after a bridge
holding a CP train carrying diluent buckled over the flooded Bow
River.  Vena apologized to residents and defended CN’s record,
calling 2012 its safest year.  Since 2005, track accidents on CN’s network have declined
by 69 percent, CN said, basing its assessment on Transportation
Safety Board of Canada criteria.  Visual Inspection  Emergency responders on the weekend evacuated Gainford and
the surrounding area and the county declared a state of
emergency, after officials were notified of the derailment about
90 kilometers west of Edmonton.  The 134-car mixed-freight train was traveling from Edmonton
to  Vancouver , Vena said. The track involved in the derailment
had been tested to standards surpassing those set by  Transport
Canada  and faced “no issues,” Vena said. The track was
visually inspected Oct. 17, and the train was inspected before
it left Edmonton the next day, he said.  Investigators with Canada’s  Transportation Safety Board 
have begun identifying the cause of the derailment and potential
contributing factors by interviewing crew and collecting
electronic data, James Carmichael, a senior investigator, said
at the weekend media briefing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  