-- Cyprus Bailout Terms Create Space for New Lenders, Ancoria Says
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-10-20T22:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/cyprus-bailout-terms-create-space-for-new-lenders-ancoria-says.html
A requirement that Cyprus shrink its
financial industry as part of an international loan program has
created an opportunity for new lenders to enter the market,
according to Dinos Christofides of Ancoria Holdings Ltd., which
made the first bid for a new banking license since the bailout.  Ancoria Holdings, a fully owned unit of Swedish-founded,
Cyprus-headquartered  Ancoria Insurance  Public Ltd., applied for
the license last week as the company believes “now is the right
time for a new player to enter the banking sector,”
Christofides, project leader for the new lender, said in an Oct.
16 interview.  Cyprus won the 10-billion euro ($13.7 billion) lifeline in
March in return for pledging to tighten its budget, force losses
on uninsured depositors at the country’s two largest banks and
impose the euro area’s first capital controls. Under the
agreement Bank of Cyprus, the country’s biggest bank, absorbed
the second-biggest lender, Cyprus Popular Bank.  Bank of Cyprus ’s net loss widened to 2.21 billion euros in
2012 from a 1.36 billion-euro loss in 2011. Provisions climbed
to 2.3 billion euros from 426 million euros.  Given higher provisioning and weak capital positions,
established Cypriot banks can’t provide liquidity at
“reasonable and affordable terms,” Christofides said. This
“opens the door for new entrants with solid capital bases and
willingness to operate by adopting banking terms and conditions
comparable to northern Europe.”  Ancoria’s new bank will concentrate on commercial-banking
products and services for small and medium-sized enterprises
that are the “backbone” of the Cypriot economy, Christofides
said. These customers may be open to shifting to new lenders.  Changed Attitudes  “Since the events of March, the banking sector is in the
process of a major transformation,” Christofides said.
“Attitudes of individuals and companies toward established banks
have changed.”  Ancoria Insurance, which was established in Cyprus 27 years
ago, is confident the country’s economy will recover and return
to growth in 2015, Christofides said. A fall in the rate of
deposit outflows could be a signal that capital controls will be
gradually lifted in 2014, he said.  Cypriot gross domestic product is set to shrink a
cumulative 13 percent in 2013 and 2014 under the weight of
budget measures and as the financial industry contracts,
according to the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund.  Cyprus remains an attractive option for international
companies that want to relocate or establish bases in the
region, the executive said, noting the island’s safe-haven
status as an EU and euro-area member in a politically uncertain
area.  Company Moves  International companies “haven’t abandoned Cyprus even
after the events of March and we are now seeing some baby steps
in the interest of such companies to move to Cyprus,”
Christofides said.  Cyprus’s recent cooperation with Greece and  Israel  in
natural gas exploration and exploitation and in electricity
production and distribution “opens enormous prospects for
significant investments in Cyprus and in the region which will
result in a much faster recovery,” Christofides said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  