-- Czech Billionaire Risks Helping Communist Comeback
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-10-21T14:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/czech-billionaire-risks-helping-communist-comeback-amid-turmoil.html
Andrej Babis, a self-made Czech
billionaire, may inadvertently help the Communists grab a share
of national power for the first time since the 1989 revolution.  Babis, 59, has propelled his ANO party into the frontline
of Czech politics and to second place in opinion polls by
slamming his rivals as inept liars out for personal gain. His
caustic style has alienated the rest of the country’s political
class and risks pushing the poll-leading  Social Democrats  into
an alliance with the Communists after the Oct. 25-26 election.  “This dynamic plays straight into hands of the Communist
Party, as they increasingly look like the most reliable partner
for the Social Democrats,” Otilia Dhand, an analyst at Teneo
Intelligence, a London-based political consultancy, said in a
telephone interview.  It was the demise of communism 24 years ago that gave Babis
a chance to build an $11 billion agrochemical business on the
ruins of the centrally planned economy. As a self-made man, he’s
now tapping into the anger of a population following a spying
and bribery scandal in June that brought down the government of
former Prime Minister Petr Necas.  “We have a pseudo-democracy, in which you can go to
elections once in four years, select four names from the list of
candidates, and that’s it,” Babis said in an interview as he
snapped commands at his campaign staff hustling to respond to a
rival’s attack. “After the election, the politicians disappear
and all they care about is themselves.”  Establishment Fatigue  Dismissing his role in a possible Communist comeback as
“speculation,” Babis says voters tired of the establishment
should vote for him rather than allowing the heirs of the
Soviet-backed dictatorship to become a stronger force.  Babis is pledging to fight corruption and streamline the
government to upend a system he says produces inept leaders
fixated on personal benefits.  That line resonates with voters in a political climate
dominated by the discontent over austerity policies, which
ensnared the  Czech Republic  in its longest-ever  recession , and
catapulted anti-establishment parties across  Europe , including
 Italy ’s Five Star Movement led by former comedian Beppe Grillo.  ANO’s support in the polls, below the 5 percent threshold
for entering parliament four months ago, shot up to 16.1 percent
in a survey by the polling company Stem published Oct. 18,
trailing only the Social Democrats with 25.9 percent and ahead
of the Communists at 13.3 percent. ANO had 16 percent in a poll
by TNS Aisa for the public broadcaster Ceska Televize published
yesterday, behind Social Democrats with 23 percent.  Babis Rejected  The Social Democrats are rejecting Babis as a possible
partner. While the party said it won’t take the Communists into
a ruling coalition, they are considering striking an agreement
with them on parliamentary support for a single-party cabinet.  Deficit reduction has helped the Czech Republic secure the
highest  credit rating  among the European Union’s post-communist
members at Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s , on
par with  Estonia , which adopted the euro in 2011. The next Czech
cabinet will also inherit the lowest borrowing costs in emerging
Europe, with the yield on 10-year koruna  bonds  at 2.4 percent,
trading below comparable U.S. Treasuries.  Babis, a member of the Communist Party before 1989, is
eroding voter backing for center-right parties, with almost half
of his new supporters migrating from the Civic Democrats and
TOP09, according to a Sept. 30 study by Jan Herzmann, a
statistician analyzing opinion polls.  Communist Turnaround  That dynamic plays into the hands of the Communists. Their
ascent marks a turnaround in their political fortunes 24 years
after the party’s predecessors were ousted in the bloodless
Velvet Revolution.  The Soviet-backed Communist Party seized power in a 1948
coup, proceeding to nationalize assets, persecute critics and
send dissidents to labor camps. Four decades of centrally
planned economy resulted in shortages of basic goods, including
toilet paper, fruit and vegetables.  After the 1989 revolution, the Communists condemned the
Soviet-led military invasion of 1968 that crushed efforts to
soften the dictatorship.  As the regime limped to its demise in the late 1980s, Babis
worked as a foreign trade official, including a stint in
 Morocco . Private enterprise blossomed as the country
transitioned to free-market capitalism, giving an opportunity to
build his empire.  $2 Billion  The 59-year-old Czech entrepreneur, whose fortune is
estimated at $2 billion by Forbes, points to Bidzina Ivanishvili
as an example of someone who succeeded in making the transition
from business to politics. An opposition alliance led by
 Georgia ’s richest person upset President Mikheil Saakashvili’s
party in last year’s election.  Memories of government bickering over posts and money were
lingering in a downtown Prague ballroom on Oct. 3, when more
than 500 ANO supporters cheered Babis’s vow to fight “stealing
and lying” in politics.  “What’s important for me is that he’s rich enough to
finance his life and his campaign with his own money and won’t
be under anyone’s influence later,” Eva Jindrova, an 89-year-old pensioner who previously voted for the Civic Democrats, said
at the rally.  Babis’s Agrofert is the country’s biggest private employer,
with 34,000 workers, according to company data. With assets
ranging from forestry to food producers, it had unconsolidated
revenue of 205 billion koruna ($11 billion) in 2012, according
to the latest financial statement.  Infrastructure, Energy  The billionaire, who began trading fertilizers in 1993 with
$5,000 of capital, promotes cutting the value-added tax,
spending more on infrastructure and lowering energy prices.  While ANO’s pledge of no tax increases is in line with
positions taken by the Civic Democrats and TOP09, they along
with the Social Democrats rejected cooperation with Babis, who
said he won’t settle for less than finance minister if invited
to government.  “This state has no strategy in anything, from energy, to
family support, to transportation, to health care,” Babis said.
“I feel that people are beginning to believe that someone else
may come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  