-- Dollar Gains From Eight-Month Low Before Jobs Report
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-21T21:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/dollar-trades-near-8-month-low-on-fed-bets-before-jobs-report.html
The dollar rose from an eight-month
low amid speculation a government report tomorrow will show U.S.
employment rose more than forecast, weakening the case for the
Federal Reserve to put off reducing stimulus.  The yen fell versus most major peers as Bank of Japan
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said policy easing, which tends to
debase a currency, will go on until inflation reaches 2 percent,
even as data showed Japanese export growth slowed. Chile’s peso
slid after an unexpected cut in interest rates. The U.S. added
180,000 jobs in September, tomorrow’s data is forecast to show.
The report was delayed by the partial government shutdown.  “We’ve seen this tendency for safety trades ahead of big
numbers this year,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a phone
interview. “Markets are short dollars, especially against the
likes of the euro, sterling. There’s an element of caution, of
taking back risk and positioning ahead of the numbers.” A short
position is a bet that a currency will fall in value.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which monitors the
greenback against 10 other major currencies, rose 0.2 percent to
1,004.55 at 5 p.m. in New York. The gauge fell to 1,000.70 on
Oct. 18, the lowest intraday level since Feb. 13, extending a
weekly loss to 1 percent, the most in a month.  The yen fell 0.5 percent to 98.19 per dollar after gaining
1.1 percent during the previous two days.  Japan ’s currency
declined 0.4 percent to 134.32 per euro and touched 134.38, the
weakest level since Sept. 23. The dollar was little changed at
$1.3681 per euro after gaining 0.3 percent earlier.  Low Volatility  A gauge of price swings was at the lowest level in more
than nine months. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility
Index touched 7.73 percent, matching Oct. 18’s low, the least
since Jan. 9, before trading at 7.75 percent. The average this
year is 9.33 percent.  Chile’s peso dropped against most of 31 major counterparts,
losing 1 percent to 501.95 per dollar after the central bank
unexpectedly lowered the benchmark rate by a quarter-percentage
point on Oct. 17.  The South African rand fell for the first time in four days
against the dollar amid speculation that Finance Minister  Pravin
Gordhan  will revise fiscal targets this week. The rand
depreciated 0.6 percent to 9.8429, retreating from a one-month
high of 9.7431 it reached on Oct. 18.  The job-growth forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News compares with a gain of 169,000 positions in August. It
would be the highest since April, indicating the economy was
gaining momentum before fiscal gridlock forced some federal
agencies to close for 16 days, starting Oct. 1. The  jobless rate 
held at 7.3 percent, economists estimated.  The report, originally due Oct. 4, was postponed due to the
government shutdown.  Fed Purchases  The Fed will maintain its monthly bond purchases under the
quantitative-easing stimulus strategy at $85 billion until
March, according to the median estimate of 40 economists in a
Bloomberg survey conducted Oct. 17-18. A survey last month
forecast the first reduction would be in December.  The central bank unexpectedly refrained in September from
tapering the pace of its buying, saying it wanted more evidence
of an economic recovery.  President  Barack Obama  said last week the U.S. government
shutdown “inflicted completely unnecessary damage” on the
economy, while a last-minute deal in Congress to temporarily
lift the debt ceiling concentrated attention on the next fiscal
hurdle in December. Fed officials have cited the standoff as a
reason to postpone slowing monetary  stimulus .  Weaker Dollar  “The medium-term outlook is for a weaker U.S. dollar, as
the Fed is likely to delay tapering,” said Eric Viloria, a
senior currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in New
York. “A source of the dollar’s rebound today could be short
covering ahead of tomorrow’s employment report, which is
expected to show improvement in September. The risk is for
stronger-than-expected labor data, which may cause markets to
reassess tapering expectations.”  The euro’s climb versus the dollar will be sustained as the
Fed’s decision to delay tapering asset purchases attracts
investment flows into Europe, according to  Alberto Gallo  of
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “We’re positioned for a euro rally for the next few
months,” London-based Gallo, the head of European macro-credit
research at RBS, said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Michael McKee.  Japan’s Exports  Japanese exports increased 11.5 percent in September from a
year earlier, the least in three months, the finance ministry
said. That compared with a forecast of 15.6 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey.  It’s too early to discuss an exit strategy for the BOJ’s
monetary easing, Kuroda said today at a central bank branch
managers’ meeting in  Tokyo .  The yen tumbled 11 percent this year, the worst performer
of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 5.9 percent this
year and the dollar advanced 1.7 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  