-- Merkel Coalition Talks May Last Until December Amid SPD Demands
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-10-21T13:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/merkel-moves-closer-to-coalition-as-german-spd-approves-talks.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  and
Germany’s Social Democrats prepared to negotiate through the end
of the year after the SPD laid down its demands for concessions
before entering a government as junior partner.  The SPD approved starting coalition talks yesterday after
the party identified “essential” conditions to Merkel’s
Christian Democratic-led bloc, including a nationwide minimum
wage. Leaders from both factions said the parties will probably
negotiate through November with the goal of swearing in a
“grand coalition” of the two largest parties by Christmas.  “Now comes the hard part,” Volker Bouffier, the CDU
premier of the western state of Hesse, told reporters today as
he entered a party board meeting in Berlin. “We’re ready to
compromise, but we expect the same from the SPD.”  SPD Chairman Sigmar Gabriel vowed to give a third-term
Merkel government a Social Democratic imprint and lock in a
coalition agreement that must be approved by the party’s 470,000
members. At the negotiating table, he’ll face a popular
chancellor who won almost 42 percent of the vote on Sept. 22 and
came five seats short of an absolute majority.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and her CSU Bavarian
sister party will start coalition talks with the SPD on Oct. 23,
the day after  Germany ’s lower house of parliament, or Bundestag,
holds its first post-election session.  About 85 percent of 229 SPD delegates yesterday ratified
the decision for talks. To win over the rank and file, delegates
demanded a minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.63) an hour, as well
as shoring up pensions and investing in roads and schools.  ’Comprises Necessary’  “It’s possible that unbridgeable differences arise during
the talks so that a coalition isn’t possible,” Gabriel said
after yesterday’s delegation meeting at the party’s Berlin
headquarters. “But if you decide to take up coalition talks,
then your goal is to bring them to a successful end.”  Strengthened by the biggest election victory since German
reunification, Merkel’s faction has ruled out higher taxes --
one of the central SPD campaign themes. That wasn’t among the
 SPD’s demand s yesterday, leaving Gabriel’s negotiators to insist
on other policy changes from the SPD platform.  “We will negotiate with a strong hand on substance,” SPD
delegates said in a statement. “Compromises will be necessary,
however the SPD delegation views the following elements as
essential.”  Membership Poll  The minimum wage tops the list of 10 conditions. The others
include improving nursing care; a quota for women on company
executive boards; tolerance of dual citizenship; increased
financing for communities, infrastructure and education; a
financial-transaction tax; and an economic growth strategy for
Europe.  “I’m confident these priorities will make it possible to
achieve fair and good compromises,” CDU General Secretary
Hermann Groehe told reporters today. Any minimum wage must
“under no circumstance destroy jobs,” he said.  If an agreement is reached, the SPD will poll its
membership by mail, a process that should take about two weeks,
SPD General Secretary Andrea Nahles said. The vote will only be
valid if at least 20 percent of the party’s members send their
ballot by post. If not, the SPD will hold a party conference.  “It’s going to get interesting over the next few weeks,”
Nahles said. “At the end of the day we want a good result that
we can hand over to the membership for a vote.”  Merkel governed with the SPD in her first term from 2005 to
2009, after which the SPD had its worst election result in half
a century. Many in the party blamed the result on Merkel’s knack
for taking credit for the government’s accomplishments.  Merkel’s CDU and the CSU will send a combined 311 members
to the 631-seat Bundestag, with the SPD taking 193 seats. In
2005, when Merkel saw off SPD Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder by a
single percentage point and was forced into a grand coalition
with his party, she took 226 seats to the SPD’s 222 seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  