-- Tesco Sales Jump 10% in London Store Tailored for Local Tastes
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-10-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/tesco-sales-jump-10-in-london-store-tailored-for-local-tastes.html
Tesco (TSCO)  has set up the entrance at its
store at Upton Park in East London to reflect the neighborhood
demographic.  Mango juice at 50 pence ($0.81) a carton sits beside a
stock of 21 Asian publications. Garlic comes in big 500-gram
(1.1 pound) nets, while bags of potatoes from Kent advertise
them as a perfect ingredient for curry. What you won’t see by
the door: staples of traditional packet sauces, tinned soups and
10 types of dog food.  Tesco has refreshed 80 stores in London this year with a
targeted, local focus to lure back customers who have defected
to cheaper rivals and neighborhood shops. In Upton Park’s case,
Tesco says almost all of the area residents are Asian or black
and many have large families -- hence the 20-kilo bags of rice
and 20-liter drums of cooking oil you’d usually find in a
catering industry-supply shop.  “You wouldn’t think people would buy these on a high
street but they do and bring them home on the bus,” said Andrew Yaxley, Tesco’s first managing director for  London .  Yaxley, a 46-year-old former Mars Inc. executive, has been
running Tesco’s newest business unit -- London -- since January.
While the rest of the domestic business struggles, the British
executive tasked with reviving the biggest U.K. grocer’s only
separate domestic geographical unit and creating models that can
be replicated in the rest of the country.  The Upton Park store also boasts the first Tesco fresh meat
counter that sells fresh Halal products from animals killed in
accordance with Islamic law. Sales there have improved 10
percent since the revamp in July, Tesco Chief Executive Officer
Phil Clarke said this month when the company reported a drop in
first-half earnings. Tesco had its first annual profit decline
in almost two decades last year and has invested 1 billion
pounds ($1.6 billion) to turn around its U.K. business.  ‘Next Level’  “While tailoring the store to the neighborhood isn’t
obviously anything new, Tesco has actually taken the fine-tuning
to the next level,” said Bryan Roberts, an analyst at Kantar
Retail. “It’s not so much what’s been added to these stores,
but what’s been left out.” The Upton Park location, for
instance, sells less alcohol than a typical Tesco.  Yaxley was appointed in January to run the 450 multi-format
London stores as a separate business unit, with its own property
and marketing teams who will try to sell more Tesco goods to the
super-rich residents of Kensington, St John’s Wood, traders in
the Canary Wharf financial district as well as those in low-paid
jobs or receiving government benefits.  Market Intelligence  After analyzing neighborhood data and working with its own
market intelligence firm Dunnhumby and results from its Clubcard
loyalty program, stores are now divided into on-the-move
outlets, which largely serve commuters, and neighborhood shops.
These are then further segmented into serving super-upmarket,
upmarket, mid-market and price-sensitive customers. After that,
Tesco looks at the ethnic make-up of the neighborhoods and
decides how to stock each store.  While Tesco has struggled with declining or stagnating U.K.
sales in recent years, “London as a whole has been slightly
recession-proof, even though there are clearly price-sensitive
areas,” said Yaxley.  While the greater London area has a population of nine
million people, daily commuters swell Tesco London’s potential
customer base to about 20 million, which makes it “more
complex” to target customers, said Yaxley, who has worked at
the retailer since 2001.  That’s highlighted at the Tesco Metro in Canary Wharf.
While the financial district is located in a less wealthy
neighborhood, the shop itself is a super-upmarket store that
lures shoppers with champagne, artisan chocolates and fresh
bread to cater to the office workers who come in every day.  Yaxley said the Upton Park blueprint will also work in
other large U.K. cities with multi-ethnic populations, such as
Birmingham, Bradford and Glasgow.  ‘Hand Cranking’  Because the stores are centrally designed by the London
team and the traditional “hand cranking”-element of the local
store manager ordering specific items is removed, “we can just
take the individual building blocks and just drop them into a
store anywhere in the country where the segment is similar.”  London’s unique position as Europe’s financial center means
more than 50 percent of Tesco’s upmarket stores are in the
capital, increasing the trading margin from the U.K. average of
5.2 percent. While Yaxley declined to divulge any financial
details about the London business, its margin could be at least
6 percent, according to Exane BNP Paribas analyst Andrew Gwynn.  “The logic of London is the unique demographic,” Gwynn
said. “On the wrong side of the road with the wrong offer and
you go from local hero to just another Tesco. You can definitely
see the logic in focusing more management time on the
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  