-- Estonia Says Russia Tries to Sway Local Vote Via Interpol
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-10-20T21:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/estonia-says-russia-tries-to-sway-local-vote-via-interpol.html
Members of Estonia’s government
accused neighboring  Russia  of interfering in local politics
after a candidate for mayor of the capital, Tallinn, was placed
on Interpol’s wanted list on the eve of municipal elections.  Eerik-Niiles Kross, 46, of the junior coalition party
Isamaa ja Res Publica Liit, is sought by Russia on charges of
organizing piracy, according to  Interpol’s  website. Authorities
in the former Soviet republic plan to file a protest with
Interpol on the grounds that Russia’s actions are politically
motivated, Interior Minister Ken-Marti Vaher, also of Isamaa,
told Estonian public broadcaster  Eesti Rahvusringhaeaeling  Oct.
19. Preliminary vote results yesterday showed Kross failed to
unseat incumbent Tallinn Mayor Edgar Savisaar.  Disputes over the Baltic country’s treatment of its
Russian-speaking minority have strained ties with Russia since
the  Soviet Union  collapsed in 1991. Relations improved this year
after hitting a low in 2007 over the relocation of a Soviet
statue in Tallinn. Russian President  Vladimir Putin  this month
approved a draft border treaty with Estonia.  “Russia has interfered with elections in Tallinn,” Isamaa
Chairman and Defense Minister Urmas Reinsalu said in an e-mailed
statement Oct. 19 in connection with Kross’s political challenge
to Savisaar. “Earlier they wanted to get back at Kross for his
work in defending  Georgia ’s independence. Now they want to
affect tomorrow’s vote so that Savisaar stays in power.”  Freighter Hijacking  Kross, a former diplomat and security official, advised
Georgian authorities during and after that country’s five-day
war with Russia in 2008. Former chess grandmaster  Garry Kasparov , a critic of Putin, this month visited Tallinn to back
Kross’s campaign, according to a  video interview  on the
 Postimees  newspaper’s website on Oct. 4.  Russia alleges Kross had a role in the hijacking of the
freighter Arctic Sea in July 2009. Russia attempted to add Kross
to Interpol’s wanted list last year in connection with the case,
Reijo Valgjarv, an official with the Estonian central criminal
police and an Interpol representative in the country, told the
public broadcaster Oct. 19.  Russia’s request for action on Kross was authorized this
week by an Interpol commission that concluded Russia wasn’t
politically motivated, he said.  “This is a provocation by Russia’s special services,”
Kross said Oct. 19 in e-mailed comments forwarded by Isamaa’s
press office.  Estonian Prosecutors  Estonian prosecutors, which have conducted their own
investigation into the Arctic Sea case, have no grounds to
suspect Kross in crimes alleged by Russia, chief state
prosecutor Heili Sepp told the public broadcaster Oct. 19.
Russian authorities haven’t cooperated fully to establish all
facts in the case, she added.  Savisaar is mainly backed by local Russian speakers. His
Center Party in 2004 signed a cooperation agreement with Putin’s
United Russia party. Before general elections in 2011,
authorities said the Center Party posed a security risk to
 Estonia  by seeking financing from a potential Russian backer.  Center, which has had the majority in Tallinn municipal
council since 2005, won in the capital with 50 percent support
when more than three-quarters of the votes were counted,
according to the National Electoral Committee website. Kross’s
Isamaa was the runner-up with 20 percent, while Kross got 6,354,
second only to Savisaar, securing him a seat on the local
council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Helsinki at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  