-- Lew Says Debt-Limit Fight Hurt Economy and Can’t Be Repeated
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-10-20T13:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/lew-says-debt-limit-fight-damaged-economy-and-can-t-be-repeated.html
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said
the political drama surrounding the  debt limit  hurt the  U.S.
economy  and must not be repeated.  “We need to make sure that government does not go through
another round of brinkmanship,” Lew said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” program airing today. “This can never happen again.”  Even getting close to the breaching the debt ceiling “does
do some damage,” Lew said. “But we have a resilient economy.”  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation Oct. 17, the day
Lew said the U.S. would exhaust its borrowing authority, to
suspend the debt ceiling until Feb. 7 and end a 16-day partial
government shutdown. The 11th-hour deal between Democrats and
 House Republicans  sets the stage for another possible showdown
early next year.  “What we just went through was a political crisis, not an
economic crisis,” Lew said. “This one was a little bit scary
because it got so close to the edge.”  The government closing shaved at least 0.6 percent from
U.S. fourth-quarter gross-domestic-product growth,  Standard &
Poor’s  said in a report Oct. 16. Americans in October were the
most pessimistic about the nation’s economic prospects in almost
two years, as concern mounted that the political gridlock in
Washington would hurt the expansion, according to the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index of expectations.  Fiscal Health  As Congress hashes out a budget agreement in the wake of
the shutdown, it should focus on accelerating economic growth
and can build on progress already made in lowering U.S. budget
deficits, Lew wrote in an opinion piece published in the  New
York  Times today.  “This is an opportunity to improve our nation’s long-term
fiscal health,” Lew wrote, advocating “a comprehensive package
that shrinks our deficits, protects Medicare and Social Security
for those who rely on it, and expands our economy well into the
future.”  Lew, who as Treasury secretary oversees U.S. economic
sanctions, told NBC it’s “premature to be talking” about
easing measures targeting Iran.  “We need to see that they’re taking the steps to move away
from having nuclear weapons capacity,” he said. “We need to
see real, tangible evidence of it, and that we will not make
moves in the sanctions until we see those kinds of moves.”  Iran Sanctions  Iran  is calling on the U.S. and European Union to ease
sanctions that have battered its economy. The Western powers are
demanding curbs on Iran’s nuclear work, which they say may be a
cover for a weapons program. Iran says it has a right to enrich
uranium and is interested only in using nuclear technology for
peaceful, civilian purposes.  President Hassan Rouhani’s phone call with Obama last month
raised expectations of a compromise that would avert the risk of
armed conflict over the issue. The U.S. and  Israel  say they’re
ready to use force if diplomacy doesn’t work.  Lew also said he’s confident Obama’s health-care law will
be on track to ensure that people who need coverage can get it.  “The huge outpouring of interest shows how important it is
that we get this right,” Lew said. “There’s no one more
frustrated than the president at the difficulty in the website.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  