-- Mexico Condemns Alleged NSA Hacking of Calderon E-Mail
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-10-21T23:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/mexico-condemns-alleged-nsa-hacking-of-calderon-e-mail-in-2010.html
Mexico ’s government condemned the
U.S. National Security Agency’s alleged hacking of the e-mail
account of then-President  Felipe Calderon  in 2010, saying such
actions are unacceptable and violate international law.  “In a relationship between neighbors and partners, there’s
no room for the practices that allegedly took place,” the
Foreign Ministry said in an e-mailed statement yesterday,
reiterating its call for President  Barack Obama ’s administration
to conduct an exhaustive investigation of NSA conduct.  Germany ’s Spiegel  reported  yesterday that in an operation
called “Flatliquid,” the NSA used a server to gain access to
Calderon’s account and the Mexican presidential domain used by
cabinet members for diplomatic and economic communications.
Spiegel cited documents from former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.  The U.S. gathers foreign intelligence of the type gathered
by all nations, the NSA said in a statement yesterday, declining
to comment on the specific case reported by Spiegel. The U.S. is
reviewing the way it gathers intelligence to balance concern for
the security of American citizens and allies against privacy
concerns, the agency said.  Calderon Response  Calderon, who became a fellow at Harvard University’s John
F. Kennedy School of Government in Cambridge,  Massachusetts ,
after leaving office, said on his Twitter account today that he
spoke with Foreign Minister Jose Antonio Meade and asked him to
convey Calderon’s strongest protest against the alleged hacking
that targeted him.  The reported acts of espionage “more than personal, are an
affront to the nation’s institutions, since they were carried
out during my tenure as president of the republic,” he said.  The allegations follow a report on Brazilian TV news
magazine “Fantastico” last month, based on documents from
Snowden obtained by American journalist Glenn Greenwald, that
the U.S. accessed  text messages  sent by Mexican President
Enrique Pena Nieto last year, when he was a front-runner in the
election campaign, discussing potential cabinet picks. Pena
Nieto took office in December after defeating the candidate from
Calderon’s  National Action Party , or PAN.  In response to last month’s report, Mexico’s government
summoned the U.S. ambassador in Mexico City, Anthony Wayne, for
consultations.  Brazil Report  Allegations from the same “Fantastico” report that the
U.S. had spied on Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  sparked
outrage in Latin America’s biggest economy and led her to call
off a state visit to  Washington .  Mexico’s Senate Foreign Relations Committee today asked for
a meeting with Wayne and Mexican Ambassador to the U.S. Eduardo Medina Mora to discuss the alleged spying. At a news conference
today, Senator Gabriela Cuevas, the committee’s head and a
member of Calderon’s PAN, also called on the Attorney General’s
office to report on any probes already started into espionage
allegations and punish the people responsible for the alleged
acts.  Obama met with Rousseff and Pena Nieto during the Group of
20 leaders’ summit in  St. Petersburg , Russia last month to
discuss the allegations made about the NSA, the U.S. leader said
at a news conference on Sept. 6. He also said that the U.S.
should review the spy programs to determine if they should
continue. He later called Rousseff in attempt to keep  Brazil ’s
first state visit to the U.S. in almost two decades on track.
She canceled less than a day later Sept. 17.  U.S. Cooperation  The latest report is unlikely to derail cooperation between
the Pena Nieto and Obama administrations or provoke the same
level of reaction as in Brazil, said Duncan Wood, director of
the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars in Washington.  The U.S. buys about 80 percent of Mexico’s exports, and the
nations work together on security and immigration issues along
their almost 2,000-mile border.  “It’s in the interests of both sides to keep things moving
ahead,” Wood said in a phone interview. “Brazil and the  United
States  are not nearly as interdependent as Mexico and the United
States. For Mexico the overriding priority is going to be to
protect the economic relationship with the United States. You
don’t want to do anything that jeopardizes that or puts
roadblocks in the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in  New York  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 