-- Farmer’s Dream Fades as Tongyang Defaults: Korea Markets
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   W h a n w o o n g   C h o i
-- 2013-10-21T02:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/farmer-s-dream-fades-as-tongyang-defaults-korea-markets.html
When a 78-year-old farmer in South
 Korea  was seeking a safe investment for his 300 million won
($282,600) of retirement savings in 2011, his advisers at
Tongyang Securities Inc. recommended Tongyang Group bonds.  Less than three months after making his latest purchase of
debt issued by the nation’s 47th-largest conglomerate, his
dreams of a comfortable retirement were shattered as five
Tongyang affiliates filed for  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 30
and Oct. 1, his son said by phone from  Seoul .  “My father wasn’t a speculator chasing after high yields
and betting his principal would double or triple,” said Son
Jung Yong, who filed a complaint with the Financial Supervisory
Service on behalf of his father and asked that only his name be
used in this article. “The bonds are now trading at 10 to 20
percent of what they were. Retail investors like my father are
not market-savvy and paid too much for the lesson.”  The farmer was among almost 50,000 people who lost money in
the collapse of Tongyang, South Korea’s third corporate failure
in a year.  Standard & Poor’s  said last week the development may
increase borrowing costs for lower-rated Korean companies as
retail investors shun their debt.  STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670) , the
nation’s biggest commodities shipping line, filed for bankruptcy
protection in June and after-school study operator Woongjin
Holdings Co. did the same in September 2012.  Apology, Investigation  The Seoul Central District Court on Oct. 17 ordered five
Tongyang Group affiliates into receivership, while group
chairman Hyun Jae Hyun apologized to investors during a
parliamentary hearing. The five companies are Tongyang Inc.,
Tongyang International Inc., Tongyang Leisure Co., Tongyang
Networks Corp. and Tongyang Cement & Energy Corp.  The FSS is investigating allegations of wrongdoing by
Tongyang Securities in selling high-yield notes to individuals.
Calls to the brokerage’s Ulsan branch, where Son’s farmer father
deposited his money, went unanswered while a Seoul-based company
spokesman declined to comment. The elder Son made several
investments in Tongyang notes over the past two years, with the
latest this July.  A total of 49,561 individuals held 1.6 trillion won, or 93
percent, of bonds and commercial paper issued by Tongyang units
as of the end of September, according to FSS data. Tongyang
Cement’s last issue consisted of two-year securities with a
coupon of 7.3 percent on June 26 before its grading was cut to D
on Oct. 1 in three-step reductions from BBB- on June 11 by Nice
Information Service Co., which is among  South Korea ’s three
largest ratings agencies.  Expensive Lesson  Tongyang was “an expensive lesson for retail investors,
the key pillar of the high-yield market,” said Kim Sung Hyun,
Seoul-based head of KB Investment & Securities Co.’s corporate
finance department. “They are now reluctant to buy and the risk
is that lower-rated borrowers will find it even harder to raise
funds.”  Retail investors hold 2.3 trillion won, or 1.4 percent, of
the 169 trillion won corporate bond market, exchange data show.
It is dominated by the nation’s 30 biggest conglomerates, rated
mostly A+ or above, while BBB or lower-ranked companies
represent less than 10 percent, according to Shinhan Investment
Corp.  The  average yield  on three-year South Korean corporate
notes rated BBB- rose to 8.95 percent on Oct. 18 from a five-year low of 8.41 percent on March 28, according to Korea
Securities Dealers Association prices. That increased the spread
over similar-maturity  government securities  to 613 basis points,
near a 14-month high, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Default Candidates  “Spreads will likely widen more from here,” said Kim Sang Hoon, a Seoul-based credit analyst at Shinhan. “Some heavily-indebted marginal companies are being mentioned as the next
candidates for default as a huge amount of debt comes due.”  Hanwha Investment Securities Co. estimates 46.5 trillion
won of unsecured corporate bonds will mature next year after
this year’s 43.7 trillion won, the most in its data going back
to 2004. Corporates rated BBB or lower issued 44 billion won of
notes in October, down from September’s 110 billion won and
August’s 168 billion won, heading for the lowest sales since
January 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  High Leverage  Companies in the shipping, shipbuilding, steel and
construction industries with high leverage and operating losses
are more at risk of increased borrowing costs, according to
Shinhan’s Kim. STX Pan Ocean, which lost money in three of the
past four years, is among firms holding the least cash covering
short-term liabilities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Debt issued by construction-focused  Tongyang Inc. (001520) , Tongyang
Group’s holding company, was 12 times the size of its equity as
of June, the data showed.  Concern over possible defaults have grown as the outlook
for  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy weakens. The  Bank of Korea 
lowered its 2014 expansion forecast to 3.8 percent on Oct. 10
from the previous estimate of 4 percent. The  finance ministry 
said on Sept. 26 that volatility in global financial markets may
slow growth as the  Federal Reserve  prepares to reduce its
monthly bond purchases that have fueled fund flows into  emerging
markets .  The cost of insuring South Korea’s sovereign debt against
default fell 12 basis points in the past six months to 65 on
Oct. 18, according to CMA prices. The won was Asia’s best-performing currency in the period, gaining 5.9 percent, as the
central bank forecast the current-account surplus would reach a
record $53 billion this year. The won weakened 0.1 percent to
1,062.20 per dollar as of 11:15 a.m. in Seoul today.  Biggest Impact  The biggest impact of Tongyang’s downfall will be on the
retail  bond market  and on weaker borrowers, while Korean banks
and the financial system will be largely unscathed, S&P Hong
Kong-based analyst Cho Cheul Soo wrote in a report. BBB-rated
Dongbu Steel Co., which has 237 billion won due this year,
sought help from a state-backed refinancing program after
selling 40 billion won of two-year notes at 9.5 percent on Oct.
16.  “The Tongyang event is depressing retail demand for high-yielding notes from retail investors,” said Kim Min Jeong, a
Seoul-based analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. “That will expose
weak companies in the industries hit by a slowing economy to the
risk of a liquidity squeeze.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Whanwoong Choi in Seoul at 
 wchoi70@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  