-- Fed Taper Delay Allows Polish Bond Push, Rostowski Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2013-10-21T10:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/fed-taper-delay-allows-polish-bond-push-rostowski-says.html
Poland  can push ahead with plans to
cover much of its 2014 borrowing needs in the next few months as
the U.S. Federal Reserve delays cutting back its bond purchases,
Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said.  “From the point of view of Poland, it will be helpful,”
Rostowski said in an interview Oct. 18, a day after Poland sold
700 million euros ($958 million) of 2019 bonds at the lowest
spread over mid-swaps since 2008. “The present situation, with
the issue of the U.S. debt ceiling delayed but not resolved, is
likely to cause a period of relatively low yields.”  Rostowski, 62, has been finance minster for six years,
twice as long as any predecessor since 1989, and helped Poland
become the only European Union member to avoid a recession since
2008. He declined to address speculation that the ruling party’s
falling popularity has put his job in jeopardy, a claim that
Prime Minister Donald Tusk has denied.  Tusk promoted Rostowski to deputy premier in February to
stress the government’s focus on fiscal discipline and economic
growth. The backdrop is an economy poised to grow at its weakest
pace since at least 1997, which led to a tax-revenue shortfall
and forced Rostowski to announce a deficit overshoot for 2013,
triggering talk in August that his job may be at risk.  With polls showing his party trailing opposition Law &
Justice for the first time since 2007, Tusk said on Oct. 9 that
he will shuffle his cabinet and announce a “new opening” in
November. The premier denied he’s seeking a new finance
minister, calling such reports “unprofessional” and
“indecent.”  Pension Overhaul  A draft bill to cancel government debt held by private
pension funds has also angered voters. Both Tusk’s and
Rostowski’s approval ratings dropped to all-time lows of 29
percent and 16 percent, respectively, in a poll published today
by CBOS, a Warsaw-based researcher.  The plan isn’t, “as some people have misunderstood it to
be,” a nationalization of private pension funds, Rostowski
said. The assets come from mandatory contributions to the public
system, and their transfer has added 18 percentage points of
gross domestic product to public debt since 1998, he said.  “It’s obvious this is a burden that Polish public finances
can’t shoulder and, more important, need not shoulder in the
longer term,” Rostowski said. “The world economic crisis has
now lasted for five years and the risks from public debt
throughout the world have become very apparent.”  Debt Ratio  The pension-fund bill, if passed into law, will reduce
public debt by 9.2 percentage points of GDP next year, according
to government estimates. That would trim the country’s debt
ratio to 50 percent of GDP in 2014, compared with 49 percent in
the neighboring  Czech Republic  and an average 90 percent in the
EU, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  With that performance, the premium Poland pays on debt
relative to the Czech Republic should narrow “with a certain
delay” from 1.68 percentage points on Oct. 18, Rostowski said.
The spread, which was at 1.83 percentage points today, has
narrowed 16 basis points since details of the pension bill were
announced on Oct. 11.  Poland raised 700 million euros last week from its first
foreign-currency bond in nine months. The Finance Ministry paid
1.759 percent on the January 2019 notes, or 43 basis points
above the benchmark mid-swap rate. That’s the narrowest spread
Poland has obtained from international buyers since 2008,
Rostowski said.  ‘Much Stronger’  There’s “no reason to change” plans to use bond sales
this year to pre-finance 2014 borrowing needs, while “front-loading” subsequent sales early next year, Rostowski said. By
cutting debt and bond supply, the pension-fund overhaul
strengthens the  Finance Ministry ’s hand, he said.  “On a net basis, we shall be in a much stronger
position,” Rostowski said. “The bond ownership structure has
changed toward long-term investors to such a degree that even a
higher share of foreign investors doesn’t worry me too much.”  Poland’s  economic growth  will accelerate to 2.5 percent in
2014 from an estimated 1.5 percent this year, according to the
government’s forecast. The country will benefit from a global
recovery that should feed through to the euro area, Rostowski
said.  “I prefer to be conservative in my predictions for next
year, while remaining more hopeful,” he said.  One source of optimism has been the performance of exports,
which may rise to almost 50 percent of GDP this year from 39
percent four years ago, Rostowski said. This is a “deep
structural change” that shows increased competitiveness and has
underpinned the zloty’s stability over the past 12 months,
Rostowski said.  ‘Be Good’  The zloty has lost 1.9 percent against the euro in the past
12 months, the fourth-best performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg behind the Romanian leu, the
Bulgarian lev and the South Korean won.  “You have to be good to have that kind of an increase in a
big country -- and not in a recession and with shrinking
domestic demand, but in a period of economic growth,” Rostowski
said.  Poland will continue to work on reducing its “structural”
 budget deficit  in 2014, “while at the same time allowing
automatic stabilizers to work,” Rostowski said. Besides
boosting public investment, the government wants to build a
program of loan guarantees to small business, he said.  “What we’re going to be focusing on is strengthening the
upswing over the next couple of years,” Rostowski said. “We
still have a lot to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  