-- Fischer Prevails as Flug Picked for Central Bank: Israel Markets
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-21T11:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/fischer-prevails-as-flug-picked-for-central-bank-israel-markets.html
Karnit Flug, former Bank of  Israel 
Governor Stanley Fischer’s deputy, was his choice as successor
from the start. It took Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  a
little longer to reach the same conclusion.  Twice passed over for the top job, Flug was nominated
yesterday by Netanyahu in a bid to wrap up a selection process
that left the central bank without a permanent chief since June.
Flug’s ties with her ex-boss and track record as a caretaker
suggest Israel is set for more Fischer-style monetary policy,
with its emphasis on growth and restraining the shekel.  “The  bond market  likes Flug’s nomination, as she’s
perceived as continuing Fischer’s legacy of being in favor of
monetary easing to fight currency gains,” Effi Cohen, a bond
trader at Tel Aviv-based  Leader Capital Markets (LDRC) , said by phone.
“Her nomination increases the likelihood for one more  interest
rate  cut in the coming few months.”  Israeli stocks and bonds declined today after gaining
yesterday. The yield on 4.25 percent benchmark debt maturing in
March 2023 rose one basis point to 3.62 percent, after falling
to 3.61 percent yesterday, the lowest since May. The  TA-25 (TA-25) 
equity index declined 0.2 percent to 1,302.56 at 2:04 p.m. in
 Tel Aviv , after gaining 0.7 percent yesterday.  The shekel, whose 5.5 percent gain against the dollar this
year represents one of Flug’s challenges, was little changed.
It’s been the strongest among 31 global currencies during the
period, posing a threat to growth in Israel’s export-oriented
economy.  Fischer Support  Netanyahu named Flug, 58, three months after two other
nominees withdrew during the vetting process, and nine months
after Fischer announced he would leave June 30. Flug has said
she learned much of what she knows about monetary policy from
her predecessor. Fischer supported her candidacy from early in
the process, Finance Minister Yair Lapid said in a television
interview last night.  As caretaker governor since Fischer left, Flug stepped up
his policy of buying dollars to curb the shekel’s gains and
boost exports. The bank said this month it will buy $3.5 billion
next year, up from about $2.1 billion in 2013, to counter the
effect of new natural gas production. In September, it bought
$600 million more than necessary for the offset.  Dovish Positions  The same month, Flug presided over an unexpected  interest-rate  cut, reducing the benchmark by a quarter-point to 1
percent, the lowest in almost four years. Fischer had gradually
reduced the rate from 3.25 percent since 2011 in a bid to spur
growth, and all his last four cuts surprised the market,
according to Bloomberg surveys.  Israel’s  inflation rate  of 1.3 percent, below the midpoint
of the  Bank of Israel ’s 1 percent to 3 percent target, leaves
room for lower rates. The bank expects economic growth to slow
to 3.4 percent in 2014 from 3.6 percent this year.  “Flug will continue the policies of Fischer and will be
dovish in her positions,” said Ronen Matmon, the investment
chief at Excellence Nessuah Gemel and Pension Ltd., which
manages 20 billion shekels ($5.7 billion) for clients. “Chances
are we will see another rate cut before the end of the year, and
that will benefit the stock and bond markets.”  Netanyahu and Lapid said in a joint statement yesterday
that they were impressed with Flug’s performance as acting head.
She held the post while first former Governor  Jacob Frenkel , and
then Bank Hapoalim chief economist Leo Leiderman, withdrew their
candidacies during vetting.  ‘Embarrassing’ Process  Lapid had said on Oct. 15 that Flug wasn’t a candidate, as
attention focused on three other contenders.  “I think it’s embarrassing and wasn’t necessary,” former
Governor  David Klein  said of the drawn-out selection process. He
told  Army Radio  that Flug, who served as his research director,
was a fitting candidate.  Born in Warsaw, Flug moved to Israel at the age of three.
She completed bachelor’s and master’s degrees from The Hebrew
University, and a doctorate at  Columbia University  in  New York .
Flug headed the Bank of Israel’s research department for a
decade before Fischer appointed her as his deputy in 2011.  She’s the latest woman to be handed the helm of a central
bank. Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  has been
nominated to replace  Ben S. Bernanke  as the U.S. central banker,
and Elvira Nabiullina was appointed to lead Russia’s central
bank in June. Israel was one of the first countries to be led by
a woman when Golda Meir was prime minister in the 1960s and 70s.  The Bank of Israel job opened in January after Fischer, 70,
announced he would leave midway through his second five-year
term. He has been credited with helping Israel to weather the
global economic crisis better than most developed countries.  “Flug should have been chosen at the outset in light of
her experience and the support for her nomination from former
Governor  Stanley Fischer ,” said  Rafael Gozlan , chief economist
at I.B.I. - Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. “Choosing her
will avoid shocks in both the Bank of Israel itself and in
monetary policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  