-- Miner to Stoke Appetite for $1.6 Billion Sale: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-10-21T04:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/miner-to-stoke-appetite-for-1-6-billion-sale-corporate-india.html
Coal India Ltd. Chairman S. Narsing Rao will meet investors this week to stoke interest for a $1.6
billion share sale even as analysts slash their earnings
estimates for the world’s biggest miner of the fuel.  A roadshow across  Singapore , Hong Kong and the U.S. will
start today as the government prepares to sell a 5 percent stake
in the state-run company, Rao said. More than half of 50
brokerages including Jefferies LLC and Edelweiss Financial
Services have cut their  profit estimates  for the year ending
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors have many apprehensions,” Rao, who took charge
of the state-owned miner in April last year, said in a telephone
interview. “Concerns about our profitability are exaggerated.”  Coal India, whose initial share sale three years ago was
oversubscribed 15 times, receded 32 percent from its May 2011
peak as rising labor and fuel costs eroded  profit margins . A
decade-low growth in  India ’s $1.8 trillion economy has damped
demand for coal as factories run below capacity, threatening
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s plan to raise 400 billion rupees
($6.5 billion) from asset sales to narrow a budget gap and avert
a ratings downgrade to junk.  “In the past three years, the market sentiment about
 emerging markets  has become more pessimistic,” said Janne Rantanen, a fund manager at Helsinki-based FIM Asset Management,
who oversees about $3 billion of assets. “That is hurting Coal
India’s image as well.”  Shares Fall  Coal India  shares  fell as much as 1.4 percent to 282.25
rupees and traded at 284.10 rupees as of 9:32 a.m. in Mumbai.
The stock has declined 20 percent this year, compared with an 8
percent gain in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex. (SENSEX)  The  Kolkata-based (COAL) 
company’s initial public offering in October 2010, the nation’s
biggest, raised 152 billion rupees, with the stock jumping 40
percent on debut.  The purpose of the roadshow is to mend investor sentiment
hurt by frequent unrest among workers demanding wage increases
and government directives to increase supplies to power plants,
the lowest-paying customers, Rao said.  Shareholders are also looking at whether Coal India, which
employs 358,000 workers, is able to find a better return on its
$11 billion of cash in hand than interest that accounted for
half of profit last year, he said.  “Coal India’s idle cash is weighing on its valuations,”
said Ameerul Asyraf Bin Salman, an investment analyst at London-based Somerset Capital Management, which  owns shares  in the fuel
producer. “The company has more workers than it requires.
There’s scope for cost-cutting through automation.”  Divert Sales  With Singh’s push for electricity generation, Coal India
may have to divert sales to utilities, its lowest paying
customers, after signing fuel-supply accords with power plants
with 78,000 megawatts of capacity. Coal India, which sells about
10 percent of its output in electronic auctions to customers
that do not have a contract, may sell more through auctions to
improve profitability, Rao said.  “Nothing is cast in stone,” he said. “In case, we see a
spurt in production costs, there is always scope to increase
prices and bring them closer to the import price.”  Indonesian thermal coal  bearing 6,322 kilo calories per
kilogram was $76.61 a ton for October. Importers have to pay
customs duty and freight over the benchmark price.  Spot sales of thermal coal fetched Coal India 2,544 rupees
a metric ton in the last fiscal year, almost double the amount
paid by contract customers. Auctions, which made up 10 percent
of volume sales, contributed about 40 percent to earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.  Waning Demand  Waning coal demand at factories has pressured bid amounts
at e-auctions, forcing the company to sell at lower prices in
the last quarter. Auction prices dropped 16.4 percent to 2,140
rupees a ton in the quarter ended June 30.  “Things are certainly not as rosy as three years ago,”
said Giriraj Daga, an analyst at Mumbai-based Nirmal Bang
Equities Pvt., who has a hold rating on the stock. “With demand
cooling, auction prices may surprise negatively.”  Power plants in the country had an average coal stock of 16
days as of Sept. 30, compared with an average of eight days a
year ago, according to the power ministry. The number of plants
with less than seven days of inventory, a critical level, came
down to 18 from 35 a year ago.  Rising Stockpiles  Lower generation at power plants in the last six months has
led to a rise in coal stockpiles, raising prospects of a decline
in Coal India’s revenue. Sales at Coal India will grow 6 percent
to 723.6 billion rupees in the year ending March 31, the slowest
pace in five years, according to the median estimate of 48
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Full-year profit may increase to 174.6 billion rupees, 52
analyst estimates show, from 173.6 billion rupees a year ago.
The estimates ranged from a reduction of 26.4 billion rupees to
an addition of 27.8 billion rupees. Profit in the three months
ended June 30 fell  17 percent  to 37.3 billion rupees, the first
decline in at least five quarters.  India’s peak electricity deficit, which was more than 9
percent at the time of the initial share sale, has since reduced
to 3.6 percent. Monthly power demand has contracted 2 percent to
82.9 billion kilowatt hours in the nine months to Sept. 30,
compared with a 1.3 percent increase in the same period last
year, according to the  Central Electricity Authority .  Half of Plan  The sale, which will reduce state ownership in Coal India
to 85 percent, is half of an initial plan to sell a 10 percent
stake. The government trimmed the offering after unions
threatened to go on strike, saying stake sales are a step toward
privatizing the company.  Coal India workers won a pay increase for five years
starting July 2011 after threatening to go on a strike. They
stopped work for a day in 2011, demanding a higher bonus. The
company agreed to a 19 percent increase in bonus payout this
year to win their support for the share sale.  “Unions are pushing up employee costs and that needs to be
compensated through higher prices,” Rantanen said.  For Coal India, which fuels more than half of the nation’s
power production, a price increase will probably be difficult to
push through in the run up to the general elections due by May.
An increase in prices of the fuel will lead to a rise in
electricity bills for homes and factories.  “There would be room for worry if there was no leverage,”
Rao said. “We have enough leverage to protect our
profitability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  