-- Colts Send Broncos to First Loss in Manning’s Return: NFL Week 7
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-21T05:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/jets-defeat-new-england-patriots-30-27-in-overtime-correct-.html
The Indianapolis Colts sent the
Denver Broncos to their first loss after a 6-0 start to spoil
Peyton Manning’s return to the city in which he spent his first
14 National Football League seasons.  Andrew Luck, Manning’s successor in Indianapolis, threw
three touchdown passes as the Colts opened a 19-point lead last
night at Lucas Oil Stadium and held on for a 39-33 victory.  Manning threw three touchdowns for the Broncos, who scored
two fourth-quarter touchdowns to pull within 36-30 before
turning the ball over twice in the final seven minutes.  “We gave them some points or field position and ultimately
it was just too tough to overcome,” Manning, who completed 29-of-49 passes for 386 yards said at his postgame news conference.
“They played excellent on defense. Our execution was not as
good as we’d like it to be.”  The Colts improved to 5-2, while Denver’s loss leaves the
Kansas City Chiefs as the NFL’s lone undefeated team. The
Chiefs, who had a 2-14 record last year, are 7-0 for the first
time since 2003 after beating the Houston Texans 17-16.  “Every win is a great win in the National Football
League,” Chiefs coach Andy Reid said. “We’ll enjoy every one
of them that we have the opportunity to.”  The New York Jets halted the New England Patriots’ 12-game
winning streak against division opponents, winning 30-27 in
overtime on Nick Folk’s 42-yard field goal set up by a penalty
that hadn’t been called before in an NFL game.  The Pittsburgh Steelers won their second straight game
after an 0-4 start, beating the defending Super Bowl-champion
Baltimore Ravens 19-16 on a field goal with no time left.  Winning Kick  The Cincinnati Bengals also won as time expired, defeating
the Detroit Lions 27-24 on Mike Nugent’s 54-yard field goal to
boost their record to 5-2. The Washington Redskins outscored the
Chicago Bears 45-41, with Roy Helu scoring the winning touchdown
-- his third of the game -- with 45 seconds left.  The Dallas Cowboys defeated the Philadelphia Eagles 17-3 in
a matchup of 3-3 teams to take sole possession of first place in
the National Football Conference’s East Division.  The San Francisco 49ers (5-2) topped the Tennessee Titans
31-17 for their fourth straight win as Frank Gore ran for two
scores, and the Green Bay Packers (4-2) beat the Cleveland
Browns 31-13 for their 11th consecutive home win.  In other Week 7 games yesterday, it was Atlanta 31, Tampa
Bay 23; Buffalo 23, Miami 21; Carolina 30, St. Louis 15; and San
Diego 24, Jacksonville 6.  Week 7 play -- which began Oct. 17 with a 34-22 victory for
the Seattle Seahawks (6-1) over the  Arizona  Cardinals -- wraps
up tonight with the winless New York Giants hosting the
Minnesota Vikings.  Oakland and New Orleans don’t play this week.  Manning Honored  In Manning’s first game back in Indianapolis since he left
the Colts, the NFL’s four-time Most Valuable Player was honored
with a video tribute and standing ovation from the fans. He was
then harassed by the Colts’ defense, which sacked him four
times, intercepted him once and forced him to fumble in the end
zone for a safety.  Luck threw touchdown passes to Darrius Heyward-Bey, Stanley
Havili and Coby Fleener, and also rushed for a 10-yard score
that helped the Colts open a 33-14 third-quarter lead.  Indianapolis led 36-17 before Manning threw a 31-yard
touchdown pass to  Demaryius Thomas  and Knowshon Moreno scored on
a 1-yard run. Although the Broncos got the ball back trailing
36-30, Manning’s arm was hit as he attempted a pass, forcing the
ball to flip into the air and into the arms of Colts linebacker
Pat Angerer at the Denver 20-yard line with 6:59 left.  Late Fumble  After a field goal by Indianapolis, Manning completed 5-of-6 pass attempts to move the Broncos to the Colts’ two-yard
line before calling for a running play. Ronnie Hillman fumbled,
giving the ball back to Indianapolis at its own three-yard line
with 3:03 remaining.  Denver was able to add a field goal by Matt Prater with 12
seconds left, yet the Colts recovered the ensuing onsides kick
and ran out the remaining time on the clock.  “I’ve never looked at it as replacing Peyton Manning,”
said Luck, who passed for 228 yards. “I just looked at it as a
chance to play football for a great team. It’s a good win
against a team many consider one of the best in the league.”  At MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey, Folk
missed a 56-yard field goal attempt for the Jets in overtime,
though Chris Jones of the Patriots was called for a 15-yard
unsportsmanlike penalty for pushing a teammate forward in an
attempt to block the kick. The rule was instituted this season
as a safety measure for offensive linemen.  The penalty gave the Jets a first down and four plays later
Folk made the winning kick, helping New York improve to 4-3 and
end a streak of six straight regular-season losses against the
Patriots, who fell to 5-2.  “I didn’t really know what was going on until they
announced it,” said Geno Smith of the Jets, who became the
fifth rookie quarterback to beat a Patriots team coached by Bill Belichick. “It’s great to get the help on something like that
to get us the victory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  