-- Juncker’s CSV Party Wins Early Elections in Luxembourg
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-10-20T21:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/juncker-s-csv-party-wins-early-elections-in-luxembourg.html
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ’s Christian Social People’s party, or CSV, won
early national elections.  Almost final results show CSV getting 23 out of 60
Parliament seats, the Socialists, or LSAP, won 13 seats; and the
Liberals, or DP, will got 13 seats.  Juncker, the longest-serving head of government in the 28-nation European Union, said he will have coalition talks with
the other parties in the coming days. In the outgoing
government, CSV has been in coalition with LSAP, the party that
sought early elections over Juncker’s responsibility in a spying
scandal.  CSV has been in government since 1945, except for the five
years between 1974 and 1979. Juncker, who turns 59 in December,
has been Luxembourg’s prime minister since 1995.  “The distance between our party and the others stays
significantly big,” Juncker said in a speech at CSV event
tonight. “We remain the strongest party in this country.”  The challenge to Juncker came after a July 5 report to
parliament said he was “politically responsible” for failing
to inform lawmakers of “irregularities and supposed
illegalities” by the State Intelligence Service. The
Socialists, his coalition partner for years, submitted a motion
for early elections and Juncker was left with no choice but to
call a vote.  Front Lines  Juncker, a driving force behind the euro currency, stepped
back from the front lines of  Europe ’s debt crisis in January,
when he ceded the presidency of the Eurogroup, a post he had
held since 2005, to Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem.  A signatory of the 1992 Maastricht Treaty that created the
European Union and led to the introduction of the single
currency, Juncker served as an intermediary between Germany and
 France  in hammering out the deficit-limiting  stability pact  in
1996 and in softening it in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  