-- Juve Loss Boosts Roma’s Lead in Italy; Barcelona, Atletico Held
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-10-20T22:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/juve-loss-boosts-roma-s-lead-in-italy-barcelona-atletico-held.html
Juventus lost 4-2 at Fiorentina
yesterday and dropped five points behind leader Roma, which
stayed perfect in the Italian soccer league. Barcelona and
 Atletico Madrid  lost their 100 percent records in Spain.  Giuseppe Rossi got three goals and Joaquin scored one, all
in the second half, as Fiorentina came back from 2-0 down to
inflict Juve’s first Serie A defeat of the season. The visiting
team had led with goals by  Carlos Tevez  and Paul Pogba.  “We were home and dry and had more than one opportunity to
score the third goal,” Juve coach  Antonio Conte  said in
comments on his team’s website. “Suddenly something strange
happened. If I could explain why it would be simple.”  Roma kept its perfect record with a 2-0 win over Napoli on
Oct. 18 and has 24 points from eight games. Napoli and Juve have
19, with Verona on 16 and Fiorentina and  Inter Milan  on 15.
Inter tied 3-3 at Torino last night.  Barcelona was held to a 0-0 draw at Osasuna two days ago in
Spain’s La Liga while Atletico Madrid lost 1-0 at Espanyol and
Real Madrid defeated Malaga 2-0.  Gareth Bale, returning after injury, came on as a
substitute for Real and won a penalty kick that  Cristiano Ronaldo  converted in stoppage time.  Barcelona has 25 points, Atletico 24 and Real 22.  Bayern Munich  and  Borussia Dortmund  continue to set the
pace in Germany’s Bundesliga. Bayern had a 4-1 home win over
Mainz and Dortmund defeated Hanover 1-0 two days ago.  Bayern has 23 points, one point ahead of Dortmund and  Bayer
Leverkusen .  Goal Inquiry  Germany’s soccer federation will meet today to discuss what
action to take over a goal incorrectly awarded to Leverkusen in
its 2-1 victory at Hoffenheim on Oct. 18. Video replays showed
Stefan Kiessling’s header for his team’s second goal went in
through the side-netting.  In France’s Ligue 1, struggler Sochaux rallied from 2-0
down to draw 2-2 with second-place Monaco yesterday.  Yannick Ferreira-Carrasco got both Monaco’s goals, Sochaux
replying through Cedric Bakambu and Joseph Lopy. The result
lifted Sochaux one place off the bottom, ahead of Valenciennes.  Paris Saint-Germain beat Bastia 4-0 two days ago and has
regained the standings lead from Monaco by two points.  In the Netherlands,  PSV Eindhoven  missed the chance to
overtake leader FC Twente yesterday, losing 1-0 at Groningen.
Twente drew 1-1 with Ajax two days ago.  Twente has 19 points, one more than PSV, Ajax and PEC
Zwolle, which routed Den Haag 6-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  