-- Najib’s Fiscal Pledge Faces Test in 2014 Budget: Southeast Asia
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g ,   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-10-21T09:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/najib-s-fiscal-pledge-faces-test-in-2014-budget-southeast-asia.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib
Razak’s promise of measures to curb the budget gap and avert a
 credit-rating  downgrade helped send three-year government bond
yields to a four-month low. His resolve is about to be tested.  Najib, also finance minister, will deliver his 2014 budget
speech to parliament on Oct. 25 after cementing his leadership
in a May general election. Having given handouts to the poor and
pay increases for civil servants to woo voters earlier, he may
now introduce a potentially unpopular  consumption tax , delay
projects and raise the levy on property gains, according to
 United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  and DBS Group Holdings Ltd.  The ringgit gained the most among 24 emerging-market
currencies this month partly on speculation Najib, 60, will
follow through on politically unpopular revenue-generating
measures. Failure to act would risk a decline in investor
confidence, with  Fitch Ratings  cutting  Malaysia ’s credit outlook
to negative in July citing rising debt levels and a lack of
budgetary reform.  “Going into the budget, there is an expectation from the
market that Malaysian authorities will take the right steps,”
Vivek Rajpal, a Singapore-based strategist at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said in an Oct. 17 interview. “We believe authorities
will take the right steps. But in case they don’t, it should
impact the bond markets negatively.”  Bonds, Currency  The yield on the 3.172 percent notes due in July 2016
dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.15
percent, the lowest since June 10, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It retreated 14 basis points last week, the biggest five-day decline since the notes were sold in January.  The ringgit appreciated 2.8 percent this month, the best
performance among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, and reached a four-month high of 3.1413 on Oct. 18.
It has traded in a range of 3.15 to 3.25 per dollar since the
U.S. Federal Reserve unexpectedly said Sept. 18 it would
maintain monetary stimulus that’s boosted the supply of dollars
and spurred demand for emerging-market assets.  “Budget 2014 will be a watershed moment for Malaysia as it
embarks on bold fiscal reforms and economic restructuring to
ensure sustainable and balanced economic growth ahead,”  CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  economist Lee Heng Guie wrote in a Sept. 20
report. “Malaysia’s current fiscal and debt situation means
that the prime minister is tasked with making some necessarily
tough but thoughtful decisions.”  Goods Tax  CIMB expects Najib to introduce a goods and services tax,
the consumption levy that the government has considered for
years without implementing. The banking group also predicts
further gradual subsidy rationalization, changes in the state
procurement system, and increases in excise duties for tobacco
and alcohol.  The  risk premium  on Malaysian bonds will probably fall if
Najib takes fiscal consolidation measures in the budget,
Barclays Plc strategists including Rohit Arora wrote in an Oct.
17 note. Such steps could help the ringgit break out of the 3.15
to 3.25 per dollar range,  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency
strategist in  Singapore  at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , said in an Oct.
16 report.  The prime minister has already moved to show he’s prepared
to contain  government spending . His administration raised
subsidized fuel prices for the first time since 2010 last month
and has said it will delay some infrastructure projects. Najib
said this month he believes that Malaysia can avoid a cut to its
credit rating while the government will try its “level best”
to prevent a breach of its self-imposed sovereign debt ceiling.  Debt Rating  The country, which has a long-term foreign-currency
denominated debt rating of A- at Fitch, has run annual budget
deficits every year starting in 1998.  “Najib has shown his resolve to avoid the downgrade and
improve fiscal conditions, and the budget will probably reflect
that,”  Koji Fukaya , chief executive officer and currency
strategist at FPG Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said in an Oct. 18
telephone interview. “Improving fiscal conditions are positive
for Malaysia’s bonds.”  The government will further cut state subsidies, broaden
its tax base and manage spending “prudently,” Najib said in an
Oct. 11 interview. Cabinet will meet before the 2014 budget is
released to decide if there’s enough public support to introduce
a goods and services tax, he said.  Malaysia will probably implement an initial 4 percent goods
and services tax that will generate 20.5 billion ringgit ($6.5
billion), or as much as 14 percent of total  tax revenue , in the
first year, according to an Oct. 16 report from DBS. The
government earlier planned to introduce a 4 percent GST by 2011.
It hasn’t said what the rate may be if it now goes ahead.  Political Risks  Fiscal austerity could pose political risks amid slowing
economic growth and a slide in the National Front coalition’s
popularity.  The economy is forecast by the central bank to expand 4.5
percent to 5 percent this year after growing 5.6 percent in 2012.
Najib’s alliance retained power in the May election even as it
lost the popular vote.  To improve the fiscal position, Najib would also eventually
need to trim Malaysia’s civil service, according to Bank of
America Corp., risking a key support base of the ruling party.  At 26.8 percent of GDP, Malaysia’s government expenditure
is the highest among the five biggest Southeast Asian economies,
according to a September report from the lender. Malaysia has
the highest civil servants-to-population ratio in the Asia-Pacific region, it said, citing estimates from the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development.  ‘Unnecessary Fat’  “There seems to be a lot of inefficiency and unnecessary
fat,”Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank of
America, said in an Oct. 8 interview. “Of course, it’s always
politically more difficult to downsize the civil service.”  Najib is under pressure to push forward with measures to
contain the budget and public debt nevertheless. Moody’s
Investors Service said last month the  budget deficit  may exceed
4 percent of gross domestic product this year, warning the
government’s fiscal targets will become “increasingly out of
reach” without additional measures to contain it.  “The reforms announced in this year’s budget will shape
the trajectory of fiscal and debt consolidation for the
remainder of this government’s term,” Christian de Guzman, an
analyst at Moody’s in Singapore, said in an Oct. 17 e-mail.
“Looking ahead, if the resulting sovereign credit profile of
Malaysia is no longer in line with an A3 rating, we will act
accordingly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Baizhen at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net  