-- Nigeria Exchange to Lure 500 Companies in Next Five Years
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-10-21T09:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/nigeria-exchange-to-lure-500-companies-in-next-five-years.html
The  Nigerian Stock Exchange  will
target 500 companies for initial public offerings over the next
five years as  Africa ’s second-largest bourse seeks to reach a $1
trillion market capitalization by 2016, the regulator said.  The exchange expects five companies to start trading their
shares by year-end, Arunma Oteh, director-general of Nigeria’s
Securities and Exchange Commission, said in an interview in
 London  Oct. 18, without identifying the businesses. The bourse
needs oil and gas, power and telecommunications companies to
list stock to meet its market-value objective, she said.  “There are a number of large, significant companies that
are preparing to come to the market,” Oteh said. Power
producers needing funds to cover spending needs are expected to
list “at some point,” while talks are being held with telecoms
companies on encouraging them to trade their shares, she said.  The NSE’s All Share Index gained 33 percent this year,
compared with a 1.3 percent decline in the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index, for a market  capitalization  of $74 billion, excluding
exchange-traded funds and depositary receipts. Nigeria’s
economy, the continent’s second-largest after  South Africa ,
which also has the largest stock and bond markets, may expand
6.75 percent next year, compared with an estimate of 6.5 percent
in 2013, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said in an
interview in Washington Oct. 11.  ‘Ambitious Target’  “It is an ambitious target,” Pabina Yinkere, head of
research at Lagos-based Vetiva Capital Management Ltd., said by
phone today. “The NSE has to list large corporations. There has
to be incentives to list and economic growth. The equity
investment climate globally has to be right and favorable to the
country. Some factors that will support the target are global in
nature and outside the control of the NSE, making the
realization even more challenging.”  While  Nigeria ’s Lagos-traded stocks also rallied last year,
rising 35 percent, the gains didn’t translate into more initial
public offerings. The number of listed companies declined to 194
in 2012, from 198 in the previous year, according to stock
exchange data. The benchmark equities gauge of Africa’s largest
crude producer is the 10th best performer among 94 indexes
tracked by Bloomberg this year and fourth best in Africa after
the key measures of Ghana, Kenya and  Zambia .  Improved corporate governance standards and a consistent
approach to market regulation will encourage more companies to
sell shares, Oteh said.  Oil Listing  A dual listing planned by an oil exploration and production
company will be “defining” and may encourage others to follow,
she said. The Nigerian regulator approved the listing and is
expecting consent by next month from the other  exchange , Oteh
said, declining to give details other than to say that the
company has a track record of acquiring fields from
international oil producers and making them viable.  Seplat Petroleum Development Co., which bought assets in
the Niger River Delta from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , plans a dual
listing in Lagos and London, Lagos-based BusinessDay reported
June 27, without saying where it got the information. Raising
funds through the stock market is one of the options being
considered by Seplat, Chioma Nwachuku, general manager of
corporate affairs for the company, said by phone from Lagos
yesterday.  The bourse’s $1 trillion target includes equities, ETFs and
bonds, Oteh said. The stock exchange moved to  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ) ’s trading platform at the end of last month, which will
allow the bourse to trade options and futures.  The goal of increasing the number of listings from the 193
securities on the all-share index is only attainable if “there
are incentives,”  Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer at
Financial Derivatives Co., said by phone from Lagos yesterday.
That includes “bringing down transaction costs, reducing taxes
and also ensuring there’s enough investor funds,” he said.  Africa’s most populous country ranks 139rd out of 174 in
Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index, where
lower scores signal increased graft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  