-- Nordic Hotel Billionaire Returns to Scene of Biggest Failure
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-21T12:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/nordic-hotel-billionaire-returns-to-scene-of-biggest-failure.html
Billionaire Petter A. Stordalen,
Scandinavia’s biggest hotel owner, says the one time in his
career that he did everything wrong ended up being a lesson in
how to protect his fortune.  The Norwegian national, who won a reputation for building
his hotel empire at breakneck speed last decade, learned his
lesson after rushing into the Danish market. He lost 800 million
kroner ($133 million) from 2000 to 2011 following a property
bust that forced him to sell all 12 hotels there. He has now
returned to the scene, cherry picking two hotels in Copenhagen.  “Last time we did business in  Denmark  we did everything
wrong,” Stordalen, 50, said in interview over breakfast at The
Thief, his newest six-star hotel in Oslo. “I expanded too fast.
This time we do it differently with brands that are better
defined, stronger management and a plan to stay only in
Copenhagen.”  The lessons are helping Stordalen build his empire, and his
personal fortune, even as much bigger competitors including
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. and  InterContinental
Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  sell properties.  For the former triathlete, the trick is to make every hotel
opening a lavish event that dazzles guests and steals newspaper
headlines. In the past, that’s included arriving on a hotel roof
by a bright blue helicopter. He’s even descended from a ceiling
with a disco ball while playing drums for an opening in
Gothenburg,  Sweden . At a hotel opening outside Oslo, he set fire
to a guitar for dramatic effect.  Untraditional Communication  “He’s untraditional in the way he communicates,” said
Torgeir Silseth, chief executive officer of Nordic Choice Hotels
AS, which has 171 hotels in the Nordic and Baltic regions. He’s
worked with Stordalen since he entered the hotel business in
1996. “He talks about his kids, his worries when he wakes up at
4 a.m. and his worst fears. He’s much more open and sharing, way
beyond what is normal in business -- a bit eccentric.”  The approach has worked. Stordalen is now Norway’s ninth-richest man worth 10.2 billion kroner ($1.7 billion), according
to an annual ranking by  Norway ’s Kapital magazine.  The native of Porsgrunn, a small town about 160 kilometers
(100 miles) south of Oslo, runs his business through the Home
Invest Group, a private company which includes Nordic Choice
Hotels, a property business and an investment firm. Stordalen’s
companies had sales of 6.2 billion kroner in 2012.  Financial Crisis  Stordalen started working at his father’s grocery store and
then struck out on his own at the age of 12, selling
strawberries in the local town square.  He became manager of a shopping center in Trondheim,
northwest of Oslo, at the age of 24, before he finished college.
Then in 1992, when a financial crisis in Norway pushed the
shopping center operator Steen & Stroem ASA into bankruptcy,
Stordalen rallied investors to save the business.  By selling off the individual stores and inventory,
Stordalen said it took him and his two business partners 48
hours to transform a company with 45 million kroner in annual
losses into a profitable enterprise.  In 1996, Stordalen was fired as chief executive officer of
Steen & Stroem after falling out with fellow billionaire, Stein
Erik Hagen, one of the company’s largest shareholders.  Stordalen sold his shares in Steen & Stroem to buy what was
then called Choice Hotels, which had 40 hotels. During the first
three years he bought one new hotel every other week, folding in
on average 50 more employees with each purchase.  ‘Mostly Frustrating’  “It was a time of a lot of commotion,” Silseth said. “It
was mostly frustrating because so much happened and there were
so many changes but the system, structure and organization was
always behind. Speed is his strongest asset and is what built
the company, but it’s also what could be dangerous.”  Stordalen took Nordic Choice public in 1997, holding on to
40 percent to finance an expansion. By 2005, he was fed up with
investors who couldn’t look beyond the next quarter’s bottom
line and bought out the company for 462 million kroner.  Today, he doesn’t need help financing his business. “ Cash
flow  is the most important thing,” Stordalen said.  Home Capital, the investment arm of Home Invest, has 1
billion kroner in bonds and shares. That, combined with returns
in property business and his model of only borrowing up to 65
percent of the value on his properties, gives Stordalen the cash
flow to expand his business.  Over the next five years, he wants to add 29 hotels to the
Nordic Choice chain. Last year he returned to the shopping
center business, buying Sektor Gruppen AS and its 14 malls in
Norway with a partner for 7 billion kroner.  Stordalen’s next big thing is turning his entire empire
into an environmentally friendly enterprise. He spent 20 million
kroner on getting a green certificate on a recent hotel and his
business is ranked the third most sustainable in Norway,
according to the Sustainable Brand Index.  “I want to show that it’s possible to do things
differently -- to be environmentally and socially responsible
and still earn money,” he said. “Tax is the cost of
civilization and there can be no business on a dead planet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  