-- NSA Hacked Calderon’s E-Mail Account, Spiegel Reports
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-10-20T21:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/nsa-hacked-e-mail-account-of-mexico-s-calderon-spiegel-reports.html
The U.S. National Security Agency
hacked the e-mail account of Mexico’s then-President  Felipe Calderon  in 2010, Germany’s Spiegel  reported today , citing
documents from former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.  In the operation, called “Flatliquid,” the NSA used a
server to gain access to Calderon’s account and the Mexican
presidential domain used by cabinet members for diplomatic and
economic communications, according to the report.  The U.S. gathers foreign intelligence of the type gathered
by all nations, the NSA said in a statement today, declining to
comment on the specific case reported by Spiegel. The U.S. is
reviewing the way it gathers intelligence to balance concern for
the security of American citizens against privacy concerns, the
agency said.  The office of President Enrique Pena Nieto, who became
president in December after defeating the candidate from
Calderon’s  National Action Party , or PAN, declined to comment.
At a press conference in Mexico City called to talk about the
nation’s tax overhaul, PAN Senate coordinator Jorge Luis
Preciado called the alleged U.S. spying unfortunate and
unethical.  Allegations last month based on documents from Snowden that
the U.S. had spied on Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  sparked
outrage in Latin America’s biggest economy and led her to call
off a state visit to the  Washington .  The Brazilian television news magazine Fantastico, which
first reported the allegations of U.S. espionage against  Brazil ,
also said at the time that the U.S. had accessed  text messages 
sent last year by Pena Nieto, who was then a candidate and
front-runner in the Mexican election campaign, discussing
potential cabinet picks. Mexico’s government in response
summoned the U.S. ambassador in Mexico City, Anthony Wayne, for
consultations, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement in which
it also condemned spying against Mexican citizens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  