-- Obamacare Said to Take In Almost 500,000 Applications
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e ,   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-10-20T15:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/obamacare-said-to-take-in-almost-500-000-applications.html
Almost 500,000 Americans have
submitted applications for health insurance through the online
exchanges being run by the federal government and 14 states,
according to an Obama administration official.  Consumer use of healthcare.gov has been stymied by
technical glitches since it went live Oct. 1. The site is the
government’s online portal for people looking for new health
plans under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of
2010, which seeks to insure as many as 7 million people by
March. Workers and contractors at the U.S. Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services have been working to fix it.  About 8.6 million people visited the federal website in the
first week, running into software problems and long waits that
prevented them, in many cases, from even registering to check 
out insurance offerings. At one point, the site posted error
messages in at least 24 states. Meanwhile, independent, state-run exchange websites have seen far fewer problems.  “We are seeing progress” with the federal exchange, said
Joanne Peters, an HHS spokeswoman, in an Oct. 18 e-mail. “Wait
times to begin the online process have been virtually
eliminated, and more consumers are creating accounts, completing
applications and ultimately enrolling in coverage.”  The administration official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, didn’t provide a breakdown between the federal site
and the exchanges run independently by 14 states. The government
has said it will release enrollment figures from healthcare.gov
monthly, starting in mid-November.  Federal officials have declined to publicly discuss the
problems with healthcare.gov or to outline plans to fix it in
detail, drawing criticism from Republican opponents in Congress.  State Figures  While the federal exchange has struggled, more than 300,000
people have been able to either start or complete an application
for insurance on the 14 independent, state-run exchanges,
according to a tally of figures released by the states and
Washington, D.C.  In Washington state, where the site has had few issues
since the first day, 37,000 have completed applications to
determine their eligibility for insurance and about 25,000 of
those have enrolled in a private insurance plan or Medicaid
program, the state said Oct. 14. On  Kentucky ’s exchange, there
were 20,337 applications and 9,453 people who completed
enrollment in a plan as of Oct. 10, the state said.  Struggling States  Not all states have released the number of people who have
gone from completing an application to actually signing up and
paying for insurance. A few states, such as  New York , have
struggled with delays similar to those seen on healthcare.gov  New York, which has said its technical issues are now
largely solved, said 124,000 people completed the full
application process as of Oct. 16 and were determined eligible
to purchase a health insurance plan on the exchange. The state
hasn’t said how many of those people have taken the final step
of purchasing a plan.  One state that has had the biggest struggle is  Hawaii ,
which was two weeks behind schedule in launching a fully
functional site. While people were able to log on, create an
account and start the application process Oct. 1, it wasn’t
until Oct. 15 that they were able to actually shop for a plan
and compare prices. Hawaii’s exchange is being run by the same
company,  CGI Group Inc. (GIB/A) , which is in charge of the federal site.  Oregon  said in August that its site wouldn’t be ready until
at least mid-October though it has already started enrolling
people by phone and mail who are newly eligible under the law
for Medicaid, the insurance program for the poor.  In the first two weeks, 56,000 people signed up for
Oregon’s Medicaid program, cutting the number of uninsured there
by 10 percent, according to the Oregon Health Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  