-- Thousands in Hong Kong Protest Government’s TV Decision
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-10-21T06:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/hong-kong-protestors-rally-against-over-tv-license-snub.html
 Hong Kong’s refusal to hand a
television license to a start-up operator drew about 36,000
protesters onto the city’s streets, underscoring dissatisfaction
with Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying’s 16-month-old government.  Black-clad marchers waved banners showing officials on
puppet strings yesterday after Hong Kong Television Network was
denied a license to broadcast free-to-air programming. Licenses
were given to  PCCW Ltd. (8)  and  I-Cable Communications Ltd. (1097) , both
controlled by billionaires. The government has declined to
disclose discussions that led to its Oct. 15 decision, saying
only that political considerations weren’t involved.  The demonstration reflects concerns that Hong Kong’s
policies favor big business, lack accountability and may
undermine freedom of speech in the semi-autonomous Chinese city.
A record wealth gap has spurred popular discontent and driven
down poll ratings for Leung, the city’s last leader to be chosen
by a committee of business and civic groups before full
democracy promised in 2017.  “The public has yet to hear a clear explanation on the
decision to reject the application,” Ma Ngok, political
scientist at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said by
telephone today. “The frustration over the lack of free-television choice has been penting up for a long time.”  Hong Kong Television Network’s founder and chairman Ricky Wong, who didn’t participate in yesterday’s protest, said a day
after the government announced the licensing that the decision
was “unreasonable, unfair and lacks transparency.”  Judicial Review  The government  said  yesterday that the operator is seeking
a judicial review of the decision. Shares of  Hong Kong
Television (1137)  have slumped 25 percent since the licensing decision
announcement on Oct. 15. PCCW has gained more than 2 percent and
I-Cable Communications has doubled.  There was no political consideration in the licensing
decision, the Commerce and Economic Development Bureau said in a
statement yesterday. Decisions regarding free TV license
applications are made by the Chief Executive in Council, and the
discussion content of Executive Council meetings isn’t made
public, it said.  Police said that about 36,000 protesters gathered outside
the government headquarters yesterday. Hong Kong newspapers
including Ming Pao quoted the organizer as saying more than
120,000 people marched.  10-Day Demonstration  The protests come a year after 10-day demonstrations
prompted the government to scrap a three-year deadline to
implement China-prescribed national education classes. Tens of
thousands of people rallied in Hong Kong on July 1, the 16th
anniversary of the former British colony’s handover to  China 
demanding the government address a widening wealth gap and
introduce broader democracy.  “The government, including the People’s Republic of China
government, want to control the media and to manipulate the
mindset of us so they can format a group of new Hong Kong people
who only know to follow their instructions,” said Stephanie
Tang, 33, a freelancer who participated in the protest
yesterday. “We want to tell the PRC that the Hong Kong people
are not idiots. Don’t cheat us.”  Politicians including Audrey Eu of the Civic Party and
Emily Lau from the Democratic Party attended the rally.  City Telecom  Hong Kong Television Network’s Wong started City Telecom
Ltd. in the 1990s to challenge a monopoly on long distance
calls. Last year, he sold the telecommunications assets to CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. for HK$5 billion to fund his television
operations.  I-Cable is controlled by the family of Peter Woo, who is
161th on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index with a net worth of
$8.1 billion that’s largely made from investment in real estate
in Hong Kong and China. PCCW was founded by Richard Li, son of
 Li Ka-shing , Asia’s richest man.  The government has said it doesn’t preclude handing out
more permits in the future. Hong Kong last granted a new license
in 1975 to Commercial Television Ltd., which ceased operations
after three years.  “It’s not about any one company,” Simon Ngai, a 29-year-old social worker, said at yesterday’s protest. “In Hong Kong
nowadays, the government says they don’t have to give you a
reason or an appeal procedure, nothing -- it’s not justice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  