-- Onion Bonanza Makes India’s Farmers New Target for Tata
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-10-21T08:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/monsoon-bonanza-makes-india-s-farmers-new-target-for-tata-cars.html
For Dayanand Sakharam Kute, it seems
money is finally growing on trees.  Well, not trees exactly. But it’s sprouting from the
ground. This year’s crop of tomatoes and ivy gourd on his 4 acre
farm in the village of Pimpri Pendar is looking so bountiful
that the 58-year-old farmer is thinking of buying his first car.
That’s manna from heaven to Eknath Pardeshi, a salesman for  Tata
Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , who’s been coming over every few days since
September to pester Kute, riding his motorbike about 30
kilometers each way along potholed roads east of Mumbai.  “This year is a good year for us farmers,” said Kute, who
predicts his income will triple to about 1.5 million rupees
($24,500) this year. “Prices of tomatoes, onions, grapes and
vegetables have been good. Everybody’s had a good harvest.”  A favorable monsoon is enriching Indian farmers and
encouraging them to splurge -- behavior that’s increasingly a
rarity among city slickers these days. Companies from Tata
Motors to  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  are targeting villagers as consumers in
Mumbai and  New Delhi  come to grips with the slowest economic
growth in more than a decade and accelerating inflation.  “If you look at urban centers, there’s a slowdown,” said
Mohit Arora,  executive director  at research company JD Power &
Associates. “Rural markets offer a large base of untapped
potential. With the current slowdown in traditional markets for
cars, it’s inevitable that carmakers will look at rural  India .”  Powerful ‘Sheth’  Tata Motors, maker of the $2,400 Nano, has assembled an
army of 500 salesmen -- Tata calls them “outreach executives”
-- to target prospective rural customers.  Pardeshi is among them. The 26-year-old says he’s sold
about 30 cars since joining about 1 ½ years ago, sometimes by
telling customers that buying an auto will make other villagers
think they are a “badda sheth,” meaning powerful man in the
local Marathi dialect. Pardeshi makes house calls because the
Tata dealership is too far away for most customers, he said.  Tata Motors isn’t alone in noticing the rising wealth
outside cities. New Delhi-based  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , which
outsells all other automakers in the country, has customers in
50,000 villages and estimates every third car it sells today
goes to a rural buyer, according to Mayank Pareek, the company’s
sales chief. In 2008, rural areas accounted for about 3.5
percent of deliveries, he said.  Narayangaon, the town where Pardeshi lives, and neighboring
Manchar have recently attracted a spurt of interest from
automakers amid rising farm incomes, which are tax-free by law
in India.  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the nation’s biggest SUV
maker, opened a new dealership this month and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
opened a Chevrolet showroom in the area in September.  Banks are also interested. HDFC Bank, India’s largest
lender by market value, is increasingly relying on loans in
villages and small towns for its retail business, Chief
Executive Officer Aditya Puri said in an interview this year.  Getting Ahead  About 70 percent of Indians live in towns and villages and
the growth in their spending outpaced that of city dwellers in
the past two years of available data, according to figures
compiled by Crisil Ltd., a credit-rating company owned by
Standard & Poor’s. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has poured more
than $70 billion into boosting incomes in India’s countryside
since 2004, helping double rural  consumer spending .  Boom to Bust  This year’s monsoon delivered the most rainfall since 2007,
according to the  India Meteorological Department . More rain
means bigger crops and, since the government sets a floor on
prices, farmers don’t need to worry about a glut in the market.
India will spend $14 billion this year to boost its 59 million-ton food stockpile.  Among those taking advantage of the windfall is Shantaram
Batwal, a 47-year-old onion farmer in Netwad Ganeshwadi, about
160 kilometers from Mumbai. After years yearning for a car, he
finally bought a new Tata Indica hatchback last month after
prices of onions more than tripled to 70 rupees a kilogram from
20 rupees in June.  “Today, even farmers can afford to live comfortably,”
Batwal said.  By contrast, consumer sentiment has dipped in metropolitan
areas such as Mumbai and New Delhi, according to Debopam
Chaudhuri, vice-president for research at ZyFin Research.
Jewelers in Mumbai say fewer customers are buying as more people
pawn family trinkets and heirlooms.  Nationwide,  India’s economy  is struggling. HSBC Holdings
Plc forecasts gross domestic product will expand at the slowest
pace in more than a decade; ZyFin Research estimates consumer
sentiment has fallen to the lowest since October 2011; the rupee
tumbled to a record low this year; inflation is hovering at
about 10 percent; and  Standard & Poor’s  warned it may cut the
country’s sovereign debt rating to junk status.  Farmer Suicides  “Agriculture appears to be one bright spot,” Chaudhuri
said in an interview.  However, good fortune for farmers can be fleeting. Only
last year, India had its driest monsoon season since 2009,
hitting crops from cotton to sugarcane. More than 2,200 farmers
in India committed suicide in the past four years as drought
drove them deeper into debt.  “If in a particular year the monsoon is not good or farm
output dips, then sales too will fall,” said Umesh Karne, an
analyst at Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “Those factors
aren’t in anybody’s hands and are hard to predict.”  Kute, who typically walks around bare foot, wearing grimy,
baggy white pants and a long white shirt, is taking advantage of
the good times while they last.  “A car gives you status,” he said, finally ending
Pardeshi’s ordeal when he ordered a 610,000 rupee ($10,000)
Indigo sedan from the Tata salesman last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net  