-- Townsend Follows England Success by Scoring as Spurs Beat Villa
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-10-20T23:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/townsend-follows-england-success-by-scoring-as-spurs-beat-villa.html
Andros Townsend followed up his
recent starring role in  England ’s World Cup qualifying campaign
by scoring for Tottenham Hotspur in a 2-0 win at Aston Villa.  Townsend and Roberto Soldado got the goals yesterday as
Spurs moved up to fifth in English soccer’s Premier League.  Townsend, 22, received plaudits for his performances in
wins over Montenegro and  Poland  this month that guaranteed
England a place in  Brazil  next year.  “Scoring for my country on debut is one of the highlights
of my career, but a first Premier League goal for my hometown
club is pretty special too,” Townsend told Sky Sports. “The
main thing for me is not to get carried away. I just need to
keep putting in performances for Spurs when I get the chance.”  Townsend opened the scoring in the 31st minute yesterday.
His left-foot cross from the right evaded defenders and
attackers as it went in at the far post for his first league
goal for Spurs.  Play was delayed briefly when a smoke bomb was thrown from
the crowd and struck a linesman on the back. He wasn’t injured
and police said they made two arrests following the incident.  The Football Association said that it’s investigating the
incident, which it described as “unacceptable.”  “We will await the match officials’ report and will be
speaking to the clubs,” read a statement from the governing
body. “Such incidents highlight the dangers of pyrotechnics
being used in a football stadium.”  Benteke Boost  Christian Benteke, returning from injury, came on as a
substitute in the 61st minute and helped to energize Villa’s
attack, heading over the bar just after joining the game.  Gabriel Agbonlahor was also prominent as Villa put the
visiting team under increased pressure.  Just as Villa seemed to be getting the upper hand,
Tottenham broke away to get the second goal in the 69th minute.
Soldado slammed the ball in after quick passing by Lewis Holtby
and Paulinho set up the chance.  Tottenham had been upset 3-0 at home by West Ham in its
previous league game.  “After a setback, particularly at home, we had to respond
in good fashion to keep ourselves in touch with the top,” Spurs
coach Andre Villas-Boas said. “This was the result we
deserved.”  Arsenal leads the standings with 19 points, followed by
Chelsea and Liverpool with 17, and Manchester City and Tottenham
on 16. Villa slips one place to 13th, on 10 points.  Two days ago, Arsenal beat Norwich 4-1 and Chelsea defeated
Cardiff by the same score. Everton had a 2-1 win over Hull and
defending champion Manchester United drew 1-1 with Southampton.
Newcastle United tied 2-2 with Liverpool, West Bromwich Albion
drew 0-0 at Stoke, Swansea routed Sunderland 4-0 and Manchester
City won 3-1 at West Ham. Crystal Palace hosts Fulham tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  