-- Picasso, Basquiat Top Sales in $2 Billion Art-Market Test
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-10-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/picasso-basquiat-top-sales-in-2-billion-art-market-test.html
Picasso, Basquiat and de Kooning
works sold for $4 million or more as collectors took their pick
of as much as $2 billion worth of art in  London .  As the U.K. fairs closed last night, many of the biggest
sales were at the Frieze Masters event. Frieze Week is the art
world’s biggest concentration of commercial fairs, public sales
and dealer shows primarily devoted to contemporary works.  “It’s a lot to absorb,” Philip Hoffman, chief executive of
the Mayfair-based Fine Art Fund, said in an interview. “In New
York, you just concentrate on the sales. In London, it’s
difficult with Frieze and all the gallery openings to focus on
one event.”  This year’s line-up was bigger than ever, with more than
900 lots up for auction and 30 galleries added to the second
edition of Frieze Masters, showing high-value modern and
historic works.  This week, dealers and collectors reconvene in Paris for
the Foire Internationale d’Art Contemporain (FIAC). In November,
Sotheby’s, Christie’s International and Phillips will auction
flagship selections of postwar and contemporary art in New York.  At Frieze Masters, which opened to VIPs in Regent’s Park on
Oct. 15, New York-based  Acquavella Galleries  sold Picasso’s 1961
painting “Femme assise au chapeau” to the Greek collector
Dimitri Mavromatis for $7 million.  Kooning Abstract  Fellow New Yorkers,  Mnuchin Gallery , debuting at Frieze
Masters, had a buyer for a 1983 De Kooning abstract priced at $8
million.  Van de Weghe Fine Art  and  Vedovi Gallery  were
successful with 1980s Basquiat paintings priced at $4.3 million
and just less than $5 million respectively.  A redesigned, more spacious Frieze found buyers for new
works by younger living artists priced in the $20,000 to
$200,000 range, its unique selling point for the past 11 years.  At Frieze, a solo installation of five pastel paintings by
the Russian-born Kon Trubkovich sold out on the booth of the
 Marianne Boesky Gallery  from New York at the preview on Oct.16.
Inspired by images of worn-out video tapes, these were priced at
$40,000 to $60,000.  More expensive works, particularly by fashionable names 
from last contemporary art boom, struggled to find buyers.   As Frieze drew to a close, there were no confirmed sales on
the booth of  Gagosian , which was showing five works by Jeff Koons. These included the stainless steel “Sacred Heart
(Blue/Magenta),” (1994-2007), part of the U.S.-based artist’s
“Celebration” series, and according to dealers priced at about
$22 million.  Murakami, Mueck  The unique Takashi Murakami sculpture “Naked Self-Portrait
with Pom (Gold),” priced at $950,000 on the booth of the Paris-based dealer Perrotin, was still available, as was Ron Mueck’s
hyper-realistic “Woman with Shopping Bags” for 550,000 pounds
($890,000) at  Hauser & Wirth .  Dealers at Frieze and at the Pavilion of Art & Design in
Berkeley Square, speaking on condition of anonymity, expressed
resentment and said Frieze Masters was a “distraction.” They
said that reservations on works for the VIP day of Frieze had
been canceled after the opening of Masters and that with so many
events to cover, buyers weren’t making return visits.  Other dealers said collectors were simply researching 
prices at Frieze and other fairs before buying at auction.  Christie’s drew a capacity crowd for its evening auction of
contemporary art, mainly by living artists, on Oct. 18. It found
buyers for 91 percent of 54 lots. The total of 27.8 million
pounds with fees was toward the upper end of the estimate.  Glenn Brown  As at  Sotheby’s (BID)  the previous evening, a sci-fi inspired
painting by the British artist Glenn Brown took the top price.
“Bocklin’s Tomb (Copied From “Floating Cities” by Chris Foss),”
dating from 1981, sold to a telephone bidder for 2.3 million
pounds, underbid in the room by the London-based private dealer
Ivor Braka.  Auction prices for the Colombian-born painter Oscar 
Murillo, hailed by some as the new Jean-Michel Basquiat, settled 
down to under $350,000 in London after spiking at a record 
$401,000 at Phillips last month in New York. At Christie’s, at 
least half a dozen bidders pushed the 2011 abstract “Untitled 
(Leche)” to 152,500 pounds against an upper estimate of 30,000 
pounds.  On the same night as Christie’s sale, Murillo was holding a 
lottery draw at a Colombian bar in Elephant and Castle district 
of London. The artist had sold 99 hand-painted tickets priced at 
2,500 pounds each to benefit the South London Gallery. The 
hitherto-secret winning prize was revealed as a “memory trip to 
Colombia”, consisting postcards, photos and other memorabilia 
compiled by Murillo.  African Art  The inaugural 1:54 fair devoted to contemporary African art 
also made an impact among Frieze Week's satellite events. 
Featuring 15 dealers in the stately Georgian setting of Somerset 
House, the event attracted plenty of collectors, drawn by 
emerging talents such as  Angola ’s Edson Chagas, who won the 
Golden Lion for his nation’s pavilion at the Venice Biennale in 
June -- and affordable price points.  By the half-way point of the fair, Brescia-based dealer A 
Palazzo had sold more than 10 of Chagas's limited-edition 
photographs of Luanda, priced at 5,000 euros ($6,843) each. The 
London-based Jack Bell Gallery had sold 17 pieces priced from 
1,500 pounds to 12,000 pounds.  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater,
 Elin McCoy  on wine and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 