-- Treasuries Lose Cachet on Lowest Foreign Demand Since ’01
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-10-21T17:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/treasuries-losing-cachet-with-weakest-foreign-demand-since-2001.html
The $11.6 trillion U.S. government
bond market is losing some of its luster.  America’s borrowing costs are on the cusp of exceeding the
rest of the world for the first time since 2010 after a
political stalemate over public funding triggered a 16-day
government shutdown and jeopardized the nation’s ability to pay
 its debt . Yields on Treasuries, which averaged less than 1
percent as recently as May, are now within 0.2 percentage point
of the 1.57 percent for sovereign debt outside the U.S.,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  While lawmakers reached an agreement last week to avert the
country’s first default in its 237-year history, overseas
investors who own almost half the Treasuries outstanding have
reduced holdings for four straight months, the longest stretch
since 2001. Their growing reluctance to finance the world’s
biggest debtor nation may lift borrowing costs further and harm
an economy that has yet to fully recover from the deepest
recession since the 1930s. Each percentage point increase in
Treasuries would boost annual U.S. funding costs by $20 billion,
based on the amount of debt issued in the year ended Sept. 30.  “Default or no default, the damage is already done,”
Steve Major, the London-based global head of rates strategy at
HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank, said in a telephone
interview. “Politicians are kicking the can down the road when
the world needs a longer-term solution. This sort of political
brinkmanship undermines confidence.”  Lingering Doubts  Major, whose firm is also one of the 21 primary dealers of
U.S. government securities that are obligated to bid at Treasury
auctions, says that while the Federal Reserve will keep
suppressing borrowing costs to buffer the economy, lingering
doubts wrought by the political discord will likely cause
bondholders to demand more to own the longest-dated Treasuries
relative to shorter-term debt over the next year.  HSBC forecast the  extra yield  that investors demand to hold
30-year Treasuries instead of  10-year (USGG10YR)  securities will rise to
1.2 percentage points from 1.06 percentage points last week and
0.87 point on Sept. 3,  the lowest  in three years.  U.S. borrowing costs have climbed faster than the rest of
the world since May, with the gap narrowing by 0.24 percentage
point on speculation the  economy  was growing enough to allow the
Fed to start curtailing its unprecedented stimulus.  Yields on Treasuries now average 1.38 percent, 0.19
percentage point less than non-U.S. government debt, according
to index data compiled by Bank of America. In the past five
years, investors have demanded 0.36 percentage point more to own
government notes outside the U.S. instead of Treasuries.  More Trepidation  Overseas investors have sold a net  $132 billion  of
Treasuries in the four months ended July, the longest streak in
12 years, and are poised to add to their holdings at the slowest
pace since at least 2001, the most recent data show.  Their proportion of Treasuries dropped below 50 percent in
April before falling to a six-year low of 48.7 percent in July,
from a peak of 55.7 percent in April 2008.  While Treasuries rebounded after the accord, the debt-ceiling debate has dissuaded foreign investors from putting
money in U.S. debt, according to Laurence D. Fink, chief
executive officer at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which oversees $4.1
trillion in assets as the world’s biggest money manager.  “Many of our foreign investors have had conversations with
me and many at BlackRock about how should they think about
investing in U.S. debt over the next two years,” Fink said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television last week.  Bond Costs  Investors are already exacting a price in the bond market,
according to Michael Diekmann, the chief executive officer of
 Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest insurer and owner of Pacific
Investment Management Co., the largest bond fund manager.  The U.S. Treasury is probably paying 0.6 percentage point
more to borrow money as a result, Diekmann said in an Oct. 15
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  The $35 billion auction in three-month bills on that day
priced at a discount rate of 0.13 percent, the highest since
February 2011. The rate was 0.01 percent at the Sept. 30 sale.  Treasuries climbed last week, with 10-year yields falling
11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 2.58 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
benchmark 2.5 percent note due August 2023 rose 30/32, or $9.38
per $1,000 face amount, to 99 10/32.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes rose for the first time
in three days, increasing three basis points to 2.61 percent as
of 1:34 p.m. in New York.  Reserve Status  The rate on Treasury bills maturing Oct. 24 plunged to
0.015 percent from 0.26 percent last week. The rate reached a
high of 0.675 percent on Oct. 16 as concern lawmakers would fail
to resolve the fiscal impasse peaked.  With the largest and most-widely held government debt
market and the  dollar ’s status as the world’s reserve currency,
the political standoff in the U.S. is unlikely is cause an
exodus from Treasuries, according to Kit Juckes, the global
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London .  The amount of outstanding Treasuries, from one-month bills
to 30-year bonds, exceeds the combined value of the sovereign
debt markets in the U.K.,  France ,  Italy ,  Germany  and Spain.  Foreign investors alone hold $5.59 trillion in Treasuries,
more than three times the size of China’s government bond
market. They  accounted  for just 8.4 percent of  Japan ’s $9.88
trillion of sovereign bonds, the only market that approaches the
U.S. in size.  ‘Hard Truth’  The dollar has also been the most-popular reserve currency
of foreign governments since the end of World War II, and now
makes up 62 percent of central bank holdings globally. China and
Japan, which together have $4.87 trillion in foreign-currency
reserves, keep 50 percent of their assets in Treasuries.  “The hard truth for  China  is that there’s no alternative
for U.S. Treasuries,” Li Jie, head of the foreign-exchange
reserve research office at the Central University of Finance and
Economics in Beijing, said last week before the debt limit was
lifted. “Whatever happens, undertaking a massive selloff of
U.S. bonds is not an option.”  Five years of record-low  benchmark  borrowing costs in the
U.S. also means the government paid less interest as a
percentage of its gross domestic product in 2012 than at any
time since at least 1987, even as the amount of debt more than
doubled since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In the decade through 2007, average yields on Treasuries
were 1.55 percentage points higher than sovereign debt outside
the U.S., index data compiled by Bank of America show.  Political Wrangling  “The country has no issue with its ability to repay its
debt,” Societe Generale’s Juckes said in a telephone interview.
“This is a problem of U.S. politics rather than a problem of
U.S. creditworthiness. We may not get a solution that is clean
and neat, but there’s still perception out there that Treasuries
are risk-free.”  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation crafted by Senate
leaders ending the shutdown and extending the U.S.’s borrowing
authority on Oct. 17, the day Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
said the government would exhaust that authority. The debt
extension is now set to expire on Feb. 7.  Lawmakers, who engaged in their fourth round of fiscal
brinkmanship in less than three years, didn’t resolve any of
their long-term disagreements on fiscal policy and will have to
return to the same issues over the next four months.  The political wrangling undermined the perception of U.S.
debt as risk-free and will probably push countries to seek
alternative reserve currencies,  Elvira Nabiullina , Russia’s
central bank chief, said in e-mailed comments to Bloomberg News
on Oct. 16.  ‘Lasting Penalty’  Russia ’s  holdings  of Treasuries have fallen by $30 billion
to $132 billion this year. The 19 percent drop is the biggest
among foreign holders, U.S. data show. Bank Rossii isn’t yet
reviewing its Treasury investments, Ksenia Yudaeva, first deputy
chairman, overseeing monetary policy, said last week.  China, the largest foreign creditor to the U.S. with $1.28
trillion in Treasuries, also expressed “concern about
 Washington ’s debt-ceiling problem” when Premier Li Keqiang met
with U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry in Brunei on Oct. 8,
according to Xinhua, the official Chinese news agency.  Standard & Poor’s estimated the shutdown probably shaved at
least 0.6 percent off fourth-quarter growth, and took $24
billion out of the economy.  “What’s going to happen is we are going to have a lasting
penalty,” Adam Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics and a former policy maker at the Bank of
England, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Oct. 17.
“The outcome is better than a default. But this is hardly what
you would expect the mature democracy to do.”  Credit Risk  Even as the dollar remains the reserve currency of choice
among central banks, its share has fallen since peaking at 72.7
percent in 2001, decreasing in six of the past seven years,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  Foreign purchases of Treasuries, which helped underpin the
historically low rates the U.S. has enjoyed, have slowed since
the stakes reached a record $5.574 trillion last year.  Official holders  of U.S. government debt such as central
banks and finance ministries, which own $4 trillion of
Treasuries, have pared their investments by $95 billion in the
four months ended July, while non-official holders including
mutual funds and private investors cut their stakes by about $39
billion, the data show.  “We have switched some physical Treasury exposure earlier
this month into other core markets,” John Stopford, the head of
fixed income at Investec Asset Management in London, which
oversees $107 billion in assets, said in a telephone interview.
Although the firm didn’t forecast a default “it’s a risk we
have to consider. We can’t just sit there doing nothing.”  History Lesson  The full faith and credit of the U.S. government has been a
cornerstone of fiscal policy ever since Alexander Hamilton, the
nation’s first Treasury secretary, reached a compromise with
Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson and House Speaker James Madison in 1790 that enabled the federal government to assume
the unpaid debts that the colonial states incurred during the
Revolutionary War.  While the U.S. has never repudiated its debt, the political
disputes that called into question the nation’s commitment to
its obligations twice in the past two years is diminishing the
government’s credibility, according to Jason Evans, co-founder
of hedge fund NineAlpha Capital LP in New York and the former
head of U.S. government bond trading at Deutsche Bank AG.  In 2011, when U.S. lawmakers pushed the government toward
the precipice of a potential default in their first debt-ceiling
stalemate, Treasuries held at the Fed for foreign  central banks 
fell in four of the five months following its resolution. China
chopped its holdings by $163 billion, or 12.4 percent, to $1.15
trillion over the same span.  “Every time we play this game it’s just a small chip away,
it slightly erodes the benchmark status that Treasuries enjoy,”
Evans said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  