-- Red Sox Beat Tigers 5-2 to Reach World Series Against Cardinals
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-10-20T04:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/red-sox-beat-tigers-5-2-to-reach-world-series-against-cardinals.html
Shane Victorino  hit a grand slam as
the Boston  Red Sox  reached  Major League Baseball ’s World Series
against the  St. Louis Cardinals  with a 5-2 win over the  Detroit
Tigers .  The Red Sox, who won the American League Championship
series four games to two last night one year after falling to
last place in their division, and the Cardinals will begin their
best-of-seven championship series at Fenway Park on Oct. 23.  The Red Sox claimed their 13th American League pennant and
the first since 2007 when they swept the Colorado Rockies for
the World Series title. Three years earlier in 2004, Boston beat
the Cardinals in four games for the championship title.  “When I came here, people counted me out,” Victorino said
in a televised interview. “I wanted to prove something. As the
song says, ‘everything little thing’s going to be all right.’ We
proved a lot to the doubters.”  The Tigers moved ahead of the Red Sox 2-1 in the sixth
inning on a two-run single by Victor Martinez after  Boston ’s
Jacoby Ellsbury sent home Xander Bogaerts on a single in the
fifth inning at Fenway Park.  Boston starter Max Scherzer gave up a double to Jonny Gomes
in the seventh, struck out Stephen Drew and walked Bogaerts
before he was relieved by Drew Smyly after 110 pitches. Ellsbury
loaded the bases on a single, which brought in Jose Veras to
deliver the pitch to Victorino, who was 2-for-23 during the ALCS
before his home run.  “As a grinder, I just got to keep swinging,” Gomes said
in a televised interview.  Junichi Tazawa (1-0) pitched a perfect one-third inning for
the win while Koji Uehara got his third save, allowing one hit
and striking out two in the ninth inning.  Dustin Pedroia , who had a hit, walk and strikeout, called
the playoff series “a special ride.”  “There are a lot of guys who bought into this team,”
Pedroia said. “It’s been a different guy every night. We’re
still going though. We have a bunch of guys who love playing
baseball.”  Scherzer (0-1), a 21-game winner during the regular season,
allowed three runs on four hits and struck out eight in 6 1/3
innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  