-- Two San Francisco Transit Workers Hit by Train, Killed
-- B y   M i k e   H a r r i s o n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-10-20T20:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/san-francisco-transit-workers-killed-after-being-hit-by-train.html
Two workers inspecting a line on San
Francisco’s strike-disrupted  Bay Area Rapid Transit  system were
hit by a train and killed, the agency said.  The accident happened yesterday at 1:53 p.m. between the
Walnut Creek and Pleasant Hill stations. The workers, a BART
employee and a contractor, were struck by an out-of-service BART
train, it said.  “The train was on a routine maintenance run with an
experienced operator at the controls,” BART said in a
 statement . “At the time of the accident the train was being run
in automatic mode under computer control.”  Investigators from the  National Transportation Safety Board 
have arrived in San Francisco to “investigate BART track worker
deaths,” according to a message posted on the NTSB Twitter
page.  Grace Crunican, BART’s general manager, said the accident
marked a “tragic day” in the company’s history.  BART has received no indication that the union workers will
return to their jobs today, it said in a statement advising
travelers to make alternative plans.  The strike resumed Oct. 18 after a four-day walkout in July
was halted for contract negotiations talks.  BART connects downtown  San Francisco  to the San Francisco
International Airport and East Bay cities including Oakland. The
transit service normally carries about 400,000 people a day.  “We are unaware of the details regarding what occurred”
in the workers’ deaths, the  Service Employees International
Union , the union representing the striking workers, said in a
statement. “We express our deepest sympathies for the families
of the individuals who died in this tragic accident.”  Picketing continued today, and a vigil is planned for the
fatally injured workers this evening, Ceceille Isidro, a union
spokeswoman, said today.  There have been no meetings between the bargaining teams
since the workers resumed the strike, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Harrison  in London
at   mharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York 
at   smoritz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net . 