-- Saudi Heartland Dictates Pace of Change for King Abdullah
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-10-21T12:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/saudi-heartland-dictates-pace-of-modernization-for-king-abdullah.html
Abdulrahman al-Moshaigeh remembers
leaving his mud-brick house and walking on unpaved roads to what
was then the only elementary school serving Buraidah.  “There’s no comparison,” said the former member of King Abdullah’s advisory Shoura Council, born in 1945, as he
contemplates the changes that have swept his hometown, the
capital of Qassim province in Saudi Arabia’s conservative
heartland. “Now we have more than 150 elementary schools for
boys, and it’s difficult to find a girl not in school,” al-Moshaigeh said as he sat at a banquet where two roasted lambs
were served with local dishes in a villa in the city.  Even by the standards of a country where women are barred
from driving cars and shops close at prayer-time, Qassim has the
reputation for being conservative, strictly adhering to the
austere interpretation of Wahhabi Islam practiced in the Arab
world’s biggest economy. That makes it an important testing
ground for King Abdullah’s drive to modernize the country and
draw women into the workforce.  Saudi rulers pay attention when there are signs of
resistance to change from places like Qassim, said Robert Lacey,
a British author and historian of the Saudi royal family.  “The Al Saud have no trouble selling their modernization
agenda to the traders of Jeddah, to the energy economy of the
East or to the bankers and business community of Riyadh,” he
said. “Those Western-looking interests want more. But many
religious conservatives in Qassim want less.”  Threatened Leaders  Abdullah,  born  in 1924, has made reducing unemployment in
the world’s top oil exporter a priority after popular unrest
toppled or threatened leaders across the Middle East since 2011.
He unveiled a $130 billion spending plan that year. More
recently the government has taken steps to tighten labor
regulations for foreign workers, so more jobs go to Saudis.  The stimulus has helped the main Saudi  stock index  gain 20
percent this year, while Morgan Stanley’s emerging-market
benchmark dropped 3.9 percent.  The money and the employment drive are filtering through to
Buraidah in Qassim province, about 350 kilometers north of
Riyadh via a motorway that passes rolling sand dunes and date-palm groves stretching across the horizon.  Abdullah al-Wably, a local businessman, said Buraidah’s
economy is growing at between 5 percent and 10 percent a year,
enough to provide jobs for young people in the region entering
the labor force. Nationwide, growth will slow to 3.6 percent
this year from 5.1 percent in 2012, according to the
International Monetary Fund.  Women Driving  “Jobs for the youth, boys and girls, and housing are the
priorities,” al-Wably said in an interview at his home.  The focus on opportunities for Saudi women has been a
feature of Abdullah’s eight-year reign, though change has been
limited. Since the Arab Spring began two years ago, the king has
granted women the right to vote and run in municipal elections,
though it won’t apply until the 2015 ballot. In January, he
appointed the first female members of the Consultative Council,
naming 30 women to the 150-strong advisory body.  The ban on driving remains in force. Conservatism in places
like Qassim province is one reason why reform hasn’t moved
faster, Lacey said.  “Women certainly will not drive in Saudi Arabia till
Anaizah and Buraidah say yes -- though there may be more women
and men there who are ready to take that step than we might
imagine,” he said.  Damaging Ovaries  Some who aren’t ready are vocal about it.  Sulaiman al-Jubailan, a cleric from Anaizah, another town
in Qassim, has mocked the Western pressure for expanded women’s
rights in Saudi Arabia. In a 2010  video  on YouTube, he said
women in the U.S. are treated like the “cheapest” of
commodities, and sold as if at an auction.  Sheikh Saleh bin Saad al-Luhaidan, a cleric from the
province, told the Sabq website last month that Saudi women
shouldn’t drive because they risk damaging their ovaries. Sheikh
Abdul Rahman al-Barrak, a local resident and preacher, said in
2010 that people who support the mixing of genders in workplaces
and schools should be put to death for being un-Islamic.  Most prominent of the region’s conservatives is Salman Al-Oudah, a cleric with more than 2 million Twitter followers who
was jailed in the 1990s for being a member of a religious
movement that called for a more Islamic society. In March, he
published a letter online saying the Saudi rulers must take
steps to stamp out corruption, and warning of the risk that
“religious, political and cultural symbols lose their value.”  ‘Critical Thinking’  The province has a history of opposing change. Juhayman al-Otaybi, a native, was the leader of the 1979 siege of the Grand
Mosque in Mecca by Islamists seeking to shift the country onto a
more conservative course. Their action led the government to ban
all forms of public entertainment.  “Job creation in areas outside the bigger cities is very
crucial,” said John Sfakianakis, chief investment strategist at
MASIC in Saudi Arabia. “There is a disproportionate number of
Saudis over the age of fifteen years who are out of the labor
force in places like Qassim and other rural provinces.”  While it’s common to see women alone in malls in  Riyadh , or
smoking cigarettes at cafes in Jeddah, it’s still rare to see a
woman walking without a male guardian in Buraidah. Women have
begun working in the city’s shopping malls, though. And at
 Qassim University’s  College of Business and Economics, Obaid al-Motairy, the dean, says his 3,000 students include 1,000 women
whose academic performance is “excellent.”  “We want to improve critical thinking and leadership,”
Obaid said. “Students need skills, not just knowledge.”  Saudi Resilience  King Abdullah’s spending spree helped Saudi Arabia, like
most of the oil-rich Persian Gulf nations, avoid much of the
instability that has spread from Tunisia and  Egypt  to  Syria ,
 Iraq  and other nations.  Another reason for the “resilience of the Al Saud” amid
regional unrest is the dynasty’s “deep ties with its heartland
provinces” such as Qassim, Crispin Hawes, managing director of
research firm Teneo Intelligence, said by telephone from  London .  The kingdom, and its heartland, haven’t entirely escaped
the wave of protests. As well as demonstrations among the Shiite
minority in the oil-rich Eastern Province, there have also been
occasional protests in places like Buraidah. In March, police
arrested 176 people during a demonstration there by family
members of prisoners held without trial on terrorism charges,
the official Saudi Press Agency said.  About a week after the protests, the Interior Ministry held
a press conference in Buraidah to provide details on the number
of people in Saudi security prisons and to deny allegations that
prisoners were mistreated.  “Protests there would be of more concern to the government
than what happens with the Shiites in the East,” Hawes said.
“If there was a problem with loyalty, that would be something
they would deal with quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  