-- Sicilian Massacre Joins Tori Amos Musical on U.K. Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-10-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/sicilian-massacre-joins-tori-amos-musical-on-u-k-stage.html
The crinolines, top hats, and ornate
gilded interiors are all there. Verdi’s “Les Vepres Siciliennes”
comes to  London  with the trappings of grand opera.  As the work progresses -- with burly assassins transformed
into ballet dancers -- it also takes a hammer to many of the
conventions of the genre.  The mammoth 1855 work is about the brutality of French
rulers toward oppressed Sicilians in 13th-century  Italy . There’s
a twist when the rebellious Sicilian hero Henri discovers that
his father is the hated French governor.  Director  Stefan Herheim  updates the action for the Royal
Opera and sets it in a lavish 19-century theater, just like the
one in Paris for which Verdi wrote the piece. The Sicilians are
shown as hard-working singers, dancers and directors. The French
are boorish audience members who abuse the ballerinas and treat
the performers like dirt.  It’s a sly comment on the limiting restrictions of a genre
which requires huge tableaux, balletic divertissements, and
sensational plots. The performers are quite literally trapped in
a grand opera.  Not all of it works. Some scenes lack focus, or try to cram
in too many sub-stories. When it hits the target, which it
mostly does, it comes together beautifully.  There’s an emotional punch when the French governor
Montfort ( Michael Volle) cries out in despair over the breach
between him and his son. There’s another when Henri (Bryan
Hymel) has to choose between his duty to his father and his love
for Helene (Lianna Haroutounian), who is about to be executed
for her freedom-fighting activities.  Balletic Killers  The absurdity of the setting also provides Herheim with
chances for fun. The chief rebel Procida (Erwin Schrott) is
presented as the theater’s dance master. He makes the assassins
stand against the ballet barre and pirouette in formation.  Philipp Furhofer’s spectacular sets include a mirrored wall
that transforms into a three-tiered row of plush seating.  Bryan Hymel  has a seductive voice with a powerful easy top.
After his successes in the Royal Opera’s recent “Robert le
Diable” and “Les Troyens,” he deserves his status as
Britain’s go-to tenor for grand opera. Michael Volle and Erwin
Schrott combine big decibels with wonderful subtlety. If Lianna
Haroutounian falls at the final hurdle in the Act 5 aria, she
displays an attractive and impressive sound.  With Antonio Pappano’s taut, tense conducting, it’s about
as grand as a grand opera can be. Rating: ****½.  ‘Light Princess’  There are further visual treats in Tori Amos’s new fairy-tale musical “The Light Princess,” about a girl who laughs so
much that she floats, at the National Theatre.  Director Marianne Elliott and designer Rae Smith find ever
more inventive means to keep the Princess (Rosalie Craig) off
the ground.  She’s hooked onto acrobats, carried in their hands, put on
wires, and suspended by every means thinkable. It looks amazing,
and helps take your mind off the dull repetitive score and
preachy plot. Rating: ***.  “Les Vepres Siciliennes” is in repertoire at the Royal
Opera.  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000. It will be
screened live to more than 1,000 cinemas across the world on Nov
4. “The Light Princess” is at the National Theatre, London.
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Elin McCoy  on wine and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 