-- Sultan Jamalul Kiram III, Who Led Revolt in Malaysia, Dies at 75
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-10-20T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/sulu-s-sultan-kiram-iii-dies-sought-to-restore-reign-over-sabah.html
Sultan Jamalul Kiram III, whose bid
to restore Sulu sovereignty over  Malaysia ’s Sabah state in
February led to clashes that killed at least 62 people, has
died. He was 75.  Kiram, who suffered from kidney disease that required
regular dialysis, died about 4 a.m. yesterday at the Philippine
Heart Center where he’d been confined since Oct. 18, Abraham
Idjirani, a clan spokesman, said in a telephone interview. He
will be succeeded by brother Bantilan Esmail Kiram, Idjirani
said.  Kiram clashed with Malaysian authorities when he sent
another brother, Agbimuddin, and 200 armed followers to Sabah in
February to occupy land and pursue the clan’s claim. Kiram’s
death may let the Philippines and Malaysia resolve the Sabah
issue, said Richard Javad Heydarian, a political analyst.  “This opens an opportunity for a positive turn in the
peace process,” Heydarian, a political science lecturer at the
Ateneo de Manila University, said by telephone yesterday. “Now
that Kiram is gone, the idea of legacy inflexibility is pushed
to the sidelines.”  The sultans of Sulu once ruled over both Sabah and the Sulu
islands in the southern  Philippines . The sultanate, which dates
back to about the 15th century, says it leased Sabah to the
British North Borneo Company in 1878, an agreement that Malaysia
views as a cession of sovereignty. The state fell under British
control after World War II and joined Malaysia in 1963, shortly
after Sulu ceded its sovereignty to the Philippines.  ‘Continue the Fight’  Kiram, one of several descendants laying claim to the
sultanate, issued a decree yesterday urging the clan and
followers to “continue the fight and repossess Sabah for the
Filipino people,” Idjirani said.  Philippine President Benigno Aquino has accused Kiram and
his followers with dragging the nation into a dispute that was
hurting relations with Malaysia. That nation is brokering peace
talks aimed at ending a four-decade Muslim insurgency that has
killed as many as 200,000 people.  Nur Misuari, a fugitive wanted for last month’s Zamboanga
rebellion that killed more than 200 people, said in March he was
“very sympathetic” to Kiram.  “A new chapter is possible with the death of Kiram and
Misuari sidelined,” Heydarian said. “There is a potential for
some realignment; Aquino can reach out and try to repair
relations.”  ‘Flower Vases’  Kiram accused the government in a March 7 interview of
treating him and his wife as “decorations” at the signing of a
framework agreement with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front last
October. “My wife and I felt like we were treated like flower
vases,” Kiram said.  The government offers its condolences to the Kiram family,
Aquino spokeswoman Abigail Valte said yesterday on government
radio. A review commissioned by Aquino on the Sabah claim is
ongoing, she said.  Kiram, who referred to himself as the world’s poorest
sultan, failed to finish law studies in college and pursued a
career in dance instead. In 2007, he ran unsuccessfully for a
senate seat under former President Gloria Arroyo’s political
party. Jamalul’s last wish was to be buried in Maimbung, once
the ancient capital of Sulu, Idjirani said.  Kiram’s adviser, Mutahmeen Pastor Saycon, said in March
that Kiram was never after money. “All the sultan and his
family want is for Malaysia to recognize him as the sultan of
Sulu and North Borneo,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  