-- Verizon Spending Plan Boosts EZchip Shares in Tel Aviv
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-10-20T13:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/verizon-spending-plan-boosts-ezchip-gap-israel-overnight.html
EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH) ,  Israel ’s
second-largest chipmaker, climbed to a one-month high on
prospects the company will benefit from  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) ’s capital spending plan.  Shares of the Yokneam, Israel-based developer gained 3.2
percent to 91.50 shekels, or $25.85. The New York shares
advanced to $25.64 on Oct. 18.  Verizon, co-owner of the largest U.S. wireless carrier,
said on Oct. 17 that spending on capital goods will be at the
higher end of its $16.6 billion previous forecast. Spending by
carriers will boost EZchip’s revenue, Chief Financial Officer
Dror Israel said in a phone interview on Sept. 17 from Yokneam.
The company will probably report next month the fastest third-quarter sales growth in six years, according to the mean
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Any time that you’re seeing the service providers or
telcos spending, it’s certainly going to be helpful for a
company like EZchip,”  Jeffrey Schreiner , an analyst at Feltl &
Co. who rates the stock buy, said in a telephone interview from
 Minneapolis  on Oct. 18. “Increases in spending will just
validate our prior belief that the spending on edge routers that
we have seen over the last quarter or two gaining momentum is
still very much in play.”  Biggest Customer  EZchip sank 21 percent in New York on Sept. 12 after  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) , its biggest customer, said it had developed its
own nPower integrated network processor, similar to the Israeli
company’s technology. The stock jumped the most in 10 months
Sept. 24 as  San Jose , California-based Cisco said that the in-home processor will be part of systems that neither previously
used, nor were slated to use EZchip’s product, according to
Feltl & Co.  Some of the world’s biggest telecommunications companies
are upgrading networks as more consumers shift to mobile devices
for computing once done on desktop machines.  The higher spending will come in the fourth quarter as the
Verizon continues “fixing cities” with wireless upgrades,
Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo said on the earnings
conference call. Verizon is refitting its wireless network to a
faster phase of long-term evolution, or LTE, in cities where
heavy user traffic has slowed network performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  