-- When Will Women Rule the World?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/when-will-women-rule-the-world-.html
World leaders have long recognized
the value of empowering women, for their sake and to help
achieve such long-term social goals as eradicating poverty,
educating children, combating disease and protecting the
environment. But how much progress toward gender equality is
being made?  This is a question that former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has  pledged  to answer -- by 2015, the 20th anniversary
of the groundbreaking United Nations  conference  on gender issues
in Beijing.  It’s a great idea to measure progress and to use the
Beijing conference as a landmark. The 12 strategic  objectives 
set out there in 1995 offer a sensible framework for improving
the lot of women. They focus on areas such as freedom from
violence, decision-making power, economic equality, health care,
education, management of natural resources and perceptions of
women.  Problem is, the measurement of progress remains fragmented
and incomplete. Entities including the  UN , the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, and the  World Economic
Forum  have created an alphabet soup of indicators aimed at
tracking the gender gap, all with their own drawbacks and blind
spots.  Measures of gender inequality that rely on income as a
proxy for economic empowerment, for example,  fail  to recognize
that a woman’s contribution to the household can’t always be
measured in monetary terms, and that a woman’s income is
meaningless if she doesn’t get to decide how to spend it.
Measures that use longevity as a proxy for violence ignore the
effects that sexual and other abuse can have on a woman’s
ability to reach her potential. Many data are collected too
infrequently or in too few countries to be useful.  What’s needed is a concerted, global effort to collect
meaningful data and create indicators matching the Beijing
objectives. This would entail cataloging the available
information, identifying gaps, agreeing on international
standards and helping poorer governments with the task of data
collection. It would also involve asking slightly different
questions. How many hours, for example, do women spend on unpaid
domestic work? Who holds the purse strings in the household? Are
men’s attitudes toward women changing?  A model for action can be found in the UN’s  Millennium
Development Goals  -- eight specific, measurable targets in areas
such as poverty reduction, education and health that are
supposed to be realized by 2015. Although far from perfect, the
actionable targets have engendered more progress than many
expected. They have done so because the UN and many of its most
influential members made them a priority.  Women’s rights can and should play a bigger role in the
millennium goals. But they also need an independent focal point,
an entity that can coordinate public and private initiatives,
act as a clearinghouse for information, and enlist the
cooperation of a wide range of developed and developing nations.
The UN is probably the only organization that meets all the
requirements -- and it has a ready-made vehicle, known as  UN
Women , which was set up in 2010 specifically to promote gender
equality and empowerment.  The world has made great strides toward closing the gender
gap in areas such as health and education, but in most areas
there’s still a long way to go. At the largest U.S. companies,
for example, only about 1 in 5 board members are women,
 according  to Corporate Women Directors International. In 86
developing countries  tracked  by the OECD, an average of 1 in 2
women believes domestic violence is justified in certain
circumstances.  Everyone has a stake in the success of efforts to close the
gender gap. In  research  published by the OECD, economists
estimated that for 30 developed countries, full convergence in
male and female labor-force participation rates alone has the
potential to boost economic growth through the year 2030 by an
average of 12 percent. A World Bank  study  in  Pakistan  found that
households where women have more decision-making power spend
more money on education, eat healthier food and are more likely
to have their children enrolled in school.  What the effort needs is the kind of political will that
Clinton and others are already beginning to generate. Hopefully,
10 years from now, we’ll be able to say that it has made a
measurable difference.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 