-- Will Twitter Have Second-Class Shareholders?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/will-twitter-have-second-class-shareholders-.html
When a company goes public, it must
tell shareholders how it plans to govern itself. The new owners
are promised a piece of the profits and a say in how the company
is run. The standard arrangement for apportioning control is
“one share, one vote.” That’s a good, tried-and-tested design,
but it seems to be going out of fashion.  Upcoming initial public offerings by two large Internet
companies,  Twitter Inc.  and  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd ., are
putting a spotlight on dual-class ownership, which gives certain
shareholders fewer voting  rights , or none. Dual shares, often
known as Class A and Class B stock, until recently were out of
favor, but they are making a spectacular comeback, especially
among technology companies. Google Inc. led the way with its
2004 IPO, followed by LinkedIn Corp., Groupon Inc., Zynga Inc.
and Facebook Inc., which all have two or more share classes.  It’s a trend investors would be wise to resist. True,
shares with inferior  voting rights  may cost less (the market’s
way of compensating owners for their lack of control). And when
disgruntled shareholders can’t oust top managers, it’s often
argued, they are better able to deflect the pressure to
sacrifice long-term performance for short-term return.
Technology companies especially like that protective shield in
the early years of public life, when ideas are more plentiful
than profits.  It has worked well elsewhere:  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  has
two share classes, and its long-term investors aren’t
complaining. But for most companies, these arguments are
outweighed by the fact that limited-voting shares make it too
easy for bad managers to avoid accountability.  Martin Lipton , the corporate lawyer best known for helping
managers stay in control with so-called poison pills, says dual-class shares ward off “myopic activists” -- hedge-fund
managers and buyout specialists who aim to drive up share prices
in the short term yet harm the company’s long-term interests.  Recent studies call this view into question. Harvard Law
School professor Lucian Bebchuk  studied  about 2,000 companies
for five years after takeover attempts, buyouts and other
activists’ interventions from 1994 to 2007. He  found  that their
performance improved -- and kept on improving over five years --
when compared with their peers.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.  found  that, from
2002 to 2012, companies with multiple share classes
underperformed their peers over three-, five- and 10-year
periods. They also showed greater stock-price volatility, weaker
accounting controls and more conflicts in business dealings.  Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant whose value could
exceed $100 billion, unfortunately will keep the trend toward
second-class shareholders going. Its founder at first wanted to
list on the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange, but that market doesn’t
allow dual-class shares, so Alibaba is coming to  New York . Both
the  New York Stock Exchange  and  Nasdaq  allow companies to have
unequal voting rights. For now, Twitter will go against the grain 
and offer a single class of shares. Buried in its prospectus, 
however, the company says it reserves the right to switch to two 
classes.  Many media companies also favor them. Dissident
shareholders of  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)  (formerly part of
the News Corp. media empire) are pushing Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  to give up the dual-class
structure at the film and television  company . Almost 70 percent
of the equity confers no voting rights, while the Murdoch
family’s 14 percent ownership gives them 39 percent of the votes
-- and Murdoch an iron grip.  Besides Hong Kong, only  Singapore  among the major exchanges
bars dual-class shares (and it’s considering relaxing that
rule). The U.K. strongly discourages them, while other European
bourses allow them.  Google, Facebook and the rest aren’t likely to return to
“one share, one vote” anytime soon. That shouldn’t stop
exchanges concerned about their reputations and corporate
governance standards from leaning against the fashion -- perhaps
by limiting dual classes to the first five years of public
ownership, or capping nonvoting stock at, say, 25 percent of all
shares. Meanwhile, for investors, the best advice is the same as
always: Buyer beware.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 