-- Zimbabwe Needs $5.3 Billion Investment for Platinum
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-10-21T13:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-20/zimbabwe-needs-5-3-billion-investment-for-platinum.html
Zimbabwe  needs investment of as much
as $5.3 billion and stable mining policies if it’s to boost
platinum output to a point where it can rival  Russia  as the
world’s second-biggest producer of the metal, an industry
organization said.  To increase production to the more than 500,000 ounces per
annum needed to justify the construction of base and precious
metal smelters and refineries, investment of $2.8 billion is
needed in mines, as much as $2 billion in processing plants and
between $200 and $500 million to ensure adequate power supply,
the Harare-based Chamber of Mines said in a report obtained by
Bloomberg.  “It’s evident from 2017 onward Zimbabwe’s production of
platinum will be approaching that of Russia,” the Chamber said.
“This growth projection, however, requires significant
investment.”  While mines operated by  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ,
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  will
this year produce about 365,000 ounces of the precious metal,
investment has been hindered by power shortages and a government
demand that control of assets be ceded to the state or black
Zimbabweans.  Russia produced about 800,000 ounces of platinum last year,
according to the Chamber. South Africa produced 4.1 million
ounces.  Power Needs  “We are confident that we can be the second largest
producer but this is all dependent on the availability of
power,” said Herbert Mashanyare, chairman of the Platinum
Producers Association of Zimbabwe, in an interview. “Our
projections are that we will only have additional power within
four to five years.”  In addition to expansions planned by existing producers
companies including Todal, which is 60 percent owned by  Eurasian
National Resources Plc (ENRC) , Global Platinum, Ruschrome Mining, Amari
Platinum and ACR, could start mines, the Chamber said.  Todal “is likely to be the next Zimbabwe producer,” the
Chamber said.  Expansion would generate as many as 4,000 jobs and 115
megawatts of additional power would have to be provided, the
group said. Of that Todal would need 50 megawatts, the Chamber
said.  “There is now some work which is now taking place on
Global Platinum and Todal,” Jerry Ndlovu, general manager of
the state-owned Zimbabwe Mineral Development Corp., said in an
interview. “I received progress reports on those two this
morning.”  Zimbabwe currently accounts for about 6 percent of world
platinum production.  South Africa  is the biggest producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  