-- 
Lagarde Presses EU for Position Limits on Commodities Trading

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-04-09T09:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/lagarde-presses-eu-for-position-limits-on-commodities-trading.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  called for stricter curbs on trading of commodity
derivatives, including position limits, following concerns that
speculation is driving up prices for raw materials.  “On commodities, we need to be as rigorous and demanding
as we are for other financial derivatives,” Lagarde told
reporters today at a meeting of European Union finance officials
in Godollo,  Hungary , where the issue is being discussed. “We
need mechanisms that produce good regulation. That means
position limits so that market makers can’t hold positions that
are too big.”  Lagarde is seeking a common position on the matter for EU
countries before a meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers in
 Washington  next week and of energy officials in Ankara on April
25. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has made regulation of
commodity trading one of his priorities during France’s
leadership of the G-20 in 2011.  There has to be ”more transparency” on commodity markets,
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said. Policy makers have
“to get a better handle on speculation, which contributes to
rising prices.”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services commissioner,
and a former minister of Sarkozy’s, called in February for
restrictions on traders, including position limits.  Trading Rules  Sarkozy has stepped up his push for tougher commodities-
trading rules this year as surging food and oil prices spur
inflation, hurting purchasing power at a time when wage growth
has slowed or stagnated in France and other European countries.
Crude-oil prices have climbed almost 50 percent in the past year,
closing at $126.65 a barrel yesterday in  London . The United
Nations World Food Price Index has gained 35 percent in the past
year.  Hungary, which holds the six-month rotating presidency of
the EU, aims for finance ministers to agree on recommendations
on commodities trading at a meeting on May 17 in Brussels,
according to the Hungarian presidency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Godollo, Hungary, at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Godollo, Hungary, at  markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 