-- 
AMC Discusses Financial Terms With Movie Studios Amid Concerns Over Pay TV

-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 
2011-04-09T14:42:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/amc-discusses-financial-terms-with-studios-amid-video-on-demand-concerns.html
AMC Entertainment Inc., the second-
largest U.S. theater chain, met with studio executives to
discuss financial arrangements on movies the film companies plan
to offer on a premium video-on-demand service.  The meetings took place April 7 and 8, Sun Dee Larson, a
spokeswoman for the Kansas City, Missouri-based theater owner,
said in an e-mailed statement. She declined to provide details
of the discussions. The premium-VOD plan would shorten the
exclusive period when movies can only be seen in theaters.  “We have notified studios of our expectations regarding
economic arrangements on movies that go p-VOD,” closely held
AMC, which has about 5,200 screens, said in a website  statement .
“As these windows shrink and threaten our industry’s future, it
is only logical to expect AMC to adapt its economic model.”  Gerry Lopez, AMC’s chief executive officer, has described
as “problematic” reported plans by four studios to offer
movies on pay TV two months after they come out in theaters.
Variety reported four studios are considering early release of
video on demand, or VOD --  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.,  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Universal Pictures, part of  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  The publication said they plan to offer two- or three-day
premium video-on-demand rentals on  DirecTV (DTV)  for $30.  Universal and Warner Bros. declined to comment, according
to studio spokesmen. Sony Corp. and Fox officials had no
immediate response to requests for comment.  The website Deadline Hollywood posted the AMC statement
earlier yesterday.  Movies on Demand  Cinema operators, hurt by a 21 percent drop in attendance
this year, have expressed “disappointment” at the report that
the studios plan to go ahead with premium VOD. AMC proposed the
studios offer movies on demand about 90 days after they are
released in theaters, Lopez said in an April 1 interview.  At a convention in  Las Vegas  last month, members of the
National Association of Theater owners, including AMC and the
largest exhibitor,  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) , expressed concern
that movie attendance may be harmed by plans to shorten the
usual 120 days between a film’s theatrical release and the home-
video debut.  “These plans fundamentally alter the economic relationship
between exhibitors, filmmakers and producers, and the studios
taking part in this misguided venture,” the theater owners’
group said. “We would expect cinema owners to respond to such a
fundamental change and to reevaluate all aspects of their
relationships with these four studios.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 