-- 
Manchester United Beats Fulham to Extend Premier League Lead to 10 Points

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-09T16:52:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/manchester-united-beats-fulham-to-extend-premier-league-lead-to-10-points.html
Manchester United  beat Fulham 2-0 to
open a 10-point lead over Arsenal in English soccer’s Premier
League.  Dimitar Berbatov  scored his league-leading 21st goal to
help United to victory at Old Trafford. Antonio Valencia also
scored for the Red Devils, who have 69 points.  Bolton beat West Ham 3-0, West Brom won 3-2 at Sunderland,
Chelsea defeated Wigan 1-0, Everton beat Wolverhampton 3-0,
Tottenham defeated Stoke 3-2 and Blackburn drew Birmingham 1-1.  United, which continued its home domination to move a step
closer to a record 19th English title, has won 15 and drawn once
in 16 league matches at Old Trafford this season, outscoring the
opposition 42-9.  United opened the scoring in the 12th minute as Nani
flicked a pass to Berbatov, who got the benefit of a close
offside call and fired a shot past  Mark Schwarzer .  Nani also set up the second goal 19 minutes later as he
beat Schwarzer to a loose ball at the edge of the area and sent
a shot toward the near post. Fulham’s Aaron Hughes got a head to
the ball, but it went straight toward Valencia, who nodded it
into the open goal.  Arsenal can move back to within seven points of the leader
by beating Blackpool tomorrow.  Daniel Sturridge  scored twice to lead Bolton past West Ham,
which stays in the three relegation places at the bottom of the
standings. Florent Malouda scored the only goal as Chelsea beat
last-place Wigan to pull with a point of Arsenal.  Unbeaten  Jermaine Beckford, Phil Neville and Diniyar Bilyaletdinov
scored as Everton beat Wolves, which stays in the relegation
places.  Paul Scharner’s goal in the 72nd minute gave West Brom the
win at Sunderland. The Baggies are now unbeaten in seven games
since  Roy Hodgson  took over as manager and move seven points
clear of relegation.  Peter Crouch  scored two goals as Tottenham beat Stoke to
stay five points back of Chelsea in the race for fourth place
and the final spot in the Champions League. Blackburn’s draw
with Birmingham moved both teams three points clear of the
relegation zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  