-- 
Asian Currencies Gain for Third Week as Investors Boost Holdings in Region

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-04-09T01:57:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/asian-currencies-gain-for-third-week-as-investors-boost-holdings-in-region.html
Asian currencies strengthened for a
third week, the longest run of gains since October, as overseas
investors added to holdings of regional assets to benefit from
the world’s fastest economic growth.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies, rose to a 13-year high as
funds based abroad bought about $3 billion more South Korean,
Taiwanese and Thai equities than they sold this week.  China ,
India, Indonesia, South Korea, Taiwan, the Philippines and
Thailand have all raised  interest rates  this year to tame
inflation, boosting the yield advantage over developed nations.  “Asian currencies are still benefiting from a positive
risk environment for the moment,” said Christopher Gothard,
head of foreign exchange at Brown Brothers Harriman ( Hong Kong )
Ltd. “The growth outlook remains pretty strong, while some
central banks look to be making efforts to get to grips with
rising inflation.”  The Taiwan dollar appreciated 1.1 percent to NT$28.991
against the greenback this week, according to Taipei Forex Inc.
 India ’s rupee gained 1.2 percent to 44.0790, the Philippine peso
advanced 0.9 percent to 43 and the Thai baht climbed 0.8 percent
to 30.04.  Emerging-market economies in Asia will expand 8.4 percent
this year, compared with 2.5 percent growth in advanced
countries, according to estimates released by the  International
Monetary Fund  in January. Benchmark interest rates in Indonesia
and India are 6.75 percent and China’s one-year lending rate is
6.31 percent, compared with a maximum of 0.25 percent in the
U.S. and  Japan .  Yuan Appreciation  China’s yuan strengthened for a fourth week, the longest
run of gains this year. The People’s Bank of China should
consider letting the currency appreciate to help temper prices
and improve the balance of international payments,  Zhu Baoliang ,
chief economist at the State Information Center, wrote in a
commentary published on April 7 in the Shanghai Securities News.  “There are a lot of policy makers urging PBOC to use
renminbi strength to help curb imported inflation,” said Ho Woei Chen, an economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in
Singapore.  The yuan rose 0.19 percent from a week ago to 6.5354 per
dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It
touched 6.5350 yesterday, the strongest level since the country
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Asia’s Lowest Inflation  Taiwan ’s dollar had its biggest weekly advance in three
months. The consumer price index climbed 1.41 percent in March
from a year earlier, less than the 1.70 percent median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, official data showed on
April 6. That’s the lowest among Asia’s 10 biggest emerging
economies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Foreign inflows supported the Taiwan dollar this week,”
said Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at Societe
Generale SA in Hong Kong. “The lower-than-expected inflation
number also helped the rally.”  South Korea’s won rose for a third week, climbing 0.8
percent to 1,083.03 per dollar. Policy makers will let the
currency gain to curb inflation,  Barclays Capital  said ahead of
an interest-rate review on April 12.  Elsewhere,  Indonesia ’s rupiah added 0.6 percent this week
to 8,648 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Singapore dollar rose 0.4 percent to S$1.2570 and Malaysia’s
ringgit gained 0.3 percent to 3.0165.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  