-- 
Too Much Money Too Fast Threatens Emerging Market Stability, Haldane Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-04-09T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/boe-s-haldane-says-global-capital-flows-pose-stability-risk.html
Bank of England official  Andrew Haldane  said financial stability may be threatened by capital
flows from developed countries that are too quick and
substantial for emerging nations to absorb.  “The global flow of funds could become an increasingly
powerful generator of global financial instabilities,” Haldane,
the bank’s executive director for financial stability, said in a
speech delivered today in  Bretton Woods ,  New Hampshire .
“Pressures could mount on policy makers to protect against the
rising tide of capital flow-induced instability, including
through capital restrictions and macro-prudential measures.”  Haldane said a “big fish small pond” problem arises when
investors in developed countries shift funds to smaller
economies and less-developed markets. To illustrate the scale,
he said a drop of 0.1 in an index of investment “home bias”
for advanced countries in 2007 would have reallocated about $4.5
trillion to foreign markets. That compares with a market
capitalization of $6.8 trillion of emerging economies among the
Group of 20 nations.  This dynamic could be seen last year, when investors
abandoned developed markets for faster-growing emerging
economies. The resulting equity inflows “were large” compared
with the size of the markets, and officials responded with
capital-flow restrictions and other measures, Haldane said.  ‘Home Bias’  The trend may increase as developed-nation investors
increasingly reduce their “home bias,” while advances in the
depth of financial markets in emerging economies prove “rather
gradual.” Haldane’s projections show the average capital
inflows, relative to market capitalization, to the G-20 emerging
economies will reach 8 percent a year through 2050, more than
the peak seen recently, including 2010.  “If capital markets operated efficiently, these portfolio
flows need not cause waves in emerging credit and asset
markets,” he said. “In practice, frictions in the functioning
of these markets mean that asset-market spillovers seem very
likely to persist.”  “In other words, the splashes from the big fish risk
causing waves every bit as great, and potentially greater, than
those seen recently,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  