-- 
City National Acquires Second Collapsed Nevada Bank in a Year

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-09T00:52:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/city-national-acquires-second-collapsed-nevada-bank-in-a-year.html
City National Corp., the Los
Angeles-based commercial lender, purchased a failed  Nevada  bank,
and another financial institution was seized, as this year’s
tally of shut-down firms reached 28.  City National bought Las Vegas-based Nevada Commerce Bank
and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency closed a bank
in  Illinois , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said in
 statements  on its website. The two transactions drained $62.9
million from the FDIC’s deposit-insurance fund.  “This cost-effective acquisition of Nevada Commerce Bank
underscores City National’s commitment to Nevada, and it
enhances our ability to serve a greater number of entrepreneurs,
professionals and small and mid-size businesses in  Las Vegas ,”
City National Chief Executive Officer Russell Goldsmith said in
a statement.  Banks are closing under stress from commercial real estate
loans, tied to property values that fell as much as 45 percent
from the October 2007 peak through last August, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. Since 2008, nearly 350 lenders have
been shut down by regulators.  City National is expanding in Nevada, the state with the
highest  unemployment rate  in the country at 13.6 percent. It
paid a 0.71 percent premium for Nevada Commerce’s more than $136
million in deposits, the FDIC said. In May, City National
purchased Las Vegas-based Sun West Bank, paying a 0.67 percent
premium for more than $350 million in deposits.  The OCC closed the two branches of Western Springs National
Bank & Trust, based in Western Springs, Illinois. Heartland Bank
and Trust Co. of Bloomington purchased the failed lender, adding
more than $180 million in assets and deposits, according to the
FDIC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 