-- 
Clapton, Marsalis Play Blues for Jazz at Lincoln Center: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-04-09T15:25:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/clapton-marsalis-hold-blues-summit-for-jazz-at-lincoln-center-review.html
It was a blues summit years in the
making.  When trumpeter Wynton Marsalis first approached guitar
legend  Eric Clapton  about joining forces to raise money for  Jazz
at Lincoln Center , he said Clapton “showed up with a song list
of 2,000 numbers.”  The fruits of that cross-generational, cross-cultural
collaboration were on display last night before a packed house
at the center’s Frederick P. Rose Hall.  The two virtuosos swung through a blues compendium that
ranged from Louis Armstrong’s “I’m Not Rough” to W.C. Handy’s
“Careless Love.” They also played gospel music (“Just a
Closer Walk With Thee”) and even an unplugged “Layla” unlike
any I’ve ever heard.  The music was marked by a seriousness of purpose and lack
of ego that allowed the pair to disappear into a superb ensemble
drawn from the Jazz at  Lincoln Center  Orchestra. Even when they
let loose, it was with considerable restraint and lack of flash,
though Clapton briefly caught fire on Howlin’ Wolf’s “Forty
Four.”  A standout in the band was Victor Goines, a soulful New
Orleans clarinetist whose joyful, intricate reed work recalled
the ebullient Pete Fountain. Marcus Printup was a bold challenge
to the boss on trumpet and trombonist Chris Crenshaw slid in and
out of the action with uncommon finesse.  For the rousing finale and encore they were joined by
gravel-voiced blues polymath  Taj Mahal , who had opened the
concert with three songs that showed off his still-formidable
guitar and piano playing skills, including his signature cover
of the classic “Stagger Lee.”  The concert will be repeated tonight. Information: +1-212-
258-9800;  http://www.jazzatlincolncenter.org . Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 