-- 
Dozens Dead in Yemen, Egypt, Syria as Protests Shake Region

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-04-09T23:23:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/dozens-dead-in-middle-east-unrest-as-zuma-heads-for-libya-cease-fire-talks.html
Scores of people were killed or
wounded in Yemen,  Egypt  and Syria, and Libyan rebels battled
loyalists in three cities, as protests against entrenched
regimes shook the Middle East.  Yemeni security forces fired on demonstrators in three
cities yesterday, leaving many wounded, and Syrian contingents
shot at a funeral for protesters killed in an earlier
demonstration. Egyptian military leaders blamed “outlaws”
trying to “thwart the revolution” for killing at least one
person when soldiers broke up a protest in central Cairo, which
also left 71 injured.  Almost four months after a 26-year-old vegetable seller set
himself alight in despair over  Tunisia ’s social, political and
economic conditions, protestors in a half-dozen countries are
trying to sweep away regimes that have ruled for decades.
Countries from  North America ,  Europe  and the Middle East itself
are also struggling to contain Libya’s dictator,  Muammar Qaddafi ,
and ease the transition to democracy from Egypt to Yemen.  “We’re obviously in a period of unraveling of the old, and
violence is a part of that,” said Robert Danin, a senior fellow
for Middle East and Africa studies at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in  Washington . “But it’s premature to conclude that
this is the new normal.”  Battle for Control  Qaddafi’s troops battled rebels for control of Misrata and
Ajdabiya on the Gulf of Sidra yesterday, according to Al Jazeera
and Al Arabiya television. Qaddafi forces also began shelling
the city of Zantan, a spokesman for the town, Adel al-Zantani,
told  Al Jazeera .  “The humanitarian situation is pretty bad, and NATO hasn’t
bombed any of Qaddafi’s troop emplacements,” al-Zantani said.
The report couldn’t be immediately confirmed.  Aircraft from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
destroyed tanks and armored vehicles belonging to Qaddafi’s
forces and munitions depots involved in the “indiscriminate
shelling” of civilians in Misrata, Lieutenant General Charlie
Bouchard,  commander of the NATO contingent enforcing United
Nations resolutions against Libya, said  yesterday  in Brussels.  “In addition to hitting their supplies, our aircraft
successfully destroyed a significant percentage of the Libyan
government’s armored forces,” said Bouchard, a Canadian.  Human Shields  Qaddafi’s forces continue to use human shields, he said.  “We have observed horrific examples of regime forces
deliberately placing their weapons systems close to civilians,
their homes and even their places of worship,” he said.
“Troops have also been observed hiding behind women and
children.”  Fighting may be at a standstill, according to reports from
television networks with correspondents on the scene.  “Qaddafi has some staying power that can’t be denied,”
said Reva Bhalla, director of analysis at  Stratfor , a
geopolitical analysis firm based in Austin,  Texas . “The
coalition now faces a tough question: should they surge, arm the
rebels and redefine their mission as regime change, possibly
creating a situation they can’t control, or accept a
stalemate?”  South African President  Jacob Zuma  will travel to  Libya 
today with an African Union delegation to discuss a cease-fire
with Qaddafi in Tripoli and rebel leaders in their stronghold of
Benghazi in the east.  Oil Rises  Crude oil rose above $112 in New York April 8 for the first
time in 30 months on skepticism that Libyan output will rebound
when fighting ends.  In Yemen, tens of thousands gathered throughout the country
to call for an end to President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s 32-year
rule. Security forces and government loyalists fired on
demonstrators in three cities yesterday, injuring people with
bullets, batons and stones, according to witnesses.  Live gunfire in the capital, Sana’a, hurt 15 people, and 10
were injured by projectiles and truncheons, said Abdulmalik al-
Usufi, a doctor at a field clinic in the central al-Tagheer
square. More than 1,000 suffered tear-gas inhalation, he said.  In Taiz, at least 40 were injured by security personnel,
Hussein al-Suhaili, who was at a field clinic near the site,
said in a telephone interview. More than 500 have been affected
by tear gas, he said. In Thamar, six students were injured in
clashes, according to the al-Sahwa opposition website.  Syrian Protest  In  Syria , security forces fired on a funeral for protesters
killed in an earlier demonstration, and at least 25 died in
rallies in the southwestern city of Daraa on April 8.  The “conservative” death toll is 40, while there are
unconfirmed reports of 100 or more, with over 500 wounded, Ammar
Abdulhamid, a Maryland-based Syrian dissident in contact with
the demonstrators, said by e-mail yesterday.  Syria’s Interior Ministry said 19 police officers and
members of the security forces were killed and 75 injured when
gunmen fired on them, the Syrian Arab News Agency reported.  President Bashar al-Assad, whose Baath party has been in
power since 1963, last week announced plans to ease political
restrictions. He said changes won’t be rushed and called the
protests a foreign-backed conspiracy.  The Cairo shooting came after thousands gathered in a
downtown square demanding prompt trials for ousted president
 Hosni Mubarak  and his top officials. Security and army troops
used batons and fired shots in the air to drive out some
protesters who attempted to camp there, witnesses said.  Live Bullets  “Around 2 a.m., troops laid siege to the square from all
directions and started to fire blank bullets and then live
rounds,” Amir Kamal, a 29-year-old protester, said in an
interview. “I saw a live bullet penetrate a man’s chest and
come out from his back.”  At a news conference in Cairo yesterday, Major General
Ismail Etman, of Egypt’s ruling military council, said soldiers
“acted correctly.” Major General Adel Omara said “elements”
he didn’t identify were trying to split the people and the army
to “thwart the revolution.” Support from Egypt’s military was
a key element in the peaceful departure of Mubarak in February.  Palestinians fired more than 20 rockets and mortar shells
from the  Gaza Strip  after the Israeli  air force  struck a vehicle
there and killed a Hamas militia commander and two aides.  More than 90 rockets or shells have been fired into  Israel 
from Gaza since an Israeli school bus was hit by an anti-tank
missile, wounding three Israelis, earlier this week. Seventeen
people have been killed in Gaza since April 7, according to
Adham Abu Selmeya, director of  emergency services  for Hamas.  “We have exercised a limited response so far,” Sami Abu Zuhri, a spokesman for the militant Islamic group that controls
Gaza, said at a news conference. “But we warn the occupation
against continuing with their crimes,” he said, referring to
Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  