-- 
EU Ministers Seek Greater Transparency on Commodity Markets

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-04-09T13:47:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/eu-ministers-seek-greater-transparency-on-commodity-markets.html
European Union finance ministers
agreed on recommendations for stricter oversight of commodity-
derivatives trading following concerns that speculation is
driving up prices for raw materials.  “We need to be as rigorous and demanding as we are for
other financial derivatives,” French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  told reporters today in Godollo, Hungary, at a meeting
of EU finance chiefs. “We need mechanisms that produce good
regulation. That means position limits so that market makers
can’t hold positions that are too big.”  Hungary, which currently holds the six-month rotating EU
presidency, intends that the recommendations will form the basis
of a coordinated European position at a meeting of Group of 20
finance ministers in  Washington  next week and of energy
officials in Ankara on April 25.  France  has made the regulation
of  commodities markets  one of the priorities for its presidency
of the G-20 in 2011.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
will consider proposing legislation to give regulators the power
to set limits on the size of positions that traders take on the
market, according to a copy of the recommendations obtained by
Bloomberg News.  “The transparency of commodity-derivatives markets needs
to be improved,” according to the recommendations. This would
include extending requirements on traders to report their
positions to regulators.  Tougher Rules  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has stepped up a push for
tougher commodities-trading rules this year as surging food and
oil prices spur inflation, hurting purchasing power at a time
when wage growth has slowed or stagnated in France and other
European countries. Crude-oil prices have climbed almost 50
percent in the past year, closing at $126.65 a barrel yesterday
in  London . The United Nations World Food Price Index has gained
35 percent in the past year.  There has to be ”more transparency” on commodity markets,
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said. Policy makers have
“to get a better handle on speculation, which contributes to
rising prices,” he said.  Hungary will seek formal adoption of the recommendations at
a meeting of finance ministers in Brussels on May 17, said
Marton Hajdu, a spokesman for  Hungary .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Godollo, Hungary, at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 