-- 
Euro Gains as European Central Bank Raises Interest Rates Before Fed, BOJ

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-09T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/euro-advances-as-ecb-raises-interest-rates-before-fed-boj.html
The euro rose to a 15-month high
against the dollar as the  European Central Bank  increased
interest rates for the first time since the financial crisis and
amid concern the U.S. is debasing its currency.  The dollar fell for a second week versus the euro as U.S.
lawmakers remained in a stalemate on a federal budget and the
 Federal Reserve  plans to buy Treasuries through June to support
faster economic growth. The yen weakened as the  Bank of Japan 
added to economic stimulus to help the nation’s economy recover
from last month’s earthquake. Higher yielding currencies, such
as the Australian dollar, strengthened as signs of global growth
boosted demand for riskier assets.  “The underlying demand for the euro, because of the
continued dislike for the dollar, is unrelenting,” said Ray Attrill, a senior foreign exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA
in New York. “The risk is that we’ll see U.S.  interest rates 
trending lower at the same time that we get more confidence
about further rate hikes in the rest of the world.”  The euro rose 1.7 percent to $1.4483 in New York, from
$1.4237 April 1. It touched $1.4444, the highest level since
January 2010. The yen declined 2.6 percent to 122.76 per euro,
reaching 123.08, the weakest since May 2010. Japan’s currency
lost 0.8 percent to 84.76 per dollar.  ECB Acts  The ECB raised its key rate by 25 basis points to 1.25
percent April 7. The increase was forecast by all the economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  “We did not decide that it was the first of a series of
interest-rate increases,” ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said during a press conference in  Frankfurt . “We will continue
to do in the future” what is appropriate “to ensure  price
stability ,” he said.  The rate increase came less than 24 hours after  Portugal 
said it would request financial aid from the European
Commission, becoming the third euro-zone country to do so after
Greece and Ireland. A rescue package for Portugal may be worth
as much as 75 billion euros ($107 billion), two European
officials with knowledge of the situation said.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback versus the currencies of six major
trading partners, including the pound and Canadian dollar, sank
to as low as 74.838, the least since December 2009. It lost 1.3
percent to 74.855, from 75.833 last week.  Spending Measures  Congress failed to reach an agreement on spending measures
for the 2011 fiscal year as of 5 p.m.  New York  time. The
deadline to reach a resolution was midnight.  The ECB’s decision to raise its main rate came as the
central banks of other developed nations, including the U.S. and
Japan, keep borrowing costs near zero to support their economies
as they recover from the financial crisis. The Fed isn’t
expected to raise its target funds rate until the first quarter
of 2012 and the Bank of Japan will probably keep borrowing costs
on hold for the next 12 months, the median estimates in two
Bloomberg surveys show.  The U.S. central bank has purchased $512 billion of
Treasuries since November as part of its plan to acquire $600
billion by June.  “Improved risk sentiment on the back of the global
recovery is pushing the euro higher against the yen and dollar,
especially now the market is convinced there will be further
rate increases by the ECB,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, senior
strategist at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. in  Tokyo , a unit of
 Japan ’s second-largest bank.  Weak Yen  The yen dropped for a fourth straight week versus the euro,
the longest losing streak in 20 months, on speculation the BOJ
will continue with accommodative monetary policy to help its
economy recover from a record earthquake on March 11. The BOJ
April 7 unveiled a 1 trillion yen ($11.8 billion), one-year loan
program to companies affected by the quake and tsunami as board
members downgraded their economic assessment for the first time
since October.  A magnitude-7.1 aftershock, one of the strongest since the
devastating earthquake March 11, struck Japan April 7 215 miles
northeast of Tokyo, the  U.S. Geological Survey  reported on its
website. None of the nuclear facilities reported distress,
according to official and news media reports.  Brazil ’s real posted the best performance among the 16
major currencies after the government enacted measures to curb
its rally that were weaker than some investors expected, and
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said long-term appreciation of
the currency is “inevitable.”  The real rose 2.4 percent to 1.5689 per dollar. The
currency has gained 48 percent since the end of 2008.  Brazil Tax  The government has changed tax rules three times since
March 29 in an effort to slow the two-year surge in the real
that’s crimping exporters’ profits. Mantega said April 6 the
currency’s strength was, to some extent, “inevitable” due to
the economy’s growth as he announced the government was
broadening the scope of a 6 percent tax on foreign borrowing to
include loans with maturities of up to two years from one year.  Australia ’s dollar rose for a third week versus the
greenback after statistics showed the  unemployment rate  fell to
4.9 percent in March from 5 percent the previous month.
Employers added 37,800 workers in March from the previous month,
the statistics bureau said.  Australia’s dollar gained 1.7 percent to $1.0564, reaching
$1.0584, the strongest since it was freely floated in 1983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  