-- 
Facebook Is Said to Have Discussed Entering China With Partners

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-04-09T00:54:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/facebook-is-said-to-have-discussed-entering-china-with-partners.html
Facebook Inc., owner of the world’s
most popular social-networking service, has held talks with
potential partners about how to gain a foothold in  China ,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  The discussions have been exploratory and may not result in
an agreement, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private.  Entering China would give Facebook access to the world’s
largest Internet market, with more than 457 million Web users.
People who want to get on the social network there now rely on
private-network services to circumvent firewalls that bar access
to information the government deems inappropriate.  “We are currently studying and learning about China, as
part of evaluating any possible approaches that could benefit
our users, developers and advertisers,” Palo Alto, California-
based Facebook said in an e-mailed statement.  Facebook, with more than 500 million users, aims to expand
in other parts of the world to add members and advertisers.
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  visited China in
December and met with Internet companies including Baidu Inc.
and Sina Corp. He also met with  Wang Jianzhou , chairman of China
Mobile Ltd., who said the pair discussed “the possibility of
cooperation” in China.  Zuckerberg said at the time that he was on vacation in the
Asian nation.  Advertising Beachhead  Facebook said in February that it’s opening an office in
Hong Kong. While the aim is to focus on Taiwan and Hong Kong,
the location brings Facebook closer to advertisers in China,
where Susquehanna International Group LLP predicts the online
advertising market will triple to almost $13 billion by 2014.  China, which bans pornography, gambling and content
critical of the ruling Communist Party, blocks websites
including Facebook, Twitter Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube,
which don’t follow the nation’s self-censorship rules. Google
pulled its search engine out of China last year after deciding
it would stop censoring its content.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 