-- 
Germany Says Greek Loan Relief May Not Work as EU Rules Out Restructuring

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-04-09T14:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/germany-says-greek-loan-relief-may-not-work-as-eu-rules-out-restructuring.html
Loan relief granted to  Greece  last
month may be inadequate to restore the country’s financial
health, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said after
European officials again ruled out debt restructuring.  Euro-area leaders decided on March 11 to reduce  interest
rates  on loans for Greece under its 110 billion-euro ($159
billion) rescue package and to extend their maturities. Greece
also gained the right to sell bonds directly to the region’s
rescue fund.  “Whether that is enough and how this continues will have
to be monitored closely,” Schaeuble told reporters today after
a meeting of European Union finance ministers and central bank
chiefs in Godollo, Hungary.  The doubts about Greece’s finances emerged as EU officials
said a planned aid package for  Portugal  would draw a line under
the region’s debt crisis, which was triggered by Greece and
engulfed Ireland four months ago, when that nation received an
85 billion-euro rescue. The funds for Portugal are projected by
the EU to total around 80 billion euros.  In return for aid, the government of Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has pledged to bring Greece’s budget shortfall to
within the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2014. The deficit soared to
15.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2009. Greece intends
to return to the markets for financing next year at the latest.  Shrinking Economy  Greece’s economic contraction is projected at 3 percent in
2011 as austerity measures bite. The economy shrank 4.5 percent
last year, more than forecast. The nation’s overall debt will
peak at 159.4 percent of GDP in 2012, according to EU
projections made Feb. 24.  “We do exclude restructuring,” EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in Hungary today.
“We have a solid plan and we are working on the basis of that
plan. And it is based on very careful analysis of debt
sustainability.”  Appearing with Rehn, European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet stressed the importance of the Greek austerity
plan. In February, Trichet said “that program does not
comprehend” the concept of losses for bondholders.  At the meeting in Hungary, euro-area finance ministers
ratified last month’s decisions to cut the average rate on loans
to Greece by 1 percentage point, to around 3.5 percent, and to
lengthen the maturities to 7 1/2 years from three.  German Division  “It’s known that Greece has a strong refinancing
requirement in coming years,” Schaeuble said. “That’s one of
the reasons why we agreed in principle to extend the maturities
for aid to Greece. We can’t say for good today whether that’s
enough.”  Lawmakers from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition on
April 7 didn’t rule out a restructuring of Greece’s debt,
breaking with the official stance in  Germany  and in the EU.  As part of their March 11 accord, euro-area leaders also
decided to let the  European Financial Stability Facility , whose
current role is to sell bonds to finance rescue loans, buy bonds
directly from euro-area nations that are in an aid program.  Four days later, Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said this would offer an “exceptionally
important” backstop in 2012 as Greece seeks to tap the markets
for financing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Godollo, Hungary, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Godollo,  Hungary , at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  