-- 
Insider Trading Middleman Robinson Said to Be Pleading Guilty

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-04-09T04:24:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/insider-trading-middleman-robinson-said-to-be-scheduled-to-plead-guilty.html
Kenneth T. Robinson, the middleman
in a $32 million insider trading scheme, is scheduled to plead
guilty as early as April 11 in federal court in  Newark ,  New
Jersey , according to people familiar with the matter.  Robinson was the middleman between attorney Matthew H. Kluger and stock trader Garrett D. Bauer, who were charged this
week in Newark in an insider trading scheme spanning 17 years,
the people said. Kluger and Bauer were charged in a  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  complaint that referred to Robinson as
co-conspirator #1, or CC-1, the people said.  On March 8, agents from the FBI and  Internal Revenue
Service  raided CC-1’s house in Long Beach,  New York , and
confronted him about suspicious trades in his accounts and
“numerous instances of structuring cash into and out of” his
bank accounts, according to the FBI complaint.  After that raid, CC-1 began to help the government secretly
record conversations with Kluger, who had worked at several
prominent law firms, and Bauer, who traded stocks out of his
 Manhattan  home, according to the FBI.  CC-1 primarily worked in the mortgage loan business,
according to the FBI complaint. Bauer and Kluger independently
formed “long-term, close personal friendships” with CC-1 after
separately meeting him through their jobs two decades ago, the
FBI said.  Co-Workers  Kluger worked with the middleman at a real-estate company
in Manhattan in 1991, and he met Bauer after that when they
worked at a venture capital firm, Weiss, Peck & Greer, the FBI
said.  A call to Robinson’s house wasn’t immediately returned.
Rebekah Carmichael, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman, declined to comment.  Kluger, 50, and Bauer, 43, also were accused by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in a civil complaint that
referred to the middleman who, according to the people, was
Robinson.  Kluger stole non-public data on companies including Sun
Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM) , authorities
said. Bauer made more than $30 million on the scheme, the
middleman more than $875,000, and Kluger more than $500,000,
Fishman said after their arrests on April 6.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Bauer, 11-mj-3536, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark). The SEC case is
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Kluger and Garrett D.
Bauer, 2:11-cv-01936, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Washington  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  