-- 
Barak Offers to Halt Israel's Gaza Strikes When Hamas Stops Rocket Attacks

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-10T08:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/israel-strikes-gaza-weapons-truck-as-palestinians-fire-rockets.html
Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said
 Israel  would halt air and artillery strikes on Gaza, which have
left 17 Palestinians dead, if the Islamic Hamas movement ends
rocket and mortar fire from the territory.  Barak spoke after the army reported that three mortars were
fired from Gaza, bringing to about 120 the number of projectiles
shot at Israel in the preceding 48 hours. Leaders of Hamas, the
militant Islamic movement that controls Gaza, said yesterday
that they too were seeking a cease-fire with Israel.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned that if
“the strikes against Israeli civilians and soldiers continue,
the response will be much more harsh.” His remarks to the
Cabinet today were broadcast on Israel Army Radio.  Violence has been escalating since April 7 when militants
from Gaza fired an anti-tank missile at an Israeli school bus,
injuring a 16-year-old passenger and the driver. Israeli forces
struck back after the attack, killing 17 Palestinians including
a senior Hamas commander, according to Adham Abu Selmeya,
director of  emergency services  for Hamas.  “We will stop firing if they stop all fire and it’s
quiet,” Barak said in an interview broadcast on Israel Radio.  Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
U.S. and the European Union. Mohammed Awad, Hamas’s foreign
minister, said mediators tried to broker a cease-fire on Friday
“but Israel refused to commit.”  Cross Border  The escalation in Gaza prompted comparisons to the period
at the end of 2008 before Israel launched a three-week operation
that it said was aimed at stopping cross-border rocket attacks.
More than 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed in the
fighting. Israeli officials have raised the possibility that the
country may conduct another large-scale military operation to
stop the attacks.  “We could reach the point where it spins out of control
and we will have no choice but to re-enter Gaza.” Isaac Herzog,
a former Cabinet minister from the  Labor Party , said in an
interview with Israel Radio.  The Palestinian Authority may appeal to the  United Nations
Security Council  to meet on Gaza, Palestinian negotiator  Nabil Shaath  told reporters yesterday in the West Bank city of
 Ramallah .  Militia Commander  An Israeli airstrike in southern Gaza yesterday killed
Tayser Abu Snima, 29, a senior Hamas militia commander, and two
assistants, Hamas said in a faxed statement. Abu Snima had been
involved in several attacks on Israel, including a rocket attack
on the southern resort city of Eilat, according to an Israeli
army spokeswoman, who declined to be further identified under
military rules.  At least 30 rockets and mortars were fired from Gaza
yesterday and seven of them were intercepted by Israel’s new
Iron Dome missile defense system, the army spokeswoman said.  Israel will receive $250 million from the U.S. to fund
additional Iron Dome systems to protect against Gaza rocket
attacks, Israel Army Radio reported today, citing unidentified
security officials.  Hamas has ruled Gaza after seizing control in 2007 and
ending a partnership government with  Palestinian Authority 
President  Mahmoud Abbas . The group won parliamentary elections
the previous year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  