-- 
Tepco Says Water Level Rises in Fukushima No. 2 Reactor

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-04-09T06:42:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/japan-s-tepco-says-water-level-rises-in-no-2-reactor-at-fukushima-plant.html
Tokyo Electric  Power Co. said the
water level rose in a trench at the No. 2 reactor at its
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, adding to concern the utility may have
to speed up transfer of the radioactive fluid to a waste-
treatment facility and tanks.  Water rose 3 centimeters (1.2 inches) since yesterday,
Naoki Tsunoda, a spokesman for the utility, said in a telephone
interview from Tokyo today. The increase may be happening as the
company stopped a leak of radioactive water near the unit on
April 6, he said.  The utility plans to begin using a remotely controlled
helicopter to investigate conditions at the nuclear station
tomorrow, a day behind schedule because of bad weather,
according to Tsunoda. It plans to complete the release of
radioactive water into the sea from a treatment facility today
as planned, he said. The draining of water from pits outside the
No. 5 and No. 6 reactors starts tomorrow, he said.  “Work to restore the cooling systems is lagging behind
because it’s taking longer than expected to drain radioactive
water from the basements,” said Hironobu Unesaki, a nuclear
engineering professor at  Kyoto University .  About 60,000 tons of contaminated water lies in basements
and trenches outside reactors No. 1, 2 and 3, Takeo Iwamoto, a
company spokesman, said April 5. Tokyo Electric plans to pump
half of that to a waste-treatment facility and the rest to tanks
and floating storage vessels, he said.  No Further Damage  Tepco, as the power company is known, reported yesterday
that the facility wasn’t further damaged by a magnitude-7.1
aftershock on April 7 near the same site as last month’s
magnitude-9 quake, the strongest ever recorded in Japan.  The March 11 temblor and tsunami left  27,741 dead or
missing  as of 10 a.m. Tokyo time today, according to  Japan ’s
 National Police Agency . The government estimated damage of 25
trillion yen ($295 billion).  Fifteen engineers were able to return to the nuclear plant
site after the April 7 quake. They continue to pump nitrogen
into one of the reactors, part of an effort to prevent hydrogen
explosions at the plant, Tokyo Electric said. There have been no
indications of plant damage at Dai-Ichi or changes in radiation
levels, Takashi Kurita, a company spokesman, said yesterday.  Tokyo Electric lost as much as 84 percent of its market
value after the March 11 disaster damaged and shut down cooling
systems at Fukushima Dai-Ichi, leading to releases of
radioactive air and water. The stock rose 80 yen, or 24 percent,
to 420 yen yesterday, its biggest gain since 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  