-- 
Japanese Vote in First Local Elections Since Quake Disaster

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-04-10T01:10:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/japanese-vote-in-first-local-elections-since-quake-disaster.html
Japanese voters began casting
ballots today in local elections that may influence whether
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s  Democratic Party of Japan  partners
with the opposition after last month’s earthquake and tsunami.  Twelve of the country’s 47 prefectures are holding
elections for governors and local assemblies, while many of the
remaining areas will vote on April 24. Elections in some
prefectures affected by the quake and tsunami that crippled the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant have been postponed.  Almost two-thirds of voters are critical of Kan’s response
to the nuclear crisis and want him to form a coalition with the
 Liberal Democratic Party  that governed for almost half a century
until 2009, a poll last week showed. A poor result by the DPJ
may weaken Kan’s position in negotiations with the LDP on
teaming up to pass economic stimulus plans, analysts say.  “There is rising discontent with Kan’s leadership,” said
Kazuhisa Kawakami, a political science professor at Meiji Gakuin
University in  Tokyo . “If the DPJ loses badly, Kan will face
pressure to step down as a condition for the LDP to join a
coalition government.”  LDP leader Sadakazu Tanigaki has pledged support for
recovery efforts while saying he’s “cautious” about joining
the government.  More than 60 percent of voters disapprove of Kan’s handling
of the crisis at Dai-Ichi, owned by Tokyo Electric Power Co.,
according to a Yomiuri newspaper poll published on April 4. The
survey said 64 percent favor a DPJ-LDP government. Kan’s
approval rating rose seven percentage points to 31 percent from
24 percent the month before, the Yomiuri said. The newspaper
polled 1,036 people and provided no margin of error.  Tokyo Race  The most prominent contest is in Tokyo, where incumbent
Governor Shintaro Ishihara is favored to win his fourth term
heading  Japan ’s richest and biggest city. The 78-year-old
initially sparked public anger for saying the disaster was
“divine punishment” for Japan’s excesses. He apologized and as
the crisis deepened with damage to the nuclear plant, he sought
to head off concerns over radiation levels in Tokyo’s water by
drinking it in front of television cameras.  Ishihara is preferred over Miki Watanabe, founder of
restaurant chain Watami Co., and former Miyazaki prefectural
governor Hideo Higashikokubaru, the Asahi newspaper said on
April 5. Three-fourths of voters approve of Ishihara, a former
LDP member and now independent, the newspaper said. The Asahi
surveyed 1,592 voters and provided no margin of error.  Low Turnout  In addition to Tokyo, where polls close at 8 p.m., other
prefectures holding elections today include northern Hokkaido,
Kanagawa, Nara and Mie. Turnout is expected to be low, as voters
are pre-occupied with the earthquake and tsunami that left more
than 27,000 people dead or missing, Kawakami said.  Workers at the Dai-Ichi plant are struggling to stabilize
its reactors, which have spewed radiation into the air and water
after partial meltdowns.  The administration is compiling an initial relief and
reconstruction plan that may be as much as 4 trillion yen ($47
billion), Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said on April 7.
Kan has reached out to the opposition, last month abandoning a
bill to increase cash handouts to families that the LDP
criticized as wasteful.  Agreeing on how to fund the package is contentious in a
country with the world’s largest public debt, which is twice the
size of gross domestic product. Edano last week said the
government intends to avoid issuing deficit-covering bonds to
pay for the first relief package.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  