-- 
Kremlin Dismisses FSB’s Calls for Skype, Gmail Ban in Russia

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-04-09T15:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/kremlin-dismisses-fsb-s-calls-for-skype-gmail-ban-in-russia.html
The Kremlin dismissed calls by
 Russia ’s security services to ban the use of Skype, Gmail and
Hotmail in Russia for posing a threat to national security.  Alexander Andreechkin, a Federal Security Service official,
said at an April 8 government meeting that “uncontrolled use”
of services such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Gmail and Microsoft Inc.’s
Hotmail, which use foreign-made encryption technology, may lead
to a “large-scale security threat in Russia,” RIA Novosti
reported.  The Kremlin said today that Andreechkin exceeded his
authority by making statements on popular services. A Kremlin
official who requested anonymity said the FSB doesn’t set
government policy for Internet technologies and shouldn’t
initiate prohibitive measures.  Deputy Communications Minister Ilya Massukh said the FSB,
the main successor to the KGB, suggested banning these services
because their encryption limits access, the Russian news wire
reported. Recommendations on regulating encryption will be
prepared by Oct. 1, Massukh said.  President  Dmitry Medvedev , 45, who makes regular updates on
his Twitter Inc. account, has been promoting Internet use in
Russia and is pushing for the government to move their services
online. Russia won’t support initiatives that restrict Internet
freedom and limiting it will bring the world to stagnation,
Medvedev said at the Davos forum in January.  Dmitry Peskov, spokesman for Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ,
said that all views have to be discussed before a final decision
is made. Peskov told Interfax that FSB’s position is “well-
reasoned” given its tasks.  Putin, 58, who headed FSB in 1998 for one year, told Time
magazine in 2007 that he’d never sent an e-mail. While the
Internet has been Medvedev’s domain to communicate his views to
public, Putin prefers to go on air.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  