-- 
Obama Calls Budget Reduction Deal With Congress a ‘Worthwhile Compromise’

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-04-09T18:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/obama-says-goverment-will-be-open-for-business-after-deal.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
budget deal he struck with Congress is a “worthwhile
compromise” that will keep government offices open and
paychecks flowing to federal employees and military personnel.  The president announced the agreement from the White House
with less than an hour to spare before agencies would have had
to begin closing many operations for lack of government spending
authority.  “Both sides had to make tough decisions and give ground on
issues that were important to them,” Obama said. “But
beginning to live within our means is the only way to protect
those investments that will help America compete for new jobs.”  The agreement to slice $38.5 billion from about $3.5
trillion in spending for fiscal year 2011 prevented the first
shutdown of the federal government in 15 years, which would have
closed national parks, suspended tax audits and barred 800,000
federal employees from work beginning at midnight.  Obama’s remarks were followed by quick approval by the
Senate and House of Representatives of a temporary spending
measure that will fund government operations until April 14th
while lawmakers draft legislation for the broader budget
agreement. Obama signed the temporary measure today.  Democrats accepted the spending cuts after an agreement was
reached to jettison some Republican provisions that would have
cut funds for Planned Parenthood and blocked environmental
rules.  Compromise Wanted  “The size of the cuts is a bit more than Democrats would
like, but on the other hand, the riders are generally gone,”
said Gary Jacobson, a political science professor at the
 University of California  at  San Diego . “So it’s something that
might be generally popular and help both sides. Most Americans
wanted some sort of compromise.”  Julian Zelizer , a professor of history and public affairs
at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey , said Obama may face
questions about whether he engaged in the negotiations soon
enough.  “All and all, this is something he survives rather than a
negotiation that remakes how the electorate thinks about him,”
Zelizer said.  Market Effect  While the president and legislators negotiated over a
budget, markets showed little concern about the fiscal health of
the U.S.  Bond yields are lower now than when the government was
running a  budget surplus  a decade ago even as Treasury
Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007.  The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield was at 3.58
percent yesterday, below the average of 7 percent since 1980,
reflecting the expectations that a deal would be reached, said
 John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. rose for a second
consecutive week as an improving job market helped ease the
burden of higher fuel costs. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index climbed to minus 44.5 in the period ended April 3 from
minus 46.9 the previous week.  Obama, 49, said the agreement rightly reflects “a debate
about spending cuts, not social issues,” and is a budget that
will be the start of the country “beginning to live within our
means” by making significant spending cuts while preserving
priorities such as education, energy development and medical
research.  ‘Painful’ Cuts  The president said some popular programs would be cut and
infrastructure projects would be delayed.  “Some of the cuts we agreed to will be painful,” he said.
“I would not have made these cuts in better circumstances.”  Obama and Republican Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin 
called the budget plan “good news” in their weekly addresses
on the radio and Internet today.  “But much more has to be done to put our nation on a true
path to prosperity,” said Ryan, who earlier this week presented
a Republican budget plan for fiscal 2012 the would slice more
than $6 trillion over the next decade out of Medicare, Medicaid,
food stamps and scores of other programs.  “By removing the anchor of debt that weighs down our
economy and advancing pro-growth tax reforms, this budget is a
jobs budget,” Ryan said in his weekly address.  Set a Standard  Obama, in his address, said the spending agreement should
set a standard for both parties.  “It’s my sincere hope that we can continue to come
together as we face the many difficult challenges that lie ahead
-- from creating jobs and growing our economy to educating our
children and reducing our long-term deficits,” he said.  A series of late meetings and phone calls last night sealed
the deal and capped a week of negotiations during which House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, and Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, made four trips to the
White House to meet with Obama.  Administration officials said a breakthrough came during a
meeting on the night of April 7, when attendees left the Oval
Office in agreement on the broad outlines of a plan to cut
spending by around $38 billion.  Still unsettled were Republican attempts to add so-called
policy riders targeting federal aid to Planned Parenthood and
environmental regulations. The administration drew a line at
those provisions.  Policy Provisions  Reid said later that Vice President  Joe Biden  was angered
that Republicans weren’t backing down on cutting Planned
Parenthood funding, and he told them at one point, “Well, fine.
Let the American people decide this issue then.”  Aides worked through the night and administration officials
who briefed reporters after Obama spoke, said it was a phone
call at 10:45 a.m. yesterday from Obama to Boehner that helped
push the process along.  The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said
several proposals and counterproposals circulated among
lawmakers and the administration throughout the day as members
of Congress shuttled between press conferences and meetings.  Little was said at the White House, the administration
officials said, on order from the president who wanted to give
members of Congress time to sort out the differences.  At 10:30 p.m. Chief of Staff  William Daley  called the
president in the residence to tell him that a deal had been
reached. At 11:04 p.m., he addressed the public from the White
House Blue Room, with the illuminated Washington Monument framed
in a window behind him.  “Tomorrow, I’m pleased to announce that the Washington
Monument, as well as the entire federal government, will be open
for business,” the president said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  