-- 
One Killed, 71 Wounded as Egypt Army Disperses Protesters

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-04-09T14:41:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/one-killed-71-wounded-as-egypt-army-disperses-protesters-1-.html
One person was killed and 71 were
wounded in Cairo after the army dispersed overnight protesters
in Tahrir Square, state-run Middle East News Agency reported,
citing the health ministry.  Thousands of people gathered yesterday in the downtown
square demanding prompt trials for ousted president  Hosni Mubarak  and his top officials. Security and army troops raided
the square after midnight, using batons and firing shots in the
air to drive out some protesters who attempted to camp out,
eyewitnesses said.  The Egyptian health ministry said injuries in the “riots”
ranged from bullet wounds to bruises, Middle East News Agency
reported. Two men died from bullet wounds suffered in the
clashes, Reuters said, citing two medical sources.  “Around 2 a.m., the troops laid siege to the square from
all directions and started to fire blank bullets and then live
rounds,” said 29-year-old Amir Kamal, who was protesting since
yesterday. “I saw a live bullet penetrate a man’s chest and
come out from his back. The troops were dragging some of the
protesters from their legs to evacuate the square and then
arrested large numbers of them, carrying them away in six
trucks.”  An army spokesman denied firing live rounds, saying it used
blanks to warn the protesters, according to Reuters. Bloomberg
attempts at reaching an army spokesman by telephone were
unsuccessful.  Egypt ’s ruling military council ordered the arrest of
businessman Ibrahim Kamel, a member of the former ruling
 National Democratic Party  whom the army says is behind
instigating discord among protesters in the square yesterday,
Middle East News Agency reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 