-- 
Pound Gains as Services, Inflation Data Point to Rate Increases

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-04-09T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/pound-gains-as-services-inflation-data-point-to-rate-increases.html
The pound had its biggest weekly
gains versus the dollar since February after reports showing
producer prices surged and services industries’ growth
accelerated bolstered the case for higher  interest rates .  U.K. government bonds declined yesterday as the  Office for
National Statistics  said the cost of goods at factory gates
increased 0.9 percent in March from February, above the 0.6
percent median prediction of 16 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. A gauge based on a survey of services companies from
insurers to environmental consultants rose to 57.1 last month,
the most since February 2010, Markit Economics Ltd. and the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said on April 5.  There’s an argument that the longer the  Bank of England 
waits, “the more they have to do later,” said  Neil Jones , head
of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
 London . “That’s partially why the market is pricing in rate
increases.”  The pound gained 1.4 percent in the week to $1.6331 as of
5:04 p.m. in London yesterday, after climbing to $1.6428, the
most since Jan. 19, 2010. Britain’s currency was at 88.39 pence
per euro, up 0.1 percent in the week.  Rates Unchanged  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee kept the
benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent on April 7, while the
 European Central Bank  lifted its main refinancing rate to 1.25
percent. Investors priced in a 50 basis-point rise in the key
U.K. rate by November, according to forward rates on the
sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia, compiled by
Tullett Prebon Plc.  Britain’s currency may extend gains before a report next
week that economists say will show the nation’s inflation was
more than twice the central bank’s target last month. The rate
probably stayed at 4.4 percent, according to the median
prediction of 30 economists surveyed before the April 12 report.  Losses by gilts pushed the 10-year yield to as high as 3.82
percent yesterday, the most since Feb. 21. The two-year yield
rose to 1.40 percent, from 1.38 percent on April 1.  Gains by the pound will likely be limited as the central
bank judges that the economic recovery as too fragile to
withstand higher borrowing costs, according to  John Hydeskov ,
chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in London.  “The Bank of England has been priced too aggressively,”
he said, forecasting that sterling will depreciate to 89 pence
per euro in two months. “I don’t see a strong case for them to
raise rates. They can sustain the pressure.”  The pound has strengthened 0.5 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that measure the 10
most widely traded currencies. It has trailed the euro’s 4
percent gain amid signs that the ECB would raise rates sooner
than the Bank of England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 