-- 
Rockets Fired at Gbagbo's Ivory Coast Residence by Forces from UN, France

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-04-10T20:37:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/pro-ouattara-forces-in-ivory-coast-killed-civilians-group-says.html
United Nations and French
helicopters opened fire on the residence of Ivory Coast’s former
leader,  Laurent Gbagbo , and the offices of state television in
the city of Abidjan, according to eyewitnesses.  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said that he requested
French assistance to mount the military operation “to prevent
the use of heavy weapons which threaten the civilian population
of Abidjan and our peacekeepers.”  “Civilians are bearing the brunt of the violence. The
fighting must stop,” Ban said in a statement. He called on
Gbagbo to “step aside immediately.”  Gbagbo has disputed Alassane Ouattara’s internationally
recognized victory in the Nov. 28 presidential election and
refused to step down as president. While many of his troops
retreated or defected as Ouattara’s fighters swept down from the
north of the country to Abidjan, Gbagbo’s forces have renewed
fighting in the commercial capital of the world’s largest cocoa
producing nation.  “A French helicopter fired missiles at the residence,”
Jean Paul Turin, who could see the scene from his balcony, said
today by telephone. “After the explosion, I saw a big black
plume of smoke. The helicopter was being shot at from the
building of the state television. It retaliated with a missile
towards the state TV building.”  Residence on Fire  Gbagbo’s Paris-based spokesman, Alain Toussaint, said in an
e-mail that the former president’s Abidjan residence had been
damaged by the attack and that it “is at the moment on fire.”  “There were two UN helicopters flying over the city at the
same time,” Turin said. “The UN helicopters were firing in the
direction of the presidential palace” in Abidjan, a city of 4
million people.  Today’s fighting was also witnessed by Jean Jacques
Chaubreau, who said by telephone that “around 5 p.m. I saw a
French army helicopter fire four missiles towards Gbagbo’s
residence.”  Hamadoun Toure, spokesman for the UN mission in  Ivory
Coast , said, “For the last three days we have been shot at.”
Today’s operation, which he described as “ongoing,” was
launched because the fighting hasn’t stopped, he said by phone
from Abidjan.  Gbagbo’s Ruse  Yesterday, the U.S. condemned Gbagbo’s “renewed assault”
and called on Gbagbo to end the fighting and surrender toOuattara.  “It is clear that Gbagbo’s attempts at negotiation this
week were nothing more than a ruse to regroup and rearm,” State
Department spokesman Mark Toner said late yesterday in a
statement in  Washington .  Fighting is “more intense in a number of neighborhoods in
Abidjan,” the State Department said in an update of a warning
to Americans to avoid travel in the country. In the Cocody
district of Abidjan, Gbagbo loyalists attacked the Ouattara
headquarters in the Golf Hotel, said Meite Sindou, a spokesman
for the prime minister,  Guillaume Soro . Ouattara’s forces fended
off the attack, he said.  Embassy Evacuations  Staff at the British Embassy in Abidjan were evacuated
yesterday after it came under fire from forces loyal to Gbagbo.  The British Foreign Office in  London  today said its staff
and “diplomats of other nationalities from neighbouring
residences” left “under the auspices of the United Nations.”  Staff at  Israel ’s embassy were rescued by the UN on April 9
after being holed up for several days. One diplomat was injured
during the evacuation to neighboring  Ghana , according to an e-
mailed statement from Israel’s Foreign Ministry.  Commercial flights resumed yesterday at Abidjan airport,
Neba Koffi, the acting general director of the airport, said in
a telephone interview.  The European Union lifted restrictions April 8 on cocoa
exports from Abidjan and the port of  San Pedro , which also is
under Ouattara’s control. Cocoa in London fell 25 pounds, or 1.3
percent, to 1,889 pounds ($3,095) per metric ton on April 8.  Human Rights Watch  said forces loyal to Ouattara killed
hundreds of civilians, burned at least 10 villages and raped
women from an ethnic group perceived to be loyal to Gbagbo.  “Fighters often targeted people by ethnicity, and the
attacks disproportionately affected those too old or feeble to
flee,” said a  report  e-mailed April 8 by the New York-based
group. “Dozens of women were also detained for a day or longer
and repeatedly raped.”  One Million Flee  The killings occurred during a March offensive by the
Republican Forces in the country’s west, the group said.  Ouattara’s administration attempted to call up soldiers
from the military formerly loyal to Gbagbo, who was president
from 2000 until last year.  “As part of the mobilization for the resumption of
service,” the prime minister and defense minister “require
officers, junior officers and other ranks of the army, navy,  air
force  and Gendarmerie Nationale to register on open lists,” a
Ouattara-administration statement received by e-mail said.  More than 1 million  people  have fled their homes during the
four-month crisis, according to the  United Nations . French and
UN peacekeeping forces in Abidjan began helicopter strikes
against Gbagbo’s forces April 4.  Human Rights Watch said that, before February, abuses
against civilians were committed mainly by forces loyal to
Gbagbo. That changed after fighters nominally under the control
of Ouattara’s Prime Minister Soro began an offensive that month.  The atrocities culminated in a March 29 massacre of
hundreds of civilians in Duekoue, near the  Liberian border , home
to a large number of people from the Guere ethnic group, most of
whom supported Gbagbo, according to the report.  The Hague-based  International Criminal Court  said it has
started an  investigation  into alleged crimes in Ivory Coast, and
Ouattara’s administration has agreed to submit to its
jurisdiction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  