-- 
Red Sox Beat Yankees, Snap Six-Game Losing Streak; Mets Lose Home Opener

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-04-09T05:30:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/red-sox-beat-yankees-snap-six-game-losing-streak-mets-lose-home-opener.html
Jarrod Saltalamacchia hit a run-
scoring double in the fifth inning as the Boston  Red Sox  won
their first game of the season with a 9-6 home-opening victory
against the  New York Yankees .  At Citi Field in New York, the Mets lost their Major League
Baseball home opener 6-2 to the  Washington Nationals .  The Red Sox, who lost their first six games, avoided
matching the 0-8 record they set in 1945.  “I just came in here thinking, ‘We need to find a way to
win. I don’t care how we do it. I don’t care if it’s the ugliest
win of all time. We need that win,’” Red Sox second baseman
Dustin Pedroia said. “But we played great, man.”  Robinson Cano doubled in the first to give the Yankees (4-
3) a 2-0 lead. Pedroia hit a home run to left field in the first
that closed the gap to 2-1 for  Boston  (1-6).  “He gave us a huge lift,” manager Terry Francona said.
“We’re down two, he takes a good swing and kind of gets at
least a little bit of momentum, a little bit of excitement
going.”  Alex Rodriguez ’s home run tied the game 6-6 in the fifth
inning for the Yankees before Saltalamacchia drove in  Kevin Youkilis  in the bottom of the inning.  ‘Great Team’  J.D. Drew hit a two-run single in the seventh to seal
Boston’s win.  “They’ve got a great team,” Yankees catcher Russell Martin said. “(Going) 0-6 is not a good indication of how
they’re playing. You’re not playing the record.”  John Lackey (1-1) got the win for the Red Sox despite
giving up seven hits and six runs in five innings.  New York ’s Bartolo Colon (0-1), who relieved starter  Phil
Hughes  in the third inning, allowed two hits and two runs in 4
1/3 innings for the loss.  Nationals pitcher Jordan Zimmermann hit a two-run single to
right in the second inning to give Washington a 2-0 lead against
the Mets, who got a run in the fourth when  Ike Davis  scored
 David Wright  on a sacrifice fly.  “I don’t know what happened there,” said Zimmermann, a
.167 career hitter with four runs batted in. “I was trying to
get the barrel on the ball.”  ‘Awesome Job’  Michael Morse walked with the bases loaded to score  Jayson Werth  in the fifth for  Washington . Ivan Rodriguez hit a two-run
single and Ian Desmond grounded out to score Danny Espinosa
three innings later for the Nationals (3-4).  Zimmermann (1-1) gave up six hits and two runs and struck
out four in 5 1/3 innings for the win.  “I was battling pretty much all day” Zimmermann said. “I
handed it over to the bullpen and they did an awesome job.”  R.A. Dickey (1-1), who split the nail on his index finger
in the first inning, got the loss, allowing six hits and three
runs while walking five over five innings as the Mets (3-4) fell
to 31-19 in home openers.  “I’m not going to say (the split nail) led to every
walk,” Dickey said. “It was just very tough to get the feel.”  In the  American League , it was Detroit 5, Kansas City 2;
Minnesota 2, Oakland 1; Tampa Bay 9, the Chicago White Sox 7;
Toronto 3, the Los Angeles Angels 2; and Cleveland 12, Seattle
3. The game between undefeated Texas and Baltimore, postponed
because of rain, will be played today as part of a doubleheader.  In the National League, it was San Francisco 5, St. Louis 4
(12 innings); Florida 4, Houston 3; Atlanta 6, Philadelphia 3;
the Chicago Cubs 7, Milwaukee 4; Pittsburgh 4, Colorado 3 (14
innings); and Arizona 13, Cincinnati 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  