-- 
Saudi Stocks Rally on Earnings After Oil Climbs; Petrochemicals Lead Gains

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-04-09T14:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/saudi-stocks-rally-on-earnings-after-oil-climbs-petrochemicals-lead-gains.html
Saudi shares rose the most in a week
as first-quarter earnings improved and crude oil’s rally to a
30-month high increased confidence in the petrochemicals
industry.  National Industrialization Co. (NIC) , the petrochemicals company
known as Tasnee, advanced 1.2 percent and  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the
kingdom’s largest publicly traded lender, added 0.7 percent. The
146-member  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 0.5 percent, the biggest
gain since April 2, to 6,608.6 by the close in  Riyadh .  “Traders are focusing on the positives by continuing to
build positions at the start of first-quarter results,” said
Fuad Aghabi, investment director at Ajeej Capital in Riyadh.
“This is further supported by gains in the international equity
and oil markets.”  Crude rose above $112 in  New York  for the first time in 30
months and Brent topped $126 in  London  on concern Libyan
production may not rebound when fighting ends. Crude oil for May
delivery rose 2.5 percent to $112.79 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, the highest close since Sept. 22,
2008.  Oil futures are up 4.5 percent this week and 32 percent
higher than a year ago.  Saudi Arabia  holds one-fifth of the
world’s proven oil reserves.  Al Rajhi  advanced to 77.25, the highest level since April
4, while Tasnee climbed to 34.3 riyals.  Saudi Industrial
Investment Group (SIIG)  increased 1.9 percent, the biggest gain in a
week, to 24.3 riyals.  ‘More Surprising Numbers’  “Those who are under-exposed to petrochemicals will not
want to miss the train, as the market expects more surprising
numbers,” said Amro Halwani, a senior trader at  Shuaa Capital
PSC (SHUAA)  in Riyadh.  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM)  climbed the most in almost three weeks
after the Saudi Arabian investment company and Bahrain
Telecommunications Co. signed an agreement with Mobile
Telecommunications Co. to buy the Kuwaiti company’s 25 percent
stake in Zain Saudi Arabia. The shares rose 1.7 percent, the
biggest gain since March 20, to 9.25 riyals.  Yamamah Saudi Cement Co. (YACCO) , Saudi Arabia’s third-largest
cement maker by market value, gained the most in two weeks,
rising 1.9 percent to 54.75 riyals after it reported a 9 percent
increase in first-quarter profit to 180 million riyals.  “Yamamah Cement’s performance was pretty decent and has
also set a gauge for the sector as a whole,” said Shuaa’s
Halwani.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  