-- 
U.S. Senate Panel Critical of Goldman to Release Crisis Findings This Week

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-04-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/senate-panel-critical-of-goldman-to-release-crisis-findings.html
The U.S. Senate panel that spent a
full day last year questioning  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
executives including Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein
about the company’s business practices before the 2008 credit
crisis will release its findings next week.  The Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations report, “ Wall
Street  and the Financial Crisis: Anatomy of a Financial
Collapse,” is likely to focus, at least in part, on role of
Goldman Sachs, which paid $550 million last year to resolve
regulatory claims that it misled investors in sales of
collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.
“Significant new information” will be included in the April 13
report, the panel said in a statement yesterday.  Senators  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , the Democrat who leads the
subcommittee, and  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma , its top Republican,
will issue findings drawn from a two-year probe by lawmakers and
staff members. The panel held public hearings examining the
failure of  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , and the role of credit-
rating firms Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s in
the financial crisis as well as Goldman Sachs’s sales of CDOs.  When Goldman Sachs executives testified appeared before the
panel in April 2010, lawmakers compared the bank’s mortgage
bankers to bookies and Levin asked why they sold securities that
company employees termed “shitty” deals.  Subcommittee members questioned seven current and
former executives, including Blankfein and Chief Operating
Officer Gary D. Cohn, about whether the firm was betting
against the housing market as it also sold mortgage-linked
securities to customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  