-- 
Sidney Lumet, Director of ‘12 Angry Men,' `Serpico,’ Dies at 86, NYT Says

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-04-09T16:23:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/sidney-lumet-director-of-12-angry-men-serpico-dies-at-86-nyt-says.html
Sidney Lumet, the director of “12
Angry Men,” “Dog Day Afternoon” and “Network,” whose films
explored themes of injustice and used the gritty streets of  New
York  as a supporting character, has died. He was 86.  He died today of lymphoma at his home in  Manhattan , where
he lived with his fourth wife, Mary, the New York Times
reported, citing his stepdaughter, Leslie Gimbel.  The son of a Yiddish theater actor, Lumet grew up poor in
Depression-era New York, developing a passionate interest in
what he saw as a flawed judicial system. He said he was drawn to
“films of conscience” that would encourage introspection.  “Network”  (1976) introduced an expression of frustration
that became a lasting part of popular culture: “I’m mad as
hell, and I’m not going to take this anymore!”  Lumet was known as an actor’s director, and he worked with
some of Hollywood’s biggest stars, including Henry Fonda, Faye Dunaway and Paul Newman.  Al Pacino  was nominated for Academy
Awards as best actor in two of Lumet’s best-known law-and-order
works, “Dog Day Afternoon” and  “Serpico.”   “If you prayed to inhabit a character, Sidney was the
priest who listened to your prayers, helped make them come
true,” Pacino said when Lumet was given an honorary Oscar in
2005 for “his brilliant services to screenwriters, performers
and the art of the motion picture.”  He directed, on average, a film every year for four
decades, including adaptations of plays by Arthur Miller,
Tennessee Williams and Eugene O’Neill.  ‘Respect for Intelligence’  “Throughout his films, whether or not they are adapted
from literature, Lumet manifests a respect for intelligence and
for the written word that is rare in contemporary American
film,” Frank R. Cunningham wrote in a 1991 study of Lumet’s
movies.  Keeping a wide berth from Hollywood, Lumet remained rooted
in New York and shot most of his films there. For “Prince of
the City” (1981), based on the real-life prosecution of corrupt
police officers, Lumet shot at 135 locations around the city in
just 52 days.  “I don’t like company towns, and Hollywood is a company
town,” he said in a 1978 interview, explaining his affinity for
New York. “I think that I’m a better director because I saw
Jerome Robbins’ new ballet recently. And I want other good works
of art. I want good theater, and I want Soho, where your best
painting in the world is done. It’s a thrilling city.”  Lumet said that growing up in poor neighborhoods taught him
that the justice system “has to be constantly checked, because
it has to be kept honest.”  TV Blacklist  Also informing Lumet’s approach was his own brush with
persecution during the 1950s, when the effort to blacklist
suspected communists swept through the entertainment industry.
An informant identified him as a communist, then recanted before
Lumet could testify to congressional investigators.  Many of his best-known movies focused on men “who summon
great courage to challenge the system, and in doing so make
themselves social pariahs,” Don Shewey, an author and
journalist who covers theater, wrote in 1982.  Lumet was the first to admit that he made duds as well as
hits. They included “Bye Bye Braverman” (1968), about New York
City friends gathering for a funeral. In his 1995 book, “ Making
Movies ,” Lumet said the film’s strong cast was “left
floundering like fish on the beach by a director who takes
funerals and cemeteries too seriously.”  “I’m not a believer in waiting for ‘great’ material that
will produce a ‘masterpiece,” Lumet wrote. “What’s important
is that the material involve me personally on some level.”  Yiddish Theater  Born June 25, 1924, in Philadelphia, Lumet moved to New
York when he was 2. He was a child actor in the  Yiddish theater ,
following in the footsteps of his Polish-born actor father,
Baruch, who would later appear in two of Lumet’s movies. His
mother, Eugenia, was a dancer.  Lumet made his Broadway acting debut in 1935 in Sidney
Kingsley’s play “Dead End.” His first movie role came in 1939
in “One Third of a Nation.”  After one semester at  Columbia University , Lumet enlisted
in the U.S. Army early in World War II, working in radar
communications in  China  and northern  India .  Back in New York after the war, Lumet taught acting -- he
started an off-Broadway troupe that included Yul Brynner -- and
began directing on television, working on the CBS series
“Danger” and “You Are There” with Walter Cronkite.  ‘12 Angry Men’  When Reginald Rose, author of the television drama “ 12
Angry Men ,” and Fonda decided to turn the show into a movie,
they recruited Lumet as director.  The 1957 film starred Fonda as a lone holdout advocating an
acquittal during jury deliberations. Lumet, directing his first
movie, used relatively low-tech tools to make viewers feel the
growing tension in the stiflingly hot and close quarters shared
by the 12 jurors.  “I used longer and longer lenses so that the ceiling
became closer to the heads, the walls became closer to the
chair,” Lumet later recalled. “I kept putting it into a
smaller and smaller box to increase the claustrophobic
feeling.”  The movie earned Lumet an Academy Award nomination and was
nominated for best picture. Rose was nominated for screenplay
writing.  After establishing himself in film, Lumet kept drawing on
his experience in theater and live television. He launched movie
projects with a few weeks of sit-down rehearsals and tried, when
possible, to film scenes in one take. He had actors improvise
key scenes, with a recorder running. The improvisations were
typed up and incorporated into the final script.  Police Corruption  For “Serpico” (1973), starring Pacino as a New York
policeman who waged a perilous campaign against corruption
inside the department, Lumet brought first-hand experience with
greasing the palms of New York City police. Before 1966, when
Mayor John Lindsay created an office to promote movie-making,
filmmakers had to make cash payoffs at local precincts before
shooting, Lumet recalled in a 1997 interview with the  Hollywood
Reporter .  Pacino and Lumet teamed up again on  “Dog Day Afternoon” 
(1975), which told the story of a botched 1972 bank robbery in
 Brooklyn . Pacino played the lead robber, who blusters his way
through taking hostages and negotiating with police before
finally revealing his hidden motive: he needs money to help his
male lover pay for a sex-change operation.  Agatha Christie Novel  Lumet directed a star-studded cast including Albert Finney,
Lauren Bacall, Ingrid Bergman and  Sean Connery  in “Murder on
the Orient Express,” a 1974 film based on the Agatha Christie
novel. The movie was nominated for six Academy Awards, with
Bergman winning for best supporting actress.  In “Network,” a scathing satire written by Paddy
Chayefsky, Lumet directed a prescient look at how entertainment
and news overlap on television. The film’s iconic moment comes
when Peter Finch, playing a low-rated TV anchor facing
termination, implores viewers to go to their windows and scream,
“I’m mad as hell, and I’m not going to take this anymore!”  The movie was nominated for 10 Academy Awards, including
Lumet as best director, and won four: best writing, best actor
(Peter Finch), best actress (Dunaway) and best supporting
actress (Beatrice Straight).  With Jay Presson Allen, Lumet adapted Robert Daley’s
“Prince of the City,” the true story of a corrupt detective
who turned on his colleagues, for the big screen in 1981.  ‘The Verdict’  Lumet pursued familiar themes with a different locale,
 Boston , in “The Verdict” (1982), starring  Paul Newman  as an
alcoholic attorney who rediscovers his professional idealism.  His other films included “The Fugitive Kind” (1959),
“Long Day’s Journey into Night” (1962), “Fail Safe” (1964),
“The Pawnbroker” (1965), “The Anderson Tapes” (1971), ‘The
Wiz” (1978), “Night Falls on Manhattan” (1997) and “Before
the Devil Knows You’re Dead” (2007).  Lumet’s first marriage, to actress Rita Gam, ended in 1955.
His second, to designer Gloria Vanderbilt, ended in 1963.  That year Lumet married writer Gail Jones (now Gail
Buckley), an actress and the daughter of singer Lena Horne. They
had two daughters, Amy and Jenny, before the marriage dissolved
in 1978. Jenny Lumet wrote “Rachel Getting Married” (2008).  Lumet married for a fourth time, in 1980, to Mary Gimbel,
known as “Piedy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  