-- 
U.K. Company Profit Warnings Hit Two-Year High in First Quarter

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-04-09T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/u-k-company-profit-warnings-hit-two-year-high-in-first-quarter.html
U.K. companies led by retailers
issued the most profit warnings in two years in the first
quarter as the squeeze on public finances, higher  oil prices  and
rising costs curbed consumer and business spending, according to
business advisers Ernst & Young LLP.  A total of 75 profit warnings were issued in the quarter,
the most since the same period two years earlier, when there
were 119, London-based Ernst & Young said in an e-mailed
statement today. The number represented a 39 percent increase
from a year earlier.  Severe weather in the fourth quarter caused the economy to
contract 0.5 percent in the period, hitting retailers at a time
when consumer spending is at its highest. The biggest squeeze on
public spending since World War II, inflation and tax rises are
prompting consumers to be more cautious.  “The snow was a contributing, rather than lead factor, in
many of these profit warnings,” Keith McGregor, restructuring
partner at Ernst & Young, said in the statement. “By the end of
the quarter, squeezed  consumer spending  and rising commodity
price concerns had moved to the fore.”  The 14 warnings issued by retailers in the first three
months of the year was the third-highest quarterly total
recorded by Ernst & Young, and compares with the total of 16 for
the whole of 2010.  “Overall, the UK’s recovery looks just about strong enough
to withstand these tests,” McGregor said. “Growth in many
sections of the economy will remain subdued and, against a
trickier domestic backdrop, consumer-facing companies in
particular are finding 2011 much tougher going than 2010.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh News at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  