-- 
Lumet Captured Gritty NYC in ‘Dog Day,’ ‘Serpico’: Appreciation

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-04-09T17:29:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/lumet-captured-gritty-nyc-in-dog-day-afternoon-serpico-appreciation.html
Highbrow movie types always
hesitated to include Sidney Lumet in the pantheon of great
directors. They say he lacked a distinctive style, a personal
vision.  Who cares? This is, after all, the man who made everything
from “Long Day’s Journey Into Night” to “Dog Day Afternoon”
and captured the energy of his hometown  New York  better than any
other director.  Lumet, who died today at the age of 86, was the son of a
famed Yiddish theater actor. He began performing on stage at the
age of 5 and was one of the original “Dead End” kids on
Broadway.  After World War II, he began directing in theater and
television. He did more than 250 TV shows, including live
episodes of “Omnibus” and “Playhouse 90.” His 1960 version
of Eugene O’Neill’s “The Iceman Cometh,” starring Jason Robards, remains one of TV’s finest artistic moments.  Lumet’s first feature film was “12 Angry Men” (1957), an
Oscar-nominated courtroom drama starring Henry Fonda and a
powerful ensemble cast. It epitomized Lumet’s TV-honed ability
to deliver intense performances with limited budgets in cramped
settings.  Although “The Fugitive Kind” (1959) was a crashing
disappointment -- the confluence of  Marlon Brando , Anna Magnani
and Tennessee Williams should have produced something better
than this inchoate mumblefest -- Lumet’s “Long Day’s Journey
Into Night” (1962) is the best filmed play ever made.  Hepburn, Robards  As O’Neill’s doomed Tyrones, Katharine Hepburn, Ralph
Richardson, Dean Stockwell and Jason Robards were peerless.
(Sadly, the 172-minute original cut was later trimmed by a half-
hour, eliminating a marvelous exchange between Richardson and
Robards about the instability of Hepburn’s character.)  Six years later, Lumet directed an uneven but
intermittently first-rate adaptation of another literary
classic, Chekhov’s “The Sea Gull,” featuring standout
performances from  Vanessa Redgrave  and James Mason.  Even when the material was overwrought, Lumet often
delivered movies of lasting impact.  In “The Pawnbroker” (1964), Rod Steiger was at his finest
as a Holocaust survivor in Harlem. “The Hill,” released the
following year and set in a brutal British military camp, was
the first film to demonstrate that  Sean Connery  could really
act. Connery was equally powerful as a sadistic London cop in
Lumet’s little-seen “The Offence” (1972).  ‘Dog Day Afternoon’  Lumet was in his prime in the 1970s.  “Serpico” (1973), starring  Al Pacino , is probably the
best of the New York cop films. (I much prefer it to Lumet’s
subsequent, overrated “Prince of the City.”) The New York
native was at his best working off the energy of his hometown
streets. This was proved conclusively with “Dog Day Afternoon”
(1975), with Pacino (in his greatest performance) as a woebegone
bank robber.  No other movie from that era captures so intensely the New
York street scene. With the exception of “The Godfather”
films, it also has the best ensemble acting of any American
movie from the ‘70s. In addition to Pacino, there are terrific
contributions from Chris Sarandon, John Cazale and Charles Durning.  “Network” (1976), with a screenplay by Paddy Chayefesky,
depicts the television business as a sorry carnival of
hucksters. At the time, the film was condemned as a paranoid
screed by many in the broadcasting world. Viewed today, it looks
like hard-edged realism.  Overlooked Films  Along with those celebrated films of the period, Lumet
directed an unjustly neglected drama called “Lovin’ Molly”
(1974).  Based on a novel by Larry McMurtry, it stars Blythe Danner
as a free spirit who carries on 40-year affairs with two
different men. Another overlooked Lumet film is “Just Tell Me
What You Want” (1980), featuring a classic comic turn by Alan
King as a snarly tycoon and a rare high-quality performance by
Ali McGraw.  Two Lumet movies from the ‘80s showed how good he could be
with actors, even when working with indifferent material.  As the alcoholic lawyer in “The Verdict” (1982),  Paul Newman  dug deep into his emotions. So did Jane Fonda as the
drunken actress in “The Morning After” (1986), her only 1980s
work that I’d look at twice.  Lumet’s last unequivocally fine movie was the harrowing,
heartfelt “Running on Empty” (1988), about one-time student
radicals and their children on the run from the FBI. His last
film, the family melodrama “Before the Devil Knows You’re
Dead,” was released in 2007.  If Lumet’s films aren’t enough for you, pick up his
“Making Movies,” the best book ever written about the
filmmaking process by a working director.  (Peter Rainer is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
 Peter Rainer  at  Fi1L2E@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at of
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 