-- 
Vietnam Raises Bank Dollar Reserve Ratios After Dong Weakens to Record Low

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-09T10:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/vietnam-raises-bank-dollar-reserve-ratios-after-dong-weakens-to-record-low.html
Vietnam’s central bank raised the
amount of dollar deposits lenders must set aside as cash to
curb the use of foreign currency in the nation and stabilize the
dong.  The reserve ratio on deposits held in the U.S. currency
will increase by 2 percentage points to a range from 3 percent
to 6 percent from May, the  State Bank of Vietnam  said on its
website today. The monetary authority will also cap  interest
rates  on dollar deposits at 3 percent for individuals and at 1
percent for non-credit institutions, effective April 13,
according to a separate statement.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung is striving to restore
confidence in an economy that devalued its currency for the
fourth time in 15 months on Feb. 11 to narrow the gap between
official and so-called black market exchange rates. The central
bank raised borrowing costs for the second time in less than a
month on April 1 to curb inflation that has exceeded 10 percent
for five months.  “These moves indicate further monetary tightening and
discourage the use of foreign currency in the banking system,”
Tong Minh Tuan, deputy head of research at Hanoi-based BIDV
Securities Co., a unit of Bank for Investment & Development of
 Vietnam , said in an interview by phone.  Foreign-Currency Loans  Domestic deposits in foreign currency at banks rose 19.5
percent in the first quarter and foreign deposits held in
dollars increased 15.1 percent, the central bank said today.  Foreign-currency loans increased about 13 percent in the
first three months of the year, it said, without giving
comparative numbers. “Foreign-currency liquidity at banks is
ensured, but dollar lending rose at a level that is quite
high,” the monetary authority said.  “Even companies that don’t need to import goods preferred
dollar loans,” BIDV Securities’ Tuan said. “With these moves,
dollar lending will be limited to those companies with real
demand for foreign currency.”  Prime Minister Dung has intensified the fight against
inflation this year by ordering a “tight” monetary policy and
lowering targets for credit growth. Consumer prices increased
13.89 percent in March from a year earlier, the fastest pace
since February 2009.  The Vietnamese dong dropped to a record low against the
dollar yesterday after the  State Bank  of Vietnam set the
 reference rate  at the weakest level against the dollar since
January 2005. The dong slid to 20,925 per dollar before closing
little changed at 20,920, according to data from banks compiled
by Bloomberg.  The State Bank of Vietnam set the currency’s reference rate
at 20,723 for April 11, compared with 20,718 yesterday,
according to its website. The currency is allowed to trade up to
1 percent on either side of the rate.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  