-- 
Virginia Lacks Standing to Challenge Obama's Health-Care Law, U.S. Says

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-09T02:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/virginia-lacks-standing-to-challenge-obama-s-health-care-law-u-s-says.html
The state of  Virginia  lacks legal
standing to challenge a requirement that U.S. citizens obtain
health-insurance coverage as part of the Obama administration’s
 health-care reform law , the Justice Department said in an
appeals court filing.  The federal government is seeking to overturn a court
ruling allowing the state to bring the case while upholding the
portion of that decision keeping other parts of the legislation
in effect.  Virginia enacted a law barring the federal legislation’s
individual-coverage mandate from applying to its citizens. The
state used that law to create a basis for suing the Obama
administration, the Justice Department said in a filing today in
the U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond, Virginia.  The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that states don’t have
“power to enforce its citizens’ rights in respect to their
relations with the federal government,” according to today’s
filing. The individual-coverage mandate is a legitimate exercise
of Congress’s power to regulate the interstate market in health
care, the  Justice Department  said.  The Justice Department also argued that U.S. District
Judge Henry Hudson in Richmond properly refused to invalidate
the entire law.  On Dec. 13, Hudson found that the individual coverage
portion was unconstitutional while leaving the rest of the
legislation intact.  Insurance Requirements  The legislation was intended to provide almost universal
insurance coverage and included provisions preventing carriers
from rejecting applicants who are already ill and from imposing
lifetime caps.  The government is also appealing a decision by a federal
judge in  Florida  striking down the health-care reform
legislation.  Brian Gottstein, a spokesman for Virginia Attorney General
Kenneth Cuccinelli, didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail
messages after regular business hours.  The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 11-1057
and 11-1058,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fourth Circuit,
Richmond, Virginia  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  