-- 
Australia Faces ‘Tough Budget’ After Flooding, Strong Currency, Wong Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-04-10T03:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/wong-sees-tough-budget-for-australia-after-floods-strong-aussie-dollar.html
Australia will see a “tough
budget” this year as recent natural disasters, slower  consumer
spending  and a strong local dollar take their toll on the
nation’s economy, Finance Minister  Penny Wong  said.  “We got some short term softness -- that’s as a result of
a number of factors, the floods, the cyclone, but also a
cautious consumer and a strong Aussie dollar,” Wong said today
on the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s “Insiders” program.
“We also have to look to the long term, a very big wave of
investment. We have to make space for that.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has pledged to return the
budget to surplus by the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013, after
recording a deficit of A$54.8 billion ($58 billion) last fiscal
year that reflected spending to avoid a recession during the
global financial crisis. The budget will be presented to
Parliament on May 10.  Gillard announced a one-time tax to fund at least A$5.6
billion in federal  government spending  on flood reconstruction,
saying it won’t jeopardize the budget goal. Two months of floods
and a cyclone in the northeastern state of Queensland earlier
this year will likely cost the economy about A$9 billion,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said last week.  The Australian dollar has risen to a record versus its U.S.
counterpart. Consumer spending has been subdued as the stronger
currency lowers some costs and a mining boom raises others,
Philip Lower, assistant governor of the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia, said March 9.  Mining Investment  The government expects a A$3 billion decline in company tax
revenue and a drop of A$1 billion in income tax intake, Wong
said today.  In total, tax receipts have fallen by about A$4.5 billion
over the first eight months of the financial year, Swan wrote in
an e-mailed note today.  “Losing big slabs of revenue like this, of course, makes
it even tougher to get back to surplus as planned, but we’re
determined to make the difficult decisions to meet that
commitment,” he said.  Mining investment this year will rise to A$55 billion from
A$35 billion last year, and will hit A$75 billion next year,
Wong said. “The private sector are going to employ more people,
use more resources,” she said.  Jobless Rate  Australia ’s jobless rate fell to 4.9 percent in March as
employers extended 2010’s record hirings. Unemployment levels
under 5 percent cause labor shortages that lead to inflation
pressures, according to government  officials .  While the 4.9 percent unemployment rate in March is a
“terrific achievement,” the economy still has “soft
patches,” and needs changes to boost competitiveness, Swan said.  Gillard’s  Labor Party  lost its majority at the August 2010
national election, the closest in 70 years, and relies on the
support of four non-party lawmakers to pass legislation.  The government will continue to honor the commitments made
to the independents to secure their support, Wong said.  “ We’ve made very public commitments to the independents,
and some of them, we’ve already delivered,” she said. “And
we’ll deliver further commitments to the independents in the
budget.”  Tropical Cyclone Yasi in February tore through sugar- and
banana-producing areas, following two months of flooding in
Queensland that killed 36 people, shut mines and wiped out crops.
The state produces 80 percent of the coking coal exports from
Australia, the world’s biggest supplier, and grows more than 30
percent of the nation’s fruit and vegetables.  Coal Production  Lost coal production will account for a third of the
estimated A$9 billion cost to the economy, Swan said April 3.
Damage to crops would add A$2 billion and lost tourism A$400
million, he said.  Economists have estimated the damage from the floods may
reach $20 billion, or about 1.5 percent of Australia’s $1.3
trillion economy, while the cost of rebuilding after Cyclone
Yasi may be more than A$2 billion.  In addition,  Japan ’s strongest earthquake in history on
March 11 is estimated to have dented demand for Australia’s bulk
commodities by almost A$2 billion in this fiscal year, shaving
less than one-fourth of a percentage point from GDP, according
to the Treasury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney on 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  