-- 
Yellen Says Economy Doesn’t Yet Warrant Exit From Stimulus

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-09T20:24:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-09/yellen-says-u-s-economy-doesn-t-yet-warrant-exit-from-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said any improvements in the U.S. recovery don’t warrant
a reduction in the central bank’s record monetary stimulus.  “Economic conditions do not yet call for the Fed to exit
from unconventional monetary policy,” Yellen said today during
a speech at  Yale University  in New Haven, Connecticut.  Fed Policy makers at a meeting last month differed over
whether to start removing stimulus this year, according to
minutes of their March 15 meeting released this week. “A few
participants indicated that economic conditions might warrant a
move toward less-accommodative monetary policy this year; a few
others noted that exceptional policy accommodation could be
appropriate beyond 2011,” according to the minutes.  Since the March meeting, reports showed the labor market
and inflation have picked up while  consumer confidence  slipped
and new home sales dropped to a record low. Some regional Fed
presidents who were skeptical of stimulus have talked about the
need to tighten credit, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has yet to
indicate his preference for the Fed’s next move.  Yellen defended the central bank’s plan to buy $600 billion
in  Treasury securities  through June to spur economic growth,
reduce unemployment and keep inflation from falling too low.  “There are certainly skeptics who doubt QE2 has had any
favorable” impact on the economy, Yellen said, referring to the
bond purchases known as QE2 for a second round of quantitative
easing.  ‘Stimulate Demand’  “These purchases did work to stimulate aggregate demand,”
and “raised equity prices thereby stimulating consumption,”
she said.  Yellen cited a Fed study showing that the two rounds of
large-scale asset purchases “will have raised private payroll
employment by about 3 million jobs” by the end of 2012, she
said. Without quantitative easing “the economy might have
slipped into deflation,” she said.  The  U.S. economy  added 216,000 jobs in March and 194,000 in
April. The  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.8 percent last month
from 9.8 percent in November, a turnaround that caught some Fed
officials by surprise. Still, 14 million people remain
unemployed and the labor force participation rate has fallen to
64.2 percent, meaning the number of people working or looking
for work is the lowest since 1984.  Yellen, 64, was appointed vice-chairman of the Fed by
President Barack Obama, and took office in October. Before her
appointment she was president of the San Francisco Fed. She
received her doctorate in economics from Yale in 1971.  On April 11, Yellen is scheduled to give a speech in  New
York  on “Commodity Prices, the Economic Outlook, and  Monetary
Policy .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in New Haven, Connecticut at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  