-- M.D. Sass, U.S. Bancorp Sued Over Lien Sales Probed by U.S.
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-04-02T18:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/m-d-sass-u-s-bancorp-sued-over-lien-sales-probed-by-u-s-1-.html
M.D. Sass Investors Services Inc., a
closely held manager of more than $5 billion, and a unit of  U.S.
Bancorp (USB)  were sued in a racketeering lawsuit claiming they helped
to rig New Jersey municipal tax lien auctions for a decade.  The complaint by homeowner Raymond V. Contarino Jr. was
filed March 30 against New York-based M.D. Sass,  U.S. Bank , and
four of six individuals who pleaded guilty in a U.S. antitrust
investigation of rigged lien sales in New Jersey. It claims they
engaged in a “cynical conspiracy” to eliminate competition at
auctions.  Contarino seeks to proceed in a group, or class-action,
lawsuit for those “subjected to artificially inflated rates of
interest on their tax liens, and, in some instances, a loss of
their real property through tax lien foreclosure,” according to
the complaint filed in federal court in Camden,  New Jersey .  Six people admitted in guilty pleas that they colluded at
auctions where bidding for liens began at 18 percent and failed
to move downward. Bidders won the right to charge 18 percent
interest to property owners, and additional penalties. Three who
pleaded guilty had bid at a March 2007 auction in Newfield, New
Jersey, where an M.D. Sass representative also won liens.  Mark Rotert, a lawyer for M.D. Sass, didn’t immediately
return a telephone call and e-mail message seeking comment on
the lawsuit.  ‘Purely’ Administrative  U.S. Bank acts as custodian of M.D. Sass funds in
“purely” administrative functions such as processing payments,
Nicole Garrison-Sprenger, a spokeswoman for the Minneapolis-
based bank, said today. She declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Contarino, 52, lives in Newfield. M.A. Sass bought the lien
on his home at the March 2007 auction for $5,224. The  Justice
Department  subpoenaed records of the auction on Feb. 15. M.D.
Sass hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  A supervisor for a New Jersey landscaper, Contarino, 52,
said in an interview last month that his debt began piling up
after his parents died and he withdrew funds from an annuity to
pay funeral expenses. He was able to stave off foreclosure and
pay the lien and other debt by refinancing his mortgage.  Contarino said that the process was confusing and that he
doesn’t know what it cost to pay off the lien. He was surprised
at the time to learn that he may have paid a higher  interest
rate  because of collusion at the auction.  “It’s aggravating as hell,” he said after being told that
prosecutors were scrutinizing the auction. “You’re simply
trying to scrape along. For a big company to put the screws to
you, that’s aggravating.”  Contarino seeks to represent all property owners in New
Jersey subject to a tax lien auction in the past decade.  The case is Raymond V. Contarino Jr. v. M.D. Sass
Associates, 12-cv-1957, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  