-- Advent Hires Sued-Chemie Chief von Au to Seek Out Chemical Deals
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-04-02T11:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/advent-hires-sued-chemie-chief-von-au-to-seek-out-chemical-deals.html
Advent International Corp. said it’s
hired Gunter von Au, the former chief executive officer of Sued
Chemie, to help expand its chemical investments.  Von Au, who joins the U.S.-based private equity firm as an
operating partner, will also help oversee existing investments,
Advent said in a press release today. He retains his role of
deputy chairman of the supervisory board at  Clariant AG (CLN) , which
acquire Sued-Chemie for about $2.7 billion.  Private equity firms have hired former industry experts to
spearhead their chemical investments, with Valence Group
recruiting David Lilley, the former CEO of  Cytec Industries. (CYT) 
Advent is in its 12th year of ownership of Germany’s Vinnolit
and faces a decision on its investment strategy for the maker of
polyvinyl chloride.  Arkema SA (AKE)  of France and  Tessenderlo Chemie
NV (TESB)  of Belgium both exited their PVC operations within the past
year, highlighting a struggle to compete with low-cost producers
and high input costs.  “For over 20 years, Advent International has been building
up a successful track record of investments in the  chemical
industry  – this sector has always been of particular interest to
us,” said Ron Ayles, managing director and head of Advent’s
chemicals division. Ayles was the former mergers and
acquisitions head at  Degussa AG (1800Q) .  Advent’s other chemical investments include HC Starck and
Oxea. The buyout firm participated in bidding for amine-chemical
maker Taminco and expressed interest in Evonik Industries AG’s
carbon-black business last year, people familiar with the
transactions said at the time.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  went
on to buy Taminco for $1.4 billion.  Investment firms have been among the most prominent recent
buyers of chemical assets, led by deals such as reinsurer
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s purchase of Lubrizol Corp. for $9
billion last year. Access to funding will determine how big a
role financial sponsors play in 2012’s mergers and acquisitions,
Tracey Stover, global chemical leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP said in an interview last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  