-- AFA Foods Files Bankruptcy Citing ‘Pink Slime’ Coverage
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-04-02T19:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/afa-foods-files-bankruptcy-citing-pink-slime-coverage.html
AFA Foods, a ground-beef processor
owned by Yucaipa Cos., sought bankruptcy court protection with a
plan to sell some assets after media coverage of “pink slime”
cut demand for its products.  The company, based in King of Prussia,  Pennsylvania , listed
assets of $219 million and debt of $197 million in Chapter 11
papers filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  Celebrity chef  Jamie Oliver  is among food activists who
have criticized the use of what they dubbed “pink slime,” a
filler produced by treating finely ground beef scraps with
ammonia hydroxide to kill pathogens. Beef Products Inc. last
week temporarily suspended production at three plants because of
consumer concerns. U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said
March 28 that the product, referred to in the industry as lean,
finely textured beef, is safe to eat.  “Ongoing media attention has called into question the
wholesomeness” of the meat, and has “dramatically reduced the
demand for all ground beef products,” AFA interim Chief
Executive Officer Ron Allen said in court papers.  Ground beef demand will soften in the next several months
as consumers shift to meat that doesn’t contain the lean, finely
textured beef, said Ann Gurkin, an analyst for Davenport & Co.
Last month, the USDA said schools in the government’s lunch
program can order ground beef without the product following
public pressure to remove it from cafeterias.  Fast-Food Chains  Several fast-food restaurant chains stopped using the lean
beef, including  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant
chain,  Burger King Holdings Inc. (BKC)  and  Yum! Brands Inc (YUM) .’s Taco
Bell.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the biggest U.S. beef processor after
Cargill Inc., said March 27 it is making “adjustments to
accommodate our customers that no longer want” the product
added to their ground beef.  Reduced use of the product will further tighten beef
supplies, said Gurkin, a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst who
has a “buy” rating on Tyson. U.S. beef production will drop
4.4 percent in 2012 from a year earlier, the USDA forecast March
9.  Given the issue has only come up in the past few weeks, the
effect on Tyson’s sales and earnings is unclear, Gurkin said.
She said she is “monitoring” it because demand usually rises
with the approaching summer grilling season in the U.S.  Among AFA’s largest unsecured creditors listed in court
papers are meat suppliers Orleans International Inc., owed
$8.3 million, and  Tyson Fresh Meats (IBP) , owed $3.27 million.  Cargill Cut  “We’re in the process of seeking more information about
AFA’s plans,” Gary Mickelson, a spokesman for Springdale,
Arkansas-based Tyson, said in an e-mail.“The sale of beef
trimmings is just a part of each of our beef processing plants’
production and we do not expect this issue to result in a plant
closing.”  While Minneapolis-based Cargill has scaled back production
of finely textured beef at the four plants where it is produced,
“no facility closures or worker reductions are contemplated,”
Mike Martin, a Cargill spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  AFA “continues discussions with potential buyers to secure
the highest and best outcome for its business,” officials said
in a statement. Los Angeles-based Yucaipa, which owns AFA Foods
parent AFA Investment Inc., is run by billionaire  Ron Burkle .  AFA has about 850 full-time employees and annual revenue of
$958 million, according to the statement. The company obtained a
$56 million  credit line  from  GE Capital  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  to carry it through the bankruptcy process.  The case is In re AFA Investment Inc., 12-11127, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  