-- Afghan in Panetta Runway Rampage Said to Have Set Himself Afire
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-04-02T23:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/afghan-in-panetta-runway-episode-said-to-have-set-himself-afire.html
An Afghan interpreter’s rampage in a
stolen vehicle at a British base in southern Afghanistan last
month wasn’t aimed at Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , officials
concluded.  The evidence also indicates the interpreter, who died of
burns the next day before investigators had a chance to question
him, set fire to himself with a lighter and a can of fuel found
in the vehicle, according to an official of the U.S.-led
coalition who is familiar with the case. The official declined
to identify the interpreter.  The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he
wasn’t authorized to release the information. James Barbour, a
spokesman for the British Embassy in  Washington , referred
questions about the case to the coalition in Afghanistan.  British military and coalition officials have ended their
preliminary review of the March 14 incident after determining
that there wasn’t enough evidence of an intended threat to
Panetta or other specific targets to merit a formal inquiry, the
official said.  The interpreter had worked at the British base, Camp
Bastion, for about two years, and coworkers told investigators
he’d been upset that morning, the official with the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s International Security Assistance
Force said. Investigators weren’t able to determine from
coworkers or the interpreter’s family what might have upset him
or motivated his rampage.  High-Speed Rampage  The interpreter stole the British military vehicle and
began careering around the base at high speed, first hitting and
slightly injuring a British service member and later aiming for
a welcoming party for Panetta that included U.S. Marine Major
General Charles Gurganus, the new coalition commander in
southern  Afghanistan , and his British deputy, Brigadier Stuart
Skeates. The Toyota Hi-Lux truck ran into a ditch at the runway
ramp, and the driver jumped out in flames.  A summary of the review’s findings also corrects some
information originally provided to reporters traveling with
Panetta, who weren’t told of the incident for more than 10
hours. Panetta’s plane was rerouted to another part of the
runway, and he proceeded with his planned schedule of troop
events and other meetings at the neighboring U.S. Marine base,
Camp Leatherneck.  A U.S. defense official who spoke on condition of anonymity
that week said three other interpreters, including the driver’s
brother and father, had been detained for questioning.  No Family Members  No family members of the driver were among the coworkers
held for questioning, the coalition official said today. Those
detained for questioning have been released, and no one has been
disciplined in the case, the official said.  While reports at the time indicted that Panetta may have
been the target of the attack, the British review found no
evidence that the driver had specifically targeted the defense
secretary or any other officials.  “I have absolutely no reason to believe that this was
directed at me,” Panetta told a March 15 press conference.
“This is a war area,” he said, and “we’re going to get these
kind of incidents.”  ‘Green-on-Blue’  The incident was one of more than 45 “green-on-blue”
attacks by Afghans on coalition forces since 2007, 75 percent of
them in the last two years, according to data released by the
Pentagon. The attacks have fueled fears that conditions in
Afghanistan may not be improving fast enough for the U.S.-led
ISAF coalition to hand responsibility for security countrywide
to Afghan forces by he end of 2014.  “Although the incidents are small in number, we are aware
of the gravity they have as an effect on morale,” ISAF
spokesman German Brigadier-General Carsten Jacobson said today
in Kabul,  Agence France-Presse  reported. “Every single incident
has an out-of-proportion effect on morale, and that goes for
coalition forces as it goes for Afghan national security
forces.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  