-- Air France Plans to Extend Regional Cost-Cut Model to Paris Orly
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-04-02T17:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/air-france-plans-to-extend-regional-cost-cut-model-to-paris-orly.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,  Europe ’s
biggest airline, said it will extend a cost-cutting program
introduced at bases in southern France to flights from Paris
Orly airport in a push to return short-haul services to profit.  The model being rolled out in Toulouse, Nice and Marseilles
will be applied across point-to-point routes and a standardized
regional division created to optimize costs between Air France
and its subsidiaries, the company said today in a statement.  Air France will continue with short- and medium-haul routes
as a whole, including services from its Paris Charles de Gaulle
hub, which feed long-haul flights, only if staff agree “drastic
reduction in costs,” aided by the development of Dutch discount
unit Transavia to target French leisure travel. Point-to-point
operations should break even next year and the rest of the
European network in 2014, according to the statement.  “Air  France ’s costs remain too high,” the company said,
reiterating that expenses must be cut by 20 percent to reach the
industry norm and adding that the objective has been agreed with
a “majority” of its pilot, cabin-crew and ground-staff unions.  Air France-KLM Chief Executive Officer Jean-Cyril Spinetta
is seeking an agreement to deliver more than 2 billion euros in
annual savings after the Paris-based company slumped to a net
loss of 809 million euros ($1.1 billion) last year versus a pro
forma profit of 289 million euros in 2010.  Customers, Cargo  The Air France unit’s CEO, Alexandre de Juniac, presented
an update on the plan to its works council and executives last
week, when initial talks with unions were due to end, the
company said today. Details are to be hammered out this quarter
and a new business plan should be ready by June, it said.  Other priorities identified include an “action plan” to win
back customers, simplification of the company’s structure and a
revamp of the generally profitable inter-continental business
which will include a push to target long-haul leisure travel.  The company’s cargo unit will also deepen integration
between its Air France, KLM and Martinair operations, and steps
will be taken to boost the maintenance division’s “wholly
inadequate” levels of competitiveness, especially in engine and
equipment overhaul, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  