-- Malaysia Reports Investment Beating Target as Election Nears
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-04-03T01:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/malaysia-reports-investment-exceeding-target-as-election-nears.html
Private investment in  Malaysia 
exceeded the government’s target last year as companies
including Carrefour SA and General Electric Co. pledged to
expand in  Southeast Asia ’s third-biggest economy.  Investment rose to 94 billion ringgit ($31 billion),
surpassing the government’s 83 billion-ringgit goal by 13
percent, Prime Minister Najib Razak announced in a live
televised address to the nation late yesterday ahead of
elections due by early next year. The result is a sign that the
nation is making progress on its economic and government
transformation programs, he said.  “We have full confidence in the wisdom to choose and make
the right decision,” said Najib. “They can tell the difference
between real and fake diamonds. We believe that the people will
chose and government with a proven track record.”  Najib, who became leader when Abdullah Ahmad Badawi stepped
down in 2009, spent the past three years trying to revive
flagging support for the ruling National Front coalition by
boosting investment and giving cash handouts to low-income
families. The government is considering an election in May or
June, months before the early 2013 deadline, according to four
officials who spoke on condition of anonymity last month.  Malaysia’s FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index traded at an
intraday  record  of 1,607.73 at 9:35 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur  today,
while the ringgit rose 0.4 percent. Najib, who said in December
preparations for an election had begun, told the Wall Street
Journal in January that he would call a vote once he’s shown the
government’s economic and political revamp efforts are working.  Improved Popularity  “Though the general election does not have to be held
until mid-2013, we concur with the consensus that a mid-year
data is very likely,” Terence Wong, an analyst at CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd., said in a report today. “We continue to
recommend investors to sell into strength and to top-slice
winning positions on any pre-election rally,” said Wong, who
has a year-end target of 1,610 points for the KLCI.  Satisfaction with Najib’s leadership rose to 69 percent in
February from 59 percent in August, according to the Merdeka
Center for Opinion Research. The poll of 1,022 people was
conducted between Feb. 10 and Feb. 23, a month after opposition
leader  Anwar Ibrahim  was acquitted of sodomy charges. The margin
of error was 3.07 percentage points.  The National Front is seeking to extend half a century in
power. An early vote would allow it to take advantage of Najib’s
rising public approval after the government announced cash
handouts to poor families in its 2012 budget and vowed to
overhaul security laws.  Opening Up  Najib’s government unveiled a so-called Economic
Transformation Program in 2010, identifying $444 billion of
private-sector led projects from mass rail to oil storage
ventures to promote in the current decade.  It has liberalized 24 service sub-sectors and plans to open
up 17 more this year to 100 percent foreign equity participation,
Najib said. Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd., Malaysia’s
biggest plantations company, is “on track” to list this year
and the government is working with 24 other state companies
indentified for divestment, according to a report yesterday by
the government’s Performance Management and Delivery Unit.  The country’s per capita income has risen to $9,700 from
$6,700 when the government’s transformation programs were
started two years ago, Najib said. This means Malaysia is “on
the right trajectory” to achieve its target of per capita
income $15,000 by 2020 when the Southeast Asian nation wants to
achieve developed-nation status, he said.  Economic growth may slow to 4 percent to 5 percent this
year as financial and economic restructuring in developed
nations curb global expansion, according to central bank report
last month. That is less than the  Finance Ministry ’s 5 percent-
to-6 percent forecast in October, and a 5.1 percent pace in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at  