-- Alliance Jumps to 12-Year High on DBS Talks: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-04-02T05:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/alliance-jumps-to-12-year-high-on-dbs-talks-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
Alliance Financial Group Bhd. (AFG)  surged
to the highest level since July 1999 in Kuala Lumpur trading
after  Singapore ’s DBS Bank Ltd. won approval to start talks to
buy a stake in  Malaysia ’s seventh-biggest lender by market value.  The stock rose as much as 3.9 percent in Kuala Lumpur
trading to touch an intraday high of 4.04 ringgit, becoming
today’s biggest gainer on the  MSCI Malaysia/Financials Index (MXMY0FN) . It
pared gains to 2.3 percent at the 12:30 p.m. trading break,
outperforming a 0.1 percent gain in the benchmark FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index.  “Minorities could benefit from the transaction in the form
of longer-term positive changes that DBS can potentially bring
to the group,” OSK Holdings Bhd. said in a report today.  “It
would be positive for Alliance Financial given that it will have
access to DBS’s direct regional banking expertise,” said OSK,
which has a  buy rating  on the stock and so-called fair value of
4.25 ringgit.  DBS Bank, a unit of Southeast Asia’s biggest lender  DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , won the go-ahead from Malaysia’s central
bank to start negotiations to buy a 14.2 percent stake in
Alliance Financial from Singapore state investment company
Temasek Holdings Pte., according to separate exchange filings by
both banks today. This is unlikely to trigger a takeover offer,
Alliance said.  “I’m keen on the Malaysian market,”  Piyush Gupta , DBS
chief executive officer, told reporters in Singapore today.
“What does a 14-15 percent stake do for us? You can use the
foothold to build out something in the future.”  DBS also today announced it will buy control of PT Bank
Danamon  Indonesia  from Temasek for about $4.9 billion, according
to a Singapore stock exchange filing.  The Kuala Lumpur-based lender posted  net income  of 409.2
million ringgit ($134 million) on revenue of 1.2 billion ringgit
for the financial year ended March 31, 2011. Alliance Financial
is focusing on growing its consumer and small-business banking
operations to improve its return on equity, Chief Executive
Officer Sng Seow Wah, said in an interview in October after
taking over in July 2010.  “Finally there is actual negotiation,” Low Yee Huap, head
of research at Hong Leong Investment Bank Bhd., said in a phone
interview in  Kuala Lumpur  today. “Since the new management came
in, the transformation is gaining traction. The earnings are
coming through,” said Low, who has a buy on Alliance with a
price estimate of 4.34 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Russell Ward in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  