-- America Movil to Benefit as Brazil Predicts Jump in TV Homes
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-04-02T21:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/america-movil-to-benefit-as-brazil-predicts-jump-in-pay-tv-homes.html
Phone companies  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB,
Telefonica SA and  Oi SA (BRTO4)  will see growth opportunities in
Brazilian pay TV, as regulators predict a more-than threefold
percentage increase in homes paying for service in 10 years.  In a decade, 80 percent of households will have a pay-TV
service such as satellite or cable, up from 24 percent of
 Brazil ’s 55 million homes today, said Joao Batista de Rezende,
president of Brazil’s telecommunications regulator known as
Anatel. Expansion of the middle class and newly approved
regulations, along with lower prices and expanded offerings,
will fuel growth, he said.  America Movil , Telefonica and Oi, which already offer
satellite service in Brazil, can expand in the pay-TV market
after legislation last year allowed both domestic and foreign
phone companies to offer cable. Satellite operators will likely
provide the greatest competition, Rezende said.  “With the reduction of technological costs, the
possibility of tax exemptions for equipment, and income growth,
there are several positive factors driving the process,”
Rezende said in a March 28 telephone interview in Brasilia. “On
top of that you have the opening of the pay-TV market to phone
companies.”  Brazil’s government published new regulations to govern
cable, satellite and Internet video in the federal gazette March
28. With that step, Anatel can move forward this month with the
approval of 600 requests for licenses the agency has had under
review, some for almost 10 years.  Reduced Fixed Costs  Pay TV has “strong growth potential” for phone carriers
since they already have potential clients among their
subscribers, said Leonardo Nitta, a telecommunications analyst
at  Banco do Brasil SA. (BBAS3)  Phone companies already have the
infrastructure to offer TV service, reducing their fixed costs
and giving them an advantage over new entrants who have to start
from scratch, he said.  Brazil,  Latin America ’s largest economy, lags behind its
regional neighbors in pay-TV adoption. In Mexico, the second-
biggest economy, about 40 percent of households have a cable or
satellite subscription, according to government data. In
 Colombia , it’s about 32 percent.  America Movil’s  Net Servicos de Comunicacao SA  unit and
 DirecTV (DTV) ’s Sky Brasil Servicos Ltda are the nation’s largest pay-
TV companies, with 85 percent of the market, according to Anatel
data from February.  America Movil, Globo  America Movil, based in Mexico City, has shared control of
Net Servicos with broadcaster Globo Comunicacoes e Participacoes
SA and can take full command of the cable carrier under the new
law, Anatel ruled in January. Globo also has a 7 percent stake
in Sky Brasil.  Telefonica (TEF)  Brasil SA, the local unit of the Madrid-based
carrier, said in October that it plans to take control of cable-
TV carrier TVA. Oi will offer TV over its phone lines for high-
end customers, Chief Financial Officer Alex Zornig said in
October. All three phone carriers already sell satellite-TV
service.  Pay-TV subscriptions will expand 30 percent this year,
equaling last year’s growth, Rezende said. After that, he
expects 20 percent annual growth over the next four years, he
said.  “It will be very good penetration, putting us in the same
category as developed countries in five years,” he said. The
government is studying tax incentives for network infrastructure
spending to encourage investment, he said.  The press offices of America Movil, Telefonica and Oi
declined to comment.  America Movil fell 0.6 percent to 15.83 pesos at the close
in  Mexico  City. In  Sao Paulo , Telefonica Brasil rose 0.4 percent
to 56.69 reais, and Oi dropped 0.3 percent to 9.74 reais.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  