-- An FDA for Securities Could Help Avert Crises
-- B y   E r i c   P o s n e r   a n d   G l e n   W e y l
-- 2012-04-02T23:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/an-fda-for-derivatives-could-prevent-future-crises.html
In February,  Mary Schapiro , chairman
of the  Securities and Exchange Commission , said the agency is
looking for ways to rein in  high-frequency traders . That is, the
people who use computer algorithms to buy and sell derivatives
at lightning speed to make instantaneous profits.  High-speed trading can waste resources and cause market
disruptions. So the commission is right to look into high-speed
trading. But it must realize that this is only one issue at the
edge of a vaster problem that requires significant government
intervention.  The larger challenge is that much of the U.S. financial
system is devoted to wasteful activity -- useless trading that
advances no important economic interest but, at the same time,
creates a dangerous risk of economic crisis. The way to control
this wasteful speculation is to require government approval of
all new financial products, subjecting them to the same sort of
examination and  regulation  that the  Food and Drug Administration 
applies to new medicines.  Before there was an  FDA , quacks peddled useless, and
sometimes dangerous, tonics like radium water. Yet for all the
harm such concoctions caused, they may never have matched the
risk and waste of some financial derivatives -- what  Warren Buffett  has called “ financial weapons of mass destruction .”  CDS Logic  A credit-default swap, a financial product that pays off if
a bond defaults, might seem sensible. If you own a Greek
sovereign bond and a CDS, when the bond defaults, the CDS pays
you back. But if what you are trying to do is make money with
low risk, you could buy U.S. Treasuries rather than Greek bonds.
Normally, the buyer of a  CDS on a Greek bond  doesn’t buy the
bond itself (making it a “naked” purchase). Such a transaction
cannot reduce risk in the financial system as neither party is
hedging a risk they already face. Instead, they are seeking to
evade capital-adequacy regulations that aim to limit
institutions’ risk exposures or to gamble more cheaply than
would be possible if they had to take an explicit short position
on the bond.  In the years leading up to the 2008 crisis, traders
commonly used CDSs to gamble on default by a country,
corporation or package of mortgages and to evade financial
regulations associated with such bets.  From 2000 to 2007, the notional size of the  CDS market 
ballooned from zero to $62 trillion. Little, if any, of this
activity served legitimate hedging purposes; almost all of it
was tax and regulatory arbitrage or speculation. When the
financial crisis hit, we all paid a steep price for the risks
that this speculation had concentrated in a few institutions.  Not all financial innovations are this bad. Retail index
mutual funds, created in the 1970s, have helped businesses
obtain financing and have enabled people to diversify their
investments across a range of stocks. And most mutual funds are
useless for speculation because they are designed to be less
volatile than the underlying stocks or bonds.  Creative economists have recently invented other
derivatives that enable homeowners to protect themselves from a
decline in housing prices.  So the federal government should address the risk posed by
derivatives not by taxing or banning them uniformly, but by
regulating them selectively, as it does with beneficial, but
risky, medical drugs. Before pharmaceutical companies can sell
their drugs to the public, they  have to prove  the products are
safe.  Safety First  Likewise, the SEC, the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
or a whole new federal agency could require financial innovators
to prove the safety and efficacy of new derivatives. Their
analysis could be done far faster and more cheaply than a
typical drug review, because they could base it on existing
economic data -- the same data companies use to project demand
for their product.  The  Federal Trade Commission  and the  Justice Department  use
similar  procedures  to project the likely effects of proposed
mergers.  Regulators would distinguish the demand for the
derivative’s beneficial uses -- diversification and insurance,
supplying information to the market -- from the demand for its
harmful uses -- avoidance of taxation and regulation,
speculation and high-frequency trading. These assessments would
help the agency determine whether the financial instrument
should be licensed, restricted or prohibited.  If such a review had existed in the 1970s, the retail index
mutual fund would have passed with flying colors. On the other
hand, the reviewing agency would have seen that CDSs would be
used not so much to reduce risk as to enable speculation and
arbitrage. Traders might have been permitted to buy CDSs only if
they owned the underlying bond, and naked CDSs would never have
existed.  If our proposal seems radical, that is only because the
deregulatory fervor of the past 20 years has created an
atmosphere of lawlessness. Before  Congress lifted restraints  on
the  derivatives market  in 2000, many new financial products were
subject to review by the CFTC, in the understanding that
speculative financial trading produces limited benefits and
subjects the economy to great risks. That is a bit of wisdom we
must now rediscover.  (Eric Posner, a professor at the  University of Chicago  Law
School, is a co-author of “The Executive Unbound: After the
Madison Republic” and “Climate Change Justice.” Glen Weyl is
an assistant professor of economics at the University of
Chicago. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  Myanmar’s elections  and
 Marco Rubio’s immigration bill ; Ramesh Ponnuru on why the U.S.
will not go to  single-payer health care ; Betsey Stevenson and
 Justin Wolfers  on the  fallibility of economists ;  Margaret
Carlson  on the  recall movement in Wisconsin ; Carmen M. Reinhart
and Kenneth S. Rogoff on why this crisis  really is different .  To contact the writers of this article:
Eric Posner at  eric_posner@law.uchicago.edu 
Glen Weyl at  weyl@uchicago.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  