-- Manchester United Opens Five-Point League Lead With Late Goals
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-03T00:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/manchester-united-beats-blackburn-to-lead-premier-league-by-5.html
Manchester United  scored twice in
the last nine minutes to win 2-0 at Blackburn and extend its
Premier League soccer lead to five points over  Manchester City 
with seven games remaining.  Antonio Valencia  opened the scoring in the 81st minute at
Ewood Park last night with a right-foot shot before setting up
substitute Ashley Young for the second goal five minutes later.  With United scheduled to host 17th-place Queens Park
Rangers on April 8, the Red Devils’ advantage could be as much
as eight points before City kicks off at third-place Arsenal
later that day. United visits City on April 30 in the third-to-
last round of games.  “My experience of these situations is that it doesn’t
matter what the points total is at the moment,” United manager
 Alex Ferguson  told  Sky Sports . “What is really important is
trying to win Sunday’s game.”  United, seeking a record-extending 20th English title, has
taken 31 points from a possible 33 since back-to-back losses to
Blackburn and Newcastle at the turn of the year and tops the
standings with 76 points. Blackburn’s sixth defeat in 12 league
games in 2012 drops it into the three-team relegation zone in
18th place with 28 points.  United goalkeeper David De Gea, whose mistake allowed
Blackburn to secure a 3-2 win at Old Trafford on Dec. 31, made
first-half saves from Junior Hoilett, Marcus Olsson and Grant
Hanley and blocked a free kick from Morten Gamst Pedersen in the
second half.  ‘Growing in Stature’  “David kept us in the game,” Ferguson said after De Gea’s
fourth straight league shutout. “He made three great first-half
saves. He’s growing in stature and confidence.”  With United having had two thirds of the possession,
Valencia broke the deadlock with nine minutes remaining when he
cut in from the right and fired a swerving shot past Blackburn
goalkeeper  Paul Robinson  from an acute angle.  Five minutes later, the Ecuadorian winger carried the ball
close to the Blackburn penalty area before passing to Young, who
turned and hit a right-foot shot into the corner past Robinson’s
dive to seal United’s seventh straight league win.  “It was a massive win for us,” Young told Sky Sports.
“It’s a crucial time in the season. For us to come here and get
three points was great. We knew it was going to be a tough
game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  