-- Tanker Rates Seen Reversing Rally as Oil Glut Expands: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-04-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/tanker-rates-seen-reversing-rally-as-oil-glut-expands-freight.html
The fastest expansion in oil cargoes
since 2004 is exceeding demand and filling up storage tanks from
 Egypt  to Japan, creating a glut that threatens to reverse the
biggest gain in shipping rates in five years.  Tankers will be carrying 488.8 million barrels by April 14,
3.9 percent more than the week earlier, estimates Oil Movements,
which has tracked cargoes for 25 years. Rates for very large
crude carriers, each holding 2 million barrels, will drop 58
percent to average $19,750 a day, the median of six analyst
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg shows. Shares of Hamilton,
Bermuda-based  Frontline Ltd. (FRO) , the largest operator, will fall 46
percent in 12 months, the average of 19 predictions shows.  Shipments accelerated as buyers sought to expand reserves
on mounting concern that Middle East supply will be disrupted by
conflict over  Iran’s nuclear program . Rising stockpiles are
coming at a time of slowing growth in China and a contraction in
 Europe , which together account for about 33 percent of demand.
The global market is getting as much as 2 million barrels a day
more than it needs, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said
March 20.  “A ship owner would rather see strong consumer demand, and
that we do not have,” said  Olivier Jakob , the managing director
of Petromatrix GmbH, a research company based in Zug,
 Switzerland , who has worked in oil markets for more than 17
years. “It’s more of a short-term phenomenon. There’s an effort
to rebuild stocks in case something happens with Iran, but
consumption is actually quite weak right now.”  Biggest Ships  VLCC rates climbed 67 percent to $46,811 this year, the
biggest first-quarter gain since 2007, according to data from
 Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker. Shares of
 Frontline (FRO) , which says its biggest ships need $23,900 to break
even, advanced 68 percent to 42.93 kroner in Oslo trading. The
stock will decline to 23.03 kroner in 12 months, according to
the average of the analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil exporter, increased
production by 18 percent since the end of 2010 to compensate for
declines in Libyan and Iranian supply, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Inventories in Saudi Arabia as well as those
controlled by the kingdom in the Netherlands, Egypt and Japan
are full, al-Naimi told reporters in Doha, Qatar, on March 20.  A record 392 VLCCs were booked for single-voyage cargoes
this year, from 330 a year earlier, according to Galbraith’s
Ltd., a London-based shipbroker. Storage tanks in Rotterdam,
Europe’s biggest oil-trading port, may be as much as 90 percent
full, compared with 70 percent to 80 percent normally, estimates
PJK International BV, a Breda, Netherlands-based research
company. U.S. crude stockpiles climbed 9 percent to a six-month
high since mid-December, Energy Department data show.  International Energy  The anticipated decline in tanker rates may be postponed
should consumers continue to replenish stockpiles. Saudi Arabia
still has 2.5 million barrels a day of spare output capacity,
al-Naimi said last month. That’s about 100,000 barrels less than
 Iran ’s exports in November, the Paris-based International Energy
Agency estimates.  Iranian shipments slumped to 2 million barrels a day in
February and may decline by another 1 million barrels once
European Union sanctions are fully enforced in July,  David Fyfe ,
the head of the IEA’s market and industry division, said in an
interview March 14. Iran has threatened to disrupt shipping
through the  Strait of Hormuz  in the  Persian Gulf , the transit
point for about 20 percent of the world’s crude.  The U.S. and its allies are seeking to squeeze Iran’s
economy in response to the country’s nuclear program, which they
say is aimed at producing atomic weapons. The government in
Tehran, contending with four sets of United Nations sanctions,
says the project is for civilian purposes. U.S. President  Barack
Obama  cleared the way last month for sanctions aimed at banks in
countries that import Iranian oil.  Strategic Stockpiles  Demand for tankers may also be sustained by shipments to
 China , the world’s largest energy consumer and the biggest
destination for crude shipments on VLCCs, ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg show. China will add 210 million barrels
to its strategic stockpiles this year, equal to more than 100
VLCC cargoes, Clarkson Capital Markets estimates.  While stockpiles are building and demand growth is slowing,
 oil prices  remain high historically. West Texas Intermediate, a
global benchmark, rose 38 percent to $104.55 a barrel in New
York trading since Oct. 4. Prices averaged $84 over the past
five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Petroliam Nasional
Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s state oil company, expects a drop as prices
above $100 restrain demand, Chief Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas said in a March 30 interview.  Northern Hemisphere  Western governments may tap oil from strategic reserves to
drive prices lower, with French Prime Minister Francois Fillon
saying March 29 that they were nearing an agreement. Any such
release would likely drive tanker rates lower because it would
curb demand for cargoes. VLCC earnings slumped 46 percent in
July when the IEA coordinated the last such action.  Cargo demand may also weaken as refineries in the Northern
Hemisphere carry out maintenance before the summer, according to
Oslo-based Arctic Securities ASA. Second-quarter VLCC rates
weakened in nine of the past 10 years, according to Clarkson
data. China, the U.S. and  Japan  are the three biggest
destinations for laden VLCCs, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China’s consumption growth will slow to 3.9 percent this
year, from 4.9 percent in 2011, the IEA estimates. The country
is targeting economic expansion of 7.5 percent, the lowest rate
since 2004, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said March 5. The economy grew
8.9 percent in the fourth quarter, the least in 10 quarters.  Baltic Exchange  Traders are booking tankers earlier than they need the
cargoes because of concern that Middle East supplies may be
disrupted, according to Dahlman Rose & Co. The decline in
Iranian exports is driving Asian consumers to seek oil from West
Africa, lengthening journeys for tankers and effectively
reducing the fleet’s capacity, Arctic Securities estimates. A
voyage to  Tokyo  from  Nigeria  takes about 36 days at 12.5 knots,
compared with 22 days for the route from Saudi Arabia.  That’s temporarily curbing a glut of shipping capacity,
which expanded 17 percent since the end of 2007, data from
Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay show. Owners ordered too
many vessels after rates rose as high as $229,484 that year. The
fleet will increase another 6.5 percent this year while demand
advances 3.6 percent,  Clarkson (CLRK)  estimates.  Similar gluts exist in the fleet carrying coal, grain and
other dry-bulk commodities. Rates for Capesizes, which haul  iron
ore , slumped 80 percent this year, according to data from the
London-based Baltic Exchange, which publishes rates for more
than 50 maritime routes. About 90 percent of trade moves by sea,
the Round Table of International Shipping Associations says.  Fleet Capacity  Frontline will report a  loss  of $55.5 million for this
year, the median of 19 analyst estimates show. The company split
into two separate entities in December to withstand the worst
rout in rates since 1999. Two of 26 analysts covering the
company and tracked by Bloomberg advise buying the shares.  Owners will probably speed up ships in response to the jump
in demand, effectively increasing the fleet’s capacity, said Ole Stenhagen, an analyst at SEB Enskilda in Oslo. That would
reverse a strategy adopted over the past several years in
response to the slump in rates. VLCCs proceeded at 10.1 knots
last month on average, from 11.9 knots two years earlier,
vessel-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If the market starts to worry less about sanctions on
Iran, that would have a negative effect,” said Martin Korsvold,
an analyst at Pareto Securities ASA in Oslo whose
recommendations on the shares of shipping companies returned 25
percent in the past two years. “We’re not talking about any
fundamental shift here. Like with the other rallies, it will
taper off pretty quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  