-- Maple Rises Most in a Month as Ethanol Plant Starts
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-04-02T19:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/maple-rises-most-in-a-month-as-ethanol-plant-starts.html
Maple Energy Plc (MPLE) , a crude and
natural-gas producer with operations in  Peru , rose the most in a
month as operations start at its $245 million ethanol plant.  Maple climbed 3 percent to $1.35 at 1:43 p.m.  Lima  time
after earlier rising as much as 3.8 percent, the steepest
intraday advance since March 2. The stock has gained 25 percent
this year.  The factory in the northwestern region of Piura will start
producing fuel from sugar cane ’’within the next several days,’’
the Lima-based company said in a statement today. The project
was set back six months by equipment supply delays, causing a
$12.5 million cost overrun.  “This announcement was aimed at calming the market as the
plant had been expected to start operating in the fourth
quarter,”  Roberto Flores , head of research at Lima-based
brokerage Inteligo SAB. “The stock was suppressed by the lack
of news, but it should see some upside now.”  The company will export part of the factory’s 35 million
gallons of annual output to the U.S. and the European Union,
General Manager Guillermo Ferreyros said in an interview last
year. Maple President Rex Canon didn’t respond to telephone
calls and e-mails seeking comment today.  Maple’s project is part of $10 billion in investment
commitments expected in Peru’s energy industry over the next
seven years, according to the country’s Energy Ministry.
Companies including  Pure Biofuels Corp. (PBOF) ,  Heaven Petroleum
Operators  and Peru’s  Romero Group  are investing $100 million in
biofuel projects using crops such as canola.  Peruvian gasoline stations, currently supplied by the
Romero Group’s Cana Brava unit, must use a 7.8 percent mix of
ethanol in their fuel by law, said BBVA Banco Continental
analyst German Estrada.  “The local market has a deficit of ethanol fuel,” Estrada
wrote today in a note to clients. Maple shares may gain 44
percent “based on the favorable perspectives of the start of
the ethanol project,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  