-- Apple’s IPad Is No. 1, Even With Heat, Consumer Reports Says
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-04-02T20:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/apple-s-new-ipad-is-no-1-tablet-in-consumer-reports-rankings.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPad was named the
best tablet computer in a ranking by  Consumer Reports , two weeks
after the magazine said the device runs “significantly hotter”
than previous models.  The new iPad’s high-resolution screen provides the best
detail and color accuracy of all tablets Consumer Reports has
seen, the publication  said today  on its website. Consumer
Reports also commended the device’s camera and faster
connectivity. The new iPad costs $500 to $830.  Last month, Consumer Reports said the new iPad reached
temperatures of 116 degrees (47 degrees Celsius) when handling
processor-intensive tasks such as playing graphics-heavy games.
While the iPad can reach 122 degrees in 90-degree weather, when
playing a game at maximum brightness, the temperatures don’t
pose a health hazard, the reviewers said.  The device’s temperature is close to the 121 degrees that a
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Galaxy Tab 10.1 can reach in the same
conditions, Consumer Reports said. An Asustek Computer Inc.
Asus Transformer Prime can reach 117 degrees.  “With use of a laptop, evidence suggests that temperature
on the bottom of its case of 120 degrees risks damage to bare
skin with prolonged contact,”  Consumer Reports said in a
statement today. “But we think the same temperature on a tablet
is more a potential inconvenience than a concern.”  Satisfaction Ratings  Many customers didn’t wait for the reviews before buying
the new tablet. Apple sold more than 3 million iPads during the
product’s debut weekend.  The sales enthusiasm carried through to satisfaction
ratings, according to survey results released today by
ChangeWave Research, a unit of 451 Research LLC. Of the new iPad
owners surveyed, 82 percent said they were very satisfied with
the device, compared to the 74 percent approval rating of the
previous iPad.  The high-resolution “retina” display was ranked the best
feature on the iPad by new owners. The biggest dislike of the
iPad was the cost, according to the ChangeWave survey.  Consumer Reports ranked the new iPad above other new
tablets including the  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  Excite 10LE, the Pantech Co.
Element, the  Sony Corp. (SNE)  Tablet P, and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 7.7.  The magazine suggested that gamers turn down the brightness
of the tablets if the heat bothers them.  When Cupertino, California-based Apple released the iPhone
4, Consumer Reports declined to recommend it, saying it dropped
calls when gripped a certain way. After initially playing down
the matter, which became known as “Antennagate,” Apple gave
out free cases and issued a software update aimed at addressing
the glitch.  Apple rose 3.2 percent to $618.63 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 53 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  