-- Apple, MGM, Filene’s, Pangang Group: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-02T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/apple-mgm-filene-s-pangang-group-intellectual-property-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s proposals
for smaller SIM cards face a second round of debate after talks
stalled following the Finnish mobile-phone company’s threat to
withhold its patents.  A two-day meeting in Sophia Antipolis,  France , to adopt a
standard from competing proposals by Apple and Nokia finished
March 30 without a decision, the  European Telecommunications
Standards Institute  said in an e-mailed statement.  The tiny smartcards that identify wireless subscribers are
standardized to reduce industry costs and give consumers freedom
to switch handsets and networks. Smaller versions permit the
design of thinner phones. Nokia said before the meeting that it
would not permit its patents to be used in the Apple standard,
said Mark Durrant, a spokesman for the Espoo-based company.  “Generally in ETSI all of our decisions are taken by
consensus and it’s very uncommon that we have a technical
vote,” said Ultan Mulligan, an ETSI spokesman. “If they have
decided to postpone the vote, that would give them more time to
achieve consensus.”  ETSI began to develop a standard last year for identity
cards at least 25 percent to 40 percent smaller than the mini-
SIM standard, according to its website.  The decision could be made at a meeting starting May 31 in
Osaka or at a new meeting with 30 days’ notice, ETSI said in the
statement.  “We hope that this extra time will allow ETSI members to
work collaboratively on selecting the best technology solution
that meets ETSI’s pre-agreed requirements, rather than adopting
an inferior solution,” Durrant said by e-mail. The Nokia
proposal incorporates work by BlackBerry handset maker  Research
in Motion Ltd. (RIM) , he said.  Alan Hely, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, didn’t return voice-mail or e-mail seeking comment.  Novatel’s Infringement Claim Sufficiently Specific, Court Says  Franklin Wireless Corp., a San Diego-based maker of high-
speed wireless data products, tried to defeat a patent-
infringement suit from a competitor by saying in a statement
that the court filing failed to identify any Franklin products
that allegedly infringed the patents at issue.  Novatel Wireless Inc. sued Franklin Wireless and  China ’s
ZTE Corp. for patent infringement in federal court in San Diego
in December 2010. Franklin was accused of infringing four
patents related to wireless communication, specifically “mobile
intelligent hotspots.”  In a March 29 order, U.S. District Judge Cathy Ann
Bencivengo found that Novatel’s general statement of the
offending products was sufficient under federal court rules. She
rejected that defense by Franklin and ZTE.  She also said that Novatel didn’t provide enough evidence
to show that Franklin and ZTE induced others to infringe the
patents or contributed to others’ infringement of the disputed
patents. She also tossed out the willful infringement claim,
saying it didn’t contain enough factual matter on its face to
state a plausible claim.  The judge gave Novatel a chance to file an amended
complaint addressing the issue of direct infringement.  The case is Novatel Wireless Inc. v. Franklin Wireless
Corp., 3:10-cv-02530-LAB-JMA, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  California  ( San Diego ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  MGM Lion’s Roar Can Be Registered as Canadian Trademark  Canada’s Intellectual Property Office will begin accepting
sound-based trademark applications following a court ruling
related to the lion’s roar used at the beginning of MGM Studio
Inc.’s movies, the Toronto Globe & Mail reported.  The decision comes after almost 20 years of wrangling amid
the Canadian office’s skepticism about whether sound trademarks
could be registered, the newspaper reported.  Although applications for aural trademarks will be
accepted, the office will require visual representations of the
sounds, such as a waveform, the Globe & Mail reported.  Lisa Power, who heads the office’s trademark branch, told
the Globe & Mail that other forms of marks -- such as scents and
holograms -- might also be accepted.  Filene’s ‘Running of the Brides’ Marks to Be Sold at Auction  Filene’s Basement LLC’s “ Running of the Brides ” event in
which prospective brides and their wedding parties participated
in a mad scramble for cut-price wedding dresses may be going to
a new home.  The trademark is part of a package of intellectual property
that Secaucus, New Jersey-based Filene’s and  Syms Corp (SYMSQ)  are
seeking court permission to put up for auction as part of
bankruptcy proceedings, according to a March 23 filing in
 bankruptcy court  in  Delaware .  Also included in the auction are the www.syms.com and
www.filenesbasement.com domain names, customer data for almost 2
million names, and a perpetual royalty-free license from Macy’s
Inc., for the “Filene’s Basement” trademark. House brands
including “Stanley Blacker” and “Maine Bay” are also part of
the package.  Hilco Streambank LLC is to handle the auction, and
according to court papers, about 20 parties have already
expressed interest in some or all of the IP assets. If the court
approves, bidding will be closed by the end of May 1.  The auction is to be publicized in USA Today, the Boston
Globe and Women’s Wear Daily within five days of a court order
authorizing the auction, according to the court filing.  The case is in re: Filene’s Basement LLC, 11-13511-KJC,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware.  Hasbro Can’t Halt Asustek’s Use of ‘Transformer,’ Judge Says  Hasbro Inc., maker of the Mr. Potato Head and My Little
Pony toys, lost its bid for a court order barring a computer
company’s use of “transformers” in connection with its
products.  The Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based toymaker filed suit in
federal court in  Los Angeles  in December, accusing  Taiwan ’s
 Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  of infringing the “Transformer”
trademarks. Hasbro uses the mark for a series of action figures
and games, and objected to Asustek’s use of the mark with some
of its tablet computers.  In a March 23 order, U.S. District Judge Philip S.
Gutierrez said that Hasbro waited too long to complain about the
computer company’s actions. He said that despite the toymaker’s
knowledge of the computer company’s intent to market a product
using the “Transformer” name at the beginning of 2011, the
suit wasn’t brought until December,  He said that the computer company submitted
“uncontroverted evidence that considerable hardship will
result” from the recall of its products already in circulation
and that Hasbro produced “no substantive evidence that it will
suffer any non-compensable injury” if he didn’t order Asustek
to quit using the term.  The case is  Hasbro Inc. (HAS)  v. Asus Computer International
Inc., 2:11-cv-10437-PSG-E, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  AOL Wins Dismissal of Suit by Huffington Post Bloggers  AOL Inc. won dismissal of a suit by unpaid bloggers seeking
$105 million for their work on the Huffington Post.  U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl  in  Manhattan  threw out the
suit March 30, filed last April by writers seeking a share in
AOL’s $315 million purchase of the news and opinion website run
by Arianna Huffington. Koeltl said the bloggers submitted pieces
to the Huffington Post for the exposure, knowing they wouldn’t
be paid.  “No one forced the plaintiffs to give their work to The
Huffington Post for publication and the plaintiffs candidly
admit that they did not expect compensation,” Koeltl said in
his opinion. “The principles of equity and good conscience do
not justify giving the plaintiffs a piece of the purchase price
when they never expected to be paid, repeatedly agreed to the
same bargain, and went into the arrangement with eyes wide
open.”  The lawsuit was filed by a group of writers led by Jonathan
Tasini who were seeking to represent a class of about 9,000
unpaid Huffington Post bloggers. Koeltl rejected claims that
AOL, an online publisher based in  New York , unjustly enriched
itself by using their work and that the company engaged in
deceptive business practices.  Jeffrey Kurzon, a lawyer for the bloggers, declined to
comment, saying he hadn’t seen the ruling.  The Huffington Post said in November that it had 35 million
readers.  The case is Tasini v.  AOL Inc. (AOL) , 11-2472, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  China’s Pangang Seeks to Quash U.S. Suit It Stole DuPont Secrets  China’s  Pangang Group Co. (PISZ) , facing U.S. allegations it
conspired to steal secrets about titanium dioxide technology
from  DuPont Co. (DD) , sought to have the charges thrown out because
summonses were delivered to the wrong person.  Pangang said in a filing May 29 in  San Francisco  federal
court that it would seek a hearing on June 7 to quash the
summonses that were delivered to Pan America Inc. on Feb. 9. The
U.S. government failed to comply with Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure, the Chinese company said.  China sought to develop a manufacturing process for
developing chloride-route titanium oxide, a white pigment used
in paint, plastics and paper, and state-owned Pangang conspired
with California businessman Walter Liew and two former DuPont
employees to steal the technology developed by DuPont, according
to a U.S. indictment.  Pangang runs the largest titanium complex in China and is
one of the country’s largest titanium pigment producers,
according to its website.  The Chinese company is represented by Robert P. Feldman and
John M. Potter of Los Angeles-based  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &
Sullivan LLP (496224L) .  The criminal case is U.S. v. Liew, 3:11-cr-00573, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 