-- Arabica Premium Seen Higher on Robusta Supply Surge: Commodities
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-03T21:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/arabica-premium-seen-higher-on-robusta-supply-surge-commodities.html
The premium paid for arabica beans
favored by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  over the robusta used by  Nestle SA (NESN) 
may rally from a 20-month low because of a surge in supply from
 Vietnam , the biggest grower of the less costly coffee.  Arabica fell 18 percent in New York this year on prospects
for a record Brazilian crop as robusta rose 13 percent in London
because of fewer cargoes from Vietnam. The  premium  dropped to
83.89 cents a pound on March 29, the lowest since July 2010. It
will widen to $1.162 by the end of the year, the average of 18
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Farmers in Vietnam have been stockpiling robusta as a hedge
against consumer prices that surged  23 percent  in August,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd. With inflation moderating to
14 percent in March and harvests about to start in Indonesia and
 Brazil , they may now accelerate sales, the bank predicts.
Arabica is poised to rally 10 percent in the next three months,
as drought in Brazil threatens the crop and demand from  emerging
markets  strengthens, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates.  “People have focused on the shortage of robusta supplies,
and that will change as the crops in Indonesia and Brazil come
in and put pressure on the Vietnamese farmers to release their
record crop,” said Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank in
London. “The market is also seriously underestimating how tight
the arabica supply-and-demand balance will be.”  Arabica Rebound  Arabica traded on ICE Futures U.S. fell 20 percent in the
first three months of the year, the biggest quarterly decline in
more than a decade, and reached a 17-month low of $1.7445 a
pound on March 22. Futures that closed at $1.862 yesterday will
reach $2 in three months, Goldman’s commodity research team, led
by  Jeffrey Currie  in  London , wrote in a report March 28.  Robusta jumped 12 percent in the first quarter, the biggest
gain in a year, and traded at $2,031 a metric ton (92.12 cents a
pound) yesterday on NYSE Liffe. Prices will average $1,600 in
the fourth quarter, 21 percent less than now, Rabobank’s Flury
wrote in a report on March 27.  Arabica is the second-worst performer this year in the
Standard & Poor’s Spot GSCI Index of 24 commodities, behind
natural gas. The gauge advanced 8.2 percent as the MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities added 12 percent. Treasuries
lost 1.2 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Starbucks Costs  Higher arabica prices may raise  costs  for Seattle-based
Starbucks and Waterbury, Vermont-based  Green Mountain Coffee
Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  Cheaper robusta may help Vevey, Switzerland-based
Nestle, which uses the variety to make Nescafe and has about 51
percent of the global instant-coffee market, according to
Euromonitor International.  Global robusta supply will exceed demand by 1.2 million
bags in the year that begins in October, compared with a 1
million-bag shortage in the current season, according to
Winterthur, Switzerland-based Volcafe. Each bag weighs 60
kilograms (132 pounds). Arabica output will outpace consumption
by about 800,000 bags in 2012-2013, compared with a 6 million-
bag deficit in the current season, the unit of ED&F Man Holdings
Ltd., a London-based commodities trader, forecast in a quarterly
report in February.  The anticipated gains in arabica prices may be curbed by
signs that economic growth is slowing, said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham,  Alabama . Prices fell 18 percent in
2008, amid the worst global  recession  since World War II. The
premium to robusta narrowed to as little as 26.1 cents in March
2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Slowing Growth  The  International Monetary Fund  expects world growth to
slow to 3.3 percent this year, from 3.8 percent in 2011, and
 Europe  to contract 0.5 percent as it struggles to contain a debt
crisis. The pace of the recovery in the U.S., the world’s
biggest coffee user, has been “extremely sluggish,” Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on March 29.  “Coffee is caught in a down trend,” Hellwig said. “We’re
concerned with global growth stalling. There’s growth there, but
we’re not seeing demand growth exceeding supply growth.”  Hedge funds  and other  money managers  have been betting on
lower arabica prices since mid-February, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. They held a net-short position of
9,964 futures and options contracts in the week ended March 27.
Funds increased their net-long position in  robusta  during the
same week by 8.5 percent to 8,345 contracts, the most since NYSE
Liffe started publishing the data in October.  Speculator Holdings  Wagers on robusta may be reversed once Vietnamese farmers
accelerate shipments. They sold about 70 percent of the current
season’s crop so far, preferring to hold on to beans, according
to Volcafe. The start of harvests in Brazil and  Indonesia  next
month and slower domestic inflation probably will spur them to
reverse that trend, said  Kona Haque , an analyst at Macquarie in
London.  Production in Indonesia, the third-biggest robusta grower
behind Vietnam and Brazil, may rise 38 percent to 11 million
bags in the season starting in April, the Indonesian Coffee and
Cocoa Research Institute estimates.  Arabica supplies may be tighter than  futures markets  are
anticipating. While the government of Brazil, the largest
grower, has forecast a record crop in the marketing year that
begins in July, most of the gains will be in robusta and arabica
output may actually decline, estimates Terra Forte Exportacao e
Importacao de Cafe Ltda., the country’s second-largest exporter.  More Robusta  Growers of arabica, which will enter the higher-yielding
half of a two-year production cycle in July, will collect 37.4
million bags, almost 11 percent less than they did in the
previous peak year, Terra Forte predicts. Robusta output will
climb to 16.5 million bags, from 14.3 million a year earlier,
the Sao Joao da Boa Vista, Brazil-based company forecasts.  The Brazilian government may stockpile beans to help
farmers, Agriculture Minister Mendes Ribeiro Filho said in an
interview in London on March 29. Brazil exported 27.4 million
bags of arabica and 2.7 million bags of robusta in 2011,
according to its coffee exporters’ council, known as Cecafe.  Arabica  inventories  at ICE-monitored warehouses are 41
percent smaller than two years ago, before prices began a rally
to a 14-year high in May 2011, exchange data show. Stockpiles
may not be replenished soon because heavier-than-normal rainfall
in  Colombia , the second-biggest grower of the variety, damaged
crops. Production may fall to as low as 7.5 million bags this
season, a 36-year low, according to Andres Valencia, the
marketing chief at the National Federation of Coffee Growers.  “Robusta should weaken over time, as production is going
to catch up,”  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7 billion of
assets at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto,
said in an interview. “At the same time, you have demand growth
in arabica and fairly tight inventories, so I would expect to
see robusta fade a bit and relative strength in arabica.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  