-- Maria Sharapova Signs Three-Year Sponsorship Deal With Samsung
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-04-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/maria-sharapova-signs-three-year-sponsorship-deal-with-samsung.html
Maria Sharapova , the world’s
highest-paid female athlete, signed a three-year sponsorship
deal with Samsung Electronics Co., her agent said.  The agreement covers Sharapova’s native  Russia  and the
Commonwealth of Independent States,  Max Eisenbud , her agent at
IMG Worldwide, said in an interview. The deal, which started
April 1 and covers Samsung products including mobile phones,
tablet computers and television sets, may go global next year.  “Maria really hasn’t been marketed that much in Russia,”
Eisenbud said. “It’s important to her because that’s where her
roots are. I also felt that was a really untapped market, with
the 2014 Sochi Olympics coming up.”  Siberian-born Sharapova moved from Sochi on the Black Sea
coast to the U.S. when she was seven years old. In 2004, she
achieved global fame by winning  Wimbledon  at age 17. Major
titles followed at the 2006  U.S. Open  and the 2008 Australian
Open, turning her into the world’s best-paid athlete. Sharapova,
who backed Sochi’s bid to host the Winter Olympics, earns around
$25 million a year, according to Forbes magazine. She endorses
companies including  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Swiss luxury watch brand Tag
Heuer, jeweler  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  and  Danone SA (BN) ’s Evian water.  Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of televisions and
memory chips, posted record revenue last year, helped by the
popularity of its Galaxy smartphones. The company, also the
world’s second-largest handset maker, in 2007 extended a global
sponsorship agreement with the  International Olympic Committee 
through the 2016 Summer Games in Rio de Janeiro.  Telephone Contracts  The agreement with Samsung is the third mobile phone deal
for Sharapova, who made the finals of Wimbledon last season and
the Australian Open in January and is currently ranked No. 2 in
the world. The 24-year-old previously endorsed  Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. (MMI) , and had been global brand ambassador for  Sony
Ericsson  Mobile Communications Ltd. until that agreement expired
at the end of last year.  Sony Ericsson, which signed a record $88 million deal with
the women’s tennis tour in 2005, on Dec. 23 said it won’t extend
its agreement with the WTA when it runs out at the end this
year. In October, Sony Corp. agreed to buy Ericsson AB’s stake
in the joint venture for 1.05 billion euros ($1.4 billion).  “Maria had a positive experience, and a positive four
years with Sony Ericsson,” Eisenbud said. “Now we are just
looking forward to a new partnership with a great brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  