-- Marriott Sued for Mismanaging Eden Roc Hotel in Miami Beach
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-04-02T21:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/marriott-sued-for-mismanaging-eden-roc-hotel-in-miami-beach-1-.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  was sued
for $75 million by the owner of the Eden Roc Renaissance Hotel
in  Miami Beach  over accusations the hospitality company
mismanaged the hotel.  Eden Roc LLLP accused Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott and
its Renaissance Hotel Management unit of “gross mismanagement”
after it invested more than $300 million in the  hotel , including
a $240 million renovation, according to the complaint filed
today in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan.  Marriott flooded the hotel with discount bookings for
years, the complaint alleges. As a result, the hotel generated a
“mere fraction” of the $30 million in profit projected for
2011 and the $35 million forecast for 2012, according to the
suit.  “In the face of Renaissance’s failures, Eden Roc has quite
literally shoveled money into the project to make up for
Renaissance’s incompetence,” Eden Roc said in the complaint.
“And while Eden Roc loses its shirt, Renaissance and its parent
company and guarantor, Marriott International, have lined their
pockets with management fees.”  Hepburn, Bogart  The 21-floor, 631-room art deco hotel, located on
Millionaire’s Row in Miami Beach, opened in 1956 and has hosted
celebrities including  Elizabeth Taylor , Katherine Hepburn and
 Humphrey Bogart , according to its  website .  The hotel, which was featured in several episodes of the
1950s television show “I Love Lucy,” was designed by architect
Morris Lapidus, who also designed the Fontainbleau next door.  Eden Roc LLLP said in documents filed in New York State
Supreme Court last month that it was suing Marriott
International over the renovation of the hotel. Before today’s
complaint was filed, Eden Roc withdrew that lawsuit without
giving a reason.  Marriott International and Todd Soloway, an attorney for
the plaintiffs, didn’t return telephone messages seeking comment
on the lawsuit.  The case is Eden Roc LLLP v.  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) ,
651027/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  