-- Larroquette, McCormack Fight Dirty in ‘Best Man’
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-04-02T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/larroquette-mccormack-fight-dirty-in-best-man-jeremy-gerard.html
An unscrupulous, sanctimonious snake
vying for his party’s presidential nomination, Senator Joseph
Cantwell seems like an uncanny imitation of  Rick Santorum ,
especially as played by Eric McCormack.  That’s weird because Cantwell was a figment of  Gore Vidal ’s
fevered imagination more than half a century ago.  “The Best Man” is set during a national political
convention in Philadelphia in 1960. No party is named. One of the contenders for
the nomination is Cantwell, who makes a religion
of Red-baiting, homophobia and the values of true Americans
according to his definition of true.  McCormack’s Cantwell has the nervy edge of a vaguely
psychotic bantam-weight boxer, bobbing around the ring with
something to prove.  His opponent is William Russell (the affable John Larroquette), a former senator and secretary of state, a man of
breeding, taste and scruple, except insofar as women are
concerned. That has led to a frosty marriage to Alice ( Candice Bergen , playing exactly the woman we hoped Murphy Brown would
have grown up to be).  Party Elders  Two powerful party elders dog the efforts of both would-be
candidates. Sue-Ellen Gamadge, chairman of the “Women’s
Division” is played with jolly antiquity by  Angela Lansbury .
Former President Arthur Hockstader, whose illness has not
dampened his raffish charm, is played commandingly by James Earl Jones.  That both of these great stars are somewhat miscast (and
Jones was doing battle with some of his lines at a critics’
preview) mattered little to the demonstrative audience (or to
me). Jefferson Mays makes a late appearance as a shadow from
Cantwell’s past and just about steals the show.  The subject makes rich prey for Vidal’s Shavian thrusts and
parries. “The Best Man” packs a full quiver of barbs and other
intellectual weaponry. He was writing at the height of Kennedy-
versus-Nixon. While Larroquette has many qualities as a comic
actor, Kennedy suavity and prep-school burnishing are not his
forte. His charm is not effortless.  Southern Debutante  Similarly, Kerry Butler as Cantwell’s Southern deb wife is
so over-the-top into caricature that she offers nothing to
ground a role that needs it.  Michael Wilson ’s staging establishes the door-swinging pace
of farce that nevertheless allows us to savor each riposte. Set
designer Derek McLane has turned the theater into a bannered
convention hall, aptly lit like a TV circus by Kenneth Posner,
while providing an old-world elegant series of hotel rooms for
the candidates.  Ann Roth’s costumes are, as always, brilliant subtle
comments on the people wearing them. Note especially Cantwell’s
sharkskin suit and Gamadge’s dowdy chiffon florals that
practically reek of My Sin by Lanvin.  It’s not nostalgia that keeps us laughing at “The Best
Man.” It’s the stunning currency of it all.  At the Gerald Schoenfeld Theatre, 236 W. 45th St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 