-- Hartford to Pay Allianz $2.43 Billion to Buy Debt, Warrants
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-04-02T21:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/hartford-to-pay-allianz-2-43-billion-to-buy-back-debt-warrants.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the insurer being pressured by investor John Paulson to
break up, will pay about $2.43 billion to buy back debt and
warrants issued to  Allianz SE. (ALV)   Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee plans to issue senior
notes and junior subordinated debt as part of a strategy to
improve financial flexibility, according to a statement today
from Hartford, which is based in the Connecticut city of the
same name. The U.S. company turned to Allianz, Germany’s largest
insurer, for capital in 2008, agreeing to pay 10 percent on
$1.75 billion of debt as  capital markets  froze.  Financial firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have
paid back U.S. bailout funds and unwound deals from private
companies struck during the credit crisis of 2008 and 2009.
Corporate borrowers are now able to tap debt markets at a lower
cost as the economy rebounds and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  holds interest rates near zero.  “It’s a positive step,” said Dan Theriault, an analyst at
Portales Partners LLC with an “outperform” rating on Hartford
shares. The repurchase of warrants “removes a significant
dilutive impact” for shareholders, he said.  The purchase of $300 million in warrants will be funded
through an existing $500 million share  buyback program , Hartford
said. Allianz will have about 5 percent of Hartford’s common
stock after the deals, which Hartford said it expects to be
completed about April 17. Paulson controls the  largest stake ,
about 8.5 percent, and has pushed McGee to sell units.  ‘Lower-Coupon Debt’  “These transactions are expected to reduce the Hartford’s
anticipated annual interest expense by replacing high-interest
coupon debt with lower-coupon debt,” McGee’s firm said today.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, declined to comment.
Paulson’s hedge fund, New York-based Paulson & Co., has been
pressing Hartford to separate its life insurance operations from
the company’s property and casualty unit. McGee, who announced
plans last month to exit some of Hartford’s businesses, has said
a split isn’t in the best interests of shareholders.  The warrants gave Allianz the option to buy 69.3 million
shares for $25.23 each, Hartford said in its annual 10-K filing.
The warrants were issued in October 2008 with a term of seven
years.  Hartford advanced 4.1 percent to $21.95 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York. Hartford repaid its U.S. bailout in 2010.  Risk Capital  European insurers such as Munich-based Allianz and France’s
Axa SA are facing higher  capital requirements  as regulators plan
to introduce Solvency II, a new legal framework for the
industry. Allianz, led by CEO Michael Diekmann, had its  credit
rating  placed on a negative outlook by Standard and Poor’s in
January.  “It’s very positive that the risk capital that Allianz had
to set aside for these instruments has been reduced by about 1.5
billion euros, which in these times is a very good
development,” Richard Manson, a spokesman for Allianz, said of
the repurchase agreement.  The negative outlook reflects the ratings firm’s view that
“capital adequacy has weakened to a level close to our minimum
expectations for the current ratings and the risk that it could
weaken further in light of economic pressures in the euro zone
coupled with challenging financial market conditions,” S&P said
in its Jan. 27 statement.  Banks helping Hartford on the debt sales include  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , New York-based Goldman Sachs,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  