-- U.S. Agency Head Forced Out by Lavish Spending in Vegas
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-03T16:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/las-vegas-conference-at-823-000-leads-u-s-agency-chief-to-quit.html
The head of the  General Services
Administration  resigned after an inquiry found the U.S. agency
lavished $44 daily breakfasts on employees and spent $6,325 on
commemorative coins for a meeting at a Las Vegas area resort.  The taxpayer-funded $823,000 conference in October 2010 at
the  M Resort Spa Casino  in Henderson, Nevada, also involved a
payment of $8,130 to print “yearbooks” for participants and $5
each for “Mini Monte Cristo sandwiches,” according to an
investigation released yesterday by the agency’s inspector
general. The breakfasts cost almost four times the government’s
$12 allowance for the morning meal in Las Vegas.  “Reports of an internal conference in which taxpayer
dollars were squandered led me to launch internal reviews, take
disciplinary personnel action and institute tough new controls
to ensure this incident is not repeated,” GSA chief Martha Johnson wrote in her resignation letter. “I feel I must step
aside as administrator so that the agency can move forward at
this time with a fresh leadership.”  The GSA, which manages and rents property for government
agencies and obtains equipment and services, holds regional
conferences for its staff. The acting administrator of Region 9,
covering the western U.S., instructed planners to make the 2010
conference in  Nevada  “over the top,” bigger and better than
previous events, according to the inspector general.  “GSA spending on conference planning was excessive,
wasteful and in some cases impermissible,” the watchdog office
found. “GSA failed to follow contracting regulations in many of
the procurements associated with the conference and wasted
taxpayers dollars.”  Obama’s Response  President  Barack Obama  was “outraged by the excessive
spending, questionable dealings with contractors and disregard
for taxpayer dollars,”  Jacob Lew , the White House chief of
staff, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Johnson, an Obama appointee, fired two senior officials of
the agency and disciplined others before resigning, according to
Lew.  Republican Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California  zeroed
in on the $6,325 for commemorative coins, which saluted the
GSA’s work on the stimulus spending backed by Obama.  “After President Obama lectured the private sector about
not wasting funds on  Las Vegas  conventions, it’s hypocritical
that such a large agency with critical management
responsibilities across government would hold this luxurious
conference at the height of the recession and even spend
thousands on custom-made coins touting the stimulus,” Issa, the
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Scouting’ Trips  The regional GSA officials spent $136,504 on eight pre-
conference events, including two Las Vegas “scouting” trips
and a “dry run.” An additional $686,247 was spent on
conference travel, catering and vendors for the 299 GSA
attendees.  The $146,527 food bill for the conference included a
cocktail reception and the meeting’s closing dinner, which
together cost $30,207.60. GSA personnel munched on $4 shrimp and
$5 Boursin Scalloped Potato with Barolo Wine Braised Short Ribs.
No tax dollars were spent on alcohol, according to the report.  A GSA event planner asked the M Resort’s conference
services manager to help arrange the purchase of a $98 purse she
“cannot live without,” according to the report.  The M Resort manager responded, “I can give you a $30
comp,” and the discount was promptly accepted, the report
found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  