-- Asian Stocks Pare Advance on Bets China Won’t Ease Policy
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-04-02T11:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/asian-stocks-extend-quarterly-gain-on-economic-optimism.html
Most Asian  stocks  fell, with the
regional benchmark index swinging between gains and losses, as
speculation China will keep curbs on lending countered better-
than-expected reports on the health of the  U.S. economy .  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , a state-owned developer, slid
0.8 percent in Hong Kong reversing an early gain after Chinese
Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  said policy makers will continue to take
steps to stabilize prices.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , a Japanese carmaker
that gets 44 percent of its sales in  North America , added 2.1
percent after U.S. consumer sentiment climbed to its highest
level in more than a year. NGK Insulators Ltd. slumped 8.8
percent in Tokyo after saying it may not be able to meet demand
for batteries from a regional utility.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.1 percent to 126.75 as
of 7:55 p.m. in Tokyo, after swinging between gains and losses
more than 10 times. More stocks fell than rose on the measure,
which gained 11 percent in the three months ended March 31, the
biggest such advance since the third quarter of 2010.  “It’s not like it’s all good now and that we can all go
off to the races,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist
at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages almost $100
billion. “Concerns about  China ’s slowdown will continue until
we see growth numbers clearly recovering. We still need to see
more commitment to easing.”  Asian shares have risen this year amid optimism monetary
easing in  Japan , China and  Europe  will spur growth as the U.S.
economic recovery gains strength. Gains slowed after China cut
its target for economic growth as it seeks to cool the  property
market  and become less dependent on exports.  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.3 percent even
after the central bank’s quarterly Tankan survey showed
sentiment among the nation’s largest manufacturers failed to
improve in March.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 slipped 0.1 percent.  South Korea ’s
Kospi Index advanced 0.8 percent after inflation moderated to
the slowest pace in 20 months.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index lost 0.2 percent, while Chinese
markets are closed for a holiday through April 4. Trading volume
on the Hang Seng was 33 percent below the 30-day average.  A gauge of volatility on the Hang Seng fell 0.6 percent to
20.11, indicating traders expect a swing of 5.8 percent on the
benchmark gauge over the next 30 days.  Korea ’s  Kospi 200
Volatility Index (VKOSPI)  also fell 0.9 percent, and a measure for
Japan’s Nikkei 225 slid 2.5 percent.  China PMI  China’s statistics bureau yesterday reported an  index  of
purchasing plans by companies rose to a one-year high in March,
fueling speculation the government may not ease monetary policy
further to boost economic growth.  Vice Premier Li today said he doesn’t see a change in the
nation’s economic development, adding that China will maintain
growth and stabilize prices as it speeds up a shift in the
country’s expansion model.  A separate purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics fell to a four-month low. HSBC said in
a note that the government-backed PMI is skewed to large
enterprises and more affected by seasonality, with the gauge
usually climbing after the Lunar New Year holiday.  China Resources Land slid 0.8 percent to HK$13.32, and
Shimao Property Holdings Ltd., a mainland developer, dropped 1.2
percent to HK$8.19.  Sun Hung Kai  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., the world’s second-largest
real estate company, sank 2.2 percent to HK$94.40, extending a
13 percent loss on March 30 triggered by the arrest of its
billionaire sibling co-chairmen by Hong Kong’s anti-corruption
agency.  NGK Insulators slumped 8.8 percent to 1,077 yen.  Tohoku
Electric Power Co. (9506)  is reviewing a plan to install NGK’s
batteries at a thermal plant, according to a statement. NGK said
it may be unable to supply the planned amount of batteries to
the utility by summer, when power demand peaks. Tohoku Electric
retreated 1 percent to 935 yen.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  swung between
gains and losses today. The index gained 0.4 percent in  New York 
on March 30 after data showed that Americans increased spending
by the most in seven months and that U.S.  consumer sentiment 
climbed to the highest since February 2011.  ‘Risk Appetite’  “Equity investors should continue to see a reasonable and
healthy level of risk appetite,” saidPrasad Patkar, who helps
manage about $1 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in
Sydney. “The U.S. economy is getting better, hopefully in areas
where we are looking for some source of strength such as
employment and real estate.”  Exporters to the U.S. advanced. Honda added 2.1 percent to
3,210 yen. Billabong International Ltd., a surfwear maker that
gets about half of its revenue from the Americas, rose 1.1
percent to A$2.81.  Shipping companies also climbed on the improving outlook
for exports to the world’s largest economy.  Kawasaki Kisen
Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , a Japanese transporter of containers and bulk
goods, advanced 6 percent to 193 yen in Tokyo. Hanjin Shipping
Co., operator of Korea’s biggest container line, rose 3.2
percent to 16,200 won in  Seoul .  China Railway Construction Corp. gained 8.3 percent to
HK$5.23 after its rating was raised to “buy” from “hold” at
DBS Vickers by equity analyst Rachel Miu.  Stocks in the Asian benchmark are  valued  at 1.4 times book
value, compared with 2.3 times for the S&P 500 and 1.5 times for
the Stoxx 600, according to Bloomberg data. A number below 1
means companies can be bought for less than value of their
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 