-- Asian Stocks Rise on China Manufacturing; Aussie Climbs
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-04-02T07:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/asian-stocks-rise-on-china-manufacturing-aussie-climbs.html
European  stocks  and commodities rose
after the region’s policy makers increased bailout funds and a
Chinese manufacturing gauge advanced to a one-year high. U.S.
equity futures advanced, while the yen weakened.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 0.2 percent as of 8:01
a.m. in  London . Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures gained 0.3
percent.  Australia ’s currency strengthened 0.6 percent to
$1.0408, while the yen fell against all 16 major counterparts.
Ten-year German bond yields rose six basis points to 1.85
percent. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities advanced 0.3 percent.  China ’s Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 53.1 in March
from 51 the previous month, according to a government report
yesterday. European finance ministers unveiled a package over
the weekend including 500 billion euros ($667 billion) in fresh
bailout funds on top of 300 billion euros already committed to
rescue programs. Data later today may show U.S. manufacturing
grew in March, based on a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “The PMI data shows China’s domestic demand is relatively
strong,” said Sean Yokota, a Singapore-based currency
strategist at UBS AG. “That’s positive because if China’s
domestic demand is strong,  Asia ’s exports to China will be
slightly better.”  U.S. Equity Futures  Gains in S&P 500 futures indicated that U.S. stocks may
rise for a second day when trading begins. Ten-year Treasury
yields climbed three basis points to 2.24 percent. The
securities yielded as much as 46 basis points more than same-
maturity German bunds today, the most in 13 months.  South Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 0.8 percent, while
Taiwan’s Taiex Index lost 0.9 percent. The  MSCI Asia Pacific
Index (MXAP)  was little changed. The equity benchmark jumped 11 percent
in the first three months of this year, the biggest quarterly
rally since September 2010.  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao has pledged to “fine-tune”
economic policies as needed as weakness in export demand and a
cooling housing market restrain economic growth. Analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey last week unanimously said that banks’
reserve requirements will fall this year, while nine of 20
predicted lower benchmark borrowing costs.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.4 percent after Chinese
Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  said policy makers will continue to take
steps to stabilize prices. Markets in China and Vietnam are
closed for holidays.  Yen Weakens  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  slid 3 percent in Hong Kong,
extending a 13 percent plunge on March 30. The Independent
Commission Against Corruption on March 29 detained and later
released Thomas and  Raymond Kwok  on suspected bribery charges.
The two took over the chairmanship of the city’s biggest
developer by value last year. No charges have been laid in the
probe.  Copper increased 0.5 percent to $8,490 a metric ton for a
third day of gains, while oil in  New York  advanced 0.1 percent
to $103.15 a barrel. Nickel and zinc rose at least 1 percent.  The yen lost 0.2 percent to 82.99 per dollar. The Tankan
index for  Japan ’s biggest manufacturers was unchanged last
quarter from minus 4 in December, the  Bank of Japan (8301)  said. That
was less than the median estimate of minus 1 in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  “The worse-than-expected Tankan survey seems to be fueling
talk that the BOJ will ease policy further,” said Lee Wai Tuck,
a currency strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “This is
probably leading to selling of the yen.”  The cost of insuring Asia-Pacific bonds against non-payment
fell, according to credit-default swap traders. The Markit
iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan
slid 4 basis points to 156 basis points, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge declined 47 basis points in the
first three months of the year, the biggest quarterly drop since
the period ended September 2009, according to data provider CMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  