-- Asian Currencies at Two-Week High on China Manufacturing Boost
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-04-02T08:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/asia-currencies-reach-two-week-high-on-china-manufacturing-boost.html
Asian currencies rose to the highest
level in almost two weeks after Chinese manufacturing data beat
economists’ forecasts, brightening the outlook for regional
exports to the world’s second-largest economy.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index added to its best
quarter since 2010 as  South Korea ’s won completed its biggest
back-to-back rally in a month.  China ’s Purchasing Managers’
Index climbed to a one-year high of 53.1 in March from 51 the
previous month, exceeding the 50.8 median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists, a report yesterday showed.  “The PMI data shows China’s domestic demand is relatively
strong,” said Sean Yokota, a Singapore-based currency
strategist at UBS AG. “For Asian currencies, that’s positive
because if China’s domestic demand is strong, Asia’s exports to
China will be slightly better.”  The won advanced 0.5 percent to 1,127.88 per dollar at the
close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Philippine peso climbed 0.5 percent to 42.69, Malaysia’s ringgit
strengthened 0.3 percent to 3.0497gv
 and  Taiwan ’s dollar added 0.1 percent to NT$29.506.  The Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY) , which tracks the region’s 10 most-
used currencies excluding the yen, reached 117.08, the highest
level since March 20. The gauge’s 60-day historical volatility
fell to 3.36 percent from 3.42 percent on March 30. China is the
biggest export market for Malaysia, Taiwan and South Korea.  U.S. Reports  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares rallied for a second
day as stock exchange data showed foreign investors bought $27.5
billion more equities than they sold in India, South Korea,
Taiwan, Indonesia and Thailand this year.  A report today may show U.S. manufacturing grew in March,
based on a survey by the  Institute for Supply Management .
Payrolls in the world’s largest economy increased by more than
200,000 for a fourth month, according to a Bloomberg survey
before Labor Department data due April 6.  The won reached its strongest level in more than a week
after the government reported yesterday a  trade surplus  of $2.3
billion in March, up from $1.5 billion in February. That is
“supportive for the currency,” said Byeon Ji Young, a Seoul-
based analyst at Woori Futures Co.  The currency sustained gains after Moody’s Investors
Service raised the outlook on the nation’s credit rating to
positive from stable today, citing strong and improving fiscal
fundamentals. South Korea is ranked A1, the company’s fifth-best
investment grade.  Indonesia ’s rupiah fell after President Susilo Bambang
Yudhoyono failed to get a fuel-price increase through parliament
last week, signaling weakening support in his ruling coalition.
A government report today showed inflation accelerated to 3.97
percent last month, compared with 3.56 percent in February. The
currency lost 0.1 percent to 9,170 per dollar.  Thailand’s baht rose 0.1 percent to 30.81 against the
greenback. A private report today showed  consumer confidence 
rose for a fourth month in March amid recovery efforts after
last year’s floods, which were the worst in more than 70 years.  Elsewhere, China’s yuan rose 0.13 percent to 6.2980 per
dollar in Hong Kong’s offshore market. Onshore financial markets
in China and Vietnam are closed for public holidays. There was
no trading in  India ’s rupee as banks closed their accounts for
the March 31 fiscal year-end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  