-- Assad Pledge to End Violence in a Week Met With Suspicion
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-04-03T14:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/assad-pledge-to-end-violence-by-april-10-met-with-suspicion.html
Syrian opposition head Burhan Ghalioun dismissed President Bashar al-Assad’s pledge to pull
back his forces and start a cease-fire by April 10, saying the
military should halt the violence now.  “If he was sincere about it, he would have immediately
ended the violence,” Ghalioun, head of the Syrian National
Council, said in a telephone interview today. “Why wait for a
week? Why kill 700 or 800 more Syrians?”  United Nations special envoy  Kofi Annan  told the Security
Council yesterday that Assad had agreed to end forward troop
advances, stop using heavy weapons and withdraw his forces from
population centers by April 10, according to U.S. Ambassador to
the UN  Susan Rice .  Annan has been pressing Assad to accept a peace plan to end
a yearlong conflict that the UN estimates has left more than
9,000 dead. Opposition groups say the fighting has continued
since Syria accepted the plan in principle on March 27. At least
8 people were killed today, said Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the
U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  “Bashar al-Assad’s back is not yet against the wall,”
Anthony Skinner, Middle East director for Bath, U.K.-based
Maplecroft, a global risk adviser, said in a telephone interview
today. “If it were, then we would have greater reason to
believe that he were serious about Annan’s plan.”  Rice said she was concerned that Assad’s forces will
escalate rather than diminish the violence in coming days.  ‘Massive Intensification’  “We have seen commitments to end the violence followed by
massive intensification of violence,” Rice, who now holds the
council’s rotating presidency, told reporters yesterday. “The
proof is in the action, not the words. Past experience would
lead us to be skeptical.”  Ghalioun said the rebels would immediately end fighting if
the government halts the violence. On April 1, the 83-nation
“Friends of  Syria ” group, including the U.S., the European
Union and Arab countries, recognized the SNC as the leading
negotiator for the Syrian people.  Persian Gulf nations agreed at the meeting in Istanbul to
provide funds to allow the opposition to pay fighters battling
government forces.  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar have promised to help,
though the amount hasn’t been settled yet, said SNC member
Abdalsalam Albitar.  ‘Peaceful Protests’  If the violence ends, rebels will continue peaceful
protests “which will reach the presidential palace,” Anas
Ayrout, a member of the SNC, said in a phone interview today
from Istanbul. “Bashar knows Annan’s plan means his end and
that’s why he’ll secure its failure.”  Syrian Foreign Ministry spokesman Jihad Maqdisi said a team
of UN peacekeepers is expected to arrive in Damascus tomorrow to
discuss “a common vision for the practical application of the
steps that have been agreed upon,” including the number of
observers and their movements within Syria, Syria’s  Al Watan 
newspaper reported.  Syria wants Annan to pressure “regional entities” to stop
the “funding and sending of weapons to armed groups in Syria,”
the newspaper cited Maqdisi as saying.  Should Assad halt the violence, the opposition must lay
down its arms within 48 hours of the deadline under the terms of
the peace plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait  at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 