-- Masters Tournament Azalea Bloom Clouded by Mild Georgia Winter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-04-02T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/masters-tournament-azalea-bloom-clouded-by-mild-georgia-winter.html
Even truckloads of ice may not be
enough to maintain one colorful tradition of the Masters
Tournament by the time the golf season’s first major
championship begins this week.  Most of the thousands of azaleas that line the fairways of
Augusta National Golf Club probably are already in full bloom
due to a warmer-than-usual winter, and may lose their flower
petals by the time the tournament starts, local horticulturists
said.  To prevent early flowering, officials of the Augusta,
 Georgia , club sometimes deposit “dump trucks full” of ice on
the roots of azalea bushes to halt the bloom, according to
 Matthew Chappell , an assistant professor of horticulture at the
 University of Georgia ’s College of Agriculture and Environmental
Science.  “I don’t know if they’re going to be able to hold the
plants back enough,” Chappell said in a telephone interview
last week. “We’re so far ahead of schedule, we might miss the
bloom. The possibility exists that they could have bloomed out
by the time the Masters is played.”  Outside of “normal care,” Augusta National hasn’t done
anything to try to delay the blooming period, according to a
statement from the club.  Masters Tournament  spokesman Steve
Ethun declined to comment on whether that care included icing
the roots. The Masters is scheduled for April 5-8.  The flowering bushes, in shades of red, pink and white, are
as much a part of the Masters and Augusta National as the green
jackets of club members. They are planted throughout the
property, including in front of the 158-year-old clubhouse, and
the par-5  13th hole  is named “Azalea,” part of another
tradition to label holes after plants at a course built on a
former nursery. There are 1,600 azaleas on No. 13 alone,
according to club figures.  ‘Most Noted’  “This hole bears the name of the plant for which Augusta
National is most noted,” according to a description of the 13th
on the club’s website.  From Feb. 27 to March 28, the high temperature in the
Augusta area reached more than 75 degrees Fahrenheit (24
Celsius) 17 times, according to data  compiled by  the Georgia
Automated Environmental Monitoring Network. Over the same time
period for the previous seven years, there were an average of
seven days above 75.  The warm air, plus soil temperatures that reached above 60
degrees as early as March 1 and hit a high of 69 on March 24,
have led most of the area’s flowers to begin blooming already,
Chappell said. Sid Mullis, a University of Georgia extension
horticulture agent for two decades in Richmond County where
Augusta is located, said soil temperature there typically
doesn’t top 60 until May 1.  Under conditions such as this year, Chappell said, even the
most drastic measures will only delay flowering for 3-7 days.  “It’s hard to hold off the inevitable with  dump trucks 
full of ice,” according to Chappell.  Closed Gates  It’s difficult to gauge the status of the plants at Augusta
National, a private club that discloses little about what goes
on inside its gates. Flowers on many of the azaleas around the
city, about two hours east of Atlanta on the Savannah River,
have already begun to disappear, according to Mullis, who cares
for the municipality’s plants.  The Masters isn’t the only springtime sports event in the
U.S. that’s feeling the heat in its flower beds.  Officials of the  Kentucky Derby , the first part of
thoroughbred horse racing’s Triple Crown,  said on the event’s
website  on March 20 that thousands of tulips typically blooming
around  Churchill Downs (CHDN)  in Louisville,  Kentucky , on the first
Saturday in May won’t make it this year due to warm weather.
About 2,100 roses will replace the tulips, which probably will
bloom about two weeks before the May 5 race.  Augusta National features more than 30 varieties of azaleas
on the course that bloom at different times, so the club
increases its chances of having a colorful appearance during
tournament week, Mullis said.  “How they do it, I don’t know,” Mullis said. “I’m sure
there will be color out there, it just won’t be like a normal
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  