-- AT&T Embraces Startup Speed-Dating to Spur Innovation
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-04-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/at-t-embraces-startup-speed-dating-to-spur-innovation.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Communications
Inc., the two biggest U.S. telephone companies, are taking a
page from Silicon Valley’s handbook as they try to ward off new
wireless competitors.  The two companies are cozying up to startups in  California ,
 Israel ,  Europe  and  India , seeking to cultivate mobile hardware
and software for their networks. AT&T met with 508 startups in
“speed-dating” sessions last year to pick new suppliers, and
Verizon has stepped up investments in promising new companies by
about 50 percent over the past two years.  AT&T, once one of the world’s most advanced technology
companies, relied for decades on its legendary Bell Laboratories
for breakthrough research. Now it and Verizon are following the
lead of companies like  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Novartis AG and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,
which often depend on startups for innovation. The carriers have
gotten more aggressive about backing entrepreneurs over the past
three years, as their revenue from phone calls declines and
spending on network expansion crimps profit margins.  “They have to re-imagine and reinvent their businesses,”
said Bob Ackerman, the founder of Allegis Capital, which has
worked with 35 corporate startup investors. “They are coming to
the realization that they need to look outside their
organizations for inspiration.”  Funding Lifeline  For startups, funding from carriers can be a lifeline
during a time when other sources of funding are shrinking. While
venture capitalists are still pouring money into software and
other areas, spending on telecommunications hardware declined 19
percent last year, to $677.9 million, according to
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  In addition to getting funding from carriers, small
companies making hardware, software and broadband Internet
services are gaining access to phone companies’ capital budgets,
which reached  $314 billion  globally last year, according to
research firm Ovum.  Until recently, overseas carriers such as Telefonica SA and
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  were best known for reaching out to
startups. That’s changing, said John Donovan, senior executive
vice president at Dallas-based AT&T.  “We are probably the most active company in the venture
community,” he said in an interview. “We are the unsung hero
in mobile broadband.”  Speed Dating  The carrier’s executives are holding monthly calls with
venture capitalists from  Sequoia Capital ,  Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers , Andreessen Horowitz and  Khosla Ventures . Those
firms and other investors suggest startups for AT&T to meet --
in what Donovan calls “speed-dating” sessions. Each company
gets 20 minutes to make its case. The startups then either get
business with AT&T on the spot, or an explanation of why they
didn’t. The number of startups AT&T met with more than tripled
last year, from 150 in 2010, Donovan said.  “There’s nothing like it in the world,” Donovan said.
“We meet a company we like, we are ready to start the following
Monday.”  The program speeds up the time it takes for a startup to
get a contract by two-thirds, he said. After last year’s
meetings, AT&T has begun collaborating with companies such as
 Apigee Corp. , a maker of software tools, and SundaySky, a
provider of video technology. It’s working on 40 projects, and
11 of them are already being deployed commercially or will be
soon, Donovan said.  This year, AT&T has already heard 91 pitches and started
working with startups on three new projects, Donovan said.  ‘Extremely Active’  Verizon (VZ) , meanwhile, increased its direct investing into
startups by 40 percent in 2010 and an additional 15 percent in
2011. The amount may rise again this year, said  Daniel Keoppel ,
executive director of strategic investments at Verizon in
 Basking Ridge ,  New Jersey . The company expects to make three to
four new investments in the next month, and a dozen investments
this year, he said. Keoppel declined to say how much money is
involved or the total number of startups.  “Over the past couple of years, we’ve been extremely
active,” he said. “We started to develop a decent track record
of making good investments. We got strong support from senior
leadership.”  In 2009, Verizon funded  Entropic Communications Inc. (ENTR) , a
chipmaker that became a key supplier for Verizon’s FiOS
broadband networks and is now a public company. Another
investment, Networks in Motion, eventually created one of
Verizon’s most popular apps, VZ Navigator. It was acquired by
TeleCommunication Systems Inc. for $170 million.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
purchased another Verizon investment, VideoSurf Inc., a video
search engine, last year.  Fast Payback  Verizon’s backing has helped these companies thrive,
Keoppel said. That, in turn, made them more lucrative venture
investments, he said.  “We’ve had some very quick exits, partly because of the
endorsement effect of the company,” Keoppel said.  The startups also can increase revenue quickly by becoming
Verizon suppliers.  “That’s super-powerful for our business,” said Scott
Kveton, chief executive officer of the Verizon-backed startup
 Urban Airship Inc. , which makes mobile marketing software for
the carrier. “We are getting to engage with Verizon on a
variety of potential devices.”  In addition to investing in Urban Airship, Verizon is
currently backing Payfone Inc., a mobile payments provider, and
 Zoove Corp. , which lets users get customized phone numbers. Of
the variety of companies in its startup portfolio, two or three
could eventually go public, Keoppel said.  No Lock on Innovation  “Everyone is looking for growth,” he said. “Nobody --
including the carriers, Apple and Google -- have a lock on
innovation. We are out there looking for investment to help
drive revenue.”  AT&T and Verizon need a way to turn around their declining
profit margins, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. Even with their status as a near-duopoly in
providing U.S. mobile-phone service, the companies are losing
ground, he said.  “At this moment of riotous growth in all things wireless,
the U.S. telecom operators are actually shrinking in real
terms,” he said in a report.  The carriers face mounting competition from cable companies
such as Comcast Corp. And there are new entrants to the market.
That includes  FreedomPop , which will start offering a free
wireless broadband service later this year.  To tap into more entrepreneurial areas, carriers have to
change the way they do business, said Allegis Capital’s
Ackerman. In the past they have focused on pressuring vendors to
cut costs, rather than spurring innovation, he said. Carriers
also take longer to make decisions than startups.  “They operate at different velocities,” Ackerman said.
“This is something they are trying to overcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  