-- Late Payments on CMBS Jump Most in 16 Months, Wells Fargo Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-04-02T17:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/late-payments-on-cmbs-jump-most-in-16-months-wells-fargo-says.html
The delinquency rate on commercial
mortgages packaged into bonds recorded the largest increase
since November 2010 amid a drop-off in the resolution of bad
loans, according to Wells Fargo & Co.  The proportion of payments more than 30 days late rose 42
basis points to 10.04 percent last month, Wells Fargo analysts
said in a March 30 report. Property owners fell behind on $4.3
billion in debt tied to everything from skyscrapers to strip
malls, compared with about $3.3 billion the prior month, the
analysts said.  The rise contrasts with readings last year that signaled an
improvement in the delinquency rate in the roughly $600 billion
commercial-mortgage backed  securities market . March marks the
second month in a row of “meaningful” increases following
“more muted” changes from mid-2011 through January, Credit
Suisse Group AG analysts said of the group’s preliminary
estimates for the month.  The jump in March was driven in part by a slackening in the
pace of troubled loan resolutions, the Wells Fargo analysts, led
by Marielle Jan de Beur, said in the report last week. Loan
servicers worked out $1.8 billion in problem debt last month,
down from $2.8 billion in February, the analysts said.  Additionally, not as many defaulted loans were
extinguished, leading to a pileup of delinquent debt, according
to Harris Trifon, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. About $620
million in mortgages were liquidated in March, meaning the debt
has been written off, according to the bank. That compares with
more than $1 billion in monthly liquidations in 2011. The
deceleration may be a seasonal blip, Trifon said.  “We expect things to return to the situation we observed
in the last couple of months of 2011,” he said.  The delinquency rate will probably remain elevated for the
foreseeable future as borrowers contend with stagnant rents and
persistent vacancies in many U.S. cities, particularly for
office and retail buildings, Trifon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  