-- Aussie Slides Toward 6-Month Low Against Kiwi After RBA
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-04-03T06:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/aussie-kiwi-dollars-remain-higher-before-u-s-report.html
Australia ’s dollar slid toward a
six-month low against its  New Zealand  counterpart after the
larger nation’s  Reserve Bank  signaled a willingness to ease
policy further.  The so-called Aussie weakened against all of its 16 major
peers after the central bank left its benchmark rate unchanged
at 4.25 percent. New Zealand’s dollar held gains against the
U.S. currency after a report showed China’s non-manufacturing
industries expanded last month, boosting the allure of assets
linked to global growth.  “Overall, the tone was quite dovish,” Lee Sue Ann, a
Treasury economist at  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  in Singapore,
said of the Reserve Bank of Australia’s statement. “Interest-
rate expectations are going to fall, and this will continue to
weigh on the Aussie dollar.”  The Australian dollar declined 0.2 percent to NZ$1.2626 as
of 4 p.m. in Sydney from the close in  New York  yesterday. It
reached NZ$1.2595 on March 30, the lowest since Oct. 6. The
currency lost 0.2 percent to $1.0402. New Zealand’s dollar,
nicknamed the kiwi, was little changed at 82.38 U.S. cents after
advancing 0.6 percent yesterday.  Yields (GACGB3)  on Australia’s three-year government bonds dropped
as much as ten basis points to 3.42 percent, a level unseen
since Feb. 7.  The RBA board “thought it prudent to see forthcoming key
data on prices to reassess its outlook for inflation, before
considering a further step to ease monetary policy,” Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said today in a statement. The central bank
maintained the overnight cash-rate target, as forecast by all 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Tighter Budget  Australia’s statistics bureau is scheduled to release the
first-quarter inflation rate on April 24. The nation’s  consumer
prices  rose 1.8 percent last month from a year earlier, the
slowest pace since October 2009, an index compiled by TD
Securities Inc. and the Melbourne Institute showed yesterday.  The central bank’s statement came as Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard  said today the government will deliver a “tough
budget” on May 8 when the Treasury presents a spending plan for
the coming fiscal year.  “If the signal from the budget is deep fiscal cuts, I
guess there is no option for the RBA but to ease monetary policy
to accommodate tighter fiscal conditions,” Christian Carrillo,
head of Asia-Pacific interest-rate strategy in  Tokyo  at Societe
Generale SA, said before the RBA announcement.  Curve Steepener  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Australia’s 10-
year government debt instead of three-year notes increased to 61
basis points today, matching the biggest gap since January and
steepening the so-called yield curve.  “We prefer 3-10 year curve steepeners,”  Damien McColough 
and Timothy Jung, rates strategists at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
wrote in a research note today. The global growth outlook skews
“the risks toward an extension of the easing cycle.”  New Zealand’s two-year interest-rate swap, which exchanges
a fixed rate for a floating one, fell to 3.015 percent, the
lowest level since March 13.  The  Australian Bureau of Statistics  said today that  retail
sales  rose 0.2 percent in February from a month earlier when
they increased 0.3 percent. The most-recent reading matched the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  China’s Outlook  The Australian and New Zealand dollars were still higher
against the U.S. currency than the close at the end of last year
amid speculation China’s demand for commodities will continue to
buoy the South Pacific nations’ economies.  A purchasing managers’ index for  China ’s non-manufacturing
industries climbed to 58 in March on a seasonally adjusted basis
from 57.3 the prior month, the country’s statistics bureau and
logistics federation said today.  The organizations said on April 1 that a separate gauge for
the country’s manufacturing sectors rose to 53.1 last month, a
level unseen in a year and above the February figure of 51.
China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New Zealand’s
second-biggest export destination.  “The fact that we are seeing definitely upbeat figures
from China” is having a positive effect on the Aussie and kiwi,
said Justin Harper, a market strategist in Singapore at IG
Markets. “It’s definitely a shot in the arm for both
currencies.”  The Australian dollar has risen 1.9 percent this year
against the greenback, while the kiwi has advanced 6.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  