-- Australia LNG Boom Threatened by U.S. Shale Exporters
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-04-03T06:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/australia-lng-boom-threatened-by-u-s-shale-exporters-energy.html
Australian liquefied-natural gas
projects planned by companies from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  and valued at about $100 billion are at
risk from rising costs and cheaper U.S. exports.  Natural gas trading at a 10-year low in the U.S. and
discoveries in Africa also threaten to slow the development of
Australian LNG ventures following the approval of eight projects
to meet surging demand from  China ,  Japan  and  South Korea .  Shell’s Arrow Energy Ltd. venture with  PetroChina Co. (857)  may
need to join with a competitor in the northeastern state of
Queensland rather than develop its own LNG production plant,
said David Heard, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst in
Sydney. Perth-based Woodside and its partners in the Browse LNG
project may ultimately choose to feed their gas to an existing
venture in Western  Australia , Macquarie Group Ltd. said.  “You’ve got potential for LNG exports in all sorts of
places, but the elephant in the room is North American exports
because they’re very likely to be cheaper,” Noelle Leonard, a
FACTS Global Energy consultant, said in a telephone interview
from Perth. “We’ve probably come to the end of greenfield
projects in Australia,” a reference to new plants on
undeveloped land.  Along with Shell and Woodside,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Santos
Ltd. (STO)  are among energy producers planning as many as 10 more LNG
ventures or expansions in Australia to meet Asian demand.  Delay Browse  Arrow and Woodside said they’re sticking with their plans
for new plants, although Woodside is seeking to delay Browse.
The Arrow project would cost more than $20 billion, while Browse
may cost as much as $46 billion, Deutsche Bank AG estimates.  Australia, taking advantage of its proximity to  Asia , is
home to more than 70 percent of LNG projects under construction
worldwide, putting it on course to surpass Qatar as the largest
exporter of the fuel by the end of the decade, Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. said in February.  Australia and Qatar sell the commodity to Asia at prices
linked to oil. Buying gas from the U.S. will allow Asian
consumers to pay prices tied to Henry Hub futures, which tumbled
32 percent last year amid record output driven by extraction
from shale.  Cheniere Energy Partners LP (CQP)  estimates the cost to deliver
gas from its proposed Sabine Pass terminal in Louisiana to Asia
at about $9.90 per million British thermal units, based on Henry
Hub prices at $4, plus capacity fees, shipping costs and fuel.  Record Price  Japan, the world’s biggest buyer of LNG, paid a record
average price of $16.96 per million British thermal units in
November. The cost of the cargoes delivered to Japan in February
was 65,552 yen a ton ($799), up 27 percent from a year earlier,
according to the  finance ministry . That’s equivalent to about
$15.36 per million Btu.  Woodside, Australia’s second-biggest oil producer, is
seeking government approval to delay Browse until 2013. The
company must decide whether to go ahead with the LNG development
by mid-2012 under the government’s “use-it-or-lose-it” policy
for oil and gas resources.  An alternative to building the Browse plant at the James
Price Point site in Australia’s Kimberley region is to send gas
to the Woodside-led North West Shelf LNG development, said
 Adrian Wood , a Sydney-based analyst at Macquarie Group.  “It would be a positive for Woodside’s investment case if
management said James Price Point is frankly too much risk for
too modest a return,” Wood said by phone.  Share Slump  Woodside’s shares have slumped 26 percent in the 12 months
through April 3, more than the 11 percent drop in the  Bloomberg
World Oil & Gas Index. (BWOILP)  The Australian energy company fell 0.2
percent to A$35.28 in Sydney, compared with the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index’s 0.2 percent gain.  Woodside hasn’t changed the plan to build the processing
facilities at the proposed site near James Price Point, the
company said in a March 26 e-mail response to questions.  The eight projects under development in Australia have a
planned production capacity of almost 70 million tons a year.  The nation has further plants or expansions with annual
capacity of about 60 million tons that are possible or
speculative, Bernstein said. That’s almost a quarter of the
potential additional supply globally, according to the report.  Australia, facing the prospect of increasing supply from
places including the U.S.,  Canada , Mozambique and  Russia , also
must contend with rising labor and material costs. Woodside last
year increased the estimated cost of its Pluto venture for a
third time in 19 months to A$14.9 billion ($15.5 billion).  ‘Commercial Compromise’  The threats of increasing supply competition and rising
construction costs in Australia will probably lead developers to
consider sharing infrastructure and processing facilities or
supplying gas to existing projects, Heard of Merrill Lynch said.
Arrow may seek to acquire a stake in an expansion unit with a
rival such as Santos Ltd. or sell its gas to one of the ventures
already advancing on  Curtis Island , he said.  “We’ll see commercial compromise,” Heard said in a phone
interview.  Brisbane-based Arrow plans to decide in late 2013 whether
to develop an LNG export project in Queensland, the company
reiterated in an e-mailed response to questions. Arrow, the
coal-seam gas producer acquired by Shell and PetroChina in 2010,
bought Bow Energy Ltd. last year for A$535 million, gaining more
resources to support the planned development.  Arrow’s venture does have an advantage over other proposed
projects in Australia. Parent companies Shell and PetroChina
have agreed to acquire 100 percent of the LNG from the proposed
development, Arrow said in the March 30 e-mail.  To be sure, suppliers such as  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) ,
ConocoPhillips’s partner in the Australia Pacific LNG project
approved last year, have said they expect Asian demand will be
strong enough to support future Australian and U.S. ventures.  ‘Very Confident’  “The real question is, ‘What’s the risk?’” Grant King,
managing director of Origin, said in a Feb. 23 interview in
Sydney. “You’d need to be very confident that U.S. prices will
remain below $6 long term, and that would be a big call to make.
We will see some exports from the U.S., but we don’t think the
volume would overwhelm demand for LNG.”  Among other potential LNG ventures in Australia are
Woodside’s Sunrise development and Santos’s Bonaparte project.
Sunrise may cost about $13 billion, Deutsche Bank said in a
March 23 note. The report didn’t give a Bonaparte estimate. Gas
resources held by Conoco and  Karoon Gas Australia Ltd. (KAR)  may
support a A$20 billion LNG project, according to Deutsche Bank.  “Arrow, Browse, Bonaparte LNG have all been identified as
projects the proponents would like us to seriously consider,”
Heard said. “All of those might struggle at least until there
is softening in cost inflation and bottlenecks.”  Woodside plans to expand Pluto, while  Chevron (CVX)  wants to
increase capacity at its A$43 billion Gorgon venture off
northwest Australia. BG, Santos and Origin also may expand their
projects on Queensland’s Curtis Island.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  