-- Australia’s Labor Party Falls in Poll After Queensland Loss
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-04-02T02:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/australia-s-labor-party-drops-in-survey-after-queensland-defeat.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor Party lost support in an opinion poll taken
after a defeat in Queensland state, falling behind the
opposition Liberal-National coalition by 20 percentage points.  Labor had 27 percent support in the Nielsen poll conducted
March 29-31 and published in today’s Sydney Morning Herald,
compared with 47 percent for the coalition led by  Tony Abbott .
In the previous poll conducted Feb. 22-23, Labor had backing
from 34 percent of respondents to 44 percent for Abbott’s group.  Labor’s landslide defeat in the March 24 Queensland vote
deepened Gillard’s woes on the national level ahead of elections
due in 2013. The loss left Gillard with allies governing just
two of the nation’s six states and her party is expected to lose
44 of the 51 seats it held in the state’s regional parliament.  “Labor is suffering in the polls after all the negativity
that came out in the Queensland election,” said  Malcolm
Mackerras , a political analyst at the Australian Catholic
University in Canberra. “The party should bounce back to a
degree as it now has a chance to get its message through to the
voters, but a win in next year’s federal election from here
looks highly improbable.”  The latest Nielsen poll of 1,400 people had a margin of
error of 2.8 percent.  Federal Seats  Today’s survey is at least the second to show support for
Labor falling after last month’s vote in Queensland, a state
that accounted for more than half the federal seats the party
lost in 2010. Should voters replicate Labor’s 15.7 percentage
point state loss on a national level, the party would lose all
eight of its federal seats, including that of Treasurer and
Deputy Prime Minister  Wayne Swan .  In a Newspoll survey published in the Australian newspaper
March 27, Abbott’s coalition led the  Labor party  by 12
percentage points. The survey of 1,153 people conducted March
9-11 had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Gillard’s minority government, which needs the backing of
independent and Green party lawmakers to pass legislation, is
set to introduce laws on July 1 that will tax  carbon emissions 
and the profits of iron-ore and coal producers including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Group. (RIO)   Parliament is on hiatus until May 8, when the government
will announce its annual budget that seeks to balances a drop in
revenue with a pledge to deliver a surplus in the 12 months
through June next year. Gillard said yesterday returning the
budget to surplus is “the right thing to do” while pledging to
support jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  