-- Avon Said to See Some Strategic Benefits to Merger With Coty
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n   L o c h n e r   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-04-02T17:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/avon-said-to-see-some-strategic-benefits-to-a-merger-with-coty.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , the target of an
unsolicited $10 billion offer from Coty Inc., sees some
strategic benefits in a combination and previously considered
buying the fragrances seller, according to a person with
knowledge of the situation.  Coty’s cash proposal of $23.25 a share is 20 percent higher
than Avon’s closing price on March 30. Avon rejected the offer,
saying a deal wouldn’t be in the best interests of shareholders.
For now, Avon is focused on finding a chief executive officer
and close to choosing a replacement for current CEO  Andrea Jung ,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
matter is private.  Avon, based in  New York , could become open to talks once a
CEO is selected, the person said. Avon is looking to reverse
slowing sales amid an internal probe that prompted a 40 percent
drop in its  shares  last year. Coty, the seller of perfumes by
Heidi Klum and  Beyonce Knowles , is making the proposal public to
get shareholders interested in a deal that would triple its $4.5
billion in annual sales.  “Coty clearly wants to do this deal,”  Ali Dibadj , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York., said today
in a telephone interview. “This is something that the Avon
board should seriously consider.”  Avon  rose  16 percent to $22.54 at 1:30 p.m. in New York.  CEO Search  “We are committed to hiring a new CEO and executing
against what the company believes are its strong long-term
prospects,” Jennifer Dwyer Vargas, an Avon spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement. “The  board  has been clear that with a
new CEO, it believes there will be greater opportunity to
improve  shareholder value .”  A spokesman for New York-based Coty didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Buying Avon would give Coty, owned by the largest investor
in European consumer-products maker  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB) ,
a new door-to-door channel for selling its cosmetics. The
takeover would be the biggest in the industry since  Procter &
Gamble Co .’s 2005 purchase of Gillette Co. for $57.3 billion
including debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bart Becht, Reckitt Benckiser’s former chief executive
officer, became Coty’s chairman in November. Becht expanded
Slough, England-based Reckitt Benckiser with acquisitions
including Durex condom-maker SSL International Plc in 2010 and
Adams Respiratory Therapeutics Inc. in 2007.  Emerging Markets  Coty, which holds perfume licenses for brands including
 Calvin Klein  and  Marc Jacobs , is owned by Joh A. Benckiser SE.
Founded in 1904 in Paris by Corsican-born Francois Coty, the
company helped develop perfume into a mass product, with 36
million consumers two decades later. Coty’s previous purchases
include $400 million for a majority stake in Chinese skin-care
company TJoy Holdings Ltd. in December 2010.  Coty said that Avon has a “strong presence” in  emerging
markets , where 68 percent of its  revenue  comes from. Avon’s
door-to-door distribution system in countries such as  Brazil  and
 China  will create growth and earnings opportunities for Coty,
which derives 26 percent of its revenue from emerging markets,
according to a statement today.  “Avon also brings with it manufacturing facilities in
China and Brazil, both key targets for Coty,” Vivienne Rudd,
head of Beauty & Personal Care Insight at Mintel in  London , said
today in an e-mail. “ Latin America  is Avon’s largest region,
and the only one to turn in sales growth in its fourth quarter.
It is also a region where Coty’s coverage is relatively light,
hampered by the lack of a cohesive prestige retail channel.”  Potential IPO  “Step by step we are building ourselves up in developing
markets,” Coty Chief Executive Officer Bernd Beetz said in an
interview in February. “We have the goal of going into
developing markets.”  Beetz said in a separate interview in January that selling
shares to the public is also an option for Coty.  There have been almost 300 cosmetics and toiletries
takeovers in the past decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The median price to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization paid in 30 of those deals was
10.8, compared with the 8.9 Coty has offered to pay for Avon,
Bloomberg data show.  Avon had $11.3 billion in  sales  last year. The company’s
direct selling model is losing ground as more traditional retail
develops in countries such as Brazil, where competitors such as
Procter & Gamble and  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL)  are vying for spending
from rapidly growing middle and affluent consumers. At the same
time, business in developed markets has lagged.  Top Paid Executive  Avon is investigating potential violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which outlaws bribing foreign
officials. Avon also said in October that the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission is probing the company’s foreign
operations and its dealings with analysts.  At Reckitt Benckiser, Becht was among the U.K.’s top-
earning executives. He had a 90 million-pound gain on share
options in 2009 and received more than 18 million pounds in
compensation in 2010, including more than 14 million pounds from
the exercise of options and performance-based restricted shares.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Centerview Partners LLP are
advising Avon. BDT & Co. is arranging equity financing for Joh
A. Benckiser, while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is working on debt
financing, according to the statement. BDT, JPMorgan and
Blackstone Group LP are providing financial advice to Coty,
while Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP gave legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net 
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net 
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net 
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  