-- Lazard’s $35 Million Fee for Medco May Be Its Biggest Since 2002
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-04-02T23:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/lazard-s-35-million-fee-for-medco-may-be-its-biggest-since-2002.html
Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ’s fee for advising  Medco
Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  on its takeover by  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  is
the advisory firm’s biggest in a decade, according to researcher
Freeman & Co.  Medco agreed to pay Lazard, the largest independent merger
adviser, and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  about $35 million each if its
takeover by Express Scripts was completed, according to a Nov.
18 regulatory filing. The Federal Trade Commission approved the
$29.1 billion purchase by a 3-1 vote today.  That amount would be the biggest that Hamilton, Bermuda-
based Lazard has received since it got an estimated $66 million
fee for advising DHL on its sale to Deutsche Post AG about 10
years ago, said Lam Nguyen, a director at New York-based
Freeman. It is also Lazard’s biggest publicly disclosed fee, he
said. The sum may be a boon to Lazard, whose revenue from
mergers and acquisitions fell 36 percent to $167.1 million in
the fourth quarter.  “This is certainly a good one for Lazard,” said Steve Kaplan, a professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business. “We weren’t sure what the government was going to do
on this and so there was clearly some risk involved in working
on this deal.”  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  will receive $25 million for
advising Express Scripts on the deal, with an additional $10
million possible at the “sole discretion” of the company,
according to the filing.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  will get $15 million,
the filing shows.  Lazard ranks 13th for advising global deals this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Morgan Stanley is the
top adviser and JPMorgan is in second place.  Judi Mackey, a spokeswoman for Lazard, declined to comment.
Jack Grone, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, and Mark Costiglio, a
spokesman for Citigroup, declined to comment. Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  