-- Barclays Names Lehman Veteran Wieseneck to New Strategy Role
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-02T16:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/barclays-names-lehman-veteran-wieseneck-to-new-strategy-role.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  named Larry Wieseneck
to a new role of chief strategy officer for corporate and
 investment banking  and said John Langley and Joe McGrath will
take over the capital markets unit that Wieseneck ran.  Wieseneck, 46, who led or co-led the underwriting business
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and then Barclays since 2003,
will assume his new duties immediately and report to Jerry del Missier and Rich Ricci, co-heads of the London-based bank’s
securities unit, according to an internal memo from del Missier
and Ricci obtained by Bloomberg News.  Mark Lane , a spokesman for
Barclays in  New York , confirmed the memo’s contents.  “Barclays is operating in an environment of significant
regulatory and market change, and we must remain disciplined and
coordinated as we continue to gain momentum,” they said in the
memo. The strategy team led by Reto Kohler will report to
Wieseneck, who will also assume Justin Bull’s responsibilities
for managing del Missier and Ricci’s office and acting as their
chief of staff.  Langley, based in  London , and McGrath, in New York, will
report to Hugh “Skip” McGee, head of global investment
banking, and will join that division’s executive committee,
according to a company statement.  Langley, 43, who has a background in interest-rate and
currency derivatives, joined Barclays from Merrill Lynch & Co.
in 2006 and had been head of global risk solutions since early
2011. McGrath, 48, head of global leveraged finance since 2010,
joined the bank in 2006 from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Lehman Purchase  In their role as co-heads of the global finance and risk-
solutions business within investment banking, Langley and
McGrath will oversee equity capital markets, debt capital
markets, leveraged finance, loans and risk solutions, according
to the company’s statement.  Barclays ranks fourth this year in managing corporate bond
sales, sixth in managing sales of high-yield debt globally and
ninth in worldwide equity and equity-linked offerings, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays, the second-biggest U.K. bank, expanded its
securities unit with a 2008 acquisition of parts of Lehman
Brothers in the U.S.  Wieseneck, who joined Lehman in 1997, had overseen  equity
capital markets  before his business merged in 2003 with debt
capital markets run by Jeffrey L. Weiss. The two ran those
operations together until 2007, when Weiss became head of the
financial institutions group within investment banking. Barclays
said last week that Weiss, 51, plans to leave the bank in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 