-- Bayer Loses Bid to Bar Class Action in Sex-Bias Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-02T22:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/bayer-loses-bid-to-bar-class-action-in-sex-bias-lawsuit-1-.html
U.S. units of German drugmaker  Bayer
AG (BAYN)  failed to prevent eight women from pursuing a group lawsuit
claiming the company discriminated in pay and promotions, and
showed bias based on pregnancy and family responsibilities.  A judge today denied Bayer’s request to bar the case from
being considered for a class-action, a decision that will be
made later in the litigation. The complaint, filed in federal
court in  Newark , New Jersey, claims women endure “disregard and
indifference for concerns or complaints about discrimination and
sexual harassment pervades every corner of the company.”  The women, suing under the U.S. Equal Pay Act, cited
promotions and disparities in pay compared with men in similar
positions to survive Bayer’s motion to dismiss, U.S. District
Judge Dennis Cavanaugh ruled. He also said the women met their
burden so far in showing Bayer may have violated Title VII of
the U.S. Civil Right Act of 1964.  The complaint “as a whole sufficiently shows that female
employees felt adverse effects at work especially in terms of
opportunities for promotion and the privilege of maternity
leave, despite the existence of facially neutral policies,”
Cavanaugh ruled on March 30.  The women sued Pittsburgh-based Bayer Corp., as well as
Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceuticals, Bayer Healthcare Consumer
Care, and 12 individuals. A spokesman for Bayer, Bryan Iams,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  “What the defendants were asking the court was
premature,” said Katherine Kimpel, an attorney at Sanford
Wittels & Heisler LLP who represents the women. “They were
trying to get rid of the class-action portion of the case, and
they lost it at this stage.”  The case is Victoria Barghout v. Bayer Healthcare
Pharmaceuticals, 11-cv-1576, U.S. District Court, District of
 New Jersey  (Newark). 