-- BDO Falls on Biggest Philippine Share Sale Plan: Manila Mover
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   Y a p   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-04-03T03:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/bdo-to-raise-up-to-1-billion-in-biggest-philippine-share-sale.html
BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO) , the largest
Philippine lender, dropped the most in more than five months on
plans to raise as much as $1 billion in the nation’s biggest
share sale to boost funds ahead of stricter capital guidelines.  BDO’s  board  approved a plan to boost core capital through a
one-for-three rights offer that may be sold at a 20 percent to
25 percent discount, the lender said in a  statement  to the
Philippine Stock Exchange yesterday, without providing details
on the timing of the sale. The additional capital anticipates
more stringent requirements of the Basel III accord and provides
a “sufficient buffer” for the bank to expand, it said.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  proposes increasing banks’
minimum capital adequacy ratio to 12.5 percent from the current
10 percent and doubling the Tier 1 ratio from 5 percent
effective January 2014, BDO said yesterday. BDO’s capital
adequacy ratio is currently at 15.6 percent and Tier 1 at 10.2
percent, it said.  “The market can absorb the size of the sale considering
it’s among the country’s top three biggest universal lenders and
given the liquidity at home and abroad,” said Rico Gomez, who
helps manage about $1.52 billion at Manila-based Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. “It’s taking advantage of the low
interest environment and the abundant liquidity in financial
markets. It’s a very smart move to do this now.”  BDO shares fell 5.5 percent to 61.90 pesos as of 11:00 a.m.
in  Manila , heading for the biggest loss since Sept. 23. The
stock sank as much as 6.9 percent earlier today. The decline
pared the gain this year to 4.9 percent, compared with a 17
percent advance in the benchmark  Philippine Stock Exchange Index. (PCOMP)   Record Low Rates  Bangko Sentral’s benchmark overnight borrowing rate is at 4
percent, a record low. Funds in the central bank’s overnight and
special deposit accounts, a gauge of  surplus cash , climbed to
almost 1.86 trillion pesos ($43.5 billion) in the week ended
March 16.  Cebu Air Inc. (CEB) , the largest Philippine budget carrier, held
the nation’s largest share sale when it raised $539 million in
an initial public offering in 2010, in dollar terms.  Investors  SM Investments Corp. (SM) , International Finance Corp.
and  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  support the plan, BDO said. SM
Investments, which owns 50.3 percent of  BDO , will subscribe to
its proportionate share and buy stocks not taken up by other
shareholders, the lender said.  “The rights offer should be compensated by growth moving
forward,” said Erwin Balita, an analyst at SB Equities Inc.
”It’s pretty timely. Everybody embraces a rights offer in a
bullish market.”  Net income rose 19 percent to 10.5 billion pesos in 2011
after loans rose 24 percent to 670.1 billion pesos, BDO said in
February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at   cbatino@bloomberg.net  