-- Bettencourt’s Ex-Butler Charged in Inquiry Over Tapes
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-04-02T13:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/bettencourt-s-ex-butler-charged-in-privacy-inquiry-over-tapes.html
The former butler of  L’Oreal (OR)  SA
heiress Liliane Bettencourt has been charged with violating her
privacy after he secretly recorded her conversations with
advisers in an attempt to show they may have been manipulating
 France ’s richest woman.  Pascal Bonnefoy was charged on March 14 with infringing the
89-year-old’s privacy, his lawyer, Antoine Gillot, said in a
telephone interview today.  The charges by judges leading the investigation in
 Bordeaux , France “were predictable given the facts” and
Bonnefoy “explained how he did it and why he did it,” Gillot
said. “In terms of his guilt, there it’s debatable” as he
“did questionable things with the goal of stopping more serious
crimes.”  Bonnefoy recorded Bettencourt, daughter of the L’Oreal
founder, for a year prior to his departure in May 2010. He then
turned the tapes over to Bettencourt’s daughter, Francoise Bettencourt Meyers, for use in her pursuit of a photographer
friend she accused of taking advantage of her ailing mother for
gifts estimated at about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion). The
tapes were leaked and appeared in the press in June 2010,
increasing pressure on investigators to advance and expand the
case.  Reporters and editors at Le Point magazine and Mediapart, a
investigative news website, have been charged or summoned to
face charges in the violation-of-privacy probe.  Bonnefoy “might have an idea” how the excerpts wound up
in the press, though “it was absolutely not him” who leaked
the tapes, Gillot said.  Investigating judges have charged others including
photographer Francois-Marie Banier, Patrice de Maistre,
Bettencourt’s former financial adviser, and  Eric Woerth , former
budget minister and treasurer to President Nicolas Sarkozy’s
party, in inquiries stemming from the allegations Bettencourt
was duped into giving away money and gifts by her friends and
advisors. All deny the accusations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  