-- BlackRock’s Watt Says Fed to Prevent Yield Blowout: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-02T19:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/blackrock-s-watt-says-fed-to-prevent-yield-blowout-tom-keene.html
Ewen Cameron Watt, chief investment
strategist at the BlackRock Investment Institute, said Treasury
yields won’t rise sharply this year with the Federal Reserve
buying debt and maintaining an expanded balance sheet.  “We don’t think that there’s going to be a big blowout in
terms of yields going to a three-handle plus,” referring to a
rise to 3 percent or greater on the 10-year Treasury note,
Cameron Watt said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. There are
“buyers lying in wait in this financial repression. Equally,
all of us know that the Fed has been pretty responsible for all
of the action so far this year.”  The 30-year bond yield, at 3.35 percent today, would likely
be about 0.7 percentage point higher if not for the Fed’s
purchases of long-term debt as part of a plan to keep borrowing
costs low, he said. The central bank is replacing $400 billion
of shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt
under the program that has become known as Operation Twist,
which is due to end in June.  Treasuries rose earlier as the Fed bought $4.5 billion of
notes in the first of four rounds of purchases over three days
that equals the most by the central bank since December. Yields
on  10-year (USGG10YR)  notes fell as much as five basis points before
trading little changed at 2.19 percent at 3:35 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Rick Rieder, chief investment officer for fundamental
fixed-income portfolios at BlackRock, wrote in a March 28 report
that yields on 10-year notes may rise to as high as 3 percent by
the end the year in what may be the end of the three-decade
rally in bonds. New York-based BlackRock Inc. is the world’s
biggest money manager with about $3.5 trillion of assets.  Primary Dealers  Cameron Watt leads the institute’s events and debates that
bring together BlackRock’s investment leaders and chairs the
central strategy group. He joined BlackRock in 1985.  After rising to as high as 2.40 percent last month from
1.88 percent at the end of 2011, the  yield  on the benchmark 10-
year note will finish 2012 at 2.49 percent, according to the
average estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. That’s the same as a January
poll, suggesting the market isn’t ready to declare a  bear market 
in bonds after a 30-year bull run.  Signs of strength in the economy caused a 5.56 percent loss
in bonds maturing in 10 years or more last quarter. With
inflation in check, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week
that the central bank will consider further stimulus, even after
upgrading its economic outlook March 13.  ‘Price-Keeping Operation’  Financial repression is when “you buy securities at a
price that you wouldn’t otherwise do so,” said Cameron Watt in
the interview. The Fed’s purchases are “a price-keeping
operation. The problem is that if individual investors start to
think that a Treasury bond -- as opposed to a bill -- is a money
market fund with a yield,” said Cameron Watt, who predicted the
10-year Treasury yield would end the year in the 2.6 percent to
2.8 percent range.  “That’s quite a lot of loss on something that is supposed
to be low on volatility and high on security,” London-based
Cameron Watt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  