-- Boies Hire, Verrilli Ad, Justice Tax Chief: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-04-02T16:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/boies-hire-verrilli-ad-justice-tax-chief-business-of-law-1-.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission lawyer Andrew Michaelson, who handled  insider trading 
cases including that of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, is joining  Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP (3416874L)  as a
partner.  Michaelson spent six years at the SEC, including four years
as a special assistant U.S. attorney in the Southern District of
New York’s Securities and Commodities Fraud Task Force.
Michaelson worked at Boies Schiller for three years before
joining the SEC.  Rajaratnam was sentenced last year to 11 years in prison
for masterminding an insider-trading scheme, one of the longest
terms ever for insider trading.  “The leadership of this firm strongly believes that
government experience enhances a lawyer’s ability to counsel and
defend his or her clients,” Boies managing partner Donald L. Flexner said in a statement.  Dewey Loses Antitrust Litigator O’Kelly to Arent Fox  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP (1151L)  lost another partner as antitrust
lawyer Eamon O’Kelly moved to  Arent Fox LLP (1377L)  last week. In a
statement March 30, Arent said that O’Kelly, who was previously
co-chair of Dewey’s antitrust practice, will focuses on
antitrust, complex commercial litigation, arbitration, and
contract disputes.  Dewey has had 38 partners leave since the start of the
year, according an  article  in The American Lawyer magazine.  The New York-based law firm lost 12 insurance and
regulatory lawyers to  Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP (1179L)  on March 17.  A call to Dewey’s spokesman Angelo Kakolyris wasn’t
returned.  Caisley to Join Allen & Overy’s Dispute Resolution Practice  Allen & Overy LLP (323556L)  announced March 29 the appointment of
Lawson Caisley as a partner in its dispute resolution practice
in  London . He joins Allen & Overy after spending 20 years at
 Hogan Lovells LLP (1131L) , the firm said in a statement.  He has been involved in complex disputes in the English
courts for financial institutions in the life assurance and
asset management sectors.  Allen & Overy has boosted its global dispute resolution
capabilities by increasing the number of partners in the group
by more than 40 percent in the past five years through internal
promotions and lateral hiring, the firm said in a statement.
confirmed the news.  Fees  Stanford’s Victims Oppose Fee Increase Sought by Receiver Janvey  Ralph Janvey, court-appointed receiver helping former
clients of convicted Texas financier R. Allen Stanford, is
facing opposition to a request for a pay raise from those
clients.  Janvey and his team of professionals have been paid more
than $45 million since they were appointed to oversee Stanford’s
assets, which were seized by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in February 2009, according to a filing March 30 by
the Official Stanford Investors Committee in federal court in
 Dallas .  Janvey filed a court request this month for a 10 percent
boost in his hourly rate and a 10 percent reduction in the
amount the Dallas judge presiding over Stanford’s civil case has
ordered held back from the receivership’s billings. The amount
held back is $14 million, according to the filing.  “During this same time, the investor victims have not
recovered a single penny, as there have been no distributions,”
lawyers for the investors’ committee said in the March 30
filing. “Given the current state of this receivership, the
committee cannot agree to giving the receiver’s professionals
what is widely perceived within the investor community as a
‘raise.’”  Stanford, 62, was convicted on March 6 of 13 criminal
counts tied to allegations he defrauded investors through the
sale of bogus certificates of deposit at his Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank. He faces more than 20 years in
prison when he’s sentenced on June 14.  Kevin Sadler, Janvey’s lawyer, urged U.S. District Judge
David Godbey in Dallas in a March 9 filing to grant the pay
increase on the grounds the receiver’s team has been working at
below-market rates and hasn’t had a raise in three years. He
also claimed that receivers for equally high-profile fraud cases
are getting significantly higher pay for similar work.  The trustee working to compensate victims defrauded by New
York financier  Bernard Madoff  is charging $765 an hour while his
lead lawyers receive $750 to $850 an hour, Sadler said in the
Janvey fee-request filing.  In contrast, Janvey said he’s receiving just $272 an hour
and his lead lawyers are paid $365 to $444 an hour, after
discounts and holdbacks ordered by the judge in the Stanford
case are factored in, according to the filing.  The SEC and a court-appointed examiner who represents
investors in the case both oppose raising the hourly pay rate
for the receivership team, according to Janvey’s filing. The
regulators and the examiner agree the holdback should be dialed
back to 10 percent from the current 20 percent, according to the
filing.  As of Oct. 31, Janvey’s most recent accounting of the
Stanford receivership’s assets, the estate had total cash on
hand of $114.5 million.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  Government Lawyers  U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli was the target of a
Republican Party Internet advertisement that altered the audio
of  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  oral arguments in an attack on President
Barack Obama’s health-care law, Bloomberg News’ Julie Hirschfeld
Davis and Greg Stohr report.  In a web ad  circulated  last week, the  Republican National
Committee  excerpted the opening seconds of the March 27
presentation by Verrilli. In the ad, he is heard struggling for
words and twice stopping to drink water.  “Obamacare,” the ad concludes, in words shown against a
photograph of the high court. “It’s a tough sell.”  A review of a transcript and recordings of those moments
shows that Verrilli took a sip of water just once, paused for a
much briefer period and completed his thought -- rather than
stuttering and trailing off as heard in the edited version.  RNC Communications Director Sean Spicer said the video was
a “mash-up,” condensing and splicing together several separate
pauses and stutters by Verrilli during the first two minutes of
his argument, produced to illustrate how much difficulty he had
defending the health-care law.  “Are there multiple clips in that video? Yes,” Spicer
said. “The point was that he continually had to stop because he
was having trouble making the case for why Obamacare was
valid.”  The  Democratic National Committee  declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Keneally Confirmed to Lead Justice Department Tax Division  The  U.S. Senate  confirmed  New York  attorney Kathryn
Keneally as assistant attorney general of the  Justice
Department ’s tax division, where she will help run crackdowns on
 identity theft  and offshore  tax evasion .  Keneally, a partner at  Fulbright & Jaworski LLP (1126L) , was
President Barack Obama’s second choice after an earlier nominee,
Mary L. Smith, was blocked by lawmakers. Keneally was among
scores of nominees confirmed yesterday by the Senate for top
government jobs. The Senate also confirmed Michael Horowitz, a
Washington-based lawyer, as inspector general.  Keneally will lead more than 300 civil and criminal lawyers
who handle a wide range of investigations and litigation.
Bloomberg News reported March 27 that the division lost almost
30 percent of its 95 prosecutors in the past month, slowing a
U.S. crackdown on offshore banks that enabled tax evasion,
according to four people familiar with the matter.  Many of the lawyers handled cases involving foreign banks
or financial advisers suspected of helping U.S. clients cheat on
taxes, the people said. The transfers came amid criminal probes
of at least 11 Swiss financial institutions, including Credit
Suisse Group AG, with the tax division leading or assisting each
prosecution.  The division investigates identity theft, illegal tax
shelters and other crimes, while approving every tax case filed
by the 94 presidentially appointed U.S. attorneys serving the
Justice Department around the country.  For more, click here.  Wins  Baker Botts Associate Evan Young Wins Supreme Court Argument  Baker Botts LLP (1143L)  associate  Evan Young  won a U.S. Supreme
Court case that affirmed a district court has discretion to
order a defendant’s federal sentence be consecutive to an
anticipated state sentence that hasn’t yet been imposed.  Young, a former law clerk to Justice Antonin Scalia, was
appointed amicus curiae in the drug case when the government
supported the petitioner, Monroe Setser, in challenging the
Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling.  Young argued against the government’s position, which would
have given the Bureau of Prisons the power to decide whether the
federal and state sentences should be served consecutively or
concurrently.  Young, whose litigation and appellate practice rarely
includes criminal sentencing, said the opportunity gave him
important experience. “What this case was really about was how
to understand a complicated statute and the allocation of
authority among different part of the federal government.”  Nanda Chitre, from the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office
of Public Affairs declined to comment.  The March 28 decision was 6-3, written by Scalia, who was
joined by Justices John Roberts,  Clarence Thomas ,  Samuel Alito ,
 Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan .  Justice  Stephen Breyer , joined by Justices Anthony Kennedy
and  Ruth Bader Ginsburg , dissented.  The case is Setser v. U.S., 10-7387, U.S. Supreme Court
( Washington ).  Moves  McDermott Adds Four IP Lawyers in Silicon Valley Office  McDermott Will & Emery LLP (1121L)  announced March 29 the
appointment of intellectual property litigator Fabio Marino, as
a partner in its Silicon Valley office. Marino, previously at
Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, is bringing three additional
lawyers with him to McDermott. They are: of counsel Judith S.H.
Hom and associates Nitin Gambhir and Barrington E. Dyer, the
firm said in a statement.  With these appointments, McDermott has expanded its
intellectual property practice in the Silicon Valley office by
six lawyers  in the past 30 days, the firm said.  A call to Orrick spokesman David Schaefer wasn’t returned.  McKenna Long’s Toranto Joins Sheppard Mullin in San Diego  Real estate lawyer Tony Toranto has joined  Sheppard,
Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP (1215L)  as a partner in the firm’s  San
Diego  office. Toranto will work in both the real estate,  land
use  and environmental practice group and the corporate and
energy groups. Toranto joins from  McKenna Long & Aldridge (1263L)  in San
Diego.  Sabrina P. McGowan, McKenna’s public relations manager,
didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment on
Toranto.  Sharp Electronics General Counsel Moves to Little Mendelson  Employment and labor law firm  Littler Mendelson PC (1190L)  added
Bradley A. Siciliano to its corporate ethics & compliance
practice as a shareholder in the firm’s New York office.  Prior to joining Littler, Siciliano served as general
counsel and corporate secretary for Sharp Electronics Corp.  Deals  Cooley Advises Millennial Media in Initial Public Offering  Cooley LLP (1160L)  advised  Millennial Media Inc. (MM)  in its initial
public offering of common stock, the firm said in a statement.  Millennial, a seller of advertising space on mobile
devices, almost doubled in its first day of trading March 29, a
sign investors have a growing appetite for providers of mobile
services.  The Baltimore-based company lets advertisers target
consumers through smartphone and tablet applications. The
initial public offering is seen as a barometer for interest in
other would-be IPOs that rely on mobile technology.  The Cooley team was led by Brent Siler and Brian Leaf and
also included Ryan Naftulin, Darren DeStefano, Tim Emmet, Katie
Kazem and Linh Su, with help on compensation and benefits
matters from Wendy Davis and Ashlie Lawton.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  