-- Brazil Real Holds Near 2 1/2-Month Low on Intervention Concern
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-04-02T21:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/brazil-real-holds-near-2-1-2-month-low-on-intervention-correct-.html
Brazil ’s real held at almost the
lowest level in 2 1/2 months on speculation the central bank
will keep intervening to weaken the currency.  The currency depreciated 0.3 percent to 1.8323 per  U.S.
dollar . It touched 1.8379 on March 29, the weakest level since
Jan. 9.  The real slid 6 percent last month in the biggest drop
among the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg as
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  expanded financial taxes to
discourage capital inflows and the central bank stepped up
dollar purchases.  “The market is expecting some sort of action from the
central bank,” Italo Abucater, head of  currency trading  at Icap
do Brasil Ctvm, said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .  The government extended on March 12 a 6 percent tax on
foreign loans and bonds issued abroad to include lending with a
duration of as much as five years. The tax, which originally
applied to foreign borrowing of up to two years, had already
been extended on March 1 to include loans of three years. The
government also began taxing some foreign exporter loans under
advance payment agreements.  Yields on interest-rate futures fell on speculation that
reports in the next few days will show the economy remains weak
and inflation continues to slow, giving policy makers room to
keep cutting borrowing costs. The yield on the overnight futures
contract due in January 2014 decreased nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, to 9.44 percent.  ‘Weak’ Output  Industrial production dropped 5.8 percent in February from
a year ago after sinking 3.4 percent in the previous month,
according to the median of estimates compiled by Bloomberg
before tomorrow’s report from the government statistics agency.  The annual inflation rate fell to 5.4 percent last month
from 5.85 percent in February, according to the median forecast
of economists before an April 5 report. The central bank, which
has an inflation target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent, has
cut the benchmark rate 2.75 percentage points since August to
9.75 percent in a bid to bolster growth.  “Inflation expectations are coming down,” said Thiago Carlos, economist at Link SA CCTVM, in a phone interview from
Sao Paulo. “And the prediction continues to be that industrial
production is weak.”  The central bank, in its quarterly inflation report March
29, said inflation will slow to the 4.5 percent target by year-
end and then rebound to 5.3 percent in 2013 if policy makers
fulfill economists’ forecasts for them to cut the benchmark rate
to 9 percent this year and raise it to 10 percent in 2013.  Industry Stimulus  Investors are waiting for details of a planned stimulus
package for the manufacturing industry, causing low trading
volume that accentuated today’s drop in yields on rate futures,
said Italo Lombardi, a New York-based Latin America economist at
Standard Chartered Bank.  President  Dilma Rousseff  will announce tomorrow a plan to
increase lending by the country’s development bank, BNDES, by 18
billion reais ($10 billion) to support domestic industries
affected by the strong real, O Estado de S. Paulo reported,
without saying where it got the information.  The government also plans to increase the number of
industries entitled to the financing, reduce  interest rates  and
extend the maturities of the loans, according to O Estado.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  