-- Breast Cancer Screening May Overdiagnose by Up to 25%
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/breast-cancer-screening-may-overdiagnose-by-up-to-25-.html
As many as one in four cancers
picked up in routine breast screenings pose no threat to a
woman’s health, according to a study whose authors raise
questions on whether screening programs should continue.  Among almost 40,000 women diagnosed with invasive breast
cancer in  Norway  over nine years, between 15 percent and 25
percent had tumors that wouldn’t have progressed to a harmful
degree or wouldn’t have had time to cause disease before death
from other causes, researchers led by Mette Kalager from  Harvard
University  wrote in the Annals of  Internal Medicine  today.  Previous studies have shown mammograms -- low-dose X-rays
of the breast that doctors use to look for early signs of cancer
-- detect tumors that aren’t deadly, as well as those that are,
though the extent of overdiagnosis hasn’t been known. The
findings are consistent with a similar study in  Denmark , and
show the screening programs lead to unnecessary treatment, cost
and anxiety, the researchers wrote.  “Overdiagnosis and unnecessary treatment of nonfatal
cancer creates a substantial ethical and clinical dilemma and
may cast doubt on whether mammography screening programs should
exist,” Kalager and colleagues wrote. “Women eligible for
screening need to be comprehensively informed about the risk for
overdiagnosis.”  About 1.4 million women are newly diagnosed with  breast
cancer  every year and almost 460,000 die, making it the biggest
cancer killer among women, according to the International Agency
for Research on Cancer in Lyon,  France .  One Life Saved  In Norway, breast cancer screening programs were introduced
county by county over a decade. Kalager and colleagues compared
the number of cases of breast cancer in counties with screening
programs with those without the program.  For every 2,500 women invited to be screened, between 6 and
10 are overdiagnosed, 20 are correctly diagnosed and one life is
saved, the authors said.  Overdiagnosis may be more frequent in the U.S. because
women there typically start being screened at age 40, whereas
European women start at about age 50, Joann Elmore, from the
University of  Washington  in  Seattle , and Suzanne Fletcher of
 Harvard Medical School , wrote in an editorial accompanying the
study. Radiologists in the U.S. are also more likely to report
abnormalities on mammograms, they said.  Patient Education  “Instead of focusing on the exact extent of overdiagnosis,
it is time to agree that any amount of overdiagnosis is serious
and to start dealing with this issue now,” Elmore and Fletcher
wrote. “Most patient-education aids do not even mention
overdiagnosis, and most women are not aware of its
possibility.”  The  American Cancer Society  recommends yearly mammograms
from age 40, while the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, an
independent panel of experts that makes recommendations to
doctors and health systems,  advises  women from age 50 to 74 get
a mammogram once every two years.  Insurers are required to cover mammograms without out-of-
pocket charges to their customers under President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law that was challenged in the U.S. Supreme Court
last week.  The study was funded by the Norwegian Research Council and
Frontier Science, a not-for-profit research foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  