-- Buffett Says Shortcuts on Environment Can Risk Profits
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-04-02T19:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/buffett-says-shortcuts-on-environment-can-risk-profits.html
Warren Buffett, the billionaire
chairman and chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
said companies won’t last if they fail to consider the impact of
their businesses on the environment.  “Taking shortcuts is not the pathway to achieving
sustainable competitive advantage, nor is it an avenue toward
satisfying customers,” Buffett, 81, said in a  report  published
today on the website of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s Johns
Manville building products subsidiary. “A company must invest
in the key ingredients of profitability: its people, communities
and the environment.”  Berkshire has bet on railroads and renewable energy as
Buffett said demand will climb for products or services that are
less harmful to the planet. After announcing the acquisition of
railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe, he told Charlie Rose in
2009 that that trains were the “most environmentally friendly
way of moving goods” around the U.S., an advantage that would
help ensure that the business lasts for a century or more.  Ceres, a Boston-based advocacy organization for investors
and public interest groups, listed Buffett’s firm last year
among the largest insurers that could more fully disclose how
 climate change  threatens their business. And while Berkshire has
wagered on electric vehicles with the purchase of a stake in
 China ’s BYD Co., Buffett has also  bet on oil producer 
 ConocoPhillips. (COP)   Johns Manville, once the largest asbestos maker in the
U.S., has shifted its business practices since claims from
victims of the cancer-causing product forced the firm into
bankruptcy in 1982. Berkshire bought the company in 2001.  Lessons Learned  “We take the lessons learned from these historical events
very seriously,” Johns Manville said in the report, which
details the company’s efforts at sustainability last year.  Buffett uses his name and reputation to support Berkshire
operating units. In a video message in 2010 he said that
agricultural products maker CTB was on the farming
“superhighway.” That same year, he autographed a five-pound,
oversized ice-cream spoon to be auctioned at a charity event
sponsored by Berkshire’s Dairy Queen unit.  The billionaire has lent his name to an effort by President
 Barack Obama  to raise taxes on the wealthiest. Buffett has also
highlighted what he calls the social compact between Berkshire’s
regulators and his businesses, said  Jeff Matthews , a Berkshire
shareholder and author of “Secrets in Plain Sight: Business &
Investing Secrets of  Warren Buffett .”  “He’s just laying it on more thickly now that he’s in the
public eye,” said Matthews, in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  