-- California Trims $30 Billion From Cost of New Bullet Train
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-04-02T18:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/california-trims-30-billion-from-cost-of-new-bullet-train-1-.html
California (STOCA1)  can build a high-speed
rail line connecting the most-populous U.S. state’s biggest
cities for $30 billion less than earlier projections, the agency
overseeing construction said.  The bullet-train project, eventually linking  San Francisco 
to Los Angeles, would cost $68.4 billion, down from the  $98.5
billion  estimated in November, according to the  California  High-
Speed Rail Authority’s revised business plan released today. The
proposal saves money by upgrading existing commuter and freight
lines in some areas, rather than build new track, and counts on
funds from California’s new program selling pollution credits.  California is the only U.S. state working to lay tracks for
trains to run as fast as 220 miles (354 kilometers) an hour,
after Congress cut off 2012 funds for such projects. In January,
a state legislative review panel, questioning its long-term
funding, recommended against selling debt to start the project.  “We have confidence in this plan, and in fact we are
excited about this plan,” Dan Richard, the authority’s
chairman, told reporters in Fresno. “This system will not only
bring high-speed rail to California, but it will bring high-
speed rail to America.”  Under the redrawn plan, California would route the main
track down the backbone of the state from Merced, about 120
miles south of Sacramento, the capital, to the San Fernando
Valley, north of  Los Angeles . It would then connect to the
population centers of Los Angeles and San Francisco by modifying
existing commuter and freight lines to handle high-speed trains.  Double Estimate  Governor  Jerry Brown  has defended the project, which
previously called for building the first phase in the state’s
less-populous Central Valley and didn’t explain how the rest of
it would be financed. Even trimming the bill by $30 billion, the
price tag is still almost double what voters were told it would
cost when they approved bonds for the project in 2008.  The new plan counts on money the state is expected to earn
beginning later this year from its cap-and-trade air-pollution
program. The funds would help jump-start construction until
federal and local financing arrive.  California will auction tradeable allowances that permit
industries such as power generators and oil refiners to release
carbon into the atmosphere if they can’t meet requirements to
lower their pollution to 1990 levels. Brown estimates the state
will take in about $1 billion in the year beginning July 1.
Under the law that created the program, the money is supposed to
be used on programs that help to reduce  greenhouse gases .  Government, Private Investment  State Auditor Elaine Howle  criticized  the high-speed rail
plan in January as lacking specifics about how the state might
come up with the money. California has received commitments for
$3.5 billion in federal funds. State officials have said they
plan to rely on a mix of government and private investment to
complete the line, including as much as $9.95 billion in bonds.  Brown will ask lawmakers in the next few weeks to approve
spending some of the bond money to start construction. State
Treasurer Bill Lockyer would then sell the securities. The first
section will use $2.7 billion of those bond funds, including
$597 million in 2013, according to the business plan.  In January, the high-speed rail board’s chairman and chief
executive officer both announced they were stepping down amid
criticism of the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  