-- California Will Investigate Stockton’s Fiscal Practices
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-04-02T22:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/california-will-investigate-stockton-s-fiscal-practices.html
California will investigate the
financial practices and reporting of Stockton, a city on the
brink of bankruptcy partly because of accounting errors
uncovered by its officials.  The ability of Stockton, a farming center about 80 miles
(130 kilometers) east of San Francisco, to provide reliable and
accurate financial data in required reports “is questionable,”
according to a  letter  state Controller John Chiang sent today to
Bob Deis, the city manager, to notify him of the audit.  “There’s an aggregate of issues that have come before
us,” Chiang, a Democrat, said by telephone. “People from all
over the spectrum of the city have asked us for help to get a
better understanding of the city’s fiscal condition.”  Stockton officials last week began 60 days of negotiations
with creditors in compliance with a new state law as part of an
effort to avert bankruptcy. Deis said in February that
accounting errors, the weight of the recession and escalating
retiree health-care costs had drained the city’s coffers.  Connie Cochran, a Stockton spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
telephone calls seeking comment on Chiang’s letter.  Macias Gini & O’Connell LLP, the city’s former auditor, is
“committed to providing timely responses to requests for
information from the state controller’s office,” Linda Forbes,
a spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Reports Not Filed  Stockton and its redevelopment agency haven’t submitted
fiscal 2011 financial transaction reports due last year, Chiang
said in the letter. Chiang also questioned independent audit
findings for fiscal 2009, which didn’t disclose fund deficits.  “The emergence of such deficits in such a short time
raises concerns about the reliability and accuracy of the
information in the fiscal year 2009-10 reports,” Chiang said in
the letter.  “It also raises questions about the data that you will be
using to compile the fiscal year 2010-11 reports, particularly
given the Stockton City Council’s recent action to enter a
mediation process,” he said.  The review will begin as early as May, Chiang said. It’s
unlikely the Stockton audit will be completed before the
mandated 60 to 90 days of negotiations with creditors, he said.  “The final report will include detailed recommendations
for how to remedy any identified management shortcomings,”
Chiang said in the letter. “This information will assist
Stockton in implementing any reforms and recovery plan that the
city will need to embrace to regain its fiscal footing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  