-- Cameron Says U.K. Committed to Falklands 30 Years After Invasion
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-04-02T09:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/cameron-says-u-k-committed-to-falklands-30-years-after-invasion.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
Britain is committed to ensuring the Falkland Islands’ right to
self-determination, in comments to mark today’s 30th anniversary
of Argentina’s invasion of the South Atlantic archipelago.  “Thirty years ago today the people of the Falkland Islands
suffered an act of aggression that sought to rob them of their
freedom and their way of life,” Cameron said in a  statement  on
his official website today. “Britain remains staunchly
committed to upholding the right of the Falkland Islanders, and
of the Falkland Islanders alone, to determine their own future.
That was the fundamental principle that was at stake 30 years
ago: and that is the principle which we solemnly reaffirm
today.”  Britain and  Argentina  have been stepping up the rhetoric in
the run-up to the anniversary of the war in which U.K. forces
repelled the invading Argentine troops. A total of 255 British
military personnel were killed while 649 Argentinian lives were
lost.  Argentina accused Britain of escalating the dispute earlier
this year by deploying a modern destroyer to the region and
sending  Prince William , the second-in-line to the throne and a
military-helicopter pilot, for a six-week mission to the
Falklands, which have a population of about 2,500 people.
Argentina’s Foreign Ministry said March 22 that four U.K. oil
companies are breaking Argentinian law by exploring for oil off
the islands.  Oil Dispute  Argentina said last month that  Desire Petroleum Plc (DES) ,
 Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH) ,  Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc (BOR)  and
 Falkland Oil & Gas Ltd. (FOGL)  will face legal action. The four
companies announced plans in 2010 to search for crude in the
area. Only Salisbury, England-based Rockhopper has made a
commercial discovery so far, with Borders currently drilling and
Falkland Oil & Gas scheduled to drill later this year.  “Today is a day for commemoration and reflection: a day to
remember all those who lost their lives in the conflict -- the
members of our armed forces, as well as the Argentinian
personnel who died,” Cameron said. “Today, we salute the
heroism of the  task force  which set sail to free the islands.  “We are rightly proud of the role Britain played in
righting a profound wrong,” he added. “And the people of the
Falkland Islands can be justly proud of the prosperous and
secure future they have built for their islands since 1982.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  