-- Canada Grocer Under Wal-Mart Pressure Seeks Growth in NY: Retail
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-04-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/canada-grocer-under-wal-mart-pressure-seeks-growth-in-ny-retail.html
Loblaw Cos. (L) , Canada’s biggest
grocer, opened a flagship store on  Manhattan ’s Fifth Avenue last
week. Shoppers won’t find meat and produce at Joe Fresh,
however. They’ll find $29 women’s dresses and $12 men’s polos.  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  sold clothes first
and then moved into groceries. Loblaw has done the opposite.
About seven years ago, the company asked Joe Mimran, who founded
Club Monaco Inc., to design a clothing line partly as a way
of competing with Wal-Mart, which was expanding in Canada.  The clothes sold well enough that Loblaw decided to open
standalone stores and now has 12 in Canada. Last year Loblaw
crossed the border, opening five shops in New York and  New
Jersey . The Fifth Avenue store, which opened March 30, is a
block from Hennes & Mauritz AB and Zara locations and 10 blocks
from  Fast Retailing Co.’s (9983)  own Uniqlo flagship.  “We’ve opted to take the brand international, with New
York being sort of the window to that expansion,” Mimran said
in a telephone interview. “We still think there’s another 20
percent growth available to us, but the real growth now is going
to have to come from outside of Canada.”  Loblaw’s Joe Fresh brand is entering the U.S. at a time
when Americans continue to spend judiciously even with  consumer
confidence  holding close to a one-year high. While U.S. 
same-store sales rose 6.5 percent last month, beating the
estimate for a 3.5 percent gain, many chains are discounting
to woo shoppers. Joe Fresh also will chase the same millennial
customers as Uniqlo, which has started its own U.S. expansion.  Shopping Destination  “I don’t think we have confirmation yet that as a
standalone shopping destination, that Joe Fresh in  New York City 
will meet the same success it has in Canada,” said Donald Marleau, a  Standard & Poor’s  credit analyst based in Toronto.  While a grocery chain moving into apparel is unusual,
Loblaw’s controlling family, the Westons, have a long history in
the rag trade. They also control the luxury clothier Holt
Renfrew, Canada’s version of  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , and the U.K
department-store chain Selfridges.  Mimran, who splits his time between hometown Toronto and
New York, ran Club Monaco before  Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) 
purchased it for about $80 million in 1999. In 2003, he started
doing consulting work on home products for Loblaw and working
with the Weston family. At first, the grocer sold women’s and
men’s clothing with an average price of $13. Today, Joe Fresh
sells everything from kids clothes to jewelry, cosmetics and
bath products.  European Influence  Joe Fresh has “a style that we are known for, which is
cleaner colors, a little more preppy than some of the other
fast-fashion houses, with a little bit of European influence,”
Mimran said. The store attracts value-seeking customers who also
appreciate style, he said.  The clothes fill a niche between apparel sold by  Gap Inc.’s (GPS) 
Old Navy brand and H&M, according to Marleau.  “Joe Fresh is one of Loblaw’s growth strategies for the
future,” said Vishal Shreedhar, a Toronto-based analyst at
National Bank Financial, who rates the shares outperform, the
equivalent of a buy. “They’re testing it in major markets to
see if there’s an appetite,” he said.  Loblaw’s main business, which besides groceries includes
in-store banking, mobile-phone plans and financial services, has
adapted as Wal-Mart opens stores and pushes into groceries. Net
income has risen every year since 2006 and last year Loblaw
earned C$769 million ($771 million) on C$31.3 billion in sales.  Wal-Mart Effect  Still, since Wal-Mart started selling food in  Canada , the
shares have never regained their footing, closing on March 30 at
C$34.02, down 55 percent from its April 2005 closing high.  The Canadian grocery business will only get more
competitive when Target starts opening stores in Canada next
year, in its first expansion outside the U.S.  While Loblaw won’t reveal sales figures for Joe Fresh, the
company said in 2007 that it  planned  to grow the brand into a
C$1 billion business.  “Apparel brands that are successful tend to be
international brands or multinational brands, so we felt it was
critical for us to move outside of our comfort zone and start to
look for growth opportunities,” Mimran said. “It’s important
for us to not be a concept that’s parachuted into the market,
but really make this our home as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  