-- Canada Dollar Climbs as U.S. Economic Data Adds to Risk A
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-02T21:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/canadian-dollar-falls-to-one-month-low-versus-euro-as-oil.html
Canada ’s dollar appreciated against
its U.S. counterpart by the most in two months on an improved
outlook for the nation’s exports after a report showed U.S.
manufacturing expanded at a faster pace than forecast.  The Canadian currency rose during the second quarter amid
indications of a stronger U.S. economic recovery. A Chinese
manufacturing gauge released yesterday advanced, easing concern
the world’s second-largest economy is slowing.  Bank of Canada 
Governor  Mark Carney  said the nation’s economy has performed
better than forecast.  “The general tone for risk today is rather better,”  Adam Cole , global head of foreign-exchange strategy in  London  at
Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, said in a
telephone interview. “The global-risk backdrop still trumps the
domestic data flow in terms of overall direction.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, rose 0.8 percent
to 99.06 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, the biggest
move on a closing basis since Jan. 3. It climbed 1 percent to
C$1.3195 versus the euro, after dropping to C$1.3351, the least
since Feb. 29. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0095.  “Some of the positive news from overnight is finally
helping the Canadian dollar,”  Steve Butler , managing director
in Toronto at Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital unit, wrote
in an e-mail. Markets have turned “risk-on, and stocks are back
in the black,” he said.  Level Watch  Government bonds  fell, pushing the benchmark 10-year note
yield 1 basis points, or 0.01 percentage point, higher to 2.12
percent. The 3.25 percent securities maturing in June 2021
traded at C$109.38, down 10 cents.  The yield reached 2.297 percent on March 19, the highest
since October. It was as low last quarter as 1.887 percent in
January.  The loonie extended gains after Carney, who spoke today in
Waterloo, Ontario, said the nation’s economy has performed
better than the central bank’s forecast in recent months as
conditions in global financial markets improved and “external
headwinds” abated.  European bank-funding and sovereign-debt markets have
stabilized and challenges in the region have “moved from the
acute to the chronic,” Carney said. The  U.S. economy  remains on
a “modest growth path” and recent data have been encouraging,
while  China’s economy  slows to a still-robust pace.  Carney View  “Conditions in the Canadian economy have also been
somewhat stronger and the degree of slack somewhat smaller than
the Bank had expected,” Carney, 47, said in the text of his
speech. “Growth has been a bit quicker in recent quarters,
reflecting a combination of temporary factors as well as
improved confidence and better financial conditions.”  Economists predict the Bank of Canada will keep  interest
rates  unchanged until at least the end of 2012, according to the
median of forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Carney’s comments about the economy being somewhat stronger
with less slack, and doing whatever it takes to hit the 2
percent inflation target “are the headlines that the market has
latched onto,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank, in an e-mail. “The optimism contrasts
with the caution in the U.S.”  Employers in Canada may have added 10,500 jobs in March
after cutting 2,800 positions in February, according to the
median in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists. The nation’s
jobless rate stood at 9.1 percent in February.  Jobs Prospects  “If we were to get a good payrolls report, and the early
indications in the form of the ADP and the ISM number, then we
could see a more material break lower,” RBC’s Cole said,
referring to the greenback depreciating versus the Canadian
dollar.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index
rose to 53.4 in March from 52.4 a month earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group’s data showed.  Fifty is the dividing line between growth and contraction,
and economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected the gauge
would climb to 53. Estimates of the 72 economists ranged from
51.7 to 54.5.  China ’s Purchasing Managers’ Index compiled by the
logistics federation and the National Bureau of Statistics rose
to 53.1 in March from 51 in February.  The gauge, which was released yesterday, has a pattern of
gaining each March. In contrast, a PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics fell to a four-month low of 48.3, showing
that manufacturing contracted and export orders declined.  The loonie is up 3.4 percent during the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The  U.S. dollar  is down 2.8
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  