-- Canon to Combine $1 Billion Oce Purchase After Delay
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-02T10:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/canon-to-combine-1-billion-oce-purchase-after-delay.html
Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest
camera maker, will start combining Dutch printer maker  Oce NV (OCE) 
with its own business after the acquisition was delayed by two
years, according to the new head of its European division.  Canon’s $1 billion takeover of Oce, its largest ever
purchase, was held up after the company failed to gain
outstanding shares. Tokyo-based Canon finally acquired the
remaining 10 percent stake from Orbis Funds at the end of last
year, said Rokus van Iperen.  “We had a delay of two years in terms of integration,” he
said today in a telephone interview. Canon today named Van
Iperen as new chief executive officer for its business in
 Europe , the Middle East and  Africa , taking over from Ryoichi
Bamba, who is retiring. Van Iperen is the the first non-Japanese
executive to lead Canon’s business in Europe.  Europe’s debt crisis and a stronger yen, which cuts the
repatriated value of overseas earnings for Japanese exporters,
has dampened Canon’s outlook. The company will maintain Oce’s
manufacturing base in the Netherlands, as it seeks to move more
factories outside  Japan . The strategy serves as a “natural
hedge to compensate for currency fluctuations,” van Iperen
said.  The company will combine Oce’s sales and marketing units
with its own business, the executive said today. While no
decision has been yet made on headcount, “there’s limited
overlap in personnel,” he said.  Canon in Nov. 2009 agreed to pay 8.60 euros a share for
Venlo, Netherlands-based Oce. In January, Canon said it had
offered 9.75 euros a share to buy outstanding shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  