-- Carlyle’s Rubenstein Expects U.S. Review of Carried Interest Tax
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-04-02T14:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/carlyle-s-rubenstein-expects-u-s-review-of-carried-interest-tax.html
David Rubenstein , co-founder of
 Carlyle Group (CG)  Inc., said he expects the  U.S. Congress  will
review the favorable tax treatment of profit-based compensation
for private equity managers next year.  “The carried interest debate is likely to be resolved in
the next Congress in the context of comprehensive  tax reform ,”
Rubenstein said today at a Washington conference sponsored by
the Council for Institutional Investors, a group representing
employee benefit funds, foundations and endowments with combined
assets exceeding $3 trillion, according to its website.  Carried interest is the share of profits taken as
compensation by private-equity managers, real estate investors
and members of oil-and-gas partnerships. The payments, designed
to give money managers incentive to improve fund performance,
are taxed at the capital gains rate of 15 percent rather than
the rates as high as 35 percent that apply to wages.  The tax treatment of private equity has gained attention in
part because of former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney’s bid
for the Republican presidential nomination. Romney, a co-founder
of Bain Capital LLC, said in January that he paid an effective
tax rate of 13.9 percent on income of $21.6 million.  “When you have an inequity in the system as we do now,
it’s not good for the country as a whole,” Rubenstein said at
the conference. “So yes, there are inequities that should be
dealt with.”  Rubenstein, one of three Carlyle founders who received a
total of $413 million last year, declined to say how treatment
of carried interest should be changed. He said it is unfair to
criticize private equity managers for the tax rates they pay.  “I pay what I’m supposed to pay,” he said. “Change the
law and I’ll pay whatever I’m supposed to pay.”  Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the House Ways and Means Committee, introduced legislation in
February that would tax carried interest as ordinary income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  