-- Carney Speech at Kitchener-Waterloo Chamber of Commerce (Text)
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-04-02T16:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/carney-speech-at-kitchener-waterloo-chamber-of-commerce-text-.html
Following is the text of Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney ’s speech to the Greater Kitchener-
Waterloo Chamber of Commerce. Charts, appendix and endnotes have
been removed. The document was released today in Ottawa.  Exporting in a Post-Crisis World  Introduction  It is an honour to help celebrate the 125th anniversary of
the Greater Kitchener Waterloo Chamber of Commerce. Allow me to
congratulate you for the work you have done and are doing to
ensure that this is a “business building community.”  This economy has been transformed since your Chamber was
established. From its original mix of agriculture and basic
manufacturing, the Kitchener-Waterloo region has become one of
 North America ’s most diverse economic clusters. Through such
nimbleness, this region has contributed to the 100-fold
expansion of the broader Canadian economy over the Chamber’s
lifetime.  Of course, there have been occasional setbacks over the
past 125 years, with more than 20 recessions, one depression and
one near miss. In general, the recoveries that have followed
have relied importantly on exports. However, this one is
different. Exports still have not regained their pre-crisis
peak, and in fact remain below their level of a decade ago.
 Canada  has steadily lost global market share throughout this
period.  In my remarks today, I will discuss why this is happening
and what can be done both in K-W and across Canada to respond to
the underlying challenges.  But allow me first to review Canada’s performance during
the recession and recovery.  A Unique Recession and Recovery  The broad economic strategy in response to the global
financial crisis has been to grow domestic demand and to
encourage Canadian businesses to retool and reorient to the new
global economy.  On the former, we have been successful. Even as pressure on
the export-oriented manufacturing sector has intensified,
domestically oriented sectors such as services and construction
have remained resilient. With strong domestic fundamentals and a
well-functioning financial system, stimulative monetary and
fiscal policies proved highly effective in supporting a robust
recovery -- and now expansion -- in domestic demand.  Household expenditures have led the way, falling modestly
through the recession and rebounding smartly since, to stand 6.5
per cent above their pre-recession peak. Owing to this
resilience, Canada’s economy was the first of the G-7 countries
to recover its recessionary decline in output and expand anew.  Our  labour market  has bounced back too. All of the 430,000
jobs lost through the recession had been recovered as of early
last year, and a further 180,000 jobs have been added since
then. Most of the jobs created have been in the private sector
and in industries paying above-average wages.  More recently, unemployment has edged higher, even as the
number of job vacancies continued to rise. This is consistent
with structural shifts in the labour market, where workers in
declining industries may not have the skills or experience to
match immediately the needs of employers in expanding
industries.  The experience in Kitchener-Waterloo has broadly mirrored
these national trends.  As effective as the reliance on domestic demand in general
and household spending in particular has been, the limits of
this growth model are becoming clear. For example, the
construction sector alone has accounted for about 100,000 of the
new jobs created in Canada through the recovery, bringing its
share of overall employment to its highest level in over 35
years.  More broadly, household spending in Canada has been growing
strongly for over a decade, both outright and relative to the
economy as a whole. This spending has been supported by strong
increases in real incomes, which rose a full percentage point
faster than the rate of real GDP growth in the ten years leading
up to the crisis.  However, even these strongly rising incomes were not enough
to finance the rapid growth in household spending. Canadians
bridged the gap by tapping the wealth in their homes to finance
up to one-fifth of consumption growth. As a result, household
debt levels rose steadily relative to income through this
period.  Since the onset of the crisis, however, real income growth
has been weaker and household spending has become more heavily
dependent on stimulative financing conditions and high levels of
net worth, notably house values. As a consequence, the debt
burden has increased further. Moreover, much of the financing
for the recent increases in household indebtedness has come from
abroad.  These trends are unsustainable over the medium term.  What is needed now is greater focus on the second element
of the broad economic strategy that I mentioned earlier--
Canadian businesses retooling and reorienting to the new global
economy.  A deeper analysis of our trade performance proves the
point.  Export Performance Is Lagging  As I alluded to earlier, among the most striking features
of the recent Canadian recession was the performance of exports.  During the most intense phase of the Great Recession -- a
nine-month period beginning in the fall of 2008 -- the level of
Canadian exports plunged more than 16 per cent, or more than
twice the total drop during the previous two cycles. By the end
of last year, exports still remained roughly 8 per cent below
their pre-recession peak.  My core message today is that this recent performance
brings into sharper relief major secular trends that have
persisted over the past decade. As such, they will require a
sustained response.  Canada’s share of world exports has been declining since
the turn of the millennium. In fact, our performance has been
the second worst in the G-20. Since 2000, Canada’s export growth
was almost 5 percentage points slower than global export growth
on average per year. Our share of the world export market fell
from about 4.5 per cent to about 2.5 per cent and our
manufactured-goods export market share has been cut in half.
Consistent with this drop, employment in Canada’s manufacturing
sector has fallen by more than 20 per cent, representing nearly
half a million jobs.  Decomposing the Losses  Broadly speaking, there are three possible explanations for
Canada’s deteriorating export performance: we may be selling the
wrong products; we may be selling to the wrong markets; or we
may have become less competitive because of changes in our
 exchange rate , wages and relative productivity.  A commonly held view is that our poor export performance is
the result of competitiveness challenges, particularly the
persistent strength of the Canadian dollar. There is some truth
in that.  Between 2000 and 2007, Canada’s unit labour costs rose 80
per cent relative to our trading partners--the largest such
increase among OECD countries. Compared with the United States,
Canadian unit labour costs rose by roughly 65 per cent. The
majority of this increase reflected the appreciation of the
Canadian dollar, although lower productivity growth in Canada
versus the United States also played a significant role, a
phenomenon seen across export sectors.  However, it is telling that, despite these developments,
competitiveness effects were less important than the drag coming
from market structure. Our exports are concentrated in slow-
growing advanced economies, particularly the  United States ,
rather than fast-growing  emerging markets . This concentration
reduced the annual average rate of export growth by around 3.3
percentage points between 2000 and 2007. By comparison, the drag
from competitiveness effects was about 2.5 percentage points.  In short, our underperformance prior to the crisis was more
a reflection of who we traded with than how effectively we did
it.  This is even more the case since the onset of the Great
Recession. Canadian export growth has continued to lag the
global average by about 5 percentage points annually.
Competitiveness effects have remained relatively stable. The
combination of overexposure to the U.S. market and underexposure
to faster-growing emerging markets is almost entirely
responsible for Canada’s further loss in world market share over
the last several years.  It does not have to be this way. Many advanced countries
have been more successful at capitalizing on the immense
opportunity that emerging markets in general and  China  in
particular represent. For example,  Germany  has maintained its
market share in manufactured goods by exporting capital goods
and autos to China, and more broadly to emerging-market
economies.  Australia  has gained substantial market share in its
exports of commodities to fill rising demand from China.  Expect These Trends to Continue  The obvious question is whether we can expect these trends
to continue. The answer is yes.  A New Normal for the United States  Our reliance on the United States is an issue only if we
expect U.S. underperformance relative to both history and the
rest of the world to continue.  Unfortunately, that is what we must expect as, to a degree,
the  U.S. economy  is not what it used to be. Allow me to explain.  The trend in U.S. potential growth--the “speed limit” if
you will of the U.S. economy--was already falling in the year
leading up to the crisis, reflecting both an aging population
and slower productivity growth. In the meantime, emerging
markets were increasingly living up to their name, with large
productivity increases raising their speed limits. The result
was the increasing underperformance of the U.S. economy relative
to the rest of the world.  The Great Recession has made things worse. History suggests
that the output lost following a severe financial crisis is
never recovered, implying that the United States will not get
back on its old path. Moreover, the post-crisis potential rate
of output growth also tends to be slower for some time, in part
reflecting less  capital investment  and more structural
unemployment. As a result, even once the U.S. economy recovers
its cyclical losses, the Bank estimates that it will remain over
$1 trillion smaller in 2015 than we had projected prior to the
crisis.  Now, it is important not to overstate this. The United
States remains the largest economy in the world but, going
forward, the game there will be more about taking market share
than participating in a rapidly growing market.  Emerging-Market Opportunity  Emerging markets represent the greater opportunity for
Canadian exporters. Since the recession, these economies have
accounted for roughly two-thirds of global economic growth and
one-half of the growth in global imports. In a process that can
be expected to continue for decades, emerging  Asia  is rapidly
urbanizing. China and  India  are housing the equivalent of the
entire population of Canada every 18 months. In parallel, a
massive new middle class is being formed, growing by 70 million
people each year and representing a fast-rising share of global
demand for all types of goods. This is where Canadian businesses
must increasingly look for export growth.  Commodity Prices Are Expected to Remain Elevated  The expanding urban middle class in emerging economies is
having a marked impact on a wide range of commodities. Yet,
whether it is travel, housing or protein, consumption levels in
major emerging markets are still only fractions of those in
advanced economies. With convergence a long way off, the demand
for commodities can be expected to remain robust.  As a result, commodity prices have risen well above their
historical averages, and are likely to remain there for some
time. Canada is benefiting from this both directly and via
spillovers across our economy.  Persistent Strength of the Currency  Canada is likely to remain a relatively attractive
investment destination, owing to the strength of our financial
system, competitive tax system, sound public finances and
credible monetary policy. Given this and elevated commodity
prices that have raised our terms of trade, a sustainable export
strategy cannot rely on expectations of a more favourable
exchange rate.
How to Take Advantage  To take advantage of these shifting patterns of global
demand, our businesses need to refocus, retool and retrain.  Refocus on developing new markets and new products. While
the United States will always loom large in Canadian trade,
geography need not be destiny. For many firms, the most
attractive option is now to expand into emerging markets.
Canada’s aggressive trade strategy promises to enhance these
prospects.  There are other opportunities.  For many firms, there are openings to become part of new,
networked supply chains that are being created in response to
the demonstrated fragility of single-source, lean alternatives,
the proliferation of end products and the volatility of regional
demand.  Canadian firms could also further exploit the tremendous
opportunities in mobile computing and customer-focused
applications that capture more of the value in the shift to
digital commerce that is occurring across the globe.  New markets can also be found at home. It is clear that K-W
cannot directly satisfy China’s growing appetite for
commodities, but you can and are taking advantage of other areas
of the country that do. One out of twelve oil sands
manufacturers and suppliers are from this region, and Ontario’s
exports to Alberta of mining-related services grew 44 per cent
in the last year measured.  The opportunity to capture more of
the value added in commodity production from energy to
agriculture remains a tremendous opportunity for all of Canada.  Retool by investing in plant, equipment and ICT
(information and communications technology) and developing new
processes. The competitiveness imperative to invest in
productivity-enhancing M&E (manufacturing and equipment) and ICT
is clear, and the conditions to do so have rarely been so
favourable. Canadian corporate balance sheets are extremely
healthy, with record low leverage and very high levels of
liquidity. Businesses are further supported by a well-
functioning financial system and extremely supportive financial
conditions.  Businesses across Canada are stepping up, including here in
the K-W region, where there are numerous examples of firms
responding to the decline of traditional manufacturing
industries, such as autos and clothing, by moving up the value
chain. Overall, business investment has rebounded smartly since
its dramatic decline in the wake of the Lehman collapse.
However, it still has a long way to go.  Moreover, it is not merely a question of how much we invest
in new tools but also what we do with them. Indicators of how
well we use labour and capital to produce output (such as multi-
factor productivity) have been exceptionally weak for years. We
can do better. For example, the brainpower in this region
appears well-suited to analyse the “big data” necessary to seize
such opportunities as optimizing production processes and mass
customization.  In an era of persistently elevated resource prices,
enhancing operating efficiency, improving resource management
and developing products with a more sustainable environmental
footprint make commercial and social sense. Moreover, advances
in building-energy efficiency, enhanced farm yields and power
plant efficiency would pay immediate domestic dividends.
However, once again, the real prize may be in emerging markets,
which contain an estimated 85 per cent of the resource
productivity opportunities in the world.  Innovation is critical to our success and Canada’s record
is only average. Today, Canada’s business R&D investment is at
the lower end of OECD countries. As highlighted in the Jenkins
report, particular attention must be paid to the
commercialization of R&D--taking innovative ideas from
universities and turning them into commercial successes. The
symbiosis here in K-W between strong educational institutions
and a cluster of innovative technology companies is a model for
other parts of the country.  Retrain by continuing to invest in our greatest resource--
our people.  Technology and trade are transforming the workplace. For
years, routine tasks have been automated, such as the
substitution of robots for assembly-line workers and ATMs for
tellers. Now the same is happening to interaction work, which
has been the fastest-growing employment category. Disaggregation
of tasks, such as professional services, to separate out the
routine components can lead to outsourcing and job displacement.  The need to improve skills across the spectrum of work has
never been greater. With world-class educational institutions
pumping out highly qualified graduates, you are already making
an enormous contribution to raising the skill level of the
Canadian workforce. Business and governments need to continue to
focus on workplace training as the competitiveness of our
industries and the very nature of work continue to evolve.  The more Canadian businesses refocus, retool and retrain,
the more they can take advantage of opportunities in Canada and
around the world.  Current Economic Conditions in Canada  Let me conclude with some comments on current economic
conditions in Canada, which reflect a number of the themes I
have discussed.  The recoveries in Canada’s major trading partners continue
to be dampened by the ongoing need to repair sovereign, bank and
household balance sheets. As a consequence, the level of
external demand for our products in advanced economies remains
weak.  That said, in recent months, the considerable external
headwinds have abated somewhat. European bank funding and
sovereign debt markets have stabilized, global financial
conditions have improved and  risk aversion  has decreased. This
creates a window for European authorities to address the deep
structural issues in their monetary union. While the European
situation is far from resolved, the challenges have moved from
the acute to the chronic.  The U.S. economy remains on the modest growth path typical
of recoveries following financial crises. Given that context,
recent data have been encouraging. Monthly employment gains in
the past three months have been the fastest in a year. Consumer
and business confidence have rebounded. And fundamentals for
household spending have improved with higher personal income and
household net worth.  Although activity in a number of emerging-market economies
has slowed, the emerging world remains the engine of global
growth. In particular, past tightening of policy and weaker
external demand are slowing activity in China to a still-robust
pace.  Improving global economic conditions have contributed to
higher commodity prices, with geopolitical risks adding a
further premium on crude  oil prices .  Conditions in the Canadian economy have also been somewhat
stronger and the degree of slack somewhat smaller than the Bank
had expected. Growth has been a bit quicker in recent quarters,
reflecting a combination of temporary factors as well as
improved confidence and better financial conditions. Although
net exports have picked up somewhat due to stronger U.S.
activity, their contribution to growth will be limited by a
still-weak level of foreign demand and ongoing competitiveness
challenges, including the persistent strength of the Canadian
dollar.  As a consequence, growth remains largely reliant on private
domestic demand. Business investment is expected to be an
important source of growth going forward, reflecting highly
favourable conditions and the competitive need to refocus,
retool and retrain. Momentum in household spending remains
solid. However, in an environment of more modest growth in
employment, wages and net worth, households’ dependence on debt
financing remains the biggest domestic risk.  As the Bank noted in its March decision, the profile for
core and total CPI inflation is somewhat firmer than previously
anticipated, reflecting reduced economic slack as well as higher
oil prices.  Over the next few weeks, the Bank will update its outlook
for growth and inflation in Canada to reflect these factors and
other developments, such as recent federal and provincial
budgets. As always, this analysis will inform our monetary
policy decisions. The Bank will take whatever action is
appropriate to achieve the 2 per cent CPI inflation target over
the medium term. This is our contribution to ensuring that
Canadians can save and invest with confidence.  Over the next few years, Canadian businesses will also have
to analyse and act. Their decisions to refocus, retool and
retrain will do much to determine how rapidly our prosperity
grows in the decades ahead. For Canada to grow in the future as
it has in the past, businesses will need to draw on similar
resourcefulness that the membership of the K-W Chamber has
demonstrated over the years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  