-- Chalco Agrees to Buy SouthGobi Stake to Gain Coal Mines
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-04-02T20:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/chalco-agrees-to-buy-ivanhoe-southgobi-stake-for-c-889-million.html
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest producer of the metal, agreed to buy Ivanhoe
Mines Ltd.’s stake in  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (1878)  to gain control
of Mongolian coal production as it expands into other
commodities and diversifies revenue.  Ivanhoe will tender its 57.6 percent stake in SouthGobi
into Chalco’s C$925 million ($928 million) offer to buy as much
as 60 percent of the company at C$8.48 a share, 28 percent more
than its close in Toronto on March 30, Chalco, as the Chinese
company is known, said in a statement today from. Should
shareholders tender more than 60 percent of the stock, the
amount sold by Ivanhoe may be reduced, according to a statement
from Ivanhoe.  Control of SouthGobi will give Chalco coal sales from the
Ovoot Tolgoi mine to bolster revenue as aluminum prices decline.
Ivanhoe, founded by billionaire Robert Friedland, said in
February it was encouraged by progress of talks as it sought to
sell some assets to finance the Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold
project.  “It marks the most significant step by a long way for
Chalco in terms of executing this diversification strategy it’s
been talking about for a number of years,” said Andrew Driscoll, Hong Kong-based head of resources research at CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets.  The aluminum producer has also agreed to purchase as much
as 100 percent of SouthGobi’s production for as many as two
years, Chalco said.  Offer Premium  SouthGobi jumped 13 percent to C$7.50 at the close in
Toronto. Chalco American Depositary Receipts, which each
represent 25 Chalco shares, rose 0.8 percent to $11.79 in  New
York .  Chalco’s offer is 36 percent more than SouthGobi’s weighted
average price over the past 20 days, compared with a 21 percent
premium for similar-sized completed basic materials deals over
the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chalco will use its own cash, bank loans or a combination
of both for the purchase, it said. It will retain nine of
SouthGobi’s senior staff, including Chief Executive Officer
Alexander Molyneux for 12 months from their employment
termination under consultant agreements to facilitate
transition, Chalco said.  “It’s almost certainly going to happen, as long as the
regulatory approvals happen and go forward,” Molyneux said in
an interview with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s “On
the Move Asia” today after the announcement.  Expressions of Interest  “You might say there’s a lot more synergy having a Chinese
state-owned enterprise as a major shareholder as opposed to
having a very well-known exploration resource development
company,” he said.  The acquisition would be Chalco’s biggest since it agreed
to pay $1.35 billion for a stake in  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s Simandou
iron ore project in  Guinea  in July 2010.  The SouthGobi bid is expected to open on or before July 5
and shareholders will have at least 35 days to accept the offer,
according to Chalco’s statement.  SouthGobi was among the assets that Ivanhoe’s advisers had
contacted potential investors about last year after receiving
unsolicited expressions of interest, Ivanhoe said in September.  “Depending upon the uptake of the offer by other SouthGobi
shareholders, Ivanhoe could receive up to approximately C$889
million from the sale of all of its shares in SouthGobi,”
Ivanhoe said in its statement today. “A sale of 60 percent of
its current holding would realize proceeds of approximately
C$533 million.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun at 
 Myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 Ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  