-- Chevron Targeted a Second Time by Brazil Prosecutors Seeking Ban
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2012-04-02T02:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/chevron-targeted-a-second-time-by-brazil-prosecutors-seeking-ban.html
Brazilian prosecutors are seeking
for a second time to ban  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  from
operating in the country after a 3,000-barrel  oil spill .  The two companies must be suspended from operating until
they stop environmental damage from the November leak off the
coast of Rio de Janeiro, Prosecutor Gisele Porto said in a March
26 appeal filing obtained by Bloomberg News. The two companies
should be fined 500 million reais ($273 million) a day if they
don’t comply with the suspension, according to Porto.  Chevron is facing mounting attacks from Brazilian
politicians, prosecutors and regulators after the leak at its
$3.6 billion Frade project in November and a second seep in
March. Federal prosecutor Eduardo Santos, who’s probing the
slick independently from the regulator, charged 17 executives at
Chevron and Transocean with environmental crimes and called for
prison sentences of as much as 31 years.  Chevron took out full-page advertisements in several
Brazilian newspapers March 29 to say the Frade leak hasn’t
caused environmental damage. The company said the criminal
charges against its executives are unfounded.  Porto’s appeal comes after a federal judge in February
rejected a request from prosecutor Santos, who is based in the
city of Campos dos Goytacazes, to halt Chevron and Transocean
operations after the spill. Federacao Unica dos Petroleiros,
 Brazil ’s main oil union, filed a separate case last week to halt
Chevron and Transocean’s work in Brazil.  Chevron responded to the spill in accordance with industry
standards and the development plan approved by the country’s oil
regulator,  Kurt Glaubitz , a spokesman for the  San Ramon ,
California-based company, said by e-mail March 30. There’s been
no impact to marine life and no oil reached the coast, he said.  Chevron reported new seeps this month of about a barrel of
oil at the Frade project off Brazil’s coast. The company has
halted production as a precautionary measure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  