-- China Faces Economic Growth Threat as Tobacco Spurs Cancer Risk
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-02T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/china-faces-economic-growth-threat-as-tobacco-spurs-cancer-risk.html
China , the world’s biggest cigarette
market, may suffer slower economic growth because of cancer and
other chronic diseases that are hurting the  labor force , Health
Minister Chen Zhu said.  Non-communicable diseases which cause prolonged sickness
are responsible for four out of five deaths in China, compared
with about 63 percent globally, and absorb about 70 percent of
the nation’s health spending, Chen said in an interview
yesterday. Fighting the threat requires tighter scrutiny of the
tobacco industry, linked to 1 million deaths in China, he said.  China’s gross domestic product has grown an average 10
percent a year for the past three decades, transforming the
nation into the world’s biggest exporter and replacing  Japan  as
the second-biggest economy after the U.S. At the same time, the
country now counts more than 90 million diabetes and 120 million
chronic kidney disease sufferers -- the most in the world.  “If we don’t curb the fast rise of chronic diseases in
China, it will have an impact not just on people’s health, but
also on society and the economy,” Chen, 59, said on the
southwestern island of  Hainan , where he is attending the  Boao
Forum  for  Asia . “It could affect the continuity of our economic
growth because a lot of deaths caused by chronic diseases are in
people younger than 60.”  The government wants to improve the efficiency of  health
services  as it grapples with a rising incidence of life-long
diseases. While the elderly were looked after in the past by
their children, urbanization and the nation’s one-child policy
have eroded the tradition of family care, shifting the burden to
the state.  $558 Billion Cost  Unless preventative steps are taken, early deaths from so-
called non-communicable diseases such as  heart disease , stroke,
diabetes and cancer will crimp China’s national income by $558
billion in the decade ending 2015, according to the  World Health
Organization . Half of sufferers who die of chronic diseases are
under 65 years of age, according to the  World Bank .  China will consider expanding its health-care workforce and
increasing resources near major cities to improve access, Chen
said. The government will also look at introducing standards to
ensure quality isn’t compromised amid a new tendering system
tested in Anhui province that encourages drugmakers to compete
for state contracts to supply essential medicines.  “In evaluating the essential medicines, we need to put
quality as the priority and not just the price,” Chen said.
“The prices of drugs and equipment are a little bit high in
China. Balancing the growth of the industry and controlling
health expenditure is both a challenge and a dilemma for the
government.”  Tobacco Addiction  Tobacco also presents another dilemma in China, the world’s
biggest producer and consumer of the aromatic leaves, accounting
for 38 percent of cigarettes smoked worldwide in 2009. The State
Tobacco Monopoly Administration, the industry regulator, runs
the world’s biggest cigarette maker, China National Tobacco Corp.  “The commercial activities of the  tobacco companies  should
be totally separate from administrative supervision,” Chen said.
“We are strengthening the leadership issue in China, and one of
the key aims is to enhance the government’s supervision of the
commercial activities related to tobacco,” he said.  Rapid industrialization and migration to cities that
brought sudden improvements in  living conditions  have
contributed to the increase in chronic diseases, said Chen, who
as a 16-year-old youth in 1970 was sent during the Cultural
Revolution to work in rural Jiangxi province. He taught himself
traditional Chinese medicine while working in the villages and
began practicing as a so-called barefoot doctor, according to a
2007  interview  he gave to the People’s Daily newspaper.  Rush to Diabetes  “The social transformation in China is remarkable, but it
is also maybe too rapid,” Chen said yesterday. “Once people
get past poverty and start to lead better lives then new
challenges start to emerge like diabetes.”  East Asians may be more susceptible to developing the
metabolic condition because they tend to carry more of their
body fat around their abdomens -- a more deleterious place to
store energy, he said.  “For East Asians to become diabetic, they don’t need to be
very obese,” said Chen, who received formal medical training in
 Shanghai  and a doctorate in 1989 from the Université Paris
Diderot, where he specialized in hematology. “We need to figure
out the biomarkers related to these kinds of disease tendencies
so we can identify the high-risk populations and offer them
preventive measures,” he said.  Chen is the first and sole minister-level Chinese official
who doesn’t belong to any political party, and only the second
minister not from the ruling Communist Party. He dedicates a
small portion of his time -- about 2 percent -- to scientific
research at the Shanghai Institute of Hematology, with the
support of his wife, a doctor, and his mentor Wang Zhen-Yi, he
said.  Chen and Wang were both awarded the Szent-Gyorgyi Prize in
January by the U.S. National Foundation for  Cancer Research  for
their work on a new leukemia treatment. He didn’t rule out
returning to the laboratory full time when his current term as
health minister is slated to end in March next year.  “It will depend on the needs of my people and my nation,”
he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  