-- Chrysler Poised to Lead U.S. Auto Sales Gains as Gas Rises: Cars
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-04-02T19:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/chrysler-poised-to-lead-u-s-auto-sales-gains-as-gas-rises-cars.html
Heidi Vouri got a new job 35 miles
from home and commuting in a 14-year-old gas guzzler doesn’t cut
it with fuel prices rising. Her solution: Buy a new car.  “I’m definitely shopping for some  gas mileage ,” said
Vouri, 23, who lives near Indianapolis and started work as a
private investigator in December. To replace the 1998 GMC Jimmy
she drove through college, she has set her sights on a 2012
Subaru Impreza hatchback, which is rated to deliver as much as
30 mpg in combined city and highway driving.  Her experience shows that rising gas prices can help spur
demand for new vehicles. Job gains and buyers who put off car
purchases during the recession are driving the fastest three-
month auto-sales pace in four years, even as a gallon of
gasoline became 20 percent more expensive. Analysts are boosting
2012 industry sales estimates and automakers are increasing
production.  Light-vehicle sales in March, set for release tomorrow, may
have run at a 14.5 million seasonally adjusted annual  rate , the
average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That
would exceed the 13.1 million pace from a year earlier and set
an average rate of 14.6 million for the first quarter, ahead of
analysts’ estimates for full-year deliveries. Small-car sales
were especially strong.  “There’s no question that vehicle sales at the start of
the year are ahead of expectations,” said  Jeff Schuster , senior
vice president of forecasting for LMC Automotive in Troy,
Michigan. “Pent-up demand is causing buyers to come back into
showrooms. Vehicles are older and need to be replaced, and
there’s a strong feeling of further recovery ahead.”  Total light-vehicle sales may rise to 1.42 million, the
average of eight analysts’ estimates. That would be the highest
monthly total since August 2007, according to Autodata.  Jobs, Confidence  The 1.2 million jobs created the past six months, the best
six-month job growth stretch since 2006, has sent unemployment
to a three-year low, according to Labor Department figures. The
Conference Board’s  consumer confidence  index held near the
highest level in a year in March as a growing number of
Americans said they planned to buy cars, homes and appliances,
the New York-based private research group said on March 27.  The improving economy is softening the blow of climbing
gasoline prices. The average price for a gallon of regular
unleaded rose to  $3.93 (3AGSREG)  through March 29, according to AAA, the
nation’s largest motoring group.  Analysts at Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup
Inc. and TrueCar.com last month increased their estimates for
full-year sales. The four companies increased 2012 estimates by
an average of 550,000 vehicles to 14.5 million.  Buyers Returning  Compact and subcompact sales were 23 percent of U.S. retail
sales through the first 18 days of March, the highest level
since the government’s “cash for clunkers” program in August
2009, according to LMC Automotive. Compact cars such as  Honda
Motor Co. (7267) ’s Civic are spending 42 fewer days on dealer lots
before being sold compared with the 2011 industry average.  “The people who have been sitting on the sidelines and
want to get a less-expensive car, which probably correlates with
better fuel economy, those people are more able to get financed
and at the lower borrowing amounts,” said Alan Baum, principal
of Baum & Associates, a provider of auto-industry analysis in
West Bloomfield, Michigan.  Auto sales gains were probably widespread in March, with
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  posting increases of
at least 15 percent and Chrysler Group LLC reporting 31 percent
growth from a year earlier, according to analyst estimates.  If Chrysler matches the average increase estimated by 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, it would be the  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based automaker’s fifth consecutive monthly sales
increase of at least 30 percent.  Chrysler’s Streak  Chrysler Group’s car deliveries may have accelerated 71
percent, topping a 24 percent boost in light-truck sales,
according to estimates by  Brian Johnson , an analyst at  Barclays
Capital  in  New York . New or refreshed models such as the 300
sedan and  Fiat (F)  500 subcompact were in their first month of sales
in March 2011.  GM, boosted by the Chevrolet Sonic subcompact that gets 33
miles (53 kilometers) per gallon in combined city and highway
driving, may report a 19 percent increase in March sales, the
average of 10 analysts’ estimates. GM said today it expects
combined sales of at least 100,000 units for its 12 models,
including the Sonic, that get 30 mpg or more in highway driving.  “Clearly as gas prices go up and as there’s a bit of
volatility in gas prices, that’s driving consumers to look for
those kinds of options when they buy a new vehicle,”  Don Johnson , GM’s U.S. sales chief, said today on Bloomberg
Television’s “In The Loop With Betty Liu.”  Volt Sales  Sales of GM’s Chevrolet Volt rose to more than 2,000 in the
month, he said. “This month will be a very good month for
Volt.” The model’s previous monthly best was 1,529 in December.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  sales may rise 5.5 percent, the average of
10 estimates. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker delivered
90 percent more Focus compacts in the first two months of this
year than a year earlier.  Toyota probably increased total sales by 15 percent,
according to seven analysts’ average estimate. The Toyota City,
Japan-based automaker began U.S. deliveries of its 50 mpg Prius
c hybrid subcompact last month. Sales for the Prius “family”
of four models, including the original hatchback, exceeded
25,000 units in March, a record for the model line,  Bob Carter ,
group vice president of U.S. sales, said in an e-mail today.  Supply Rebounding  Toyota and Honda’s inventories are recovering after  Japan ’s
tsunami in March 2011 disrupted their production and depleted
their car inventories to lows of 34 days and 28 days’ supply,
respectively, in August. Entering last month, Toyota carried 36
days’ supply and Tokyo-based Honda had 50 days, according to
Kelley Blue Book.  Sales for Tokyo-based Honda may have increased 5.3 percent,
the average of seven analysts’ estimates. Vouri, the
investigator who lives near Indianapolis, said her mother bought
a used 2008 Honda Accord in May. With  used-vehicle prices 
setting new all-time highs in each of the last three years,
according to Manheim Auctions, she sees buying new as the better
option.  “Vehicles that are two, three or four years old are within
$3,000 or $4,000 the cost of brand-new ones,” she said in a
phone interview. “I’d rather spend a little bit more and be
satisfied and get exactly what I want.”  Nissan Motor Co., the Yokohama-based automaker introducing
its revamped Altima sedan this week at the New York auto show,
may increase sales 11 percent, the average of seven analysts’
estimates.  Volkswagen, Hyundai-Kia  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) , which is targeting U.S. sales growth of more
than 10 percent this year, may increase combined sales of its
Volkswagen and Audi brand vehicles by 35 percent in March, the
average of three estimates.  Affiliates  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  may
combine to sell 18 percent more vehicles than a year earlier,
the average of five analysts’ estimates. The Seoul-based
automakers have redesigned the Hyundai Accent and Kia Rio models
and introduced the new Hyundai Veloster three-door coupe since
mid 2011.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from March 2011. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light vehicles.  March had 28 selling days, one more than the year-earlier
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  