-- Cisco to Spend R$1B in Brazil to Fund Tech Center, Startups
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-04-02T19:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/cisco-to-spend-more-than-r-1b-in-brazil-on-tech-center-vc-fund.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  said it will
spend more than $1 billion reais ($546.6 million) in Brazil in
the next four years to boost manufacturing in the South American
nation and step up investment in local startups.  The projects include a “center of innovation” in  Rio de
Janeiro  that will be focused on developing technologies for the
2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics, as well as other products for
the surveillance, education and health-care markets, San Jose,
California-based Cisco said in a statement today.  “With today’s announcements, we reinforce Cisco’s long-
term commitment to Brazil and expect to become a relevant
partner in this incredible growth journey the country has been
experiencing,” Rodrigo Abreu, president of Cisco’s  Brazil 
division, said in the statement.  Cisco, the world’s biggest maker of computer-networking
equipment, said the investment will create about 800 local jobs
while helping the company broaden manufacturing in the world’s
second-largest emerging economy. The company now makes some set-
top boxes in Brazil, and is adding routers and switches.  Cisco is also helping to create a venture-capital fund
focused on Brazilian technologies.  In Brazil, one of Cisco’s fastest-growing markets, the
company is increasingly competing with  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and other rivals. Cisco said it has had
operations in Brazil since 1994 and now has more than 500
employees there.  Cisco and IBM are both supporting a shift toward
“smarter” municipal infrastructure, which includes power
meters that communicate over wireless Internet connections. It
also encompasses sewers, traffic lights and video-surveillance
systems that can be connected to  computer networks . Brazil is
fertile ground because of its growing economy and technological
upgrades in preparation for the World Cup and Olympics.  Cisco made the announcement during its Cisco Plus Brazil
event in Rio de Janeiro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  