-- Company Treasurers Reaping Benefit of Haven Status: Euro Credit
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-04-02T08:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/company-treasurers-reaping-benefit-of-haven-status-euro-credit.html
There’s never been a better time to
be a corporate treasurer in  Europe  as cash-rich investors line
up to buy bonds at the lowest rates ever.  “Treasurers are in pole position,” said Henner Boettcher,
funding chief at  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , which raised 300 million
euros ($400 million) from bond markets on March 2. “If you’re a
company needing cash, right now is the time to get it.”  Company notes have become a haven for fund managers wary of
placing their cash with the most indebted European governments.
Investors consider corporate bond yields to be generous compared
with benchmarks and view companies as well placed to benefit
from the easing of Europe’s credit crisis in the wake of
Greece’s bailout.  Treasurers are exploiting the investor demand, which has
driven corporate bond yields to a record low of 2.59 percent,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporates Non-Financial
Index shows. Investors put 12.5 billion euros into European bond
funds in February, the biggest inflow since August 2010, data
compiled by Morningstar Inc. show.  Bond sales surged in March as carmaker  Daimler AG (DAI)  in
Stuttgart,  Germany  raised 750 million euros after boosting an
offering from 500 million euros,  Fiat SpA (F)  issued its first
benchmark deal since July and commodities trader Glencore Plc
sold $2.1 billion of securities. Offerings totaled 83 billion
euros this year, the busiest quarter since the second quarter of
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Don’t Wait  “There’s a lot of investor demand out there and it’s
reflected in spread developments over the last month,” said
Hans Tschuden, chief financial officer at  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  in
Vienna, which raised 750 million euros from 10-year bonds on
March 26. “Now might be a good time to tap the markets rather
than wait and take what’s offered later.”  The yield premium on corporate bonds to benchmark German
government debt has narrowed 56 basis points this year to 145
basis points, or 1.45 percentage points, just above the 7 1/2-
month low of 139 reached on March 16, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. The absolute yield fell 74 basis points since
the start of the year.  “Spreads still look relatively attractive across large
swathes of the corporate sector, but it’s the all-in cost of
funding that’s driving treasurers to pull the trigger now,”
said Duncan Warwick-Champion, an analyst at European Credit
Management Ltd., the London-based investment firm owned by Wells
Fargo & Co.  ‘Early, Long’  Treasurers also are turning to bond markets on concern that
stricter capital rules designed to prevent future financial
crises will curb lending from banks. That may stifle companies’
funding options as lenders segment clients by profitability and
credit ratings, analysts at Greenwich Associates in Greenwich,
 Connecticut  wrote in a March 28 report.  “One of the mantras we use is ‘fund early, fund long,’”
said Martin O’Donovan, deputy policy and technical director at
the Association of Corporate Treasurers in London, which
represents 4,500 company finance officials. “Companies selling
bonds are clearly changing the structure of their balance sheet
towards  debt capital  from bank funding, which is understandable
given everything which has gone on with banks.”  ECB Cash  Treasurers are also benefiting from the  European Central
Bank ’s program of injecting banks with more than $1 trillion of
cheap loans and a successful Greek debt-swap that led to a
second bailout, easing concern that the region’s sovereign debt
strains will trigger corporate defaults.  Bond buyers pulled back last year on concern European
leaders couldn’t contain the credit crisis, which forced an
increase in borrowing costs that also sidelined issuers. The
sales slowdown meant investors accumulated cash as companies
redeemed 60 billion euros of securities in the second half, and
issued about 40 billion euros, according to Societe Generale SA.  Corporate debt’s status as a haven is allowing it to ride
out the worst of the euro area’s woes.  European officials meeting in Copenhagen last week agreed
to cap new rescue lending at 500 billion euros, adding to the
300 billion euros already committed to  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal  since 2010. The Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said March 29 that the situation in the euro
area is “expected to remain fragile.”  Never Assume  This year’s surge in the government bonds of  Italy  and
 Spain  is starting to fade as austerity budgets spur strikes and
stifle economic growth. Investors demand a yield  premium  of 3.43
percentage points to hold Spain’s 10-year government debt rather
than Germany’s while Italian debt has a  spread  of 3.19
percentage points.  Corporate bond issuance is showing signs of slowing with
sales dropping to 6 billion euros last week, down 36 percent
from the week before.  “The lessons of last year are that you can’t automatically
assume that the market will be there for you in the size and
capacity that you want it,” said Jane Pilcher, treasurer at
Anglian Water Services Plc in Huntingdon,  England , which sold
250 million pounds ($400 million) of notes on March 20.  Even if the euro-region crisis flares up again, there are
signs that corporate treasurers will keep accessing the  debt
market . Companies need to redeem about 126 billion euros of
bonds in the common currency this year, according to estimates
from ING Groep NV.  From investors’ point of view, company notes represent good
value relative to benchmark government debt. German bund yields
are approaching record lows with the 10-year rate at 1.79
percent, 12 basis points off the 1.67 percent reached in
September.  “There’s a huge amount of liquidity out there that needs
to be invested and everyone’s hunting for yield,” said Nicolo Bocchin, a portfolio manager at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in
Milan. “So we have a nice marriage from investors who need to
put money at work and companies that can take the chance to
refinance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in  London  at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  