-- Construction Spending in U.S. Unexpectedly Declined in February
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-02T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/construction-spending-in-u-s-unexpectedly-declined-in-february.html
Construction  spending  in the U.S.
unexpectedly fell in February, reflecting broad-based declines
that indicate the building industry will take time to stabilize.  The 1.1 percent decrease, the biggest in seven months,
followed a revised 0.8 percent retreat in January that was larger
than previously estimated, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The  median estimate  of 45 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.6 percent increase.  The prospect of more foreclosures is keeping downward
pressure on  home prices , which may discourage builders from
taking on new projects. At the same time, budget cutbacks at the
state, local and federal government level are also weighing on
the  construction industry .  “There is an exaggerated sense that U.S. housing may be on
the mend,”  Derek Holt , vice president of economics at  Scotia
Capital  in Toronto, said before the report. “People lack the
confidence and the means to buy and are instead renting. This is
benefiting home construction firms that are focused upon this
segment, but doesn’t imply consumer enthusiasm.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a decline of
0.6 percent to a 1.5 percent gain. The Commerce Department
revised January’s reading from the 0.1 percent drop initially
reported.  Construction spending increased 7.4 percent in the 12 months
ended in February, before adjusting for seasonal variations.  Private construction spending in February fell 0.8 percent
from the prior month, reflecting decreases in non-residential
projects.  Home Improvement  Private residential outlays were little changed in February,
the report showed. A decrease in homebuilding offset a 1.2
percent gain in home improvement expenditures. Private non-
residential projects fell 1.6 percent, hurt by a drop in  power
plants .  Spending on public construction decreased 1.7 percent from
the prior month. Federal construction spending climbed 1.9
percent, while state and local construction dropped 2.1 percent,
the most since July.  The decrease in total spending signals favorable weather
failed to lift the industry in February. The average temperature
was 38.2 degrees Fahrenheit (3.4 Celsius), 3.6 degrees warmer
than the 20th century average and the 17th warmest February in
118 years, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  