-- Coty Draws on Trott’s Underdog Experience to Pursue Avon
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-04-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/coty-draws-on-trott-s-underdog-experience-to-pursue-bid-for-avon.html
Byron D. Trott has once again popped
up in a multibillion-dollar fight where a company is trying to
punch above its weight.  Trott’s Chicago-based advisory and investment firm, BDT
Capital Partners, is working with Coty Inc. on its unsolicited
$10 billion effort to acquire  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , a company that
has more than two times Coty’s annual revenue. Coty said
yesterday BDT is acting as an adviser and lining up equity
financing for the deal from Coty’s majority owner, Joh. A
Benckiser, and unidentified investors in BDT’s funds.  It’s at least the third time in recent years that BDT has
advised a company trying to pursue a larger rival after working
with Hershey Co.’s trust and U.S. pump and valve maker  Colfax
Corp. (CFX)  Trott, a former managing director at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., has relationships with  Warren Buffett , the Pritzker family
and the S.C. Johnson family. He started BDT in 2009 and focuses
on family-owned businesses.  Coty is also working with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s advisory practice, the 39th-ranked adviser
for mergers and acquisitions so far this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan, the No. 2 ranked takeover
adviser worldwide, is arranging debt financing for a deal.  A spokeswoman for Trott said he was unable to comment on
Coty’s bid for Avon.  Trott’s Advisory Work  In September, BDT advised and helped arrange financing for
Colfax in a $2.4 billion bid for Charter International Plc,
 Europe ’s biggest welding equipment maker. Charter’s annual sales
were five times as large as those of Colfax, which completed the
acquisition this year.  Trott advised the charitable trust that controls Hershey in
2009 and 2010 when the chocolate maker was considering making an
offer for Cadbury Plc in an effort to outbid Kraft Foods Inc.,
people familiar with the matter said at the time. Trott and
JPMorgan were teamed up on that potential deal as well and would
have provided the financing, the people said. Both Kraft and
Cadbury were much larger than  Hershey (HSY) , which ultimately didn’t
make an offer.  “He has great relationships with a lot of families and
with Buffett and closely held businesses,” said Steve Kaplan, a
professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.
Trott also was a very successful banker at Goldman Sachs and has
“expertise in beauty products and  consumer goods ,” he said.  Trott received a master’s degree in business administration
from the University of Chicago in 1982.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  