-- Coty Went Public With Avon Offer to Press Board, Becht Says
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-04-02T21:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/coty-s-becht-says-he-went-public-with-avon-offer-to-press-board.html
Coty Inc. ChairmanBart Becht said
he went public with the offer for  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  so
shareholders will press the company’s  board  to consider a merger
and allow Coty access to confidential financial documents.  “We’ve been interacting with them and getting nowhere,”
Becht said in an interview today after New York-based Avon
rejected Coty’s $10 billion takeover offer as too low. “We’ve
made a public announcement because we are hopeful their
 shareholders  will talk to the board.”  The companies have discussed the idea of Becht running a
combined Coty-Avon and Becht said it “would not be helpful”
for Avon, which said last year it was looking to replace Chief
Executive Officer  Andrea Jung , to hire a new CEO in light of
Coty’s $23.25-a-share bid.  Becht is seeking to expand sales of Coty’s perfumes to
emerging markets such as  Brazil , where Credit Suisse Group AG
says Avon has about 1.2 million salespeople. The deal, which
would more than triple Coty’s sales, would be the largest in the
industry since  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s 2005 purchase of Gillette
Co. for $57.3 billion including debt, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Coty is interested in conducting due diligence, in part
because of concern about Avon’s internal investigation into
allegations executives bribed foreign officials, he said.  “There will be cost synergies, but they have to be re-
invested in Avon,” Becht said. “We don’t know the specific
numbers and we won’t until we do diligence and can get some
exact numbers to confirm synergies.”  Financing Arrangements  Coty is confident about financing for the takeover, Becht
said. Coty made a verbal offer to Avon at the beginning of
March, and the companies have had one face-to-face interaction,
Becht said. That meeting included Becht, Jung and Avon board
member Fred Hassan, according to a person familiar with the
matter. Hassan also is a managing director at private-equity
firm Warburg Pincus LLC.  “Coty clearly wants to do this deal,”  Ali Dibadj , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York ., said today
in a telephone interview. “This is something that the Avon
board should seriously consider.”  Avon sees some strategic benefits in a combination with
Coty and previously considered buying the fragrances seller,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation. Those
talks began when Coty had proposed selling itself to Avon, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the matter is
private.  Avon is close to choosing a replacement for Jung and could
become open to talks once a CEO is selected, the person said.  New CEO  “We are committed to hiring a new CEO and executing
against what the company believes are its strong long-term
prospects,” Jennifer Dwyer Vargas, an Avon spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement. “The board has been clear that with a
new CEO, it believes there will be greater opportunity to
improve  shareholder value .”  Avon may be looking for a higher price and may have to sell
itself if it can’t improve its results, said Don Yacktman,
president of Yacktman Asset Management Co., which manages about
about $17 billion, including 15.5 million Avon shares. Avon has
posted three straight years of profit declines.  Coty “wants to put Avon in play and find out if anybody
else wants to make a comparable bid,” Yacktman, whose company
is based in Austin,  Texas , said today in a telephone interview.
“It forces Avon’s hand to some degree. They have to do some
things to show why they aren’t going to consider the offer.”  Avon rose 17 percent to $22.70 at the close in New York.
The shares declined 40 percent last year.  Expanding Reckitt Benckiser  Becht, the former CEO of  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) ,
became New York-based Coty’s chairman in November. Coty is owned
by Joh. A Benckiser SE, which is also the biggest shareholder in
Reckitt Benckiser. Becht expanded Slough, England-based Reckitt
Benckiser with acquisitions including Durex condom-maker SSL
International Plc in 2010 and Adams Respiratory Therapeutics
Inc. in 2007.  Coty, which holds perfume licenses for brands including
 Calvin Klein  and  Marc Jacobs , is owned by Joh. A Benckiser.
Founded in 1904 in Paris by Corsican-born Francois Coty, the
company helped develop perfume into a mass product, with 36
million consumers two decades later. Coty’s previous purchases
include $400 million for a majority stake in Chinese skin-care
company TJoy Holdings Ltd. in December 2010.  Coty said that Avon has a “strong presence” in  emerging
markets , where it gets 68 percent of its revenue. Avon’s door-
to-door distribution system in countries such as Brazil and
 China  will create growth and earnings opportunities for Coty,
which derives 26 percent of its revenue from emerging markets,
according to a statement today.  Latin America  “Avon also brings with it manufacturing facilities in
China and Brazil, both key targets for Coty,” Vivienne Rudd,
head of Beauty & Personal Care Insight at Mintel in  London , said
today in an e-mail. “ Latin America  is Avon’s largest region,
and the only one to turn in sales growth in its fourth quarter.
It is also a region where Coty’s coverage is relatively light,
hampered by the lack of a cohesive prestige retail channel.”  Coty Chief Executive Officer Bernd Beetz said in an
interview in February that the company was working on expanding
in developing markets. Beetz said in a separate interview in
January that selling shares to the public is also an option for
Coty.  There have been almost 300 cosmetics and toiletries
takeovers in the past decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The median price to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization paid in 30 of those deals was
10.8, compared with the 8.9 Coty has offered to pay for Avon,
Bloomberg data show.  Bribery Investigation  Avon is investigating potential violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, which outlaws bribing foreign officials.
Avon also said in October that the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is probing the company’s foreign operations and its
dealings with analysts.  At Reckitt Benckiser, Becht was among the U.K.’s top-
earning executives. He had a 90 million-pound gain on share
options in 2009 and received more than 18 million pounds in
compensation in 2010, including more than 14 million pounds from
the exercise of options and performance-based restricted shares.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Centerview Partners LLP are
advising Avon. BDT & Co. is arranging equity financing for Joh
A. Benckiser, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. is working on debt
financing, according to the statement. BDT, JPMorgan and
Blackstone Group LP are providing financial advice to Coty,
while Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP gave legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  