-- Coty Offers to Buy Avon Products for $10 Billion in Cash
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n
-- 2012-04-02T14:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/coty-offers-to-buy-avon-products-for-10-billion-in-cash.html
Coty Inc., the seller of perfumes by
Heidi Klum and  Beyonce Knowles , offered to buy  Avon Products
Inc. (AVP)  for about $10 billion as Chairman Bart Becht works to more
than triple its sales.  The unsolicited cash proposal of $23.25 a share is 20
percent higher than Avon’s closing price on March 30. Coty,
based in New York, said in a statement today it won’t pursue a
hostile takeover. Avon in a separate statement rejected the bid,
saying a deal wouldn’t be in the best interests of shareholders.  Buying Avon would give Coty, which is owned by the largest
shareholder in European consumer-products maker  Reckitt
Benckiser Group Plc (RB) , a new door-to-door channel for selling its
cosmetics and more than twice its $4.5 billion in annual sales.
At $10 billion, the takeover would be the biggest in the
cosmetics and toiletries industry since  Procter & Gamble Co .’s
2005 purchase of Gillette Co. for $57.3 billion including debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Coty clearly wants to do this deal,”  Ali Dibadj , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York., said today
in a telephone interview. “This is something that the Avon
board should seriously consider.”  Avon  rose  19 percent to $23.10 at 9:51 a.m. in New York.  Becht, Reckitt Benckiser Group’s former chief executive
officer, became Coty’s chairman in November. Becht grew Slough,
England-based Reckitt Benckiser with acquisitions including
Durex condom-maker SSL International Plc in 2010 and Adams
Respiratory Therapeutics Inc. in 2007.  Cosmetics Acquisitions  Coty, which holds perfume licenses for brands including
 Calvin Klein  and  Marc Jacobs , is owned by Joh A. Benckiser SE.
Founded in 1904 in Paris by Corsican-born Francois Coty, the
company helped develop perfume into a mass product, with 36
million consumers two decades later. Coty’s previous purchases
include $400 million for a majority stake in Chinese skin-care
company TJoy Holdings Ltd. in December 2010.  There have been almost 300 cosmetics and toiletries
takeovers in the past decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The median price to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization paid in 30 of those deals was
10.8, compared with the 8.9 Coty has offered to pay for Avon,
Bloomberg data show.  Avon, based in New York, had $11.3 billion in  sales  last
year. The company is looking to replace Chief Executive Officer
 Andrea Jung  after slowing sales and internal probes prompted a
40 percent drop in its shares last year.  Avon Losing Ground  Avon’s direct selling model is losing ground as more
traditional retail develops in countries such as  Brazil , where
competitors such as Procter & Gamble and  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL)  are
vying for spending from rapidly growing middle and affluent
consumers. At the same time, business in developed market has
lagged.  At Reckitt Benckiser, Becht was among the U.K.’s top-
earning executives. He had a 90 million-pound gain on share
options in 2009 and received more than 18 million pounds in
compensation in 2010, including more than 14 million
pounds from the exercise of options and performance-based
restricted shares.  BDT & Co. is arranging equity financing for the deal, while
JPMorgan Chase & Co. is working on debt financing, according to
the statement. BDT, JPMorgan and Blackstone Group LP are
providing financial advice to Coty, while Skadden Arps Slate
Meagher & Flom LLP gave legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Callan in  New York  at 
 Jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  