-- Damien Hirst’s Shock Loses Bite as Shark Joins Skull in London
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-04-02T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/damien-hirst-s-shock-loses-bite-as-shark-joins-skull-in-london.html
If nothing else,  Damien Hirst  is
good at titles.  His best-known piece, the shark in formaldehyde, is called
“The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone
Living.”  As I walked round the retrospective of his career to date
at London’s  Tate Modern , which opens to the public on April 4, a
variation on that popped into my mind: “The Psychological
Impossibility of Accepting Creative Exhaustion in the Mind of
Somebody Incredibly Famous.”  It’s not that this is a bad exhibition. On the contrary,
here is perhaps the strongest case that could be made for Hirst,
well-selected and elegantly displayed. It’s just that, on the
evidence assembled at Tate Modern, he hasn’t had a good new idea
in 20 years.  Almost all the ingredients of his art are already there in
the first couple of rooms. Essentially, Hirst brings together
extreme cognitive polarities: the pure beauty of modernist art,
the messy biological complexity of life (and, more particularly,
death).  In the late 1980s, Hirst, now 46, was already making
geometrically-abstract art out of everyday objects such as
cardboard boxes painted in primary colors. A photographic work,
“With Dead Head” (1991), puts a smiling, youthful Hirst side
by side with his other great theme: mortality, in the form of
the decapitated head of an elderly and less cheerful corpse.  Feral Ferocity  His most memorable move was to put life, and death, in a
box. That is, to place preserved animals inside a container much
like a sculpture by the American Minimalist,  Donald Judd .  The shark remains the most potent incarnation of this idea:
the feral ferocity of Darwinian nature just hanging there,
frozen in time and space.  At that point, around 1992, Hirst produced works that made
big obvious points with tremendous visual pizzazz. This was art
for an age that knew all about genetic coding and the ultimate
chemical and molecular basis of existence.  All of his basic ideas make similar points. The dot
paintings are about how beauty and a carefree mood can be
generated by a system that depends on chance (just like,
perhaps, the beauties of nature and human emotions). Simple
rules dictate the result: no repetition of a color, all dots the
same size.  Repeated Ideas  The spin pictures, produced by drizzling pigment onto a
revolving disc, do the same trick for messy expressionist,
Pollock-like paintings. The butterfly pictures are living,
genetically derived beauty turned into abstract art, and so on.  Hirst’s problem is that none of these points required
repetition. He doesn’t like the label “conceptual art,”
arguing that his works are solid and real enough. But in another
sense they are utterly dependent on an idea.  Pictures of people, or landscapes or abstractions like
Pollock’s or Mondrian’s, can proliferate indefinitely because
they are based on something subjective, the artist’s
sensibility. There’s no reason for proliferating dot paintings
or animals in tanks. They are all the same, an artistic clone.  The result was that Hirst quickly tipped over into self-
parody. The later rooms of the exhibition find him producing his
own brand of religious kitsch: butterfly collages with gothic,
church-window tops, or a white, Holy Ghost-type dove in
formaldehyde.  Skull Bling  Alternatively, he reworked his earlier ideas in a style
suited to a Qaddafi mansion (spot paintings on gold, butterflies
on gold). The ultimate piece of plutocratic bling-art, Hirst’s
diamond-encrusted skull, “For the Love of God’’ (2007) is
exhibited downstairs in the Turbine Hall (until June 24).  In the past decade, he also made two series of figurative
paintings, one photorealist, one in the manner of  Francis Bacon .
Not a single example of either is included.  “A Thousand Years” (1990), is one of Hirst’s most grisly
early pieces in which flies hatch on a rotting cow’s head,
breed, and die on a blue insect killer.  As you leave, you feel that the galleries of Tate Modern
constitute one big tank in which Hirst himself is buzzing
frantically about, trying to find a way out.  “Damien Hirst” is at Tate Modern, Bankside, London, from
April 4 through Sept. 9, sponsored by the Qatar Museums
Authority. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk  or
+44-20-7887-8888.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in  London , at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 