-- Dangdang Buoys Index Jump on Factory Data Boost: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-04-02T21:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/dangdang-buoys-index-jump-on-factory-data-boost-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  traded in the U.S.
extended their best quarter since 2010, led by  E-Commerce China
Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , as a government manufacturing index rising to a
one-year high bolstered the outlook for the economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 0.9 percent to 103.96 in  New
York  yesterday, after gaining 14 percent in the first quarter.
Online book seller E-Commerce jumped to a seven-month high as
China’s second-biggest electronics retailer started selling
goods on its online store. Social network operator Renren Inc.
climbed to a one-month high after competitors stopped allowing
user comments on their platforms.  Macau  Casino  operator Melco
Crown Entertainment Ltd.  traded at the widest premium over its
 Hong Kong  stock in two weeks.  A  Purchasing Managers ’  Index (CPMINDX)  rose to a one-year high in
March,  China ’s logistics federation and government statistician
said on April 1 while a U.S. gauge released yesterday also
signaled faster manufacturing growth last month. Analysts in a
Bloomberg survey last week said that Chinese banks’ reserve
requirements will fall further this year.  “The rising Chinese and U.S. manufacturing indexes are
driving up the stocks now,”  Dave Lutz , head of exchange-traded
fund trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore,
 Maryland , said by phone yesterday. “The second quarter should
continue to be good for stocks on the hope China is going to
continue easing.”  The fundamentals of  China’s economy  are sound, Vice Premier
 Li Keqiang  said yesterday, adding the nation will maintain
growth and stabilize prices as it speeds up a shift in its
expansion model.  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 1.2 percent to $37.09,
the biggest one-day advance in three weeks. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.8 percent to 1,419.04, the highest close
since May 2008.  U.S. Manufacturing  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index 
advanced to 53.4 last month from 52.4 in February, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said in a report yesterday. Readings greater
than 50 signal growth. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
was for an increase to 53.  Beijing-based E-Commerce, known as Dangdang, China’s
largest online book seller, jumped 9.6 percent to $8.88, the
strongest since Aug. 16. The stock has doubled in price this
year after losing 84 percent last year.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493) , which owns a chain
of electronics stores in China, started to sell its products on
Dangdang’s website, according to a March 29 statement
distributed by PRNewswire.  Dangdang may also sell books and other products on Gome’s
online store, according to  a March 31 report  posted on the
website of the official Xinhua News Agency citing Han Depeng,
general manager of Gome’s online operation.  ‘Improving Environment’  Andy Yeung, a New York-based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co.,
credited the partnership with Gome for Dangdang’s jump today,
the best performance on the Bloomberg China-U.S. gauge. The
online retailer is benefiting from higher prices and a
“generally improving environment for e-commerce,” he said.  Oppenheimer raised its rating on Dangdang last week to
outperform from perform with a 12- to 18-month price target of
$9.50. A rating of outperform indicates that Yeung expects the
stock to gain more than the wider market.  The 16 percent gain in the Bloomberg China-US index this
year exceeds the 7.3 percent advance in the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong and a
2.9 percent increase in the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks
traded on the bigger of China’s two bourses. Exchanges in
mainland China are closed for three days starting April 2 for a
holiday.  ‘Not as Bullish’  “Local Chinese investors are not as bullish as global
investors, who are reacting to positive developments in  Europe 
and some liquidity measures in the U.S.,” Greg Lesko, who
manages $700 million at Deltec Asset Management in New York,
said yesterday.  American depositary receipts of  Melco Crown (MPEL) , which owns
gambling houses in Macau, the only city in China where casinos
are legal, increased 2 percent to $13.92. The ADRs, each
representing three common shares in Melco, traded 2.8 percent
above its stock in Hong Kong, which added 0.1 percent to
HK$35.05, the equivalent of $4.51 per share. The premium was the
largest since March 19.  Maucau’s casino revenue rose 24.4 percent in March from a
year earlier, compared with a gain of 22.3 percent in February,
data from the city’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau
yesterday showed.  Renren, Sina  Beijing-based  Renren (RENN) , which runs a social networking
website where users are required to provide their real names,
gained 2.2 percent to $5.64 in New York yesterday, the highest
since March 2. The stock surged 55 percent in the January-March
period, the best quarterly performance since Renren’s shares
started trading in the U.S. in May.  Sina, which runs a Twitter-like social network in China
with more than 300 million registered users, and  Tencent Holding
Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company by market value,
announced a 72-hour suspension of user comments on their
microblogging platforms, starting from 8 a.m. March 31 Beijing
time.  Sina cited a need to “clear up rumors and illegal
information,” in a March 31 statement posted on Weibo, its
microblogging site, which has more than 300 million users.  ‘Harmful’ Messages  China arrested 1,065 suspects and deleted more than 208,000
“harmful” online messages as part of a crackdown on Internet-
related crimes since mid-February, the Xinhua News Agency
reported on March 31, citing an unnamed spokesman from the
Beijing City Police’s cyber-security department. On March 30,
Beijing Police announced the detention of six people for
“fabricating and spreading rumors” on the Internet and forced
16 websites to close.  Shanghai-based Sina fell 2.1 percent to $63.66 in New York,
the lowest level since Feb. 27. Tencent was unchanged at
HK$216.60 in Hong Kong trading. Prospects the government could
order further interruptions to Weibo will weigh on Sina’s share
price, Echo He, a New York-based analyst who covers Chinese
Internet stocks for Maxim Group LLC, said yesterday. He
reiterated her sell rating on Sina with a 12-month target price
of $51 a share.  “The possibility of another shutdown is not going to go
away,” He said by phone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  