-- DAX Beating S&P 500 by Most Since ’06 on Economy Optimism
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-04-03T15:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/dax-beating-s-p-500-by-most-since-06-on-economy-optimism.html
German stocks  are posting their best
start to a year  relative to  the U.S. since 2006 as investors bet
companies in Europe’s biggest economy will benefit most from
improving global growth.  The  DAXK (DAXK)  Index, a German equities gauge that strips out
gains from dividends, has surged 19 percent in 2012 after
sinking to the cheapest valuation in at least six years last
September. That’s the largest advance since 1998 and 6.3
percentage points more than the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) ’s
increase, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  has topped every developed
market tracked by Bloomberg this year as Citigroup Inc. and BNP
Paribas SA raised forecasts for economic expansion after efforts
to tackle Europe’s debt crisis succeeded in bringing down
borrowing costs from record highs. ING Investment Management
ranks the nation’s stocks among the world’s best buys and Bank
Sarasin & Cie. AG has been purchasing shares of SAP AG and
 Allianz SE .  “Global growth concerns have been priced out and euro-zone
concerns have eased,” Bernd Meyer, the Frankfurt-based head of
cross-asset class strategy at Commerzbank AG, said in a phone
interview. “These elements are supportive for DAX
outperformance as it’s a high-beta play on global growth.”  Overseas Sales  Companies on the DAX make more than 60 percent of sales
outside Europe, according to data from Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. The remainder comes from within the region, where
banks from Credit Suisse Group Inc. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. have
reversed forecasts for a contraction in 2012 earnings.  The DAXK has rallied 11 percentage points more than the
Euro Stoxx 50 Index this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the biggest gap since at least 1989, the data
show. Even after the surge, the DAX, which includes returns from
dividend payments, trades for 11 times estimated earnings, below
the average  valuation  multiple of 11.9 over the past five years,
the data show. The DAX slid 1.1 percent to 6,982.28 at the close
in  Frankfurt  today.  “Germany is one of our preferred markets right now,” said
Patrick Moonen, senior strategist at ING Investment Management
in  The Hague , which manages $163 billion. “It is not expensive
and the export sector remains strong.” He spoke in a phone
interview.  Record Borrowing Costs  The DAX posted a 15 percent slide in 2011 as mounting
concern about the region’s debt crisis sent borrowing costs in
Spain and  Italy  to records and economic reports missed
estimates. Its price-earnings ratio reached 7.8 times projected
profits on Sept. 12, the cheapest ever according to Bloomberg
data that go back to 2006. The measure ended the year with a
multiple of 9.9, a discount of as much as 34 percent to its
five-year average.  German equities have risen in 2012 as economic data in the
U.S. topped estimates and the  European Central Bank  lent more
than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) to the region’s financial
companies. Prices surged more than in America as investors
sought markets where company earnings are more tied to economic
growth, Commerzbank’s Meyer said.  BNP Paribas,  France ’s largest bank, increased its forecast
for global economic expansion to 3.5 percent from 3.1 percent,
according to a March 22 report. Citigroup raised its estimate to
2.5 percent from 2.4 percent the same day. Deutsche Bank AG
lifted its growth target to 3.5 percent from 3.2 percent on
March 26, citing the restructuring of  Greece ’s debt and the
increased ECB lending.  Buying SAP  Philipp Baertschi at Bank Sarasin sad he’s buying shares in
SAP, the biggest maker of business-management software. The
third-largest company on the DAX, which made more than 50
percent of sales outside  Europe  in 2011, has increased its
dividend by 11 percent in the past five years and has an
indicated yield of 1.4 percent, Bloomberg data show.  “Investors are looking for growth but also for high yield
and SAP fits very well into that theme,” said Baertschi, chief
strategist at Bank Sarasin in Zurich, where he helps oversee the
equivalent of about $110 billion.  Money managers may not only benefit from growth outside of
Europe, Credit Suisse and JPMorgan strategists said. The Zurich-
based bank increased its estimate for 2012 profit growth in the
region to 1 percent on March 16, reversing a previous estimate
for a 5 percent contraction. JPMorgan forecast on March 12 that
European earnings will expand 5 percent, compared with a
previous projection of stagnation.  German Growth  Germany ’s economy will grow 0.8 percent in the first
quarter, according to the median of 15 economist forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. The nation may expand faster in the
second half of 2012, the Berlin-based  Finance Ministry  said in a
March 22 report that cited recent indicators such as the Ifo
business-confidence index.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said March 26 that its
 business-climate gauge , based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
rose to 109.8 last month from a revised 109.7 in February.
That’s the fifth straight gain.  This year’s rally may falter as concern about the euro
region’s sovereign-debt crisis returns and improvements in
economic data subside, according to Philippe Gijsels, head of
research at BNP Paribas Fortis Global Markets. The DAX had
rallied 6.9 percent from the start of last year through July 7,
before beginning a 21 percent slump through the end of 2011 as
the contagion spread from Greece to Italy and  Spain .  Overbought Market  “We’ve rarely seen a market that is so  overbought  as we
see today,” Gijsels said in a phone interview from Brussels on
March 28. “Liquidity has driven the market and people have
embraced risk, but for that to be sustained we need substantial
improvement in the economy. The hard data needs to follow in the
second half of the year otherwise we risk a repeat of what
happened last year when the crisis resurfaced in the summer.”  Even so, for Herbert Perus at Raiffeisen Capital Management
there are enough investors that have not participated in this
year’s gains to push equities higher.  “We still have a lot of extremely cheap companies in
Europe and Germany is at the heart of this,” Perus, who helps
oversee about $36 billion as head of equities at Raiffeisen in
Vienna, said in a March 28 telephone interview. “There are so
many opportunities even after the rally of this first quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  