-- DBS to Buy Temasek Stake in Bank Danamon for $7.2 Billion
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-04-02T10:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/dbs-to-buy-temasek-stake-in-bank-danamon-for-4-9-billion.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  offered to
buy  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  for about $7.2 billion, the
biggest takeover by a Southeast Asian lender, to tap a market
growing at the fastest pace since before the 1997 Asian crisis.  DBS, controlled by Singapore’s state-run  Temasek Holdings
Pte (TMSK) , said it will pay its parent company 45.2 trillion rupiah
($4.9 billion) in new shares for its 67 percent stake and buy
the remaining stock from other shareholders for 21.2 trillion
rupiah in cash. Temasek will increase its stake in DBS to 40.4
percent from 29.5 percent, the lender said.  Southeast Asia’s biggest bank plans to tap Bank Danamon’s
3,000-branch network to expand in  Indonesia , where rising
investment and domestic spending is countering an export
slowdown. Chief Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta  is paying more
than the median book value for banking deals over $1 billion as
he seeks to diversify away from  Singapore  and Hong Kong into the
region’s largest economy.  “They’re probably paying a premium for growth,” said
Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors
Ltd., which manages almost $100 billion. “There’s a lot of
growth potential in Indonesia. Market valuations there aren’t
that demanding.”  DBS will issue 439 million new shares at S$14.07 apiece to
buy the stake from Temasek, the Singapore-based lender said in a
statement to the stock exchange. DBS  shares , suspended from
trading for the announcement, last traded at S$14.18 on March
30. The bank asked that the trading halt be lifted tomorrow.
Bank Danamon shares were also untraded today.  Higher Premium  DBS will offer to buy the remaining shares at 7,000 rupiah
each, a 52 percent premium from Danamon’s closing price of 4,600
rupiah on March 30. That amounts to 2.62 times Danamon’s book
value, higher than the median of 2.2 for deals worth more than
$1 billion in the global banking industry over the past five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Singapore bank also obtained approval from  Malaysia ’s
central bank to start talks to buy Temasek’s 14.2 percent stake
in Kuala Lumpur-based  Alliance Financial Group Bhd. (AFG)  The
negotiations aren’t likely to trigger a takeover offer, Alliance
Financial said in a statement today.  Gupta said a stake of that size in the Malaysian bank would
help provide a “foothold to build out something in the
future.”  Alliance Financial shares rose 1.8 percent to 3.96 ringgit
at the close in  Kuala Lumpur , outpacing a 0.5 percent gain in
the benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index. (FBMKLCI)   CIMB’s Purchase  Southeast Asian banks are expanding with Malaysia’s  CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  saying today it agreed to buy most of the
Asia-Pacific cash equities and investment banking business of
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest state-owned
lender. CIMB, Malaysia’s second-largest bank, will pay 88.4
million pounds ($142 million) to RBS and inject a further 85.5
million pounds into the business.  DBS said the acquisition of Bank Danamon would cost about
66.4 trillion rupiah if all Danamon shareholders accepted the
offer, which it also valued at 2.6 times book value. DBS will
pay the remaining shareholders in cash, funded by its own
capital and debt, it said.  The transaction would be DBS’s biggest purchase, eclipsing
the $5.4 billion it paid for  Hong Kong ’s Dao Heng Bank Group
Ltd. in 2001. In that deal it paid 3.33 times book value,
according to Bloomberg data.  Not Excessive  “The price they’re paying doesn’t look excessively rich in
the Indonesian context,” said Sam Hilton, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.  Gupta, 52, said the deal will help DBS branch out from
Singapore and Hong Kong. Speaking on a conference call today, he
said he doesn’t expect job losses from the transaction.  “Indonesia is an exciting Asian market,” said Gupta, who
joined DBS in 2009 after 27 years at Citigroup Inc. “We will be
able to contribute towards the growth of the Indonesian banking
sector, especially in areas such as infrastructure financing,
 project financing , trade finance and syariah banking.”  Danamon’s branch network, Indonesia’s second largest,
serves 6 million customers. The Indonesian economy grew 6.46
percent last year, the most since before the Asian crisis. It’s
forecast to grow 6.5 percent in 2012.  Adding Value  DBS said in a slide presentation today that its 2011
revenue from South and  Southeast Asia  would have increased to 27
percent from 7 percent with Danamon, while its reliance on
Singapore would decline to 49 percent from 62 percent.  The deal will allow DBS “to expand in an important high-
growth emerging market,” Jonathan Koh, an analyst at UOB Kay
Hian in Singapore, wrote in a note. DBS could “add value by
building up Bank Danamon’s corporate banking, investment banking
and treasury businesses,” he said.  Temasek’s banking unit Fullerton Financial Holdings Pte,
which holds the stake in Danamon, Indonesia’s sixth-biggest bank
by assets, said in a March 30 statement it received an offer for
its shares, without disclosing the bidder.  In June 2003, Temasek and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s
biggest bank, through Asia Financial Indonesia, paid 3.08
trillion rupiah for a 51 percent stake in Danamon. Temasek now
owns all of Asia Financial through Fullerton Financial.  Temasek (TMSK)  managed S$193 billion ($154 billion) in the year
ended March 2011, according to its website. Fullerton Financial
said it appointed Bank of America Corp.’s unit Merrill Lynch and
UBS AG as advisers for the offer. DBS said it named Credit
Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley as its advisers on the
proposed purchase of Danamon and Alliance. Temasek also said it
obtained a waiver from having to make a takeover bid for DBS.  Asian investments made up 77 percent of Temasek’s
underlying portfolio in 2011, the website showed. The percentage
of financial services in Temasek’s portfolio rose to 36 percent
from 35 percent as of March 2011, according to the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  