-- DirecTV Files FCC Complaint Questioning Tribune’s Control
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-04-02T20:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/directv-files-fcc-complaint-against-tribune-citing-bad-faith.html
DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-
company, filed a complaint with the Federal Communications
Commission accusing Tribune Co. of negotiating a new programming
contract in “bad faith” and questioning who is making
decisions at the company.  Tribune’s management agreed to a new contract allowing the
satellite-TV provider to carry its 23 local broadcast channels
on March 29, according to DirecTV’s filing, a claim Tribune
denies. The satellite-TV company claimed the deal was overruled
by Tribune’s creditors and debt holders, including Oaktree
Partners, Angelo Gordon, JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Bank of America
Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “DirecTV still does not know with whom it should be
speaking -- Tribune’s CEO or its associated  hedge funds  and
investment banks,” the El Segundo, California-based company
said in an accompanying statement.  Tribune’s CEO is former DirecTV president Eddy Hartenstein.
DirecTV also accused Tribune of transferring control of its
broadcast license to its creditors without permission, a
violation of the FCC Communications Act, according to the
filing.  Tribune wants DirecTV to pay retransmission fees for the
local stations it carries. On March 31, DirecTV said it had
accepted Tribune’s financial terms to broadcast the stations.
About an hour later Tribune released a statement saying it had
not reached an agreement.  Channel Blackouts  Tribune’s local broadcast stations and cable network WGN
America were blacked out to DirecTV’s  customers  at midnight
April 1. More than 5 million subscribers have lost at least one
channel, DirecTV said. Tribune owns local Fox and CW affiliate
stations in markets including  Los Angeles , New York and Chicago.  Tribune, the Chicago-based owner of the Los Angeles Times
and the Chicago Tribune newspapers, filed for bankruptcy in
December 2008, one year after a leveraged buyout led by real-
estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  Since then, the company and hedge funds holding Tribune’s
senior debt have fought for approval of a plan to divide
ownership among the lenders that financed the $8.3 billion
buyout.  Gary Weitman , a Tribune spokesman, didn’t respond to a
phone call seeking comment.  DirecTV rose 1.2 percent to $49.94 at the close in New York
time. The shares have advanced 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  