-- DNO International Declines on Halt to Iraqi Exports: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-04-02T10:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/dno-international-declines-on-halt-to-iraqi-exports-oslo-mover.html
DNO International ASA (DNO)  fell the most
in more than a week in Oslo trading after the Kurdistan Regional
Government halted exports from the company’s Tawke field.  DNO fell as much as 5 percent, the most since March 22, and
was down 2.8 percent at 9.82 kroner as of noon in the Norwegian
capital, making it the biggest decliner in the benchmark OBX
index.  Shipments were halted because the Federal government in
 Baghdad  has not honored its payment commitments for 10 months,
the regional authority said in a statement. “We hope this is a
temporary measure,” the authority said, adding that oil will be
diverted to the local market.  The Baghdad government is entangled in a dispute with the
regional authorities over crude revenue and refuses to recognize
production-sharing agreements signed by the semi-autonomous area
with foreign companies.  “It’s an illustration that the conflict is still not
solved,” Trond Omdal, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA, said
by phone.  “We have estimated no export payments this year.”  DNO will be able to withstand the export halt because its
lifting, or extraction, costs are as low as $2 a barrel and
there’s increasing demand from local refineries, said Omdal, who
recommends clients to buy the stock.  “You could see quite good valuation support only from
local sales at these levels,” Omdal said.  “Strengthening
political ties between  Turkey  and Kurdistan is also a positive
factor and could eventually lead to direct exports from
Kurdistan to Turkey independently of Baghdad.”  DNO produced 49,000 barrels a day in the Iraqi region in
the fourth quarter. DNO, whose shares have gained 32 percent
this year, said last month that it plans to drill a further four
wells at the Tawke field in 2012 and is seeking to establish
sustainable output of 100,000 barrels a day by year end.  The company, based in Oslo, posted net income of 653
million kroner ($114 million) last year, compared with a 283
million-krone loss a year earlier, as output more than doubled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  