-- Dollar Remains Lower Before U.S. Factory Orders
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-04-03T10:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/dollar-remains-lower-before-u-s-factory-orders.html
The dollar approached a one-month
low against the euro before a U.S. report that economists said
will show factory orders rebounded in February, reducing demand
for the relative safety of the world’s reserve currency.  The Dollar Index dropped for a fourth day before the
 Federal Open Market Committee  releases minutes of its March
meeting, where policy makers raised their assessment of the
economy. The euro rose against most of its major peers after a
German parliamentary leader said there’s no need to discuss a
bailout for  Spain .  Australia ’s dollar fell after the central
bank signaled it may resume cutting interest rates.  “The U.S. economic news, because it has been better, is
promoting some risk appetite,” and undermining the dollar, said
Michael Derks, chief strategist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd.
in London. “For now the market is minded to focus on the more
positive developments. The euro is less vulnerable against the
dollar than it was a month ago and there’s also a suspicion that
the FOMC minutes might show a bias toward further easing.”  The dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.3342 per euro at 6:33
a.m. New York time after declining to $1.3386 on March 27, the
weakest since Feb. 29. The U.S. currency was little changed at
82.04 yen. It earlier dropped to 81.56, the lowest since March
9. The euro gained 0.1 percent to 109.47 yen.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. major
trading partners, fell 0.1 percent to 78.794.  Factory Orders  Orders (TMNOCHNG)  at U.S. factories rose 1.5 percent in February after
a 1 percent drop the previous month, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Commerce Department releases the data today.  Improving U.S. data are “certainly helping global growth
in terms of stability in economic outlook,” said Greg Gibbs, a
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Sydney. “The  U.S. dollar  tends to generally underperform in
that environment.”  The FOMC will release today minutes of its March 13 meeting
when policy makers raised their economic assessment while
repeating that “exceptionally low”  interest rates  may be
needed through late 2014. The central bank bought $2.3 trillion
of debt in two rounds of quantitative easing, or QE, between
December 2008 and June 2011.  ‘Lower’ Dollar  “With signs of an improving economy, the market is still
trying to assess how committed they are, as well as the
possibility of QE3,” Emma Lawson, a Sydney-based currency
strategist at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , wrote in a research
note today. “Less acknowledgement of the recovery is likely to
see the U.S. dollar lower and equity markets higher.”  The euro may struggle to rise above $1.3487, its Feb. 24
high, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The share currency was supported after an envoy of German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party said Spain’s government is
determined to tackle its debt and there’s no need to discuss
bailing out the euro area’s fourth-largest economy.  “From what I see, there is no necessity at the moment for
there to be any talk of Spain having to apply for aid from a
rescue fund,”  Volker Kauder , parliamentary leader of the
Christian Democratic bloc, said yesterday after meeting Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  and other Spanish officials in  Madrid .  The euro has advanced 0.2 percent since the start of the
year, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which
track 10 developed-nation currencies. The yen has declined 9.7
percent, and the dollar has fallen 3.1 percent.  Aussie Decline  The Australian dollar weakened versus all of its 16 major
counterparts after the  Reserve Bank  signaled it may resume
lowering borrowing costs as soon as next month if weaker-than-
expected growth slows inflation.  “Overall, the tone was quite dovish,” Lee Sue Ann, a
Treasury economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in  Singapore ,
said of statement. “Interest-rate expectations are going to
fall, and this will continue to weigh on the Aussie dollar.”  Traders expect the RBA will cut its benchmark rate by 79
basis points over the coming 12 months, according to a Credit
Suisse Group AG  index  based on overnight indexed swap rates.  The so-called Aussie declined 0.5 percent to $1.0372, and
weakened 0.5 percent to 85.10 yen.  Implied volatility  for Group of Seven currencies declined
to 9.9 percent, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index .
The gauge has fallen from 12.3 at the start of the year. Lower
volatility makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark
lending rates more attractive because the risk in such trades is
that market moves will erase profits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 