-- ECB’s Mersch Sees ‘Long Road Ahead’ for Euro-Area Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-04-02T11:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/ecb-s-mersch-sees-long-road-ahead-for-weak-euro-area-economy.html
European Central Bank council member
 Yves Mersch  said the euro area has much work to do in addressing
the causes of its debt crisis and governments must step up
fiscal coordination in the face of “weak growth.”  “Since the beginning of the year, signs of stabilization
have appeared along with a slow and progressive return of market
confidence,” Mersch wrote in the annual report of the
Luxembourg Central Bank, which he heads. “The measures taken by
euro-zone authorities and member states are beginning to produce
results, even if there is a long road ahead.”  The remarks underline the difficulties faced by countries
such as Italy and Spain as they seek to loosen  labor laws  to
spur growth and slash budget deficits. The annual report noted
that the euro-area economy may shrink 0.3 percent this year,
citing a European Commission forecast rather than the ECB’s
prediction of a 0.1 percent contraction.  European finance ministers agreed last week in Copenhagen
to increase the size of the region’s emergency lending
capability to 800 billion euros ($1.1 trillion). The funds are
intended to help governments as the Frankfurt-based ECB provides
banks with emergency liquidity through long-term loans.  “The non-conventional measures are by definition
temporary,” Mersch wrote. “The objective is to reestablish
market confidence as well as optimal transmission of monetary
policy and the financing of the economy.”  Mersch, a candidate to join the ECB’s Executive Board when
the term of  Spain ’s Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo ends next month,
declined to comment about his future. “I have a mandate until
2016 and I don’t have any other information,” he said.  Finance ministers last week delayed a decision on the
appointment until mid April. In his written introduction to the
annual report, Mersch thanked his colleagues at the Luxembourg
Central Bank.  “I must express my profound recognition to everyone who,
over the years, has assisted me” and advised me in my mission
at the Luxembourg Central Bank, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  