-- Egypt Aims to Sign IMF Loan Agreement in June, Minister Says
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-04-02T14:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/egypt-aims-to-sign-imf-loan-agreement-in-june-minister-says-1-.html
Egypt is aiming to sign a agreement
with the  International Monetary Fund  on a $3.2 billion loan in
June, Minister of Planning and International Cooperation Fayza Aboulnaga said.  Egypt will have access to half of that sum once the
memorandum of understanding is signed, Aboulnaga said in an
interview in Cairo today. She said the IMF has asked for broad
backing from all political groups in the country before approval
is granted.  The Muslim Brotherhood, whose political arm holds 47
percent of the seats in the lower house of parliament, has said
it wants to make sure that the interim government has exhausted
all avenues of domestic funding before taking on additional
debt. It also says the government’s economic program, submitted
to the IMF as part of the loan negotiations, is too vague.  Egypt , whose economy is struggling to recover after the
uprising against  Hosni Mubarak  last year, has turned to the IMF
to help cover the  budget deficit  and replenish plunging foreign
currency reserves. An agreement with the Fund may encourage
investment and spur other donors to deliver on aid promises.  The  central bank  said on its website today that net
international  reserves  fell to $15.1 billion last month, from
$15.7 billion in February and $36 billion at the end of 2010.  Egypt officially requested the IMF loan in January, after
turning down a similar loan offer last year amid domestic
criticism of the move. An IMF committee was in Egypt last week
to discuss the loan.  Masood Ahmed, the IMF’s  Middle East  and Central Asia
department director, said in a March 19 interview that the loan
could be concluded in “the next couple of months,” assuming
that the interim government’s economic program wins broad public
support.  Lawmaker Moustafa Bakry told reporters yesterday following
a meeting with Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri that the premier
said a political group was impeding progress on the loan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  