-- Telecom Italia Rising in Bonds With Austerity: Corporate Finance
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-04-02T08:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/telecom-italia-rising-in-bonds-with-austerity-corporate-finance.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  is rising to the
top of the global corporate  bond market  as the loss-making phone
operator cuts debt amid renewed demand for Italian assets.  Bonds of Italy’s biggest phone operator returned 2.9
percent in March, the most of the 50 biggest issuers in Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate & High-
Yield  Index (GI00) . The rally drove the average yield on Milan-based
Telecom Italia debt down by 53 basis points to 5.09 percent.  The performance marks a turnaround from November, when
Italian securities were roiled by speculation the country was
becoming engulfed in  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. Telecom
Italia, which posted a bigger-than-expected 2011  net loss  of 4.7
billion euros ($6.3 billion), cut its shareholder dividend for
the first time in four years and is relying on expansion in
 emerging markets  to bolster its ability to pay debt.  “This company is committed to cutting debt and it’s
willing to make sacrifices to do so,” said Mark Chapman, an
analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  London , who has an
“outperform” rating on Telecom Italia’s bonds. “They’ve been
able to stick to their debt reduction plans that most people in
the market believed were impossible to reach.”  The phone company’s adjusted net  debt  will fall to 27.5
billion euros this year from 30.4 billion euros in 2011, it said
in February. Telecom Italia reduced net debt to 2.5 times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
last year from 2.8 times in 2010.  Leverage Targets  The ratio should fall to below 2.5 times in 2013 and the
company targets a cut to less than two times in 2014, according
to Chapman.  Bond investors have taken notice. The dollar value of
Telecom Italia’s bonds denominated in euros, pounds and dollars
rose by $1 billion to $29 billion in March, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  The yield on the company’s 1 billion euros of 7 percent
notes due 2017 tumbled 83 basis points, or 0.83 percentage
point, to 4.31 percent in March, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices
show. That compares with a four basis-point drop to 4.12 percent
in the broad Bank of America Merrill Lynch index, which tracks
12,302 notes issued by borrowers from America Movil SAB in
 Mexico  to Brussels-based phone operator  Belgacom SA. (BELG)   The yield on Telecom Italia’s 2017 bonds fell to within 352
basis points of those on similar-maturity German government debt
from a 642 basis-point spread at the end of 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The price of the notes has climbed
12 percent to 111.35 cents on the euro.  Spread Tightening  Telecom Italia “still has room to go as far as future
spread tightening or opportunistic ability to pick up something
from the yield,” Scott Kimball, a  money manager  in Miami at
Taplin Canida & Habacht LLC, which manages $7 billion, said in a
March 28 interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track.”  Company officials weren’t immediately available to comment.
The Italian phone operator has 25.5 billion euros of bonds
outstanding, with 1.8 billion euros due this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Telecom Italia is benefiting as a proxy for Italian
 government securities , which have soared since the  European
Central Bank  flooded banks with more than $1 trillion of cheap
loans to contain the credit crisis.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s plans to implement 20 billion
euros of austerity measures to balance the budget next year,
coupled with ECB lending, convinced investors to return to
 Italy . The yield on Italy’s  10-year bonds  has fallen 2.08
percentage points this year to 5.03 percent at 8:36 a.m. in
London.  ‘Lot of Credibility’  “Monti’s got a lot of credibility,” said Patrick McCullagh, the head of European credit research at Schroder
Investment Management Ltd. in London, which oversees $63 billion
of bonds. “The question about Telecom Italia bond spreads is
clearly tied up with the sovereign and that’s outside the
company’s hands.”  It’s taking advantage of the demand by seeking to extend
the maturity on 4 billion euros of loans by three years, people
with knowledge of the situation said last month. The people
declined to be identified because the deal is private.  Telecom Italia proposed on March 29 to cut its  ordinary
dividend  by 26 percent to 4.3 cents per share as part of efforts
to reduce debt and maintain its Baa2 rating at Moody’s Investors
Service and equivalent BBB grade at  Standard & Poor’s . The
company previously forecast annual dividend growth of 15 percent
through 2013.  Dividend Cuts  Telecom Italia and other former phone monopolies in Europe,
such as Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) , are suffering in their home
markets because of weak economies amid the sovereign debt
crisis. Telefonica and  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  cut dividends in
December while  France Telecom SA (FTE)  did the same on Feb. 22.  “While the dividend cuts are credit positive, they do not
completely offset companies’ difficulties in deleveraging or in
sustaining  cash flow  through organic growth,” Carlos Winzer, an
analyst at Moody’s in Madrid, wrote in a March 20 report.  Moody’s cut its outlook on Telecom Italia to “negative”
in September, citing the “effects on  consumer spending  from
slow economic growth and government austerity measures.”  When Franco Bernabe became chief executive officer in 2007
he announced plans to cut debt, which almost equaled the phone
operator’s market value.  Goodwill Writedown  The Italian company’s 2011 net loss was caused by a 7.3
billion-euro writedown of goodwill related partly to its merger
with Olivetti SpA in 1999, Telecom Italia said in its 2011
earnings statement on March 29. Excluding writedowns, net income
was 2.6 billion euros, a 19 percent decline from 2010.  Revenue increased 8.7 percent to 30 billion euros, boosted
by growth in its  Latin American businesses  that included the
expansion of its  Tim Participacoes SA (TCSL4)  unit in Rio de Janeiro to
beat billionaire Carlos Slim’s America Movil to be Brazil’s
second-largest wireless operator. Telecom Italia also has a 22.7
percent stake in Telecom Argentina SA, the country’s No.2 phone
company.  The cost to insure Telecom Italia’s debt using credit-
default swaps has dropped 31 percent this year to 335 basis
points, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  That compares with a 28 percent decline in contracts on
 France Telecom  and a 16 percent drop for Telefonica. A fall in
the price of the swaps indicates an improvement in perceptions
of creditworthiness.  “The market is very positive on Telecom Italia’s debt
reduction plan,” said Alexander Wisch, an analyst at S&P
Capital IQ Equity Research in London who has a “hold”
recommendation on the stock. “It’s partly based on progress in
Brazil and Argentina where the outlook is very good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  