-- Telefonica Merges Colombian Phone Assets to Reduce Debt
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-04-03T16:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/telefonica-merges-colombian-phone-assets-to-reduce-debt.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , the Spanish phone
company that’s merging its Colombian assets to help cut $1.7
billion in debt, will have to find buyers for units such as
call-center business Atento to soothe investors concerned with
liability levels.  Telefonica will combine its Colombian wireless division
with the fixed-line unit it co-owns with the local government,
giving Telefonica 70 percent of the enlarged company and the
state the remainder, the Madrid-based company said yesterday.
The move doesn’t go far enough toward cutting a  debt pile  that
jumped to 56.3 billion euros ($75 billion) in December from 42.7
billion euros in 2008, investors said.  “Selling small bits and pieces won’t solve the debt
problem,” said  Robin Bienenstock , a London-based analyst at
Sanford C Bernstein. “Even if Telefonica wanted to sell
something more significant, it would be complicated to sell at a
good price amid these market conditions and would take time.”  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta, 66, in December cut
Telefonica’s dividend for the first time in a decade and has
reduced its workforce and halted major acquisitions. The
operator has announced the sale of a stake in satellite company
Hispasat SA. Shares in other publicly traded companies,
including  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  and  Zon Multimedia Servicos
de Telecomunicacoes e Multimedia SGPS SA , may follow, while the
company must maintain its businesses in fast-growing Latin
American markets to offset a decline in its domestic market,
investors said.  Pulled IPO  Telefonica’s shares have lost 33 percent in the last year
while the  Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication Services Index (BETELES)  lost
14 percent. The stock lost 2.5 percent to 12.04 euros today at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Madrid, valuing the company at 55 billion
euros.  In June, Telefonica pulled a planned 580 million-euro
initial public offering of Atento, which operates in  Europe  and
 Latin America  and employs more than 150,000 people. Telefonica
held a 2 percent stake in Portugal Telecom as of Jan. 20 and
less than 5 percent of Zon as of March 29. It also holds a 6.1
percent stake in  Amper SA (AMP) , a Spanish maker of communications
equipment.  As part of yesterday’s agreement,  Colombia ’s government,
which owns 48 percent of Colombia Telecomunicaciones, will
assume the same portion of the fixed-line venture’s payment
obligations to the Parapat pension fund. The state’s 30 percent
stake in the enlarged company may increase by as much as 3
percentage points in 2015.  ‘Right Direction’  “The deal in Colombia is clearly a step in the right
direction but it’s not enough,” said Peter Braendle, who helps
manage about $60 billion at Zurich-based Swisscanto Asset
Management AG, including Telefonica shares. “At the end of the
day, I’m still happy that they do business in a country with an
improved economic outlook.”  Telefonica will continue to sell non-core assets in order
to reduce debt this year and reduce leverage, Finance Chief
Angel Vila said Feb. 24. However, the phone operator is
“extremely happy” with its stake in  China Unicom Hong Kong
Ltd. (762)  and wants to keep it and grow the companies’ collaboration
further, Alierta said then. Telefonica also plans to keep its
stake in  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , he said.  “It seems that the call-center unit Atento will be the
next thing to offload,” Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based
strategist at FGA/MG Valores, said by phone. “A big problem may
come from Argentina, where Repsol’s experience doesn’t bode well
for other Spanish companies including Telefonica.”  Argentine Risks  YPF, Argentina’s largest oil company and a unit of Madrid-
based  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , has lost 12 licenses in five provinces
since March 14 after Argentina President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government demanded higher investment to curb output
declines and help cut imports.  “Argentina is always challenging with politics,” said
Braendle, adding he sees a similar situation in Venezuela.
“Other competitive markets such as  Mexico  for instance have a
more reliable regulatory environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  