-- TeliaSonera Names Nokia’s Andersson to Run Finnish Unit
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-04-02T12:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/teliasonera-names-nokia-s-andersson-to-run-finnish-unit.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , the Nordic region’s
second-largest phone company, named  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  Senior Vice
President Robert Andersson to run operations in  Finland , its  No.
2 country  by revenue.  Andersson, 51, will start May 14 and will report to Lars Nyberg, chief executive officer of Stockholm-based TeliaSonera,
which operates in Central Asia as well as the Nordic and Baltic
countries, the company said today in a statement. Andersson will
oversee Finnish mobile, broadband and business-services units
that previously reported to other group executives, Tatu
Tuominen, a spokesman, said today by phone.  TeliaSonera cut international roaming prices last year to
retain wireless customers in its home region as earnings have
fallen in Finland, where  Elisa Oyj (ELI1V)  is now the largest mobile
carrier. Wireless operators in Finland are expected to bid by
the end of 2013 on new spectrum for so-called fourth-generation
services. The sale is being conducted by auction, in a  break 
with the earlier practice of awarding frequencies through a so-
called “beauty contest.”  “It’s clear they have been seeing quite tough competition,
especially from Elisa,” said Lars Soederfjell, a Stockholm-
based analyst at Bank of Aaland with a “buy”  recommendation  on
TeliaSonera stock. “It’s about doing the same type of job
they’ve done in  Sweden  to strengthen their position.”  TeliaSonera fell as much as 0.9 percent to 45.73 kronor and
was trading down 0.7 percent at 1:34 p.m. in  Stockholm .  Adding BlackBerry  The company said separately that it will start selling
Research In Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry handsets and services in
Finland.  Andersson ran finances at Nokia’s handset-making unit and
served on the Espoo, Finland-based manufacturer’s executive
board before becoming head of strategic alliances in 2009. He
helped set up Nokia’s deals to work with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  on
handset software, as well as partnerships with Pearson Plc and
Intuit Inc.  TeliaSonera’s previous head of Finnish operations, Juha-
Pekka Weckstroem, moved to running business development for the
Eurasia division at the end of last year.  The Finnish government  said  March 29 that it plans to raise
100 million euros ($133 million) from the auction of six paired
blocks of spectrum in the 800 MHz band.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  