-- Temenos May Resume Misys Talks After CVC Group Withdraws
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-04-02T16:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/temenos-may-re-enter-bid-for-misys-after-cvc-valueact-drop-out.html
Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  said it retains the
right to restart a bidding process for  Misys Plc (MSY)  after CVC
Capital Partners and ValueAct said today they don’t intend to
proceed with an offer for the U.K. software maker.  Temenos terminated discussions with Misys last month on a
possible all-share merger, saying it’s keeping the option to
announce an offer or participate in a bid within six months.
That statement still stands, a spokesman at the Geneva-based
company said in a telephone interview.  “It’s still a possibility” that Temenos will re-enter the
process with share-based bid, said Stefan Gaechter, an analyst
at Helvea AG in Zurich with a recommendation to buy Temenos
shares. “They’ve never really laid out what kind of synergies
are possible and so Misys shareholders couldn’t compare the
bids. Maybe they’ll do that in another try.”  Vista Equity Partners agreed, following Temenos’s
withdrawal, to acquire London-based Misys for 350 pence a share,
or 1.3 billion pounds ($2.1 billion) in cash, in a recommended
offer.  CVC Capital Partners  and ValueAct said today that they
won’t bid after considering making a cash offer.  ‘Best Deal’  Misys  shares  fell 2.5 percent to 349 pence at the close of
trading in  London , paring a decline of as much as 3.1 percent.
Temenos gained 3 percent to 17.2 Swiss francs in Zurich, valuing
the company at 1.2 billion francs ($1.3 billion).  A spokesman for San Francisco-based Vista declined to
comment today.  Misys acting Chief Executive Officer Tom Kilroy said March
22 that Vista’s cash proposal is probably the “best deal” for
the company and its shareholders.  Misys shareholders will vote
on the proposed Vista takeover on April 24.  Misys and Geneva-based Temenos were in talks to create the
world’s largest vendor of banking software before the private
equity firms expressed interest in Misys. The companies could
have achieved potential savings of 75 million pounds in a
merger, according to estimates by Numis Securities analysts.  As banking regulations become stricter, Misys is seeking to
sell more products that handle risk management, derivatives
trading and lending. Misys has more than 1,300 banking
customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  