-- Emerging Stocks Extend Quarterly Rise on Manufacturing
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-04-02T22:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/emerging-stocks-extend-quarterly-gain-on-china-company-earnings.html
Emerging-market stocks rose,
extending their first-quarter gain, after gauges of U.S. and
Chinese manufacturing advanced, showing expansion in the world’s
largest economies.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.6 percent to
1,047.72 at the close in New York, led by consumer discretionary
companies. Apparel retailer  Cia. Hering (HGTX3)  rose the most in a week
in  Brazil , helping the  Bovespa index  end a four-day retreat.
 China Railway Construction Corp. (1186)  rallied 8.3 percent in  Hong
Kong  after better-than-expected profits.  Industrias Penoles SAB (PE&OLES*) ,
 Mexico ’s largest silver producer, pushed the country’s IPC index
to a record high.  A  Purchasing Managers’ Index (CPMINDX)  compiled by  China ’s logistics
federation and the National Bureau of Statistics rose to 53.1 in
March from 51 in February. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory index climbed to a 53.4 last month in the U.S.,
exceeding the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Readings
above 50 signal expansion.  “If you have strength in a massive developed economy, then
emerging markets follow that,” Michael Gayed, chief investment
strategist at Pension Partners LLC, said by phone from  New York .
“The market probably is overestimating the probability that you
will have that hard landing, that you will have some kind of
collapse in  China’s economy .”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 14 percent in the
first quarter, the best start to a year since 1992. It
 outperformed  the  MSCI World index  of developed-market shares for
the first time since the third quarter of 2010. The developing-
nation benchmark trades for 10.8 times estimated earnings,
compared with a 13.2 ratio for developed-country stocks.  Volatility  The  IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
rose 1.4 percent to $43.55. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
 Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices
on the fund and expectations of price swings, fell for the third
day, declining 3.3 percent.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  gained 1.1 percent, ending a four-day
slump. Hering rose 1.1 percent while retailer  Lojas Americanas
SA (LAME4)  increased 2 percent.  China’s government-backed PMI is skewed toward large
enterprises and affected by seasonality, with the gauge climbing
an average of 3.2 points each March from 2005 to 2011 as
production returned to normal after a Lunar New Year holiday,
HSBC Holdings Plc said in a note.  A separate  PMI (EC11CHPM)  from HSBC and  Markit Economics  fell to a
four-month low of 48.3, showing that manufacturing contracted
and export orders declined.  A euro region  manufacturing gauge , based on a survey of
 purchasing managers , fell to 47.7 in March from 49 in February,
Markit Economics said, marking an eighth month of contraction.  Turkey Growth  Turkey ’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  added 0.9 percent after
Turkish economic growth in the fourth quarter came in at 5.2
percent, exceeding economists’ estimates.  Turkiye Garanti
Bankasi AS (GARAN)  rose 3.1 percent in Istanbul.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong advanced 0.2 percent.  In  South Korea , the  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  advanced 0.8 percent after
the country’s credit rating outlook was raised by Moody’s
Investors Service to positive from stable.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , rose 0.4 percent,
advancing for a second day. Stock markets in China,  Vietnam  and
 Argentina  were closed today for holidays.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 341, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 