-- Energy Week Ahead: NRC Talks Temblors With Power-Plant Owners
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-04-02T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/energy-week-ahead-nrc-talks-temblors-with-power-plant-owners.html
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
staff will meet with industry officials in San Mateo,
 California , today and tomorrow to discuss seismic risks at the
nation’s 104 operating reactors.  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi disaster last year, caused by an
earthquake and tsunami, and an August temblor that temporarily
shut down  Dominion Resources Inc (D) .’s North Anna nuclear plant in
Virginia, have brought heightened attention to reactors’
susceptibility to quakes.  The NRC on March 12 asked reactor owners, including  Exelon
Corp. (EXC)  and  Entergy Corp. (ETR) , to evaluate their seismic risks as part
of a review of plant safety after the Fukushima disaster.  Plants in the Eastern and Central U.S., where earthquake
threats may be greater than officials believed when the
facilities were constructed, have 18 months to respond. Eight
reactors in the Western part of the country, built to stand more
violent ground rattling, have three years to answer. The NRC,
which had been studying quake risks even before Fukushima, will
then determine what additional action to take, a process that
the agency’s staff said may last until 2017 or beyond.  NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  doesn’t like that timeline and
has asked that all rules resulting from the Fukushima disaster
be implemented no later than 2016. Earthquake studies for all
plants can’t be finished by then because of their complexity and
limited resources, officials from the Nuclear Energy Institute,
a Washington-based industry group, have said.  Separately, on April 6, Jaczko plans to visit  Edison
International (EIX) ’s San Onofre plant about 60 miles (97 kilometers)
southeast of  Los Angeles , which has been shut since January.
Inspectors found what the NRC has described as “unusual wear”
in steam generator tubes in the plant’s two reactors.  Republican Darrell Issa, the chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, who has been critical
of Jaczko’s management style, will also tour the plant, which is
in the congressman’s district. Edison needs NRC permission to
resume output from the San Onofre facility, the agency said in a
March 27 statement. Jaczko and Issa may meet with reporters
following the tour.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  WASTE WATCH: The NRC meets with the U.S. Blue Ribbon Commission
on atomic waste on April 10 to discuss storage options for spent
fuel. The U.S. needs permanent and temporary storage facilities
for the waste, the panel said in a January report. President
 Barack Obama  established the panel in 2010 after killing plans
for a waste dump at Nevada’s Yucca Mountain.  SHATTUCK SPEAKS: Mayo A. Shattuck III, executive chairman of
Exelon Corp., speaks about the future of the nuclear industry on
April 11 at the Center for Strategic and International Studies
in  Washington . Chicago-based Exelon, the largest commercial U.S.
producer of nuclear energy, on March 9 won final regulatory
approval for its merger with Constellation Energy Group Inc.,
which Shattuck led.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  