-- Enterprise Seeks Pricing Muscle for Seaway Oil Pipeline
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-04-02T20:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/enterprise-seeks-pricing-muscle-for-seaway-oil-pipeline.html
Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  is
asking federal regulators for the freedom to set rates on its
Seaway pipeline to take advantage of soaring demand to ship oil
from new North American fields to  Gulf Coast  markets.  Enterprise has asked the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission to grant a flexible rate known as a market-based
tariff for the pipeline. It would be a first for a crude oil
line and allow Enterprise to set and change rates without FERC’s
approval.  Seaway, co-owned by Enterprise and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , connects
the storage hub at Cushing, Oklahoma, with Gulf Coast
refineries. Demand for the line, which is scheduled to be
reversed so it runs southward, has been so robust the companies
said March 27 they’ll more than double the line’s capacity to
850,000 barrels a day. The pipeline, when finished, will rival
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s planned Keystone XL line in transporting
crude from  Canada ’s  oil sands  and the Bakken Shale in  North
Dakota  and  Montana .  Oil producers have protested, saying Enterprise and
Enbridge would have too much control over a crucial route if
FERC grants their request.  “It’s a world market,” Ed Hirs, a professor of energy
economics at the  University of Houston , said in an interview.
“The guys in Cushing want access to it, and Enterprise is
saying, ‘Fine, we’ll charge what the market will bear.”’  FERC Approval Required  Normally, FERC has to approve rates on common carriers, the
pipelines that rent shipping capacity, and those rates can’t be
changed without FERC’s agreement, Tamara Young-Allen, a FERC
spokeswoman, said in an interview.  Enterprise wrote in its application for the market rate
that the traditional pricing model would constrain its ability
“to respond appropriately to the market forces,” in Oklahoma
and  Texas .  Oil producers and trade associations say the market-based
tariff would have an outsized impact on small producers, who
lack the clout to negotiate lower rates.  “That’s the whole reason for common carriers, so the
massively large guys cannot take advantage of the little guys,”
said Richard Salamon, head of the crude oil committee for the
Oklahoma Independent Petroleum Association.  FERC has never granted a market-based tariff for a crude
pipeline, Young-Allen said. The agency rejected a 2007 request
by Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  for a market rate on
its Pegasus crude pipeline carrying crude from  Illinois  to the
Gulf Coast. Exxon has appealed.  Growing Oil Production  Shawn Howard, a TransCanada spokesman, declined to comment
on whether the company may request a similar rate for the
southern leg of its Keystone XL pipeline between Cushing and the
Texas coast, due to start construction as soon as June.  The rate debate comes as production has increased from
shale fields in North Dakota and oil sands in Canada, piling up
supplies at the Cushing bottleneck.  Canada’s oil exports rose 8.7 percent last year to 2.1
million barrels a day. North Dakota’s production rose to 535,000
barrels a day in December, making it the third-biggest producer
among U.S. states.  Enbridge bought half of the Seaway line from Houston-based
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  in November for $1.15 billion and announced a
plan with Enterprise to reverse the line and deliver oil to
Houston. The first phase of the reversed pipeline is expected to
open in late May, carrying 150,000 barrels a day. The second,
400,000-barrel phase is scheduled to open in 2013 with an
expansion to 850,000 barrels by mid-2014.  Ample Competition  Enterprise said in its application to FERC that producers
have plenty of shipping options including other pipelines, rail
cars, trucks and barges. TransCanada plans to have oil flowing
on its Keystone XL Cushing phase by next year, and is seeking a
permit to connect the pipeline to oil sands production in
 Alberta  by 2015.  Enterprise and Enbridge said they’ve received commitments
from shippers for most of the Seaway line’s capacity. The
companies haven’t said publicly how many shippers the market-
based tariff would apply to, or how high the tariff might go.  The Seaway line charged as much as $1.10 per barrel when it
ran northward, Young-Allen said.  It costs about $10 per barrel to ship oil southward from
Cushing to Houston by truck, said Brian Watson, director of
research at Steelpath Capital Management LLC. If Enterprise and
Enbridge get the market-based tariff, they’ll have to keep the
rate well below that level to avoid driving off long-term
customers. Any price advantage they receive would only last
until competing pipelines are built.  “They’ll make some good money, at least for six or nine
months,” he said.  Chevron, Continental Protest  Oil producers including  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Continental
resources (CLR)  say granting the flexible tariff would set a bad
precedent. The commission has previously said it wouldn’t grant
market-based tariffs on new oil lines because “a pipeline might
be able to exercise market power and establish an initial rate
that was unjust and unreasonable,” according to a protest filed
by Continental and four other shippers.  Chevron, which with two other companies filed a separate
protest, said using FERC’s established rate-setting methods
“has a higher degree of predictability,”  Sean Comey , a
spokesman, wrote in an e-mail.  “Predictable expenses are an important component of
establishing and enhancing a pro-business environment,” Comey
wrote.  Oklahoma Governor’s Objection  Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin also asked regulators to
reject Enterprise’s request. The floating rate would
“significantly reduce” tax revenues in  Oklahoma  by effectively
cutting prices realized by producers, Steve Mullins, Fallin’s
general counsel, wrote in a filing.  Enterprise has asked FERC for a decision by June, when the
reversed Seaway line is scheduled to open. The producers say
they want FERC to either throw out the request or hold a hearing
and gather testimony before granting the new tariff structure.  The commission hasn’t replied to either side’s request.
FERC has previously allowed market-based rates on 22 pipelines
that carry refined products such as gasoline and diesel. There
are more products pipelines than crude lines, which makes it
easier to determine whether there’s effective competition in
their markets, Young-Allen said.  Pegasus Line Refused  FERC gave an indication of its thinking about crude oil
lines in 2010 when it turned down Exxon’s request for a market-
based rate on the 858-mile Pegasus line.  “Oil pipelines have the ability to seek approval for
market-based rates but do not have a right to them,” the
Commission said in its decision. “The burden of proof is on the
pipeline to establish that it lacks significant market power.”  Exxon has appealed the decision to the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the D.C. Circuit, Young-Allen, the FERC spokeswoman,
said. Exxon thinks market-based rates should be allowed on crude
lines since they’re used on refined fuel lines, Patrick
Henretty, a spokesman, wrote in an e-mail.  “It would be fundamentally unfair for the FERC to prohibit
the use of market-based rates for the Pegasus Pipeline but
permit them to be used by Pegasus’s competitors,” Henretty
wrote.  Enterprise rose 0.85 percent to $50.90 at the close in  New
York . Enbridge rose 0.93 percent to C$39.10 in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  