-- Environment Group Sues U.S. Over Mojave Solar Project
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-04-02T17:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/environment-group-sues-u-s-over-mojave-solar-project.html
An environmental group sued U.S.
agencies including the  Department of the Interior  over a solar
energy project planned for California’s  Mojave Desert , claiming
it would harm endangered species of animals.  The  National Resources Defense Council  said the agencies
have gone ahead with the project without considering its effect
on animals such as the desert tortoise and the golden eagle,
according to a suit filed March 26 in federal court in
Riverside, California.  “To meet the deadline, the department and its agencies
pushed forward without fully considering the project’s impact on
these species,” lawyers for the council said in the complaint.  The Calico Solar project is planned for more than 4,000
undeveloped acres in the Pisgah Valley of the Mojave Desert.
K Road Power Holdings LLC announced in December 2010 that it had
acquired the Calico project from Tessera Solar North America
Inc. K Road estimated  capital investment  at $3 billion.  Kate Kelly, a spokeswoman for the Interior Department,
declined to comment on the suit. She said Interior has approved
16 solar projects on public land in the U.S., including Calico.  The council said in the filing its priorities are
“defending endangered wildlife and wild places, curbing global
climate change and promoting a clean energy future.”  Also named as defendants are the Bureau of Land Management
and its director,  Robert Abbey ; the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service and its director, Daniel Ashe; and the secretary of the
interior, Ken Salazar.  The case is National Resources Defense Council v. Abbey,
12-cv-02586, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California 
(Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York 
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 