-- Merkel to Forge Ahead on Tax Treaty as Switzerland Seeks Arrests
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-04-02T12:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/merkel-to-forge-ahead-on-tax-treaty-as-switzerland-seeks-arrests.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government will seek to win approval for a German-Swiss  tax
treaty  after Swiss prosecutors issued an arrest warrant for
three German tax investigators on charges of economic espionage.  Merkel doesn’t view the relationship between the two
countries as “burdened” by the warrant, government spokesman
Steffen Seibert said today in Berlin. He said that a treaty, now
being blocked by the Social Democratic-led opposition, would
create the legal clarity required to avoid such incidents.  “We have a situation in which two neighboring states,
Germany and  Switzerland , have a differing legal assessment of
the same development,” Seibert told reporters. “For situations
like this one, a treaty would establish legal certainty.”  The call for the arrest of three top tax investigators, who
are accused of purchasing stolen CDs with data on  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  clients, complicates Merkel’s struggle to push through
the treaty to fight tax evasion. The opposition has vowed to
block ratification in the upper house of parliament, or
Bundesrat, saying the treaty wouldn’t go far enough in punishing
tax violators and preserves an element of bank secrecy.  The latest spat threatens to block an agreement hammered
out last year by German and Swiss negotiators, according to
which a withholding tax would be levied on German bank clients
in Switzerland while concealing their identity. It would also
end the practice of purchasing stolen data to gain information
on tax cheats funneling their money into Swiss accounts.  No Legal Assistance  Switzerland, which views violating its bank secrecy as a
criminal offense, has bristled at  Germany ’s purchasing of such
CDs and said it will offer no legal assistance. Germany’s
Justice Ministry said it received a legal-assistance request
from Switzerland on the matter March 20.  There is “concrete suspicion” that suspects in Germany
gave instructions to “spy on Credit Suisse” to gather the
data, Jeannette Balmer, a Swiss prosecution spokeswoman, said
March 31.  German Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus said the
government still aims to make changes to the tax agreement,
which was signed last September, that will satisfy the Social
Democrats and Green Party leaders blocking the measure. The
government wants to the treaty to go into effect Jan. 1, 2013.  “There is no disagreement that we have to take measures
against  tax evasion ,” Kotthaus told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  