-- EU Carbon Permits Drop After Output Unexpectedly Falls
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-04-02T17:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/eu-carbon-permits-drop-after-output-unexpectedly-falls.html
Carbon permits plunged to a record
after European Union data showed emissions from factories and
power stations in the region fell more than expected last year
amid milder-than-normal weather.  Emissions decreased 2.4 percent to 1.7 billion metric tons
in 2011 from 1.75 billion tons for the same installations in 
2010, according to preliminary data published today on the  EU
website  and compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The median
estimate of seven analysts surveyed last month by Bloomberg was
for a 0.7 percent advance. Today’s data covers about 88 percent
of facilities in the market.  EU carbon for December dropped 11 percent to close at 6.34
euros ($8.45) a ton, the biggest loss since April 28, 2006 on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London. The previous low was
6.38 euros on Jan. 4. Power-industry emissions dropped to 2009
levels, said Matteo Mazzoni, an analyst for NE Nomisma Energia
Srl in Bologna,  Italy .  “That is the elephant in the room,” he said today by e-
mail. “And then, of course, you have stagnating industrial
production.”  The greenhouse gas program, the second-biggest energy
market in Europe by open interest after Brent crude oil, is
oversupplied with EU allowances and United Nations credits by
9.9 percent, New Energy Finance in London estimated. That’s
prompted lawmakers to consider withholding supply in planned
auctions during the next few years to revive prices, according
to votes in the European Parliament. Open interest is a measure
of trading positions that have not closed.  Oversupplied Market  “Whatever the emissions data, the system remains heavily
oversupplied with permits,” Mark Owen-Lloyd, head of carbon
trading at CF Partners (U.K.) LLP in  London , said today by e-
mail. “An EU decision to withhold permits will drive the market
up.”  The market was probably 4.9 percent oversupplied last year,
excluding UN offsets, according to the preliminary data.
Emissions from installations in Germany dropped 1.2 percent and
in the U.K. declined 7.2 percent. Average temperatures across
the U.K. in December, for instance, were 0.6 degrees Celsius
(1.1 Fahrenheit) above normal and were “much milder” in winter
months than the previous three winters, according to a  statement 
on the website of Britain’s Met Office.  Greece  was among nations failing to report emissions, and
the percentage decline may widen as updated information is
published, said Matthew Cowie, an analyst for New Energy Finance
in London. Carbon permits dropped as emissions output was “more
decoupled from economic activity than forecast,” Cowie said.  Power Emissions Drop  Emissions from EU power utilities dropped by a record 2.9
percent last year, even as  Germany  shut nuclear power stations,
according to the data.  Power emissions decreased by 32 million tons to 1.1 billion
tons as utilities used more-efficient plants, Cowie said.  “With power demand down 4 percent from 2010 to 2011, the
emissions intensity of power rose slightly overall, but this was
mostly as a result of a drop in nuclear and hydro power
production,” he said. Emissions intensity is a measure of the
carbon-dioxide produced for each unit of electricity.  For fossil-fuel power generation in isolation, “the
emissions intensity actually dropped by 0.74 percent, as more
efficient coal-and-gas power stations replaced the output from
older plants,” Cowie said.  German power emissions dropped 1.9 percent, according to
the data. In March last year, the nation shut its nuclear plants
after a tsunami measuring more than 15 meters (49 feet) high
overwhelmed a facility at Fukushima,  Japan , causing a meltdown
there.  Prices May Plunge  Carbon permits may plunge from current levels to 3 euros as
traders realize the bloc won’t change the program’s rules, said
UBS AG.  “We expect the carbon price collapse to accelerate from
here,” Per Lekander, an analyst for the bank based in Paris,
said today in an e-mailed research note before the price fell to
its record. “Potential sellers have held off selling ahead of
the yearly emissions data.”  Deutsche Bank AG boosted its estimate of the 2020 surplus
of allowances and United Nations credits in the EU carbon market
by 47 percent, after the emissions output dropped.  The market will have an oversupply of about 1 billion tons
by the end of the decade, compared with an earlier estimate of
681 million tons, according to an e-mailed research note from
analyst  Mark Lewis  in Paris.  Last year’s drop in emissions “underlines the urgent need
for action to be taken by the EU authorities to re-establish
scarcity,” Lewis said in the note.  UN Certified Emission Reductions for December dropped 11
percent to close at 3.41 euros a ton. Its record of 3.36 euros
was hit on Jan. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  