-- EU Is Considering Allowing More Sugar Sales, Faster Imports
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-02T17:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/eu-is-considering-allowing-more-sugar-sales-faster-imports-1-.html
The European Union may allow sugar
producers to sell more supplies domestically and accelerate
import tenders after consumers complained about shortages,
according to the European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm.  Producers may be able to sell an extra 250,000 metric tons
within the bloc at a reduced duty, according to draft proposals
presented last week at the EU’s sugar management committee,
Karolina Kottova, a spokeswoman for the commission said in an e-
mail today. Tenders to import sugar also may be held earlier
than anticipated, she said, citing the proposals.  “In order to make the market more fluid and to prepare for
a possible tighter market situation later in the marketing year,
the commission’s services introduced some draft proposals to
member states for discussion in last week’s management
committee,” Kottova said in the e-mail.  The EU may need another 1.6 million tons of sugar after
shortages disrupted food manufacturing in the bloc, the
Committee of European Sugar Users, which represents companies
including Kraft Foods Inc. and Nestle SA, said in a statement
sent to the commission last month.  Sugar Shortage  The bloc is facing a shortage even as global supplies of
the sweetener outpace demand by 7.7 million tons this season,
according to Czarnikow Group Ltd., which traded sugar in over 90
countries last year.  Tenders to import raw sugar at reduced duties would be held
on May 2, May 23 and June 6, according to a copy of the
proposals obtained by Bloomberg. They had been previously
scheduled to take place on June 6, June 27 and July 11. The EU’s
sugar management committee, which manages the process of sales
and tenders, is scheduled to meet April 12.  While international sugar prices have fallen 15 percent in
 New York  over the past year, the sweeteners’ price averaged 683
euros ($909) a ton in  Europe  in January, the highest since at
least July 2006, according to data on the commission’s website.  The EU, once the second-biggest sugar exporter, has sought
to reduce sugar production since the  World Trade Organization 
said in 2005 it was disrupting global markets by exporting
subsidized output. The EU spent about 5.2 billion euros since
2006 to shrink the industry. Rules limit the amount of sugar
local producers can supply to the domestic market, and any
surplus must be exported or put to non-food use. Imports usually
incur a duty of 339 euros a ton.  The curbs are “creating an artificial shortage and pushing
up prices,” the Association of the German Confectionery
Industry said in a statement in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  