-- EU’s Barnier Rejects ‘Intimidation’ on Draft Hedge-Fund Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-02T16:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/eu-s-barnier-rejects-intimidation-on-draft-hedge-fund-rules.html
Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial services chief, said he won’t be “intimidated” by
what he described as “rearguard lobbying” against EU measures
to regulate  hedge funds .  Barnier was responding to warnings from the industry that
rules drafted by the European Commission would harm asset
managers. An industry group said the proposed rules broke from
advice given by other European market regulators.  “Despite the pressure from those trying to reopen old
issues, we won’t abandon our efforts to ensure that all
financial actors, be they banks or hedge funds or other
financial institutions, are appropriately regulated,” Barnier
said in an e-mailed statement today. “I will not be intimidated
by those trying to undermine the real progress we are making.”  The draft rules are part of the Commission’s work to
implement a hedge-fund law from 2011. The legislation, known as
the Alternative Investment Fund Managers directive, set rules on
management and information disclosure for funds across the 27-
nation region. The law also toughens liability rules for banks’
that hold fund assets.  The  Alternative Investment Management Association  said
today the draft implementing rules  “diverge”  from guidance
provided by the regulators at the European Securities and
Markets Authority and would be “extremely problematic.”  Barnier said the Commission “worked very closely with
ESMA” on the draft rules.  “If the commission is confirming that it is going to
follow ESMA’s advice then we would fully support that,”  Andrew Baker , AIMA’s chief executive officer, said in an e-mail.  The EU began an overhaul of its rulemaking in the wake of
the credit market freeze that followed the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  Its response to the turmoil has included
two rounds of legislation on credit-ratings companies, rules for
short selling and over-the-counter derivatives, as well as
proposals to strengthen the resilience of the banking system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  