-- EU Threatens to Tax Steel Tubes From Ukraine, Turkey, Macedonia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-04-02T09:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/eu-threatens-to-tax-steel-tubes-from-ukraine-turkey-macedonia.html
The European Union threatened to
impose tariffs on steel tubes from Ukraine,  Turkey  and the
Republic of Macedonia to curb competition for EU producers.  The EU opened a probe into whether Ukrainian, Turkish and
Macedonian exporters of welded tubes, pipes and hollow profiles
sell them in the bloc below cost, a practice known as  dumping .  The goods, also called hollow sections, are used by the
 construction industry  as well as in ships, cranes, trucks,  farm
equipment , metal furniture, windows and toys. The inquiry
excludes tubes, pipes and hollow profiles made of cast iron or
stainless steel as well as line pipe and tubing used in the oil
and natural-gas industries.  The investigation will determine whether the shipments from
the three countries are “being dumped and whether the dumped
imports have caused injury to the union industry,” the European
Commission, the 27-nation EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said
on March 31 in the  Official Journal .  The commission has nine months to decide whether to impose
provisional anti-dumping duties for half a year and EU
governments have 15 months to  decide whether to apply
“definitive” levies for five years.  The dumping inquiry stems from a Feb. 16 complaint by a
group on behalf of EU manufacturers that account for more than a
quarter of the bloc’s production of welded tubes, pipes and
hollow profiles, according to the commission, which didn’t
identify any producers.  In 2009, the EU ended a threat to impose anti-dumping
duties on these goods from Ukraine, Turkey and Belarus after the
same producer group -- the Defence Committee of the Welded Steel
Tubes Industry of the European Union -- withdrew a dumping
complaint. At the time, EU producers included the U.K.’s  Corus
Group (CS/) ,  Italy ’s Marcegaglia SpA and  Spain ’s Condesa Fabril SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  