-- European Stocks Gain as U.S., China Manufacturing Expand
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-04-02T16:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/european-stock-futures-gain-on-china-pmi-cimpor-may-rise.html
European stocks  climbed the most in
almost three weeks, erasing earlier losses, as reports showed
manufacturing expanded more than forecast in the U.S. and China.  Oriflame Cosmetics SA gained 2.6 percent after Coty Inc.
offered to buy Avon Products Inc. for $10 billion.  Cookson Group
Plc (CKSN)  jumped 6 percent after the Sunday Times said the company may
spin off a unit.  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  led a gauge of health-care
companies to the largest increase since November, rallying 5.6
percent in Copenhagen.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  advanced 1.5 percent
to 267.16 at the close, the biggest gain since March 13. The
measure erased losses in the final two hours of trading, after
earlier dropping as much as 0.4 percent. The gauge  climbed 7.7
percent in the first quarter , its best start to a year since
2006, boosted by the  European Central Bank ’s 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) in loans to the region’s financial firms.  “Equity markets ended the first quarter well,” said Simon Denham, managing director of Capital Spreads in London. “That’s
enough to make even the most skeptical of bulls mildly
optimistic.”  National benchmark indexes advanced in 12 out of 18
western-European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 Index climbed 1.1
percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 1.9 percent while
 Germany ’s DAX Index rallied 1.6 percent.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded more than forecast in
March. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index 
climbed to 53.4 from 52.4 in February, data showed. Economists
in a Bloomberg News survey had estimated an increase to 53.
Readings above 50 signal growth.  China Economy  China ’s  Purchasing Managers’ Index (CPMINDX)  compiled by the
logistics federation and the National Bureau of Statistics rose
to 53.1 in March from 51 in February.  The gauge, which was released yesterday, has a pattern of
gaining each March. In contrast,  a PMI  from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics fell to a four-month low of 48.3, showing
that manufacturing contracted and export orders declined.  European stocks declined last week as  Standard & Poor’s 
said that  Greece  may have to restructure its debt again and an
ECB policy maker said a bigger bailout package will not solve
the fiscal crisis.  Finance ministers from the 17-member monetary union
unveiled a package including 500 billion euros in fresh bailout
funds on top of 300 billion euros already committed to rescue
programs.  IMF Resources  Group of 20 nations that rebuffed German-led pleas for more
aid in February will be asked to decide this month whether
 Europe  has done enough to warrant increased resources from the
 International Monetary Fund . Euro-area finance ministers
insisted at a meeting that ended on March 31 in Copenhagen that
they’ve fulfilled their side of the bargain.  Germany’s central bank last week said it won’t accept bank
bonds guaranteed by Ireland, Greece and  Portugal  as collateral,
which “raised questions about policy cohesiveness” in the euro
region, according to Moody’s Investors Services.  This is “a credit negative for euro-area sovereigns and
banking systems overall, but particularly for those of Greece,
Ireland and Portugal,” Alain Laurin from Moody’s wrote in the
report today.  Oriflame (ORI)  paced advancing shares, gaining 2.6 percent to
261.50 kronor after Coty offered to buy Avon, a door-to-door
cosmetics seller, for $23.25 a share in cash. Oriflame sells
cosmetics at parties hosted in private homes.  Cookson, Novo Nordisk  Cookson surged 6 percent to 732.5 pence after the Sunday
Times reported the world’s biggest maker of ceramic linings for
metal smelters may spin off its electronics unit.  The manufacturer has hired Rothschild to devise a proposal
for the unit to sell shares and list on the London Stock
Exchange, the newspaper reported yesterday without saying where
it got the information.  A gauge of health-care stocks was the  best performing group 
among 19 industries on the Stoxx 600 Index.  Novo Nordisk jumped 5.6 percent to 815.50 kroner. The
world’s biggest insulin maker said it will meet its 2014 target
date to begin selling an obesity drug, Victoza, Copenhagen-based
newspaper Borsen reported, citing an interview with Chief
Science Officer Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen.  An advisory panel voted last week to recommend the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration require heart studies for all diet
pills.  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ)  gained 4.7 percent to 25.78 euros,
 Merck KGaA (MRK)  climbed 4.3 percent to 86.55 euros and  UCB SA (UCB) 
advanced 4.6 percent to 33.83 euros.  Mining Stocks Advance  A gauge of mining stocks was the second best-performer on
the Stoxx 600 Index, led by U.K.-listed companies.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES) 
added 4.1 percent to 66 pence, Rio Tinto Group gained 3.2
percent to 110 pence and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  climbed 3 percent to
57.5 pence.  Peugeot SA (UG)  dropped 3.3 percent to 11.68 euros and  Renault
SA (RNO)  lost 1.3 percent to 39.01 euros as French registrations of
new cars and light vehicles declined 22 percent in March, the
country’s carmakers association said.  Peugeot’s new car registrations sank 33 percent while
Renault recorded a slide of 30 percent, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  