-- Euro-Region Unemployment Surges to 14-Year High, Nears Record
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-04-02T10:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/euro-region-manufacturing-contracts-for-eighth-month-in-march.html
Euro-region  unemployment  rose to the
highest in more than 14 years and manufacturing contracted for
an eighth month, adding to signs the economy probably slipped
into a recession in the first quarter.  The jobless rate in the 17-nation euro area rose to 10.8
percent in February from 10.7 percent a month earlier, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
That’s the highest since June 1997 and close to the record of
10.9 percent. A  manufacturing gauge , based on a survey of
 purchasing managers , fell to 47.7 in March from 49, Markit
Economics said.  “Unemployment is lagging economic developments and the
situation on the labor market will likely remain difficult
through 2012,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in
Hanover,  Germany . “Domestic demand is hurt by the difficult
labor market and tougher austerity measures. The first and
second quarters will show a contraction followed by a slight
recovery.”  Europe ’s economy has been mired in a fiscal crisis for more
than two years, forcing companies to cut jobs and pushing
economies from Spain to Ireland into recessions. While leaders
awarded  Greece  a second aid package last month to help restore
confidence,  economic sentiment  unexpectedly dropped in March.
The European Commission forecasts the euro-area economy to
shrink 0.3 percent this year.  ‘Sufficient’ Firewall  To help contain the crisis, European finance ministers
decided last week to boost the region’s rescue-lending capacity
to 800 billion euros ($1.1 trillion), a figure that includes 300
billion euros already committed to Greece, Ireland and Portugal.
European Central Bank council member  Ewald Nowotny  told
Bloomberg News on March 30 that the firewall is “sufficient.”  The euro was little changed after today’s data were
released, trading at $1.3350 at 11:28 a.m. in Frankfurt, up less
than 0.1 percent.  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, the jobless rate held
at 5.7 percent in February based on a trend component, according
to today’s report, while unemployment in  France  remained at 10
percent. In  Italy , the jobless rate rose to 9.3 percent from 9.1
percent based on provisional data. Spain had the highest rate at
23.6 percent. No data were available for Greece.  ‘Manufacturing Malaise’  In the 27-nation EU, the jobless rate rose to 10.2 percent
in February from 10.1 percent the previous month. About 17.13
million people in the euro area were unemployed in February, up
162,000 from the previous month.  Markit’s euro-area manufacturing gauge dropped to a three-
month low in March. A German indicator fell to 48.4 from 50.2
the previous month, while in France the number slipped to 46.7
from 50.  “There were further signs that the manufacturing malaise
already exhibited at the periphery of the currency bloc was
spreading to the core,” Markit said in today’s report. “Demand
was weaker in both domestic and export markets.”  In the U.K., a  manufacturing gauge  rose to 52.1 from a
revised 51.5 in February,  Markit said . Sentiment among  Japan ’s
largest manufacturers failed to improve in March, with the
quarterly Tankan index remaining at minus 4, according to the
 Bank of Japan  in Tokyo.  ‘Steeper Rates’  China ’s Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to a one-year high
of 53.1 in March, while a PMI from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit
Economics showed manufacturing contracting and export orders
falling, according to reports released on April 1.  With economies around the globe faltering and rising energy
costs sapping their spending power, companies may continue to
cut jobs. An indicator of new orders declined at a faster pace
in March than in the previous month, with a gauge of employment
falling for a second month, Markit said.  “The prospects for April also look poor, with companies
reporting steeper rates of decline for both new orders and
backlogs of work,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit,
said in the statement. “At the same time firms saw their
production costs rise sharply, largely as a result of high  oil
prices .”  The Frankfurt-based central bank will probably keep its
benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent, matching a record low,
when council members meet on April 4, according to a Bloomberg
survey. The ECB has offered banks three-year loans and purchased
 government bonds  to help contain the fiscal crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  