-- Ex-Massachusetts Treasurer Charged in Ethics-Crime Case
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-04-02T21:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/ex-massachusetts-treasurer-accused-of-ethics-law-violations-1-.html
Ex- Massachusetts  Treasurer Timothy Cahill was indicted and accused of using $1.5 million from the
state lottery advertising budget to promote his unsuccessful
2010 campaign for governor.  “The message and timing of the ads was an unwarranted and
unlawful benefit to Cahill and his gubernatorial campaign,”
Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said today at a
press conference in  Boston .  Cahill, 53, controlled the budget for the lottery as state
treasurer. He used 75 percent of the $2 million lottery budget
for television and radio advertisements that promoted his
campaign, according to Coakley.  Coakley said the lottery advertisements were broadcast
during the last two months of the gubernatorial campaign.
Without naming Cahill, they promoted his “effective leadership
and management” of the lottery in returning money to
municipalities, she said.  “These were taxpayer dollars specifically dedicated to the
best interest of the lottery,” Coakley said. After Coakley’s
office requested a halt, the ads were suspended, saving about $1
million, her office said.  E.  Peter Parker , Cahill’s attorney, said in an e-mail he
saw “no evidence of criminal conduct by anybody.”  Had ‘Obligation’  “Treasurer Cahill had an obligation to maximize lottery
revenues,” Parker said. “He and the lottery made the right
choice to run the ads.” He said the commercials were made in
response to “attack” ads by the  Republican Governors
Association  that had undermined confidence in the lottery.  Coakley said her investigation began after documents were
released during a civil suit in Massachusetts. These showed
“coordination” between the lottery ads and the campaign, she
said.  Cahill, a resident of Quincy who was elected treasurer as a
Democrat in 2002, ran for governor as an independent. He lost to
incumbent  Deval Patrick , a Democrat. Coakley is a Democrat.  “These indictments detail fundamental and outrageous
violations of the public trust,” Steven Grossman, the current
state treasurer, said in a statement.  Revised Statute  Massachusetts changed the ethics laws in 2009 to include
criminal as well as civil violations. This is the first time
criminal charges have been brought under the changed statute,
Coakley said. She said the charge could carry a five-year prison
sentence.  Cahill was indicted today by a Suffolk County grand jury.
Besides the violation of the ethics law, he was also charged
with procurement fraud and two counts of conspiracy.  “In the end, the attorney general will have wasted an
enormous amount of time, energy and scarce resources to bring
criminal charges that never should have been brought,” Parker
said in his e-mailed statement.  Also indicted were Cahill’s former campaign manager, Scott
Campbell, 41, and Alfred Grazioso, 57, the former chief of staff
for the lottery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York 
at   jeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 