-- Executive’s $22 Million Bonus Is Latest Front in French Campaign
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-04-02T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/executive-s-22-million-bonus-is-latest-front-in-french-campaign.html
A 16.2 million-euro ($21.6 million)
bonus awarded to  Publicis SA (PUB)  Chief Executive OfficerMaurice Levy has become the latest battleground for French presidential
candidates in a campaign that has yet to galvanize many voters.  The bonus, which was made public on March 27 and according
to Publicis was accrued over eight years to reflect France’s
biggest advertiser’s performance, created a ruckus with the
leading candidates,  Francois Hollande  and President  Nicolas Sarkozy , flinging attacks at each other over it. The issue
highlights the absence of any discussion on subjects France
urgently needs to address, said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at
Institute of Political Studies in Paris.  “The attention the topic is getting is ridiculous,” he
said in a phone interview yesterday. “Regulating compensation
is a worthy subject, but the candidates are just making a lot of
noise. It shows once again that it’s an empty campaign, with no
real proposals, only sterile controversy among the candidates.”  With 20 days until the first round of the election, the
campaign has focused on everything from not serving Halal meat,
or meat slaughtered according to Muslim principles, in public
schools and limiting immigrant entries into the country to a 75
percent tax on revenue above 1 million euros. A shooting spree
last month by a self-proclaimed jihadist killed seven people,
halting the campaigning for a few days. Dubois said candidates
are back with populist proposals and personal attacks.  French voters will pick their president for the coming five
years in two rounds of votes. The two winners of the 10-
candidate first round on April 22 will square off on May 6.  ‘Lacking Substance’  Eighty-one percent of  France ’s white-collar employees are
unhappy with the presidential campaign, in particular with the
way economic issues are being addressed, according to a Viavoice
poll published today in the daily Le Figaro.  Voter abstention in the first round of elections on April
22 may reach 32 percent, an Ifop poll published yesterday in  Le
Journal du Dimanche  showed.  “It’s an electoral campaign that lacks substance,” Dubois
said. “None of the real problems are being debated. The
candidates only want to please people.”  The European debt crisis has slowed economic growth in
France like elsewhere in the region. The Labor Ministry said
March 26 that the number of French jobseekers rose in February
for the 10th month to 2.87 million, a 12-year high. The
 unemployment rate  is near 9.8 percent. A lack of competitiveness
added to the widening of France’s trade gap last year to a
record 69.6 billion euros from about 42.5 billion euros in 2007.  Taxing Levy  Publicis’s Levy has a been proponent of higher taxes for
the rich, co-signing an open letter in “Le Nouvel Observateur”
magazine in August entitled “Tax Us.” He has still criticized
Socialist candidate Hollande for his 75 percent “millionaire
tax,” saying it will drive entrepreneurs away from the country.  Hollande, who early in his campaign said his “enemy is
finance,” and once said he didn’t “like rich people,” on
March 27 called Levy’s bonus “unacceptable.” His party said it
was “obscene.”  Sarkozy, seeking to lose his “President Bling-Bling” and
“candidate of the rich” labels, blamed Hollande’s “gauche
caviar,” or “champagne socialist” friends for Levy’s bonus.
Elizabeth Badinter, the wife of a former minister in Socialist
President  Francois Mitterrand ’s government, is the biggest
shareholder in Publicis with an 11 percent stake. She’s also the
chairman of its supervisory board.  ‘Champagne Left’  “Mr. Hollande, it is shareholders who decide on
remuneration, and they are your friends,” Sarkozy said in a
speech on March 28. “The champagne Left, the bohemian-bourgeois
Left has no morality lessons to give us.”  Hollande’s lead over Sarkozy has narrowed. A survey by LH2
published yesterday for Yahoo, showed him winning 28.5 percent
in the first round, 2 points lower than in the previous poll,
while Sarkozy remained stable at 27.5 percent. Hollande would
win the second round with 54 percent, compared with 45 percent
for Sarkozy, according to the poll.  The comments from the candidates are evidence of France’s
uneasy relationship with wealth, said Dubois.  “We consider the rich as aristocrats, and since we can’t
chop their heads off anymore, we want to slash their pays,”
Dubois said. ‘It’s hypocrisy. It’s a false debate.”  Publicis, based in Paris, issued a statement on March 29,
defending its decision, saying the company’s growth “is due in
large part” to Levy’s work over the last 15 years. It has grown
to a company with 54,000 employees from 6,000 in 1996.  ‘Entrepreneurs’  “The remuneration attributed to  Maurice Levy  is linked to
the performance of the company,” Laurence Parisot, the head of
Medef, the French employers’ association, said on i-Tele channel
yesterday. “Publicis, which has exceptional results, is one of
the biggest French companies and most importantly, is a world
leader in the advertising business. What isn’t acceptable is
high compensation when companies are in trouble.”  To Parisot, the issue highlights France’s hostility to job-
creating entrepreneurs.  “It’s strange that we always seem to be speaking of
bosses, never of entrepreneurs,” she said. “I wish in the
speeches of the presidential candidates, the word
“entrepreneur,” the expression “esprit d’entreprise” were
used more often. The wealth of our country will primarily come
from there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  