-- Express Scripts, Medco Win Approval for $29 Billion Deal
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-04-02T20:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/express-scripts-medco-win-approval-for-29-billion-deal.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) , the largest
U.S. pharmacy benefits manager, received regulatory approval for
its $29.1 billion acquisition of  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS) , a
deal that may drive down costs for the company and consumers.  The Federal Trade Commission approved the purchase by a 3-1
vote today. Clearance was unconditional, with the commissioners
saying their eight-month review of the deal found “a
competitive market for pharmacy benefit management services.”  The combined company will save as much as $1 billion in
costs, St. Louis-based Express Scripts said in a statement
today. The benefits manager will handle almost one of every
three prescriptions written in the U.S. Its size will give it
the negotiating power to drive down prices on  prescription drugs 
and from retailers, said Larry Marsh, an analyst with Barclays
Capital Inc.  “It’s pretty clear the view here is that in a world where
we’re focused on health-care costs, it’s good to try and
negotiate lower prices,” Marsh said.  Express Scripts  rose 2.4 percent to $55.50 at the close of
New York trading. The shares have gained 24 percent this year.  The cost-savings for Express Scripts may be more than $1
billion since U.S. regulators declined to make the two companies
divest assets, said  Art Henderson , an analyst with Jefferies &
Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee .  “We’re thrilled,” said Henderson, who has a “buy”
recommendation on both companies. “The synergy possibilities
between the two companies have gone up significantly,” he said
in a telephone interview.  Opponents Sued  The National Association of Chain Drug Stores, the National
Community Pharmacists Association and independent pharmacies
sued March 29 to block the deal in federal court in Pittsburgh,
claiming the purchase would violate antitrust laws by shrinking
competition and raising consumer prices.  The trade groups asked the judge who is overseeing the
antitrust lawsuit to block the companies from combining their
assets even though the acquisition was completed today.  “It is not in the best interests of patients or
consumers,” the two associations said in a statement. The
groups “remain deeply concerned that this merger will reduce
competition to unhealthy levels in several prescription drug
markets that are already highly concentrated,” they said.  35,000 Employees  Express Scripts and  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco
together had 35,000 employees at the end of last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, leaving plenty of room to cut
workers, facilities and other expenses to help raise the profit
margin of the combined company.  “One of the reasons this transaction makes a lot of sense
is that they can squeeze a lot of costs out and pass those
savings on,” Henderson said. “Medco and Express Scripts won’t
need all those mail facilities that the companies will operate
on a combined basis,” he said.  The FTC said in a statement that the investigation of the
proposed deal “revealed a competitive market for pharmacy
benefit management services characterized by numerous, vigorous
competitors who are expanding and winning business from
traditional market leaders.”  FTC Commissioner Julie Brill, who dissented, said in a
separate statement that the transaction is an industry “game
changer” that creates a “merger to duopoly.” She called on
the commission to take another look at the pharmacy benefits
management market in three years.  Next Chapter  George Paz, Express Scripts’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said in a statement, “Our merger is exactly what the
country needs now. It represents the next chapter of our mission
to lower costs, drive out waste in health care and improve
patient health.”  Express Scripts agreed to pay $28.80 a share in cash plus
0.81 Express Scripts share for each Medco share held, the two
companies said on July 21. Including net debt, the acquisition
was valued at $34.3 billion, exceeding the $21.7 billion deal
that formed  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  in 2007 as the biggest in the
industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The companies, known as pharmacy-benefits managers, or
PBMs, negotiate prices with drugmakers for health-plan sponsors,
manage worker claims and track patients’ use of medicines. Their
profits are tied to cutting their clients’ drug costs.  Save Money  PBMs save health-plan sponsors and consumers as much as $87
billion in annual prescription-drug costs, Compass Lexecon, an
economic consulting company in Washington, said in a December
report funded by Express Scripts and Medco.  A combined Express-Medco would handle 34 percent of
prescriptions in the U.S. this year, said  Adam Fein , founder and
president of Pembroke Consulting Inc. in Philadelphia, who is a
consultant for Express Scripts.  That share will shrink to 29 percent next year because
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  of Minnetonka,  Minnesota , the biggest
U.S. health plan by sales, switched from Medco to its own
pharmacy benefits unit, OptumRx, Fein said.  Express Scripts probably won’t use this acquisition as a
push to grab even a larger portion of the country’s PBM
business, said Barclays’ Marsh.  “We don’t really view this as a vehicle for them to
aggressively go out and take market share,” Marsh said.
“That’s one of the reasons FTC looked favorably upon this.”  Specialty Drugs  About 31 percent of specialty drugs -- medicines for
ailments such as cancer and HIV that are injected or infused or
require special handling -- sold in the U.S. in 2010 passed
through pharmacies owned by Express Scripts or Medco, according
to Fein.  Scrutiny of the industry is part of the Obama
administration’s effort to rein in health-care costs, said Art Lerner, former assistant director for health in the FTC’s Bureau
of Competition.  “They view competition and enforcement of the antitrust
laws as an important element in trying to make sure health
care” is high quality and inexpensive, said Lerner, a
Washington-based partner at  Crowell & Moring LLP (1385L) .  In her dissent, Brill said the acquisition will create “a
highly concentrated market” for benefit management services and
argued that the FTC should have sought an injunction to block
the deal.  “The legal presumption against this merger is overwhelming
and is not, in my view, sufficiently rebutted by evidence
regarding competitive effects or entry,” Brill said.  The majority of commissioners said Express Scripts and
Medco aren’t “particularly close competitors, the market today
is not conducive to coordinated interaction, and there is little
risk of the merged company exercising monopsony power,” where a
large buyer controls the market and drive down prices.  Express Scripts and Medco have told regulators the merged
company would help reduce U.S. medical costs, a goal of the 2010
health-care law, partly by extracting lower prices from
drugmakers and tracking whether patients take their medicines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  