-- Express Scripts Judge Asked to Stop Medco Assets Combination
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-02T20:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/express-scripts-judge-asked-to-stop-medco-assets-combination-1-.html
Pharmacy trade groups seeking to
stop  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  from acquiring Medco Health Solutions
Inc. asked a federal judge to block the companies from combining
assets while their lawsuit is pending.  The National Association of Chain Drug Stores, the National
Community Pharmacists Association and independent pharmacies
filed the emergency request to “hold separate Medco’s assets
and operations” today in federal court in Pittsburgh, hours
after the $29.1 billion merger closed following clearance by
U.S. regulators.  U.S. District Judge Cathy Bissoon scheduled a phone
conference with lawyers for tomorrow.  “Unless enjoined by this court, plaintiffs will suffer
immediate and irreparable harm resulting from an imminent and
irreversible reduction to competition caused by the
intermingling of information and assets held by the
defendants,” the groups said in the filing.  The trade groups sued  Express Scripts  and Medco on March
29, claiming the deal would violate antitrust laws by reducing
competition and raising consumer prices. They filed a request
for a temporary restraining order the following day.  ‘Without Merit’  “We think the suit is without merit,” said Express
Scripts spokesman  Brian Henry  in an e-mail, speaking on behalf
of both companies.  Express Scripts, based in  St. Louis , agreed in July to buy
 Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco, saying that consumers
would get more power to negotiate prices from the combined
companies. The deal creates the largest pharmacy benefits
manager in the U.S. The companies act as middlemen among
drugmakers, pharmacies and health-plan sponsors to manage
patients’ benefits.  The Federal Trade Commission approved the purchase by a 3-1
vote today. Clearance was unconditional, with the commissioners
saying their eight-month review of the deal found “a
competitive market for pharmacy benefit management services.”  The case is National Association of Chain Drug Stores v.
Express Scripts, 2:12-cv-00395, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  