-- Fed’s Pianalto Sees 2.5% Economic Growth in 2012, 3% in 2013
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-04-02T17:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/fed-s-pianalto-sees-2-5-economic-growth-in-2012-3-next-year.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said the  U.S. economy  is gradually
improving and will probably grow at 2.5 percent this year and
around 3 percent next year.  “I am seeing more evidence that our economic expansion is
becoming self-sustaining,” Pianalto, a voting member on the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee , said today in a
speech in Marietta, Ohio. “Labor market information has been
promising over the past few months.”  A recovery in the labor market is signaling that the
economic recovery is gaining strength. Employers probably added
203,000 jobs in March, according to the median of 72 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey, after February’s report showed that
companies hired 227,000 workers in February to cap the best six
months of gains since 2006.  Still, the world’s largest economy faces “some
headwinds,” and because of its gradual pace of growth “could
take as long as four or five years for the  unemployment  rate to
fall to the 6 percent rate that I judge to be consistent with
maximum employment,” Pianalto said to the Economic Roundtable
of the  Ohio  Valley.  Businesses, Households  “Uncertainty remains,” with businesses and households
cautious about the future and strains in European financial
markets from the region’s debt crisis posing “downside risks,”
she said.  Also, “housing markets are still in distress throughout
much of the country, state and local governments are still in
the process of adjusting to budget pressures and rising gasoline
prices are likely to restrain household spending,” she said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index approached a four-year
high, climbing 0.8 percent to 1,420.28 as of 1:28 p.m. New York
time. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield declined three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.18 percent.  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 3 percent annual
rate in the last three months of 2011, revised figures showed
March 29.  Consumer confidence  last month reached the second-
highest level in four years as more Americans said it was a good
time to shop, according to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  The inflation rate is likely to remain close to the Fed’s
target of 2 percent during “the next few years,” Pianalto
said.  ‘Good Grade’  Pianalto said in response to a question from the audience
that while she gives the Fed “a good grade” on meeting its
target for controlling inflation, meeting the Fed’s objective
for maximum employment will take longer.  “We have to have faster growth to keep whittling away at
this very high  unemployment rate  that we currently have,”
Pianalto said. “I believe we are on the right path of
continued, although gradual, economic growth, that will continue
to lead to employment growth. But it’s just going to be a more
gradual pace.”  Pianalto, 57, has been president of the Cleveland Fed since
2003 and first joined the regional bank in 1983 as an economist
in the research department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  