-- Female CFOs in U.S. Paid Less Than Men, Study Finds
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-04-02T16:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/female-cfos-in-u-s-paid-16-less-than-men-study-finds.html
Male chief financial officers at
U.S. companies are paid an average of 16 percent more than their
female counterparts of similar age at companies with comparable
market values, according to a study.  The report by New York-based GMI Ratings, a corporate
governance consulting firm, is based on an analysis of salaries
of more than 1,900 CFOs at  Russell 3000 Index (RAY)  companies with a
market value of $100 million to $25 billion in 2010. About 150
of the CFOs were women.  Female CFOs received on average $1.32 million a year in
total compensation, compared with $1.54 million for their male
counterparts, according to a model based on the analysis.
Compensation included base salary, bonuses, grant-date value of
stock awards and stock option grants and retirement benefits.  The firm said its model accurately predicted a CFO’s
gender. The lower the salary, the more likely the CFO would be
female.  “It’s a pretty strong argument that men and women are not
being treated the same,” said Tom White, director of
quantitative research for GMI and co-author of the report, which
will be released as soon as tomorrow.  He said he and his co-author, Kimberly Gladman, director of
research and risk analytics, built the model to test whether
women are paid less than men because of factors like age or
experience at a company, or simply because they are female.  The study found that, though female CFOs tended to be
younger than their male counterparts, there was virtually no
difference in their average tenure at a company. The women on
average served on a greater number of boards. Female CFOs were
rare at the two extremes of market capitalization.  Not Irrelevant  “We tried to turn the question around a little bit,”
White said in an interview. “We thought: If men and women are
truly being paid the same, then their compensation won’t have
any predictive value on their  gender  -- it should be
irrelevant.”  Using the model, White and Gladman found that, even after
accounting for other factors that might affect CFO pay,
including market capitalization and chief executive officer pay
levels, the average female CFO would earn about $215,000 more if
she were male.  “To the extent that this kind of ongoing differential
exists and is unexplained, it represents a failure of boards to
address an important cultural issue, which is fairness,” said
Eleanor Bloxham, CEO of Value Alliance Co., a board advisory
firm in Westerville,  Ohio .  “There is real discrimination, but nobody wants to deal
with it,” Bloxham said in an interview. The people who have
made it to these levels don’t necessarily want to have that
conversation about their gender with the company they work for.
They’re not necessarily going to raise it.’’  Other Factors  She said the problem may be exacerbated by a lack of women
on company boards who could advocate for female executives.  The GMI study didn’t account for the possibility that
female CFOs could have shorter work histories due to being more
likely than men to interrupt their careers to bear and care for
children, according to the report.  The study also didn’t consider the possibility that women
might be more likely to move up within a single organization
over time. Men may be more likely to switch employers as they
move up, a factor that could lead to higher pay.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  