-- FIFA Soccer Executives May Not Declare Salaries, Reformer Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-04-02T16:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/fifa-soccer-executives-may-not-declare-salaries-reformer-says.html
FIFA president Sepp Blatter and the
board of soccer’s ruling body may not agree on plans requiring
them to reveal their salaries and introduce term and age limits,
according to an official overseeing reforms at the organization.  Mark Pieth, a Swiss law professor who headed a 13-member
committee that Blatter asked to improve corporate governance
after graft allegations, said in a telephone interview some
officials were uncomfortable with changes that affect them
directly.  FIFA efforts to reorganize itself came after public and
sponsor reaction to corruption allegations over bidding for the
staging rights to its $4 billion World Cup and then Blatter’s
re-election to a fourth four-year term in which he was the only
candidate. His only rival Mohamed Bin Hammam quit a day before
the organization last year investigated him for bribing voters
in the Caribbean.  “It’s possible that some of the issues will not be
accepted,” Pieth, who works at the Basel Institute on
Governance and investigated corruption in  Iraq ’s oil-for-food
program in 2004, said. “I am anticipating that and I have to
reserve my judgment over whether it’s fundamental stuff or minor
stuff.”  Blatter doesn’t reveal his salary. The 76-year-old has been
either the general secretary or president of the soccer body for
more than 30 years. Pieth’s group said pay should be decided by
a remuneration committee and made public.  Last week, Blatter said a new ethics panel would be created
with separate investigative and judicial arms headed by
independent chairmen, something Pieth’s group advocated.  Russia, Qatar  Only 22 of FIFA’s 24-member board could participate in the
 voting rights  for the World Cups of 2018 and 2022 after two
officials were suspended for offering to sell their support to
undercover journalists. Since then almost half of the voters
have either been sanctioned for or accused of breaching
regulations. Pieth said it’s possible that the new ethics group
could look into how Russia and Qatar secured staging rights for
2018 and 2022.  “The statute of limitations is 10 years,” Pieth said.
“It’s as simple as that.”  Under the current system, allegations have to pass through
the office of general secretary  Jerome Valcke  before they can be
investigated. Valcke has avoided investigation himself on two
occasions.  “The president and the general secretary have nothing to
say about opening of investigations now,” Pieth said. “The new
investigator will be totally autonomous in saying what and which
investigations to start.”  ‘Pretty Naïve’  Transparency International , which had been advising FIFA
over reforms before quitting and criticizing the body’s effort,
said it was “disappointed” with the how far the organization
had committed to changing.  “Of course we all have our hopes and ideals but this
organization will have to be convinced to change,” Pieth said.
“There’s nobody above them to tell them what to do. You have to
be realistic. Anything else is pretty naïve.”  Blatter has been president since 1998, an election that
ended with his beaten opponent Lennart Johansson claiming foul
play. Since then other scandals have emerged including the
revelation that some senior officials took payments from its
bankrupt former marketing partner ISL. The allegations have
tainted the soccer body’s image and overshadowed the work it
does in promoting the game around the world.  “Impunity is one of the real problems whatever outfit be
it state or intergovernmental organization,” Pieth said. “If
there are allegations and the allegations are credible and
nothing happens that hurts and that makes people really annoyed
and I understand that.”  Newer Officials  Several newer officials have replaced executives who’ve
been forced off or resigned from FIFA board in the past year.
They may be more open to changes including knowing what its
president earns, Pieth said.  Among the officials in Pieth’s group were Sunil Gulati, who
headed the failed U.S. bid for the 2022 World Cup, and former
U.K. attorney general Peter Goldsmith, who’s also a board member
of Westfield Group, which is controlled by Frank Lowey, the
chairman of Australian soccer.  Australia  lost out to Qatar in
bidding for the 2022 World Cup.  All the officials on the panel declared their interests and
Gulati was chosen because he knows “what it means to bid and
what it means to bid without bribing,” Pieth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  