-- Fiji Faces Chaos as Cyclone Threatens to Worsen Flooding
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-04-02T06:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/fiji-faces-chaos-as-cyclone-threatens-to-worsen-flooding-1-.html
Fiji , an island chain in the South
Pacific, is battling heavy flooding that’s caused fatalities and
may be exacerbated by a tropical cyclone that formed today.  “There are thousands of people in evacuation shelters,
many of whom had to leave their homes quickly,” the government
said in a statement on its website today. “Combined with the
fact that electricity is out in many areas, inhibiting
communications, this all leads to confusion. Debris exists below
the surface and currents are very strong.”  Tropical Cyclone Daphne was about 550 kilometers (342
miles) west-southwest of Nadi at 1 p.m. local time, moving
southeast at about 35 kilometers an hour, according to a  Fiji 
Meteorological Service  bulletin  issued at 4 p.m. today. An alert
is in effect for all of Fiji, with severe flood warnings in
force for all major rivers, streams and low lying areas of Viti
Levu, the service said.  About 2,000 Australians, many of them tourists, have been
stranded in the country, Foreign Minister Bob Carr said in a
statement today. More than 400 New Zealanders are registered as
being in Fiji, Prime Minister John Key said.  “Its obviously a serious situation,” Key told reporters
at a news conference in Wellington today. “We haven’t been
formally asked for support but  New Zealand  stands ready to give
that support.”  Cyclone Season  Fiji is a 332-island archipelago located in the South
 Pacific Ocean , 3,240 kilometers northeast of  Australia . The
cyclone season in the South Pacific region runs from November to
April and storms sometimes cause flooding and landslides.  The Fijian government has lifted the embargo for carrying
inbound passengers into the country, it said in a 3:43 p.m.
statement.  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR)  is flying two empty aircraft to Nadi
international airport today to “pick up as many stranded
passengers as possible, weather permitting,” it said in a
 statement .  Qantas Airways Ltd. has offered aircraft to fly Australians
home from Fiji, Carr said. Australia will offer financial and
medical assistance, he said.  “The floods have caused several deaths and damaged homes
and other infrastructure,” Carr said.  “The government’s focus for the next 24 hours continues to
be the safety and security of all Fijians including visitors
stranded in Fiji,” the Fijian government said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  