-- First Reserve’s McComiskey to Leave as Co-Head of Buyouts
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-04-02T20:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/first-reserve-s-mccomiskey-to-leave-as-co-head-of-buyouts.html
Mark McComiskey, co-head of the
buyout group at First Reserve Corp., will leave at the end of
April in connection with management changes at the energy
private-equity firm, according to a letter to limited partners.  The move by the Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm follows
last week’s promotion of buyout co-head Alex Krueger to
president and the expansion of the senior management team as
part of succession planning, First Reserve said in the letter, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. McComiskey was
chosen more than a year ago as part of the firm’s next
generation of leaders.  “We appreciate Mark’s contributions and hope that we can
work with Mark if the appropriate situation presents itself in
the future,” the firm told clients.  As founders age, private-equity firms are making succession
plans in an effort to reassure their investors, who typically
lock up their money with teams for 10 years at a time. The co-
founders of  Silver Lake  in  Menlo Park , California, reduced their
ownership stakes this year as part of a leadership transition,
and the principals at Oaktree Capital Management LP in  Los
Angeles  are shifting some responsibilities to the next
generation as the firm prepares to go public.  Caroline Harris , a spokeswoman for First Reserve at CJP
Communications in  New York , declined to comment. McComiskey
wasn’t immediately available for comment.  First Reserve promoted nine employees to managing director
and director in January. It appointed Claudi Santiago, formerly
of General Electric Co., as chief operating officer in February.
William Macaulay, chairman and chief executive officer, is
keeping his role, the firm said last week.  The firm, founded in 1983, has raised more than $23 billion
from clients, according to its website.  Leadership Trio  Early last year, First Reserve chose McComiskey, Krueger
and Timothy Day as its next team of leaders by making them co-
heads of the buyout group, said one of the firm’s investors, who
asked not to be named because the moves weren’t publicly
announced. Two other managing directors, Joe Bob Edwards and
Hardy Murchison, left at the end of January 2011.  McComiskey, who has worked at First Reserve for almost
eight years, joined as a vice president. He worked on deals
involving CHC Helicopter Corp., Longview Power LLC, Torus
Insurance Holdings Ltd. and  Abengoa SA (ABG) , according to the letter.  McComiskey’s departure will trigger a key-man event on its
$7.8 billion fund that completed capital raising in 2006, First
Reserve Fund XI LP, according to the letter. It will spark the
same clause in the firm’s $9 billion fund from 2009, said the
investor and another client, who asked not to be named because
the information isn’t public.  A key-man provision is a common feature in private-equity
investment contracts that governs what happens when managers
considered essential leave a fund or change their role.  Key-Man Event  The departure of one or more key people can prompt an
automatic suspension of investments from a fund or a decision by
investors on whether to halt investments.  In this case, investors will decide this month whether to
begin an orderly windup and liquidation of Fund XI and Fund XII
or cancel future investments, a step known as a termination
action.  Fund XI, which is about 95 percent invested, has the
ability to make investments until Dec. 19 under the partnership
agreement with clients, according to the letter. The fund has a
maximum of $285 million available for additional investments,
which would come in the form of follow-on money into the
existing portfolio.  “Given the fund’s investment stage, and based on the
strength and cohesiveness of the investment team, we recommend
that you do not vote to take a termination action,” the firm
said in the letter.  Backers of Fund XI include such public pension plans as the
 California  Public Employees’ Retirement System, the nation’s
largest; the California State Teachers’ Retirement System; and
Los Angeles City Employees Retirement System.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  