-- Five Years After Crisis, No Normal Recovery
-- B y   C a r m e n   M .   R e i n h a r t   a n d   K e n n e t h   S .   R o g o f f
-- 2012-04-02T23:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/five-years-after-crisis-no-normal-recovery.html
With the  U.S. economy  yielding
firmer data, some researchers are beginning to argue that
recoveries from financial crises might not be as different from
the aftermath of conventional recessions as our analysis
suggests. Their case is unconvincing.  The point that all recoveries are the same -- whether
preceded by a financial crisis or not -- is argued in a recent
 Federal Reserve   working paper  by Greg Howard, Robert Martin and
Beth Anne Wilson. It was also discussed in a recent article in
the  Wall Street Journal .  It is mystifying that they can make this claim almost five
years after the subprime mortgage crisis erupted in the summer
of 2007 and against a backdrop of an 8.3 percent unemployment
rate (compared with 4.4 percent at the outset of the financial
crisis). Our research makes the point that the aftermaths of
severe financial crises are characterized by long, deep
recessions in which crucial indicators such as unemployment and
housing prices take far longer to hit bottom than they would
after a normal recession. And the bottom is much deeper. Studies
by the  International Monetary Fund  concluded much the same.  Redefining Recovery  We have suggested that the concepts of recession and
recovery need to take on new meaning. After a normal recession
(which for the average post-World War II experience in the U.S.
lasted less than a year), the economy quickly snaps back; within
a year or two, it not only recovers lost ground but also returns
to trend.  After systemic financial crises, however, economies of the
postwar era have needed an average of four and half years just
to reach the same per capita gross domestic product they had
when the crisis started. We find that, on average, unemployment
rates take a similar time frame to hit bottom and housing prices
take even longer. With the Great Depression of the 1930s,
economies on average needed more than a full decade to regain
the initial per capita GDP.  “ After the Fall ,” a 2010 paper written by one of the
authors of this article and  Vincent Reinhart , a former Fed
official who is now chief U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley,
added evidence that in 10 of 15 severe post-WWII financial
crises, unemployment didn’t return to pre-crisis levels even
after a decade. It also showed that in seven of the 15 crises
there were “double dips” in output.  What’s the best way to accurately calibrate recession and
recovery after a deep financial crisis? It isn’t enough simply
to establish when per capita GDP growth resumes, as economists
have traditionally done to mark the end of a conventional
recession. As we emphasized in our book, “This Time Is
Different,” it is essential to measure where an economy stands
compared with pre-crisis levels of important variables such as
output, unemployment and housing prices.  There also is the interesting question of whether, after a
deep financial crisis, an economy will ever fully reach its
earlier trajectory for trend GDP, or whether some output
capacity is lost forever. Researchers at the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development found that the most likely
scenario involves some permanent loss, though extrapolations
over long time periods -- a decade or more -- are necessarily
subject to a high degree of uncertainty.  What is striking about the Howard, Martin and Wilson Fed
study is that it doesn’t really dispute our  finding  that
recessions that follow financial crises are worse in terms of depth
as well as duration. Instead, it argues that one should be more
interested in a much narrower question: Once they begin,
recoveries after financial crises are typically just as strong
as those that follow a typical recession.  Moving Goal Posts  We admit that this time is different in one important
respect: The goal posts many analysts use to assess economic
outcomes seem to shift from data point to data point. When we
first identified that financial crises were associated with
severe recessions, the rosy-scenario crowd responded that the
Great Moderation had smoothed the business cycle. Recessions in
the new era were short and shallow.  After the crushing contraction, a new metaphor held that
the harder the fall, the more vigorous the bounce back.
Nonetheless, what followed was an anemic recovery that has yet
to pull per capita annual real GDP back to the level of 2008.  Now, the staff of the Fed hopes to shift the goal posts yet
again. Their advice is to forget about the problems of the past
few years and focus on the coming expansion that they forecast
using their own idiosyncratic interpretation of business-cycle
dynamics across 59 countries.  Our results all key off the year of the systemic crisis
event itself, a date which is relatively easy to establish. For
example, in our research on  Japan  (like almost all studies of
that country’s mega financial crisis), we date the crisis to
1991, though the asset-price bubble burst in 1989. The Fed paper
dates the reference turning point for Japan as the second
quarter of 1998, when GDP bottomed out. Dating the beginning of
the recovery in this way (which also misses the point that 1998
was actually a second trough or double dip) helps support the
Fed paper’s main conclusion that recoveries are all alike.  No doubt, 1998 will be remembered as a crisis year for many
Asian economies ( Malaysia ,  South Korea  or  Thailand ) -- but Japan
had been mired in crisis for nearly a decade. Similarly,
 Norway ’s banking crisis unfolded in 1987; the Fed paper suggests
that if instead we begin the comparison four years later, at the
end of 1991, the recovery looked the same as other recoveries.  For the current crisis, we use 2007 to mark the beginning
of the financial crisis for the U.S. and the U.K., and 2008 for
most European economies. Our analysis looks at the grim
macroeconomic picture in the years after the crisis year.  Calling the Trough  The Fed study asks a rather different question, one that
requires defining and dating the ultimate trough after the
fact. Unfortunately, calling the trough is a difficult task to
achieve in real time, given the prevalence of double dips that
Japan and several other countries experienced after a financial
crisis.  For the U.S., the deepest unemployment trough (to date) in
the current crisis occurred in the second quarter of 2009, when
the jobless rate reached 9.5 percent. For several European
countries, it is difficult to tell whether the deepest trough
has been reached, despite the relief the  European Central Bank 
has provided.  Looking ahead, does history suggest that the current U.S.
recovery will be strong and robust, even if it has been so long
coming? We hope this will be the case, but the jury is
out. Precisely because there is often no bright line that marks
a “recovery” stage after a deep financial crisis -- the kind
of halting uneven recovery the U.S. has experienced is the norm
-- considerable judgment is required in choosing turning-point
dates (especially in real time).  An econometric definition of a turning point after a long
financial crisis is an artificial construct, in contrast to our
definition that looks at the years following a crisis.  Much work remains to be done to see if economies fully
recover to trend potential GDP after a deep financial crisis,
and just how many decades it takes (though even in the best
case, it is certainly not a matter of a couple of years as would
be true after a normal recession).  Is the U.S. on track to an ever brisker recovery in which
the jobs numbers -- which have already turned from 100,000 to
200,000 a month -- start showing 300,000 or even 400,000 net new
jobs a month?  Perhaps. We hope for good news at the end of the week when
jobs numbers are released.  After all, there have been scores of financial, inflation
and debt crises in virtually every country over the past 800
years. If financial crises were fatal, the world would hardly
have experienced the kind of spectacular growth it has seen over
most of the past 200 years, at least. But considering the huge
and rising debt levels in the U.S., and the very limited extent
to which deleveraging has taken place in the household and
government sectors, we would be pretty happy to see a few
straight years of trend growth, even if that falls short of the
V-shaped recovery that some see around the corner. It might
happen, but the historical evidence is at best mixed.  On the point of whether the aftermath of financial crises
plays out differently than normal recoveries, the evidence isn’t
mixed at all. As our studies and many others have confirmed --
including the misconstrued recent Fed study -- financial crises
leave behind deep recessions of long duration and considerable
volatility.  A recent  paper  by the IMF researchers Stijn Claessens, M.
Ayhan Kose and Marco Terrones argues further that recoveries
characterized by rapid growth in credit and house prices tend to
be stronger. But that’s not happening: U.S. housing prices are
still falling in many areas, and credit to small- and medium-
size businesses is restrained. We hope for better ahead, but
let’s not misconstrue the lessons of the past.  (Carmen M. Reinhart is a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington . Kenneth S. Rogoff is a professor of economics at  Harvard University . They
are co-authors of “This Time is Different: Eight Centuries of
Financial Folly.” The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  Myanmar’s elections  and
 Marco Rubio’s immigration bill ; Ramesh Ponnuru on why the U.S.
will not go to  single-payer health care ; Betsey Stevenson and
 Justin Wolfers  on the  fallibility of economists ;  Margaret
Carlson  on the  recall movement in Wisconsin ; Carmen M. Reinhart
and Kenneth S. Rogoff on why this crisis  really is different ;
Eric Posner and Glen Weyl on creating an  FDA for derivatives
trading .  To contact the writers of this article:
Carmen M. Reinhart in Washington at  creinhart@piie.com ;
Kenneth S. Rogoff in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 krogoff@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 