-- Florida Shooting Victim’s Family Asks U.S. to Probe Prosecutor
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-04-02T22:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/florida-shooting-victim-s-family-asks-u-s-to-probe-prosecutor.html
The U.S. should investigate the
 Florida  state prosecutor and local police chief who initially
examined the shooting death of a black Florida teenager, an
attorney for the victim’s family said.  In a meeting on Feb. 26, the night Trayvon Martin, 17, was
shot to death in Sanford, Florida, the two officials
“disregarded” the lead homicide investigator’s recommendation
to arrest the suspect, said Benjamin Crump, an attorney for
Martin’s family, in a letter to the  Justice Department  today.  The shooting has prompted rallies around the country and
civil rights activists including  Jesse Jackson  and Al Sharpton
have called for the arrest of the shooter, George Zimmerman,
whose mother is Hispanic and father is white. Zimmerman, a
neighborhood watch volunteer in Sanford, told police he shot the
unarmed teenager in self-defense.  Norman Wolfinger, the state attorney for Brevard and
Seminole counties, met with Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee and
overruled the lead homicide investigator’s recommendation to
arrest Zimmerman, Crump said in the letter.  “We look forward to your thorough and comprehensive review
of the suspicious circumstances surrounding this meeting, and
the decision to disregard the recommendation” to arrest
Zimmerman, Crump said.  Lee temporarily stepped aside on March 22 and Governor  Rick Scott  said another state attorney, Angela Corey, would take over
the investigation.  Jackelyn Barnard, a spokeswoman for Corey, said she
couldn’t comment on the letter because it references “an active
criminal investigation.”  The Justice Department, which announced it had begun an
investigation of Martin’s death for possible civil rights
violations on March 19, will review the letter, said spokeswoman
Xochitl Hinojosa.  Lee didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. Lynne Bumpus-Hooper, a spokeswoman for Wolfinger,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  