-- Fortescue’s Power Says China Steel Demand ‘Very Strong’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-02T22:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/fortescue-s-power-says-china-steel-demand-very-strong-.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,
Australia’s third-biggest iron ore exporter, said it expects
urbanization and the construction of infrastructure in central
and western  China  to fuel “very strong” demand for steel.  The 7.5 percent target Premier  Wen Jiabao  announced for
economic growth this year, the lowest since 2004, is likely to
result in 4 percent to 5 percent annual increases in steel
demand, Chief Executive Officer Neville Power said in an
interview yesterday in the southern Chinese province of Hainan,
where he’s attending the Boao Forum for  Asia . China is the
world’s largest steel producer.  “On the very large numbers that we are talking about for
steel production in China, that translates to very strong demand
for steel and iron ore going forward,” Power said. “While the
average growth rate is going to be around 7.5 percent and 8
percent, there will be provinces with double digit growth and
very large spends on infrastructure.”  Chinese leaders including Wen and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang 
have emphasized the need to reduce the nation’s reliance on
investment and exports and to bolster domestic consumption in
order to make growth in the world’s second-biggest economy more
sustainable. In his state-on-the-nation speech delivered last
month, Wen said the government set the lower economic target to
encourage “higher quality” growth.  “While the economy will gradually transition to consumer
driven, there is still a long way to go in terms of the
infrastructure and urbanization,” Power said.  The number of Chinese citizens living in towns and cities
surpassed that of the countryside last year for the first time
in the nation’s history. The three decades of economic growth
that lured farmers into urban areas seeking higher standards of
living had reduced the proportion of rural residents from 81
percent of the total population in 1979 to 50.05 percent at the
end of 2010.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 John Liu  in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  