-- Gazprom Cuts March Gas Output as Novatek Production Rises
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-04-02T09:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/gazprom-cuts-march-gas-output-as-novatek-production-rises.html
Russia , holder of the world’s
biggest natural-gas reserves, increased output 0.9 percent in
March from a year earlier, led by OAO Novatek, while  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) 
cut production.  Gazprom, the state-controlled gas producer and exporter,
pumped 47.2 billion cubic meters last month, down 1.4 percent
from a year earlier, according to the Energy Ministry’s CDU-TEK
unit. Novatek, Russia’s second-biggest producer, boosted output
11 percent to 4.87 billion cubic meters. Together, the two
companies accounted for 84 percent of Russia’s 62.2 billion
cubic meters of output in March.  “Gazprom has been operating at its maximum available
capacity,”  Valery Nesterov , an analyst at Troika Dialog in
Moscow, said by phone. “There is some potential for the second
half. Gazprom has Bovanenkovo coming up. It should remove some
tension.”  Gazprom moved up the start of output at the Bovanenkovo
field on the Yamal Peninsula to June 2012 from the third quarter
to compensate for declines at mature fields in western Siberia.  President-elect  Vladimir Putin  ordered Gazprom, the world’s
biggest gas producer, to make sure it can meet demand after
shortfalls during a cold snap earlier this year. Putin told
Gazprom to expand gas grids and build storage facilities, and
meet both domestic and international demand, according to a
transcript of a March 23 meeting on the government website.  Gazprom failed to meet some requests for increased gas
supplies from  Germany , Italy and other European partners during
extremely cold temperatures on the continent in February.  Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko said at the March 23 meeting
that there is “a significant role of independent gas
producers” and called on Gazprom to ease access to the national
pipeline network for such producers.  Novatek, controlled by billionaires Leonid Mikhelson and
 Gennady Timchenko , the co-founder of energy trader Gunvor Group,
said March 12 it aims to increase gas production about 6 percent
to 7 percent this year. Output reached 52.9 billion cubic meters
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  