-- German Stocks Fluctuate as Brenntag Shares Climb, Q-Cells
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-04-02T16:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/german-stocks-drop-as-deutsche-bank-commerzbank-retreat.html
German stocks  advanced for a second
day after a report from the Institute  for Supply Management
showed that U.S. manufacturing expanded at a faster pace in
March than forecast.  Stada Arzneimittel AG and Merck KGaA rose as health-care
shares climbed the most of the 19 industry groups in the
benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) .  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  plunged 41 percent
as the solar company filed for insolvency.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  jumped 1.6 percent to 7,056.65 at
the close in  Frankfurt . The gauge  rallied 18 percent in the
first quarter , its best start to a year since 1998, amid
optimism that the euro area’s leaders would contain their
region’s sovereign-debt crisis and as U.S. economic data topped
estimates. The broader HDAX Index also rose 1.6 percent today.  “There’s been great hopes that the U.S. will lead the
global economic recovery and over the course of several months
you have seen the momentum out of the U.S. improving,” said
 Henk Potts , an equity strategist at  Barclays Wealth  in
 London , which oversees $239 billion. “The ISM is seen as
further evidence about the speed and strength of the economic
recovery there. The brighter macro picture allows investors to
once again focus on the strong corporate situation and will be a
driver in terms of risk appetite.”  German stocks fell 0.7 percent last week as  Standard &
Poor’s  said that  Greece  may have to restructure its debt again
and a European Central Bank policy maker said that a bigger
firewall will not solve the fiscal crisis.  U.S. Manufacturing PMI  In the U.S., the ISM’s factory index climbed to 53.4 last
month from 52.4 in February, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
report showed today. Readings greater than 50 signal growth. The
 median forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey called for a gain to
53.  In  Germany , a  measure of manufacturing  produced a higher-
than-estimated reading of 48.4 in March. Economists had
predicted a level of 48.1, according to the  median estimate 
compiled by Bloomberg.  A purchasing managers’ index  compiled by  China ’s logistics
federation and the National Bureau of Statistics rose to 53.1
last month from 51 in February.  Economists had predicted  a score
of 50.8. The gauge has a pattern of rising each March. By
contrast, a PMI from HSBC holdings Plc and  Markit Economics  fell
to a four-month low of 48.3, showing that manufacturing
contracted and export orders declined.  Stada, Fresenius Medical  Stada Arzneimittel jumped 4.7 percent to 25.78 euros,
rising for a fourth day as health-related shares advanced. Merck
KGaA added 4.3 percent to 86.55 euros.  Fresenius Medical Care AG gained 2.9 percent to 54.67 euros
after completing the sale of 45 dialysis clinics as part of its
acquisition of Liberty Dialysis Holdings.  Brenntag, the German seller and distributor of industrial
and specialty chemicals, added 2.5 percent to 94.07 euros,
gaining for a third day.  Gerresheimer AG (GXI)  increased 3.8 percent to 34.06 euros,
following four days of declines. The Dusseldorf-based glassmaker
bought a majority stake in India’s Neutral Glass & Allied
Industries Pvt Ltd.  SAP AG, the world’s biggest maker of  business software ,
advanced 1.6 percent to 53.21 euros. SAP’s founder, Dietmar Hopp, won’t sell the stakes he or his foundation owns in the
company, Euro am Sonntag said, citing an interview with Hopp.  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  gained 2.7 percent to 14.83 euros after
the stock was upgraded to buy from hold at  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Q-Cells, a German solar-cell maker, plunged 41 percent to
12.6 euro cents, its biggest drop since 2005. The company said
in a statement that it will file for insolvency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  