-- GFI Mortgage Bankers Sued by U.S. for Discriminatory Lending
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-04-02T23:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/gfi-mortgage-bankers-sued-by-u-s-for-discriminatory-lending-1-.html
GFI Mortgage Bankers Inc. was sued
by the U.S. Attorney’s office in  Manhattan  for allegedly
engaging in a pattern of discriminatory lending practices
against African-American and Hispanic borrowers.  GFI Mortgage  is a mortgage lender that describes itself on
its website as “one of the largest licensed home mortgage
firms” and says it has lent out more than $1 billion in
mortgages. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office said
in a lawsuit filed today in federal court in  New York  that the
company engaged in a “pattern or practice of discrimination on
the basis of race and national origin” in making hundreds of
loans from 2005 to 2009.  GFI Mortgage, which the U.S. says is licensed in seven
states and operates 13 branches, charged higher loan prices to
African-American and Hispanic borrowers than it charged to
similarly situated white borrowers by charging higher  interest
rates  and fees for home mortgage loans, Bharara’s office
alleges.  “At a time when so many American homeowners of all races
and nationalities are struggling to make their mortgage
payments, it is unacceptable that, as we allege, the impact of
GFI Mortgage’s business practices resulted in its African-
American and Hispanic customers paying higher fees,” Bharara
said in a statement.  $768 Million Revenue  A voice-mail message left at GFI’s New York office in
Manhattan after business hours wasn’t immediately returned.  GFI Mortgage also provided “strong financial incentives”
to loan officers to price their loan products as high as
possible by compensating them with a percentage of the profits
they generated on each loan, the U.S. said. As a result, the
number of home mortgage loans which GFI Mortgage issued
increased from 974 in 2005 to 2,270 in 2009, prosecutors
alleged.  At the same time, its revenue from home mortgage loan
services increased from $305 million in 2005 to $768 million in
2009, the U.S. said.  African-American borrowers who took out home loans in 2007
paid on average $7,500 more during the first four years of their
loans as compared with similarly situated white borrowers,
prosecutors said.  Hispanic borrowers paid $5,6000 more during the first four
years of their loans as compared with similarly situated white
borrowers, Bharara’s office said.  Bharara’s office seeks a declaration that GFI Mortgage’s
practices were illegal, a court order against further
discrimination, compensatory damages for victims of the firm’s
discrimination as well as other unspecified civil penalties.  The case is U.S. v. GFI Mortgage Bankers Inc., 12-CV-2502,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  