-- Global Payments Says Breach Affected Fewer Than 1.5 Million
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-04-02T13:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/global-payments-says-data-breach-affected-fewer-than-1-5-million.html
Global Payments Inc. (GPN) , the bank-card
processor whose shares were halted last week after reports of a
data breach, said perpetrators may have obtained fewer than 1.5
million card numbers.  The impact is confined to  North America , the Atlanta-based
company said yesterday in a statement. So-called track 2 data,
the information encoded on the back of payment cards, may have
been stolen while cardholder names, addresses and Social
Security numbers weren’t compromised, the firm said.  “These are fiends, these are bad guys, these are guys who
are working day and night to hurt all of us,” Chairman and
Chief Executive OfficerPaul R. Garcia said today on a call with
analysts. “How’d they get in in the first place? That’s not a
good thing.”  Global Payments, a so-called merchant acquirer that sets up
retailers to accept credit and debit cards,  plunged  as much as
14 percent on March 30 and was down 9 percent when trading in
its stock was halted. The Wall Street Journal reported the same
day that 50,000 cardholders may have been put at risk as the
firm was hit by a security breach, and  krebsonsecurity.com ,
which tracks cybercrimes, said more than 10 million accounts may
have been affected by an incident in the payments industry.  The stock fell an additional 3.2 percent today to $46 at
9:51 a.m. in New York.  ‘Incident Is Contained’  After the breach,  Visa Inc. (V)  removed Global Payments from a
list of service providers meeting certain compliance criteria,
something the firm is trying to remedy, Garcia said. The firm
can’t yet estimate how much the incident will cost, he said.  “Based on the forensic analysis to date, network
monitoring and additional security measures, the company
believes that this incident is contained,” it said in the
statement.  Global Payments said today that net income for the quarter
ending Feb. 29 rose 21 percent to $57.9 million, compared with
the year-earlier period. Cash earnings per share were 83 cents,
it said. The average estimate of 25 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was for 76 cents a share.  “Business as usual sounds a little trite, but we’re trying
to make that exactly what it is,” Garcia said.  Global Payments, the seventh-biggest merchant acquirer in
the U.S., processed 2.44 billion purchase transactions last year
through 800,000 merchant outlets, according to the Nilson
Report, an industry newsletter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  