-- Goldman Sachs Names Schiro Lead Director as Bryan Retires
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-02T23:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/goldman-sachs-s-john-bryan-lois-juliber-to-step-down-from-board.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, named James J. Schiro to succeed
John H. Bryan as lead independent director, tapping an executive
with accounting and insurance experience.  Bryan, the second-longest serving director, won’t run for
re-election at the annual meeting after reaching the board’s
retirement age of 75, the company said yesterday in a statement.
Lois D. Juliber, 64, who joined the board in March 2004, also is
stepping down at the annual meeting, leaving the firm with 10
 directors .  Goldman Sachs, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd C. Blankfein, in February staved off a shareholder
proposal to split his roles by agreeing to appoint an
independent board member as “lead director.” Brooklyn-born
Schiro, who joined the board in 2009, is the former CEO of
 Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s biggest insurer, and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “That background is helpful,” said Eleanor Bloxham, CEO
of Value Alliance Co., a board advisory firm in Westerville,
Ohio. “One of the things they really need to think about for
this board is the level of expertise in the financial
industry.”  PwC, one of the world’s four biggest accounting firms, has
been Goldman Sachs’s auditor since before the firm went public
in 1999, according to  David Wells , a bank spokesman in New York.  Schiro, 66, spent 31 years at PwC before resigning in 2001.
The St. John’s University graduate joined Zurich Financial in
2002 as chief operating officer for group finance and within
months was promoted to be the company’s first non-Swiss CEO.  Kraft, DuPont  Bryan , a former chairman and CEO of  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) , joined
the Goldman Sachs board in November 1999, six months after the
company went public. James A. Johnson, the former chairman and
CEO of  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , is the only Goldman Sachs board member who
has served longer, having joined in May of that year.  Juliber , a former COO and vice chairman of  Colgate-
Palmolive Co. (CL) , also serves on the boards of  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and
 DuPont Co. (DD)   Schiro, who will succeed Bryan as chairman of the board’s
corporate governance and nominating committee, also serves on
the boards of San Diego-based  Reva Medical Inc.  and Amsterdam-
based  Royal Philips Electronics NV. (PHIA)  At  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the world’s
largest snack-food maker, Schiro was named in May 2010 to a
three-year term as the presiding independent director.  “Schiro is on four major boards, and it would have been
preferable of Goldman Sachs to pick someone who had less going
on,” Bloxham said.  Wells declined to comment on Bloxham’s criticism.  Spar, Simmons  M. Michele Burns, the former chairman and CEO of Marsh &
McLennan Cos.’ Mercer unit and the board’s newest member, will
replace Schiro in leading the  audit committee , the bank said.  Last year Goldman Sachs added Burns and Barnard College
President Debora L. Spar to its board. Their appointments
followed the departures of former  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  CEO H. Lee Scott in May after one year and Brown University President
Ruth Simmons in May 2010 after 10 years.  Goldman Sachs announced the changes after the directors
finished a meeting in  India  over the weekend, the board’s first
in that country.  Greg Smith , a former Goldman Sachs derivatives salesman,
wrote an opinion piece in the New York Times on March 14 in
which he called on the board to “weed out the morally bankrupt
people” at the firm and to “make the client the focal point of
your business again.” He said he was quitting the firm after
almost 12 years and blamed Blankfein and President Gary D. Cohn,
both board members, for losing hold of the firm’s culture.  Blankfein, 57, and Cohn, 51, responded with a memo to
employees that said Smith’s assertions “do not reflect our
values, our culture and how the vast majority of people at
Goldman Sachs think about the firm and the work it does on
behalf of our clients.”  The executives wrote that management will carefully examine
the assertions, which included a statement that Smith had seen
managing directors of the firm refer to their own clients,
sometimes in e-mail, as “muppets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  