-- Greek Foreign-Bond Restructuring Rejected in Talks Last Week
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-04-02T10:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/greek-foreign-bond-restructuring-rejected-at-meetings-last-week.html
Investors in Greek bonds issued
under foreign law rejected the nation’s attempts to restructure
the debt at talks last week.  In 20 out of 36 meetings, bondholders either turned down
the government’s proposal, adjourned the talks or failed to
achieve a quorum, according to a  press release  today from the
Greek Public Debt Management Office.  The meetings involved holders of about $26.8 billion of
foreign-law notes denominated in dollars, euros, Swiss francs
and yen. Investors owning $15.3 billion of securities agreed to
a restructuring, leaving $11.5 billion still to be dealt with.  “The key thing with the international bonds is that
holders have to vote bond-by-bond rather than in aggregate,”
said Thomas Costerg, European economist at Standard Chartered
Bank. “That makes it easier for investors to block the 
restructuring and raises the question of what Greece can do now.”  Greece is trying to re-organize the rest of its debt after
carrying out the biggest sovereign restructuring in history last
month. The government is insisting there’s no money to fully pay
holders of bonds issued under international law, after it forced
investors in 197 billion euros ($263 billion) of domestic-law
securities to accept losses of about 70 percent.  ‘Issue of Fairness’  Greece ’s options include opening talks with holdouts to
reach a mutually acceptable compromise, paying up in full or
refusing to pay at all, according to London-based Costerg.  “Paying up in full would raise the issue of fairness
regarding the domestic-law bondholders, while a hard default
would make litigation likely,” said Costerg. “The bottom line
is that this reminds investors that the Greek crisis and the
euro-area crisis aren’t over.”  Holders of a 450 million-euro floating-rate note that falls
due on May 15, the closest maturity on the international bonds,
rejected the restructuring deal, according to the press release.  The country has a 30-day grace period to make the payment,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. How to handle the debt maturity
will be an early test for a new government that may be elected
as soon as this month to replace Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s interim administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  