-- Groupon to Settle Class-Action Lawsuit for $8.5 Million
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-02T19:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/groupon-to-settle-class-action-lawsuit-for-8-5-million-1-.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the biggest seller of
so-called daily deals, agreed to pay $8.5 million to settle a
class-action lawsuit alleging the expiration dates on its
coupons are illegal.  Customers who bought Groupon vouchers before Dec. 1, 2011
can either redeem these past their expiration date or, if they
are unable to do so, obtain a refund from the $8.5 million fund,
according the proposed settlement filed March 29 in federal
court in San Diego. Residents in some states can seek refunds
only for vouchers sold after Aug. 22, 2010, according to the
filing.  Groupon also agreed for three years not to sell more than
10 percent of its daily deals with an expiration date of less
than 30 days after their issue date, according to the fling.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Groupon,
said the company doesn’t comment on litigation.  Groupon disputes the plaintiffs’ claims, according to the
proposed settlement.  The settlement pertains to 17 lawsuits against Groupon that
were consolidated before U.S. District Judge Dana M. Sabraw in
 San Diego . The plaintiffs claimed Groupon and various retailers
violate federal and state consumer protection laws with improper
expiration dates and other provisions for the vouchers, such as
the requirement that they be used in a single transaction.  “Groupon effectively creates a sense of urgency among
consumers to quickly purchase ‘groupon’ gift certificates by
offering ‘daily deals’ for a short amount of time,” according
to the first case filed last year. “Consumers therefore feel
pressured and are rushed into buying the gift certificates and
unwittingly become subject to the onerous sales conditions.”  The cases are In re Groupon Inc. Marketing and Sales
Practices Litigation, 11-MD-2238, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  California  (San Diego.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 