-- Groupon Revisions Highlight New Model’s Risks
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-04-02T21:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/groupon-revisions-highlight-new-model-s-risks.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN) ’s latest restatement,
following accounting missteps last year, heightens concern about
the reliability of the company’s financial reporting and raises
questions whether auditors gave enough oversight to the coupon
provider’s novel business model.  The Chicago-based company reported a “material weakness”
in financial controls on March 30 and said fourth-quarter sales
were lower than previously stated because of higher refunds to
merchants. That cut revenue in the period -- Groupon’s first as
a public company -- by $14.3 million to $492.2 million.  The announcement added to setbacks for Groupon, which has
struggled to get its financial statements in order since filing
for an initial public offering in June. The company abandoned an
accounting method for operating income after a review by
regulators and later restated 2010 results. The moves raise
questions about why Groupon’s auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, didn’t
point out concerns sooner, said  Herman Leung , an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group in  San Francisco .  “This should have been highlighted by the auditors,” said
Leung, who has a neutral rating on shares of Groupon and doesn’t
own the stock. “The business is growing so fast that it sounds
like they don’t have the proper financial controls to deal with
the growth.”  Shares Fall  Groupon’s stock  had its biggest one-day decline today,
dropping 17 percent to $15.28 at the close in New York. The
shares have dropped 24 percent since the IPO in November.  Groupon has been working with KPMG LLP to address the
causes of the material weakness, said Paul Taaffe, a company
spokesman. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Deloitte & Touche LLP
have also worked with Groupon, Taaffe said.  Charlie Perkins , a spokesman for New York-based Ernst &
Young, declined to comment on the earnings restatement.  To address the concerns, Groupon also is bringing in more
finance personnel.  “Although we plan to complete this remediation process as
quickly as possible, we cannot at this time estimate how long it
will take, and our initiatives may not prove to be successful in
remediating this material weakness,” Groupon said in the
regulatory filing. Still, the company plans to report on the
effectiveness of its internal controls by the end of this year.  ‘Extremely Unusual’  Restatements and disclosures of material weaknesses are
rare this soon after an IPO because the Securities and Exchange
Commission requires detailed checks on financial controls before
a debut, said  Lise Buyer , principal at Class V Group.  “It’s extremely unusual, as companies generally go through
very thorough audits before filing and so should have their
policies and procedures fairly well ironed out,” said Buyer,
whose firm is based in Portola Valley, California. She advises
startups on public offerings.  Just 12 percent of companies reported having ineffective
financial-reporting controls within their first year of trading,
according to data provider Audit Analytics. The Sutton,
Massachusetts-based research firm looked at 1,848 companies that
held IPOs since January 2004.  Groupon said it failed to account for an increase in
higher-priced deals, which are more likely to be refunded by
customers. The company started selling discounts on plane
tickets in partnership with  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  last year and began
offering Groupon Reserve, a service for upscale deals such as a
five-course meal at  Santa Monica , California-based restaurant
Whist for $99.  Groupon said the latest changes “are primarily related to
an increase to the company’s refund reserve accrual,” leading
to higher reimbursement rates.  Refunds, Reimbursements  The company says it will refund the purchase price of
coupons, known as Groupons, in cases where a customer isn’t
satisfied. Still, Groupon has a limited period during which it
can seek reimbursement from a merchant for a refund, and its
customers may try to get refunds in cases where the company
can’t get reimbursed from partners.  “Our inability to seek reimbursement from our merchant
partners for refund claims could have an adverse effect on our
liquidity and profitability,” Groupon said in its filing.  The higher refunds boosted operating expenses that in turn
widened Groupon’s net loss by $22.6 million, or 4 cents a share.
The company held to a forecast for first-quarter sales of $510
million to $550 million and income from operations of $15
million to $35 million.  Accountants may have had difficulty tracking changes in
refunds because Groupon’s business model is relatively new, said
 Tom Taulli , an IPO consultant in  Newport Beach ,  California .  ‘Little History’  Groupon pioneered the market for daily deals, which offer
discounts on restaurant meals, nail-salon packages and other
services. Groupon splits the revenue from the offers with
merchants.  “There is very little history on return rates,” Taulli
said. “Groupon hasn’t been around for a long time and has been
expanding so quickly, it’s got to be a nightmare for an auditing
firm.”  Groupon also stumbled ahead of its IPO when Chairman Eric Lefkofsky said the company is “going to be wildly profitable”
in an interview with Bloomberg News. In July, the company
updated its IPO filing, asking investors to disregard those
comments because they didn’t accurately or completely reflect
his views.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  New York  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  