-- IBM to Help Develop Computers to Study Universe’s Origins
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-04-02T13:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/ibm-to-help-develop-super-computers-to-study-universe-s-origins.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  has partnered with a team building the world’s largest
radio telescope to develop super computer systems to make sense
of light years of space data and the history of the universe.  The Netherlands Institute for Radio Astronomy, known as
ASTRON, and IBM will collaborate to research so-called exascale
computers that consume little power. The technology will be
needed to study faint radio signals from deep space produced by
the “Big Bang” 13 billion years ago -- to be collected by the
Square Kilometre Array telescope when it’s completed in 2024.  “The telescope will be used to explore evolving galaxies,
dark matter and even the very origins of the universe,” IBM and
ASTRON said in a statement. “Scientists estimate that the
processing power required to operate the telescope will be equal
to several millions of today’s fastest computers.”  The initial five-year, 32.9 million euro ($43.9 million)
“DOME project” in Drenthe, the Netherlands, will investigate
technologies necessary to read, store and analyze one exabyte of
raw data per day -- twice today’s entire daily Internet traffic.
IBM, the world’s biggest computer-services provider, is
advancing technologies that increase memory capacity and reduce
power consumption to process near-limitless data, to help
business and government clients analyze performance and project
trends.  ‘Futuristic Technology’  “We have to invent futuristic technology to look into the
past,” Ronald Luijten, IBM’s lead researcher on the project in
Zurich,  Switzerland , said in an interview. “The energy issue is
becoming ubiquitous. We need fundamental new technologies to
deal with the needs of the future data centers.”  IBM  rose  0.2 percent to $208.97 at 9:30 a.m.  New York  time.
The shares had gained 13 percent this year before today.  The 1.5 billion euro telescope project is “comparable” in
size, cost and international participation to the Large Hadron
Collider developed by CERN, the European Organization for
Nuclear Research, Luijten said. The collider is looking for the
“same answers” as the telescope, by smashing protons together
inside its particle accelerator, creating what Luijten called
“mini Big Bangs.”  Construction of the super telescope will begin in 2017. It
will be positioned in  Australia  or  South Africa  where there is
enough space to accommodate 3,000 dishes -- one square
kilometers’ worth of antenna positioned across a continent, that
make up the super telescope, Luijten said.  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, has partnered with
governments and universities in both potential host countries to
develop software that will filter out “the noise” the
telescope collects and create sky maps for astronomers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 