-- Illumina Rejects Roche’s $6.7 Billion Hostile Takeover Offer
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-02T20:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/illumina-rejects-roche-s-increased-takeover-offer-of-51-a-share.html
Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , the U.S. maker of
gene-mapping tools, urged shareholders to reject  Roche Holding
AG (ROG) ’s increased hostile takeover offer, saying the bid
“dramatically undervalues” the company.  Roche raised its offer last week by 15 percent to about
$6.7 billion, or $51 a share, after Illumina rejected the
company’s original bid. Investors have until 6 p.m. New York
time April 20 to tender their stock, Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche said on March 29 in announcing the new cash offer.  Illumina’s technology may help Roche, the world’s biggest
maker of cancer drugs, tailor medicines to individual patients.
Illumina’s  shares , which have traded above Roche’s increased bid
since it was announced, fell 2.4 percent to $51.37 at the close
of New York trading.  “The market is indicating the price is getting close,”
 Les Funtleyder , a New York-based health strategist and portfolio
manager at Miller Tabak & Co., who owns Illumina shares, said in
an interview.  The increased offer “does not adequately reflect
Illumina’s singular position in an industry poised for
extraordinary growth,” Illumina Chief Executive Officer  Jay Flatley  said in a letter to Roche Chairman Franz Humer. “We are
advising our stockholders that your revised offer is not in
their best interests and not to tender any shares,” Flatley
said in the letter, which was distributed in a statement today.  Illumina shareholders will decide April 18 whether to
replace board members with Roche nominees, which would clear the
way for talks from both sides. Illumina today urged investors to
support the company’s directors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  