-- India Wind Investment May Stall on Tax-Break Cut, Industry Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-02T13:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/indian-government-ends-tax-break-for-wind-power-projects-1-.html
Spending on new wind farms in  India ,
the world’s third-largest market for turbine producers such as
 Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  and  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) , may stall as
the country cut a tax break this month, industry officials said.  “Investment could come to a standstill,” said Arvind
Prasad, managing director of developer Ushdev Power Holdings and
head of the Indian Wind Power Association in Maharashtra state.  Farms built from April 1 are only able to claim so-called
accelerated depreciation at 15 percent of the cost of equipment,
down from 80 percent, according to a  circular  on the website of
the Indian tax authority. Demand for  wind turbines  this fiscal
year may drop by almost 400 megawatts, or about $540 million of
orders, as a result, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said in July.  The tax break drove 70 percent of installations last year,
according to the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. Suzlon,
Gamesa and  Denmark ’s  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  are the biggest
publicly traded turbine suppliers to the market, the Indian Wind
Turbine Manufacturers Association says. Accelerated depreciation
accounting allows developers to write off investments faster.  “The policy change takes away one of the key pillars of
India’s success,” Suzlon said today in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “India needs power for growth, and this step
unfortunately pushes the country in the wrong direction.”  Accelerated depreciation has encouraged companies to erect
most of India’s 16,179 megawatts of wind capacity to cut their
tax rather than generate power, Renewable Energy Minister Farooq Abdullah said. The ministry has applied for Cabinet approval to
extend an alternative incentive introduced in 2009 and which
expired March 31 that rewards farms for the power they generate.  India plans to add 2,400 megawatts of wind capacity in the
year ended March 31, according to the  renewable energy  ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  