-- India Stock Futures Gain on U.S. Data, Rate Speculation
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-04-03T02:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/indian-stocks-climb-for-second-day-mahindra-larsen-lead.html
Indian  stock futures  rose, signaling
a gain in benchmark indexes, as the  U.S. economy  showed further
signs of strength, and speculation grew that India’s central
bank will cut  interest rates .  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures  for April delivery climbed
0.6 percent to 5,394.5 at 10:36 a.m. in Singapore. The
underlying S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India rose 0.4 percent to 5,317.90 yesterday. The BSE India
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, gained 0.4 percent to 17,478.15.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing
index increased to 53.4 last month and a gauge of factory
employment climbed to the highest level since June. India’s
Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 54.7 from 56.6 in February,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said yesterday, giving
the  Reserve Bank  of India scope to reduce borrowing costs for
the first time in three years to spur growth as the European
debt crisis curbs demand for Asian exports.  “Growth is not looking very encouraging, so I think they
will still go ahead with a 25-basis-point cut in April,”
Jyotivardhan Jaipuria, head of India research at Bank of America
Corp., told Bloomberg UTV yesterday.  The central bank left its repurchase rate at 8.5 percent
for a third meeting last month, after raising it by a record
3.75 percentage points from March 2010 to October last year to
fight price increases. Inflation was 6.95 percent in February,
holding close to a 26-month low, yet still the fastest among the
BRIC nations that also include Brazil, Russia and  China .  Inflation Risks  The RBI has signaled readiness to cut rates to aid local
spending, while flagging that inflation risks such as a climb in
oil prices remain. Brent crude, the benchmark for  India , jumped
2.1 percent to $125.43 a barrel in  London  yesterday, the biggest
increase since March 1.  “Inflation is down but there are a lot of places where you
can see inflationary pressures,” Jaipuria said. “The
government has still not hiked oil prices, but the day they do,
that builds into the inflation number and you will get inflation
edging higher again.”  The Sensex has risen 13 percent this year as foreign funds
poured record amounts of  money  into Indian shares even as
corporate-profit growth slows, interest rates remain at a three-
year high, oil prices jump and the government struggles to
tackle a widening fiscal gap. The Sensex trades at 13.4 times
estimated earnings,  compared with  the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index’s 10.8 times.  Shares of  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the country’s
biggest power-equipment maker, may be active as the company is
scheduled to report today earnings for the year ended March 31.  Overseas investors sold a net $254 million of stocks on
March 29, paring this year’s inflows to $8.9 billion. Flows
surged to a record in 2010, making the Sensex the top performer
among the world’s top 10 markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  