-- IPad Trademark Fight to Continue After China Court Ruling
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-04-02T12:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/ipad-trademark-fight-to-continue-after-china-court-ruling.html
A Chinese court rejected a
creditor’s application to liquidate Proview Technology
(Shenzhen) Co., allowing the failed display maker to pursue its
legal fight against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over the iPad trademark in  China .  The Shenzhen Intermediate People’s Court ruled against
Fubon Insurance’s bid to liquidate Proview, Roger Xie, a lawyer
for Proview, said by phone today. The decision was released to
litigants on March 31, he said.  The same Chinese court ruled in November that Proview owned
the iPad trademark in China, saying Apple’s 2009 contract to
acquire rights to the name was invalid. The Cupertino,
California-based company has appealed, and a decision is
expected within two months. Proview has filed separate
complaints alleging that Apple’s sale of iPad tablets in the
country infringed intellectual-property laws.  Fubon Insurance, a unit of Taipei-based  Fubon Financial
Holding Co. (2881) , is assessing whether to take further action in the
case, according to an e-mailed statement today. The application
for liquidating Proview was taken on behalf of reinsurance
partners, Fubon said March 6.  Proview will continue its litigation with Apple, Xie said
today. The action against Apple, the world’s most-valuable
company, might have been affected if Fubon’s application had
been granted, he said. The rejection was first reported by
China’s state-run Xinhua News Agency.  Proview Technology, a unit of Hong Kong-listed  Proview
International Holdings Ltd. (334) , has filed complaints to more than
40 branches of the Administration for Industry and Commerce in
China, Ma Dongxiao, another company lawyer, said in February.
Court actions have been lodged in Shanghai, Shenzhen and
Huizhou, Ma said.  Apple has said it bought the rights to the iPad trademark
in China from Proview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  