-- Yahoo Investor Third Point Starts Website for Change
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-02T22:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/third-point-starts-yahoo-site-that-calls-for-change-at-company.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  shareholder  Third Point 
LLC, preparing for a proxy fight, unveiled a website that calls
for changes at the  Internet company  and touts a proposed slate
of board candidates.  The site, which borrows Yahoo’s purple color scheme,
includes a blog, biographies of the director nominees and a
critique of the company’s past mistakes. Third Point also
started a  Facebook Inc. (FB)  page that links to the site,
 valueyahoo.com .  “We created ValueYahoo as a guide for our fellow Yahoo
shareholders who want change at one of technology’s most
valuable -- and sadly, we believe, most mismanaged --
companies,” the site said. “We share your desire for a new
path forward, and here you will find our case for change, along
with ways to join our campaign.”  Third Point, the owner of about 5.8 percent of Yahoo,
announced plans last month to seek shareholder votes on its
slate of four directors. Yahoo has been struggling to keep pace
with rivals  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook, which have lured away
users and ad dollars. Last year, Facebook passed Yahoo to become
the largest U.S. seller of display advertising, according to
EMarketer Inc.  Reshuffling Board  Yahoo, under the leadership of new Chief Executive Officer
 Scott Thompson , named three new independent directors last
month, part of its own effort to shake up the board and appease
investors. The company had negotiated with Third Point CEO
 Daniel Loeb  about adding one of his nominees and another that
both sides could agree on. The discussions broke down when Loeb
insisted that he himself be added, Yahoo said at the time.  “Yahoo’s new leadership team and its employees are working
hard to restore the company’s growth and innovation and refocus
its resources on key parts of the business that offer the
greatest potential for growth,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement. “It is important to note that Yahoo has been
actively and openly soliciting constructive input from its major
shareholders, including Third Point, regarding both the
composition of its board and the company’s ongoing evolution.”  Yahoo (YHOO)  rose 1.5 percent to $15.46 at the close in  New York .
Shares of the Sunnyvale, California-based company have fallen
4.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  