-- Irish Life Loss Widens to 424 Million Euros as Soured Loans Rise
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-04-02T07:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/irish-life-loss-widens-to-424-million-euros-as-soured-loans-rise.html
Irish Life & Permanent Plc (IPM) , posting
its last set of results before the government splits up the
state-owned bank and insurer, said its net loss widened to 424
million euros ($566 million) in 2011 as soured loans increased.  Loan-impairment losses in the banking unit, once the
nation’s largest mortgage lender, rose to 1.4 billion euros from
420 million euros a year earlier, the Dublin-based company said
in its  annual report  published today. The loss was partly offset
by a 1 billion-euro one-time gain from buying subordinated debt
at a discount to nominal value. The company lost 321 million
euros a year earlier.  “Trading conditions were challenging,” Alan Cook, the
company’s chairman, said in a statement. “The negative impact
of high unemployment and lower incomes, together with further
house price falls, resulted in increased arrears levels and
reduced demand for the group’s products.”  The state took a 99.2 percent stake in  Irish Life  after
injecting 2.7 billion euros into the company in July to help its
banking unit, Permanent TSB, meet regulatory  capital
requirements . It’s the fifth Irish lender to succumb to state
control since January 2009 in the wake of the nation’s real-
estate bubble.  Following a failed attempt to sell the life insurance unit
last year to raise a further 1.3 billion euros to shore up the
bank, the government secured a court order on March 28 to
acquire the life division for the same amount. The sale, to be
completed by the end of June, will separate the group’s life and
banking businesses.  Mortgages in Arrears  The life insurance division, reported as a discontinued
operation in the annual report, posted an operating profit of 96
million euros, compared with a profit of 212 million euros in
the previous year.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said on Jan. 19 that the
government still needs to decide if Permanent TSB can stand
alone or needs to be merged with another entity. He said that
winding down the bank would be his “least favored” option.  The proportion of Irish mortgage accounts at least 90 days
in arrears rose to 12 percent at the end of 2011 from 6.8
percent a year earlier. The Irish economy fell back into
recession in the fourth quarter, and house prices have slumped
49 percent from their 2007 level, government statistics say.  Permanent TSB is the most leveraged of the three state-
guaranteed lenders that remain open for business, with a loan-
to-deposit ratio of 227 percent, meaning it has 2.27 euros on
loan for every 1 euro on deposit.  Corporate deposits fell 38 percent to 2.3 billion euros
last year as the life unit placed 800 million euros less in
deposits with the bank and customers were concerned about the
sovereign-debt crisis, the company said. Total deposits rose 7.4
percent to 14.4 billion euros, helped by the acquisition of 3.6
billion euros of deposits from Irish  Nationwide Building
Society .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  