-- Hirst Touts Art Investing as Skull Joins Shark in London
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-04-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/hirst-gets-oligarch-look-peddles-skull-t-shirts-at-tate-show.html
Damien Hirst  often says that for an
artist to be taken seriously, the art should outshine the cash.  In his retrospective at Tate Modern (tomorrow to Sept. 9),
the cash sometimes gets the upper hand. Security guards mind his
50-million-pound ($80 million) diamond skull as they would a
jewelry store, refusing women with handbags. A nearby skull
stall sells 46 pound T-shirts featuring the sparkly cranium.  Cash inevitably comes up in conversation as I and three
others interview the U.K.’s richest artist on Tate’s top floor.
Jovial Hirst has lost his scruffiness. He looks not unlike an
oligarch on his day off: black jacket over a black shirt,
multiple (skull) rings, a gold chain around his neck.  With his auction prices down -- the most a Hirst fetched
last year was $1.8 million, versus $19.2 million in 2007,
according to the  Artnet  database -- Hirst talks up his market.  “Art is the greatest currency in the world,” says Hirst,
46. “Gold, diamonds, art: I think they’re equal things.”  “It’s a great thing to invest in.”  I recall our first meeting in September 2008, just before
Hirst’s direct auction at  Sotheby’s (BID)  (which started on the day of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse) raised 111.5 million
pounds. He told me at the time that the money should chase the
art and not the other way around. Yet I point out that his
paintings of colored spots -- currently on show in 11 Gagosian
Galleries around the world -- are now a status symbol.  Mews Tramp  “Hope that stays true!” he exclaims with a playful grin,
confirming with an anecdote. When he started making money, he
moved to a swish South Kensington mews and put up a spot
painting. One day a neighbor asked him who he was, and when he
replied, “she goes, ‘Oh, we wondered how you could afford a
spot painting’ -- because I looked like a tramp.”  Still, he stresses, the value is not just in the price tag,
because while there are 1,400 spot paintings, “they keep
looking great.”  “If you put it outside the pub at the end of the night,
would someone take it home?” he asks. “It wouldn’t be there
the next day. That’s a definition of a good painting. That’s why
it sells for lots of money. But the money is secondary.”  Hirst is equally dismissive of charges that his spot series
will lose value, insisting that “they’re not that expensive.”  “It’s a couple of hundred grand for a medium-sized spot
painting, and you can buy a Picasso for 150 million pounds, so
they’re not up there, and there aren’t many,” he points out.
“I say, don’t sell your Hirsts, hang onto them.”  Shark, Flies  Looking back at his career, Hirst is surprised at how
prolific he was in the early 1990s, when he produced the shark
in formaldehyde; the bleeding cow’s head, fed on by flies
incubated and executed on the spot; and the humid room where
butterflies are hatched from white canvases with pupae.  Those all happen to be the strongest displays in the
 exhibition . And he admits to remembering early works and
thinking, “Why didn’t I stop there?”  Ultimately, though, he rejects charges that his best work
is behind him. “If you believed that, you would stop, wouldn’t
you?” he says. “You always think the next one is going to be
the greatest one you’ve ever made.”  He’s currently working on scalpel-blade pictures, paintings
with bugs, and pie-chart works, he says. He has stopped the spin
paintings (produced by a turntable) and wanted to end the spot
series too until he decided to make one with a million spots
that will take nine years to finish.  So will that be the last?  “I keep saying yes and no,” says Hirst of his cash
spinner. “I keep changing my mind. That’s what happens, isn’t
it?”  “Damien Hirst” is at Tate Modern, Bankside,  London , from
April 4 through Sept. 9, sponsored by the Qatar Museums
Authority. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk  or
+44-20-7887-8888.  (Farah Nayeri is a writer for Muse, the arts & leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The views expressed are her own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 