-- Manufacturing in U.S. Grew at Faster Pace in March: Economy
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-02T21:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/ism-index-of-u-s-manufacturing-increased-to-53-4-in-march.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded
at a faster pace in March, driven by gains in employment and
production that signal the world’s biggest economy is
underpinning global growth.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  climbed
to 53.4 last month from 52.4 in February, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group’s report showed today. Readings greater than 50
signal growth. The median  forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a gain to 53. Another report showed spending on
construction projects unexpectedly dropped in February.  Pent-up demand for autos and sustained gains in business
investment on new equipment may continue to bolster American
manufacturers like  Deere & Co. (DE)  that account for about 12 percent
of the economy. The acceleration comes as manufacturing in
 Europe  shrank for an eighth consecutive month, showing a
slowdown in sales overseas remains a risk.  “We are seeing a broadening in the improvement across the
economy,” said  Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S. strategist at TD
Securities in  New York , who projected the index would climb to
53.8. “I’m encouraged by the backlog of orders which remains
quite supportive of stronger momentum.”  Stocks rose, sending the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to
its highest level since December 2007, on the improvement in
manufacturing. All 10 groups in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index
advanced, with the gauge climbing 0.8 percent to 1,419.04 at the
close in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury
note fell to 2.18 percent from 2.21 percent on March 30.  Less Construction  Growth in manufacturing is helping make up for weakness in
 construction spending , which unexpectedly fell 1.1 percent in
February, Commerce Department figures showed. The drop was the
biggest in seven months and followed a 0.8 percent retreat in
January that was larger than first estimated.  Forecasts for the ISM index in the Bloomberg survey of 72
economists ranged from 51.7 to 54.5. The measure averaged 55.2
in 2011 and 57.3 a year earlier. Economist estimates ranged from
51.7 to 54.5, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Fifteen of 18 industries surveyed by the  purchasing
managers  group expanded last month, the most since April 2011.
The ISM’s production gauge climbed to a three-month high and its
measure of employment rose to the highest level since June.  Manufacturers were adding to payrolls in anticipation that
bookings will pick up, Bradley Holcomb, chairman of the ISM’s
factory survey said in a conference call. Order backlogs rose
last month, matching the January level as the highest in almost
a year.  Global Manufacturing  Elsewhere, euro-region manufacturing contracted again in
March, adding to signs the 17-country economy kept shrinking in
the first quarter. The region’s factory gauge, also based on a
survey of purchasing managers, fell to 47.7 from 49 in February,
London-based  Markit Economics  said today.  U.K. manufacturing unexpectedly accelerated in March to the
fastest in 10 months, according to another report. The gauge of
factory output, based on a survey by Markit Economics and the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply , rose to 52.1 from
a revised 51.5 in February, Markit said.  Readings from  China  were mixed, with an index from the
logistics federation and the National Bureau of Statistics
issued yesterday showing a gain to a one-year high. In contrast,
a gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed
manufacturing contracting and export orders falling.  Auto Demand  American manufacturing has been bolstered in recent months
by stronger sales of automobiles.  Light-vehicle sales  in March,
set for release tomorrow, may have run at a 14.6 million
seasonally adjusted annual rate, according to the average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The pace was 15
million a month earlier, the strongest since February 2008,
according to Ward’s Automotive Group statistics.  “As the economy continues to strengthen, more of the pent-
up demand will be released,”  Don Johnson , U.S. sales chief for
General Motors Co., said today on Bloomberg Television’s “In
The Loop With Betty Liu.” Sales of GM’s Chevrolet Volt rose to
more than 2,000 in the month, he said. “This month will be a
very good month for Volt.” The model’s previous best was 1,529
in December.  A government report last week showed orders for non-defense
capital goods excluding aircraft -- a proxy for  business
investment  in items such as computers, engines and
communications gear --increased 1.2 percent in February.  Business Investment  Business spending on equipment and software climbed at a
7.5 percent pace in the final three months of 2011 after a 16.2
percent surge in the prior quarter, according to the latest
Commerce Department data on gross domestic product.  Deere, the world’s largest maker of agricultural equipment,
said March 1 that it would invest $70 million to expand tractor
production in Waterloo,  Iowa .  While companies are investing in new equipment, a stronger
labor market is giving households the means and confidence to
purchase big-ticket items, benefiting companies like motor-home
maker  Winnebago Industries Inc. (WGO)   “We’re beginning to see positive signs that the economy is
improving,” Randy Potts, chief executive officer of the Forest
City, Iowa-based company, said on a March 15 conference call.
“ Consumer confidence  has been trending higher and the jobless
rate is improving.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week
that while he was encouraged by the recent decline in the
 unemployment rate , a further reduction will probably require a
quicker expansion of business production and consumer demand,
which “can be supported by continued accommodative policies,”
he said.  Recent “better news” on the  U.S. economy  has also
included strength in manufacturing, Bernanke said. The
improvement could contribute to higher consumer confidence and
lead to a self-sustaining recovery, he said. “We haven’t seen
that in a persuasive way yet,” Bernanke said in a speech in
Arlington, Virginia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  