-- Israel’s Fischer Says China Can Maintain Growth Momentum
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-02T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/israel-s-fischer-says-china-can-maintain-growth-momentum.html
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said the Chinese government has tools including monetary
policy to protect growth should the pace of economic expansion
be threatened.  “Every time they’ve been faced with a growth challenge,
they’ve responded very quickly and gone back to growth very
rapidly,” Fischer said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday at the Boao Forum for Asia on the tropical island of
 Hainan  in southern China. “They can’t keep growing at anything
like these rates forever, but forever looks a little while off
at the moment.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  plans to “fine-tune” policies as
needed, as weakness in exports and a cooling housing market
restrain an economy that probably grew at the slowest pace in
almost three years in the first quarter. The size of the
nation’s gross domestic product means that shaving 1 percentage
point off growth would cost the world economy $50 billion,
Fischer said.  A so-called hard landing of  Chinese growth  below 6 percent
“would certainly put a dent in the global economy,” said
Fischer, 68. “There are scenarios where you can see that
happening.”  Wen on March 5 set the annual growth target at 7.5 percent,
the first time below 8 percent since 2004. Fischer said he’s
been told that, based on previous years when the target was
exceeded, this year’s goal means the actual expansion may be 8.5
percent or 9 percent.  Provincial Plans  The ruling Communist Party oversaw an unprecedented 17.5
trillion yuan ($2.8 trillion) of  lending  over 2009 and 2010 that
helped the nation to lead the recovery from the global financial
crisis. In addition to the central government’s plans, regions
have their own growth targets.  “The actual growth rate is determined as much by what the
provinces do as by what the central government says,” Fischer
said in yesterday’s interview.  China ’s  gross domestic product  probably expanded 8.3
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, according to
the median estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, down
from 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter.  A stronger reading for a Chinese manufacturing gauge April
1 failed to end predictions for policy loosening as analysts
described the gain as seasonal, and a separate survey showed
exporters struggling. Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. predicted
fiscal spending and reserve-ratio cuts for banks.  International Clout  Fischer’s views carry international clout because of a
four-decade career spanning academia, banking and policy-making.
As a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he
was Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s thesis adviser
and taught European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  before
helping to end financial crises in Mexico,  Russia  and Asia as
the International Monetary Fund’s No. 2 official in the 1990s.  Fischer, whose Bank of Israel term ends in 2015, has earned
a reputation as a trailblazer, beating the Fed and ECB by a day
in cutting  interest rates  following Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s collapse, reducing the  base rate  by half a percentage
point to 3.75 percent.  The ECB has acted correctly to stem the euro area’s debt
crisis and the region is “beginning to get over the hump,”
Fischer said. The  U.S. economy  is also improving, even as the
government needs to put its “fiscal house in order.”  The price of oil and  Europe ’s crisis are both “very
serious risks” to the global economy, Fischer said. Crude has
risen about one-third over the past six months. Oil costs “may
be more containable than we think” because nations can use
strategic reserves, he said.  Even so, “I have a lot of confidence that  Asia  will come
through this without a major disruption in growth,” Fischer
said. “There are a lot of things to keep watching out for.”  --Stephen Engle, Scott Lanman, Alisa Odenheimer. With assistance
from Kismet Singh in  Hong Kong . Editor: Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Stephen Engle in Boao, China, at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Boao, China, at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  