-- Italy’s Jobless Rate Increases to Highest Since 2001
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 3 5 2 6 4 1 ]   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   [ ]   a n d   [ b n : P R S N = 4 1 3 2 7 6 4 ]   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   [ ]
-- 2012-04-02T12:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/italy-s-jobless-rate-increases-to-highest-since-2001.html
     April 2 (Bloomberg) -- Italy ’s jobless rate rose to the
highest in more than a decade in February as austerity measures
meant to fight the debt crisis helped push the euro area’s
third-largest economy into a recession.  Unemployment (ITMUURS)  increased to 9.3 percent in February, the
highest since the first quarter of 2001, from a revised 9.1
percent in January, Rome-based national statistics institute
Istat said in a preliminary report today. The jobless rate
matched the median forecasts of six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is implementing a 20 billion-
euro ($26.7 billion) package of spending cuts and tax increases
to eliminate the  budget deficit  next year and trim the nation’s
1.9 trillion-euro debt. Those measures are weighing on growth,
with the European Commission forecasting on Feb. 23 that the
Italian economy will contract 1.3 percent this year.  Euro-region unemployment rose to 10.8 percent in February
the highest in more than 14 years, the European Union’s
statistics office n a separate report today.  Joblessness among the Italians between ages 15 and 24
increased to 31.9 in February from a revised 31 percent in
January, Istat said today. Unemployment in the fourth quarter
reached 8.8 percent, up from 8.4 percent in the third, Istat
said today.  Fiat Closings  Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s biggest manufacturer, shut down its
Termini Imerese factory at the end of last year as part of a
plan to reduce costs and improve productivity in Italy as sales
in the country slump. Fiat has threatened to cut more production
in its home market.  Monti’s Cabinet passed proposals on March 23 for an
overhaul of Italy’s labor market, saying the changes will help
attract investment and bring down the jobless rate even with the
economy in its fourth recession since 2001.  The draft law approved by the government, which expands
jobless benefits, reduces temporary work contracts and allows
more leeway in firing, has yet to be presented to lawmakers.  “It still needs to go to parliament, which I hope will
happen quickly,” Monti told reporters after speaking today at
the opening of the Boao Forum for  Asia  in the province of
 Hainan ,  China .  “The reform must be passed with urgency,” Deputy Finance
Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said March 31 on the sidelines of a
meeting of European Finance chiefs in Copenhagen. He said that
joblessness “can only rise” during the recession and urged
lawmakers to approve the overhaul with a “speed comparable with
other measures” proposed by the government since Monti became
premier.  Istat originally reported a jobless rate of 9.2 percent in
January and a youth unemployment rate of 31.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net 
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  