-- Jailhouse Strip Searches Backed by U.S. Supreme Court Ruling
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-04-02T18:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/jailhouse-strip-searches-backed-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court backed the
use of strip searches of newly arrested people, saying that even
people held for minor offenses might be smuggling in weapons or
drugs.  Ruling 5-4 in a New Jersey case that pitted security
concerns against  privacy rights , the justices today said that
when new inmates are being admitted into the general population
of a jail, officials don’t need individualized suspicion before
conducting a close inspection of private body parts.  “Jails are often crowded, unsanitary and dangerous
places,” Justice  Anthony Kennedy  wrote for the court. “There
is a substantial interest in preventing any new inmate, either
of his own will or as a result of coercion, from putting all who
live or work at these institutions at even greater risk when he
is admitted to the general population.”  Two members of the majority -- Chief Justice John Roberts
and Justice  Samuel Alito  -- wrote separately to say the decision
was a limited one. Roberts said the ruling left open the
possibility of exceptions, while Alito said people arrested for
minor offenses can argue before a judge that they should have
been held separately from the general population and spared a
strip search. Jails admit more than 13 million people each year,
Kennedy said.  The case split the court along ideological lines, with
Justices Antonin Scalia and  Clarence Thomas  joining the
majority. In dissent, Justice  Stephen Breyer  said the strip-
search policy reviewed by the court “would subject those
arrested for minor offenses to serious invasions of their
privacy.”  Change in Law  The ruling marks a change in the law in much of the
country. Seven federal appeals courts had ruled that jails need
“reasonable suspicion” before conducting a strip search of a
person arrested for a minor infraction, Breyer said. Some
appeals courts began giving jails more leeway after the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  At the same time, at least 10 states won’t be directly
affected because their own laws bar strip searches in the
absence of reason to suspect the smuggling of contraband.  Today’s ruling is a victory for the Obama administration,
which contended that prison and jail officials need wide
latitude to fashion security and safety policies.  It is a defeat for Albert W. Florence, who claimed in a
lawsuit that he was strip-searched twice during his week behind
bars in two New Jersey counties, Burlington and Essex. Florence
was jailed following his arrest for failing to pay a years-old
fine, which in reality he had already paid.  Roberts and Alito  Lawyers on both sides of the case called the ruling a
narrow one, in large part because of the separate opinions of
Roberts and Alito. Roberts highlighted that Florence was
detained based on an arrest warrant, not for a minor traffic
offense, and that jail officials lacked any alternative to
holding him with the rest of the inmates.  “It is important for me that the court does not foreclose
the possibility of an exception to the rule it announces,”
Roberts wrote.  Alito said most of those arrested for minor offenses aren’t
dangerous and are never sentenced to incarceration. For those
people, “admission to the general jail population, with the
concomitant humiliation of a strip search, may not be
reasonable, particularly if an alternative procedure is
feasible,” he wrote.  The  Federal Bureau  of Prisons already segregates people
arrested for minor offenses from the general population, Alito
wrote.  Opinion Limits  “It’s clear this opinion doesn’t authorize strip searches
of all offenders under all circumstances,” Steven R. Shapiro,
legal director of the New York-based  American Civil Liberties
Union , said in an interview.  Robert Spence, a lawyer representing the National Sheriffs’
Association, said the ruling will provide valuable guidance for
jail officials.  “It appropriately gives deference to the officials who
operate jails to establish policies that will provide a safer
environment for those detained in our nation’s jails, as well as
for those who work there,” Spence said in an e-mail.  In his majority opinion, Kennedy said people arrested for
minor offenses “have tried to smuggle prohibited items into
jail, sometimes by using their rectal cavities or genitals for
the concealment.” He pointed to examples of newly arrested
people hiding drugs, matches and tattoo needles.  No Clear Example  Breyer said jail officials in those cases might have had
reason to suspect contraband was being hidden. He said the
majority didn’t cite any clear example of smuggling by a new
inmate “that could not have been discovered if the jail was
employing a reasonable suspicion standard.”  The  Supreme Court  ruled in 1979 that inmates could be
subjected to a body-cavity search after they met with visitors.
That wouldn’t violate the Constitution’s Fourth Amendment
protection against “unreasonable searches,” the court said.  During arguments in October, both sides in the case sought
to narrow the issues. The lawyer for the two counties said jail
officials might be barred from touching inmates during a search.  Florence’s attorney said jails could perform body-cavity
inspections on certain categories of inmates, such as those
charged with violent offenses. He also said all new inmates
could be required to strip naked and shower in front of guards,
as long as officials stopped short of a close-range search of a
prisoner’s private parts.  Wife and Daughter  According to his complaint, Florence was riding with his
wife and 4-year-old child in a BMW sports-utility vehicle when a
New Jersey state trooper stopped the family for a traffic
offense.  The complaint said the trooper discovered that Florence was
wanted on a bench warrant in Essex County. The officer
handcuffed Florence and placed him under arrest, allegedly
ignoring an official document the man presented to show that he
had paid the fine. Florence said he carried the letter because
of a tendency of officers to pull over black men driving nice
cars.  Florence was driven to the Burlington County Jail, where he
said he was taken into a stall with a partially opened curtain,
ordered to disrobe and made to lift his tongue, arms and
genitals in front of an officer. He said he was transferred to
an Essex County facility six days later and strip-searched
again, this time along with four other men.  $1,310 Fine  Florence said he saw a judge for the first time the
following day and was ordered to be immediately released.  The original fine against Florence stemmed from a 1998
guilty plea for fleeing a traffic stop, according to Burlington
County. Florence eventually paid $1,310, the county said.  A Philadelphia-based federal appeals court said the
counties’ policies were reasonable ways to prevent prisoners
from smuggling in weapons and drugs.  Today’s ruling doesn’t preclude Florence from pressing
ahead with other claims based on his time in jail.  The case is Florence v. Board of Chosen Freeholders of the
County of Burlington, 10-945.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  