-- James Dolan’s Cablevision Accuses Mort Zuckerman of Extortion
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-04-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/james-dolan-s-cablevision-accuses-mort-zuckerman-of-extortion.html
Cablevision (CVC)  Systems Corp. accused
New York Daily News Publisher Mort Zuckerman of “a campaign of
intimidation and extortion” to bring about a merger of his
newspaper with Cablevision’s Newsday.  The accusations follow a  Daily News story  yesterday
claiming the  National Basketball Association ’s  New York Knicks 
knew about the severity of point guard Jeremy Lin’s knee injury
and hid it to ensure the sale of playoff tickets.  Zuckerman’s paper ran the story to “provoke” Cablevision
after “repeated overtures” to merge the Daily News with
Newsday were rejected by Cablevision Chief Executive Officer
 James Dolan , according to the statement. Dolan also is chairman
of Madison Square Garden Co., which owns the Knicks.  “Mr. Zuckerman’s attempts to parlay this into a favorable
arrangement for himself could not be more misguided,” Dolan
said in the statement.  Cablevision said Zuckerman made his merger proposal at a
March 6 lunch with Dolan at  New York ’s Four Seasons restaurant
and quoted Zuckerman as saying “the bad press would end if we
became joint owners.”  Zuckerman was traveling and unavailable to comment
yesterday on the Cablevision statement, according to Clare
Probert, his executive assistant. Zuckerman also is chairman of
real estate investment trust  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)   Cable Operator  Cablevision owns 97.2 percent of Newsday Holdings LCC,
which operates the New York-area daily newspaper, according to
company filings. The Bethpage, New York-based company is the
fifth-largest U.S. cable system operator.  Newsday, based in Melville, New York, posted operating
losses of $31.7 million in 2011 and $12.6 million in both 2010
and 2009, according to company filings.  The Daily News article about Lin is “completely
inaccurate,” Madison Square Garden said in the statement.  “The suggestion that the timing of Jeremy Lin’s injury
report is in any way connected to a longstanding Knicks playoff
ticket deadline is a malicious attack,” Madison Square Garden
said.  Colin Myler , editor in chief of the Daily News, said in a
statement yesterday that there has been “no more supportive a
newspaper than the Daily News about Lin’s superb performances
with the Knicks. As always, we will continue to report in a fair
and independent editorial manner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  