-- Japan's Bond Decline Amid Global Recovery Signs
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-04-02T03:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/japan-s-bond-decline-amid-global-recovery-signs.html
Japanese  government bonds  declined,
sending 10-year yields to an almost one-week high, amid signs of
economic recovery overseas and speculation the Bank of Japan
will increase stimulus efforts to support domestic companies.  Longer maturity debt led declines as Japanese stocks
rallied. U.S. Treasuries fell for a second day after data showed
Chinese factories expanded and ahead of reports that may signal
improvement in U.S. manufacturing and employment.  “As we continue to see signs of recovery in the global
economy, many investors are expecting to see yields go a little
bit higher,” said Makoto Noji, a Tokyo-based senior debt and
currency strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “JGB yields
will rise if Treasury yields rise.”  Japan ’s 10-year yields rose 2 1/2 basis points, or 0.025
percentage point, to 1.01 percent at 12:33 p.m. in  Tokyo , the
highest since March 27. Yields on 20-year and 30-year bonds both
increased three basis points. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average of
shares rose 0.6 percent.  In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management ’s gauge of
manufacturing probably rose to 53 in March from 52.4 the prior
month, according to median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the report today. That would follow a Chinese
factory gauge released yesterday that signaled expansion.  The quarterly Tankan index of sentiment among large
manufacturers was unchanged in March from minus 4 in December,
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  said today in Tokyo. That was less than the
median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News for
a reading of minus 1. A negative number means pessimists
outnumber optimists.  “There are expectations that the Bank of Japan may ease
policy at some point after a bad Tankan report,” said Noji, who
expects Japan’s 10-year yields to rise to 1.1 percent by the end
of April. “The impact of Tankan on JGB market may be limited,
however as additional easing has already been largely priced in
by the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  