-- JetBlue Pilot’s Competence May Be Raised Early in Case
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-04-03T14:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/jetblue-pilot-faces-charges-of-interfering-with-crew.html
The  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  pilot
whose Las Vegas-bound flight was diverted to Texas after he
began ranting about terrorists and banging on doors must decide
early whether to raise a mental-competence defense, according to
defense lawyers watching the case.  Clayton Frederick Osbon, 49, who was evaluated at Northwest
Texas Healthcare System after the plane landed in Amarillo on
March 27, is now in the Randall County Jail, where a judge
yesterday ordered him to be kept apart from inmates serving
sentences. Osbon, who is charged with interfering with a flight
crew, has a bail hearing scheduled for April 5.  The co-pilot locked Osbon out of the cockpit after he began
reciting numbers and talking about “sins in Las Vegas,”
according to court filings. Passengers subdued Osbon as he
banged on the cockpit door, prayed and talked about “Jesus,
Sept. 11, Iraq, Iran and terrorists,” prosecutors said.  “This is clearly a person with a psychiatric medical
problem who needs to be directed to some sort of medical
facility,” Frank Jackson, a  Dallas  criminal defense attorney,
said in a phone interview. Jackson, who has presented
psychological defenses for clients, isn’t involved in Osbon’s
case.  If convicted, Osbon could be sentenced to as long as 20
years in prison and fined $250,000, according to U.S. Attorney
Sarah R. Saldana in Dallas. The U.S. has asked that Osbon be
held without bond until trial.  Allison Sands, a spokeswoman for Saldana, declined to
comment beyond the record of the case. Osbon’s attorney, E. Dean
Roper, also declined to comment.  Mental Capacity  The defense must raise claims of impaired mental capacity
early, said Paul Coggins, a former U.S. attorney in Dallas.  “They can’t just spring that at trial,” he said in a
phone interview.  Early notice gives the U.S. time to make its own
evaluation, he said. If the defendant is in custody, he’s
typically sent for psychiatric evaluation to the U.S. Medical
Facility for Prisoners in Springfield,  Missouri , a process that
can take three to six months, Coggins said.  After Flight 191 left John F. Kennedy International
Airport, Osbon started ranting and “trying to correlate
completely unrelated numbers like different radio frequencies,
and he talked about sins in Las Vegas,” according to court
filings.  Legs Shackled  Osbon, his legs shackled, mostly frowned and gave one-word
answers at his initial court appearance yesterday before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Clinton Averitte in Amarillo.  “Do you understand what they say you did?” Averitte asked
after reading the formal charge.  “Yes,” said Osbon.  In an order filed after the hearing, Averitte wrote that
the U.S. said “there are no conditions of release which will
reasonably assure the safety of any other person and the
community.”  For Osbon to be held without bail, the U.S. must show that
he’s a flight risk or that there’s a danger he’ll commit another
crime, according to Coggins.  “Presumably, he isn’t going to be flying planes so I would
think they’d have to prove there’s a danger he might freak out
in some other circumstance and do something,” said Coggins, who
is the head of the white-collar criminal practice at Locke Lord
LLP in Dallas.  ‘That Is Madness’  Jackson, the Dallas defense lawyer, said he would raise the
mental competency issue at the detention hearing if he were
working the case.  “Detaining him in jail, that is madness,” Jackson said in
a phone interview. “That’s for terrorists and people like
that.”  In a statement April 1, Osbon’s wife, Connye, said his
family doesn’t believe her husband intended to hurt anyone. She
asked the media to respect the family’s privacy and said they
won’t be making any further public comments, according to the
statement released by New York-based JetBlue on the family’s
behalf.  “While he was clearly distressed, he was not intentionally
violent toward anyone,” according to the statement.  The Airbus A320 was around halfway into the journey of
about 2,250 miles (3,620 kilometers) and cruising at about
34,000 feet when the incident occurred, according to data
compiled by FlightAware.com, a real-time flight tracking site.
On board were five crew members and 135 passengers, some of whom
were headed to a conference of security industry professionals.  ‘Going to Die’  “All I was thinking was that these 130 people on the plane
are frightened and thinking they’re going to die,” said David
Gonzalez, 50, a retired  New York  City corrections officer who
was the first to reach Osbon. “I wasn’t thinking about 9/11.
I’m fighting the pilot. It wasn’t like he was a terrorist.”  Gonzalez, director of business development for home-
surveillance company Tri-Ed/Northern Video Distribution in
Woodbury, New York, was headed to  Las Vegas  for the
 International Security Conference West . So was Tony Antolino,
another of the foursome who helped corral Osbon.  “He started shouting about how they got us in Iran and
Iraq and  Afghanistan , and that they’re going to take us down,”
Antolino said.  Until the pilot left the cockpit and spent about 15 minutes
in the cabin, there were no clues for passengers that anything
was amiss, said Antolino, chief marketing officer for security-
system provider EyeLock Corp. in New York.  Late for Briefing  The captain had been late to a pre-flight crew briefing in
New York, Saldana said in a statement. In the air, he talked
about religion and made remarks that concerned the co-pilot,
Jason Dowd, including saying “we need to take a leap of faith”
and that Flight 191 and its passengers were “not going to
Vegas,” according to the statement.  Osbon exited the cockpit, banged on a lavatory door, and
began making comments about “Jesus, Sept. 11, Iraq,  Iran  and
terrorists,” according to the U.S. attorney’s statement.  When Osbon was in the restroom, an off-duty pilot was
shuffled into the flight deck and the cockpit door secured again
by changing the security code, said Gonzalez, whose seat was
close to the action.  “When he started saying the Lord’s Prayer, we tackled him
to the ground and restrained him,” Antolino said.  Osbon was subdued and tied up with passengers’ belts.  Law enforcement officials “secured the pilot without
incident” after the landing at Amarillo’s  Rick Husband
International Airport , the  Federal Aviation Administration  said
in a statement.  ‘Law Cares’  “The law cares about whether someone is both competent to
stand trial and if there was an effect of mental illness at the
time of the crime,” Jeffrey Bellin, a professor at  Southern
Methodist University ’s law school in Dallas and a former federal
prosecutor, said in a phone interview. “We want people who
commit crimes to have to answer for their crimes. If you’re not
competent to stand trial, we can’t have a trial.”  Somebody who is initially judged unfit to be tried can be
institutionalized until they are found fit, according to
Jennifer Laurin, a University of  Texas  law professor who teaches
criminal procedure in Austin.  “They’re committed for treatment to make them competent to
stand trial,” Laurin, who was an associate with Neufeld, Scheck
& Brustin LLP, a New York-based civil rights law firm that
specializes in wrongful-conviction cases, said in a phone
interview. “Trial is delayed, not taken off the table.”  The case is U.S. v. Osbon, 2:12-MJ-22, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Amarillo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Texas in Amarillo at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  