-- JPMorgan Tightens Grip on Bonds as Sales Surge: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-04-02T16:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/jpmorgan-tightens-grip-on-bonds-as-sales-surge-credit-markets.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is tightening
its grip on the global corporate bond market, taking share from
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and topping all
underwriters as companies sold a record $1.17 trillion of debt.  The most profitable U.S. bank’s underwrote 7.1 percent of
all bond sales in the three months ended March 31, up from 6.5
percent in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Citigroup
moved up two spots to second with 5.7 percent, the same amount
it captured last year. Bank of America dropped to third with 5.6
percent, down from 6.1 percent in 2011.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , which
dropped to fourth from third, handled 5.5, down from 5.9.  JPMorgan is leading banks reaping the benefits of a Federal
Reserve outlook that benchmark interest  rates  will hold near
zero until at least late 2014 and an easing in  Europe ’s debt
crisis that has bolstered confidence that default rates will
stay below the historical averages. Increased demand for higher-
yielding assets is allowing companies from  Australia  to
Amsterdam to borrow at record-low rates.  “A real positive outcome on Europe kicked the market into
high gear,” said Richard Zogheb, co-head of  capital markets 
origination for the Americas at Citigroup in New York. He cited
 European Central Bank ’s unlimited three-year loans to the
region’s lenders and a restructuring of Greece’s debt as
reassuring bondholders. “Investor demand has been incredibly
strong,” he said.  Record Sales  The average bond  yield  for companies from the neediest to
the most creditworthy is 0.15 percentage point from the record
low 3.99 percent reached in October 2010, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate & High
Yield Index. Yields fell to 4.14 percent on March 30 from 4.17
percent a week earlier.  Corporate debt sales at a record start to the year are
making underwriting one bright spot for Wall Street earnings.
Mergers and acquisitions in the quarter fell about 14 percent
from the fourth quarter, making it the slowest three-month
period in 2 1/2 years, Bloomberg data show.  The largest U.S. banks will probably post a 10 percent
decline in first-quarter fixed-income trading revenue from a
year earlier and an 8 percent decline in equities trading,  Keith Horowitz , a Citigroup bank analyst, said in a March 29 note.  Shrinking Spreads  Elsewhere in credit markets, benchmark gauges of corporate
credit risk in the U.S. and Europe fell for a second day as
manufacturing in the world’s biggest economy expanded at a
faster pace in March.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) ,
the insurer being pressured by investor  John Paulson  to break
up, will pay about $2.43 billion to buy back debt and warrants
issued to Allianz SE.  Bonds of oilfield-services company Weatherford
International Ltd. were the most actively traded securities in
the U.S. corporate market by dealers today, with 76 trades of $1
million or more as of 12:27 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The Geneva-based company sold $1.3 billion of debt on March
30, Bloomberg data show. Its $750 million of 4.5 percent notes
due in April 2022 gained 1.8 cents to 101.626 cents on the
dollar today from an issue price of 99.855, according to Trace.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, fell 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 90.5
basis points as of 12:26 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit
Group Ltd. In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings declined 1.3 to 123.6,
Markit prices show.  Hartford Issuing  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Hartford Financial plans to issue senior notes and junior
subordinated debt as part of a strategy to improve financial
flexibility, according to a statement today from the company,
which is based in the Connecticut city of the same name. The
U.S. firm turned to Allianz, Germany’s largest insurer, for
capital in 2008, agreeing to pay 10 percent on $1.75 billion of
debt as capital markets froze.  Hartford plans to sell 5.5-, 10-, and 30-year debt that may
price today, according to a person familiar with the offering,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Corporate Bond Sales  In the corporate  bond market , investors are scooping up the
new debt as companies hold the most cash on their balance sheets
in a decade. Cash held by companies in a JPMorgan investment-
grade bond index increased 5 percent to $783 billion at the end
of December from a year earlier, strategists at the bank said in
a March 2 report.  “The fundamentals and the balance sheets look historically
very strong,” said Brian Machan, a  money manager  with Aviva
Investors North America in Des Moines, Iowa, who helps oversee
$433 billion. “From an economic standpoint we’re still middling
along, so corporations don’t want to leverage their balance
sheet until we see recurring signs of economic recovery.”  Issuers rated Baa3 or higher by Moody’s and BBB- and above
by S&P sold $347.5 billion U.S. dollar-denominated bonds in the
quarter, the highest for investment-grade debt since the same
period in 2009, when $376.3 billion was issued, Bloomberg data
show.  High-Yield Bonds  Speculative-grade borrowers in the U.S. issued $95.2
billion of debt in the quarter, surpassing the $61.2 billion of
combined issuance in the third and fourth quarters last year,
Bloomberg data show.  Investors seeking the higher-yielding debt are emboldened
by a global default rate for the riskiest borrowers that was 2
percent in February, compared with a long-term average 4.8
percent, according to Moody’s.  The quality of corporate borrowers is better than in past
periods of large high-yield issuance, said  Andy O’Brien , global
co-head of debt capital markets at JPMorgan. Issuers with one or
more rating of BB or higher made up 41 percent of the market
last quarter, compared with about 25 percent in 2007, he said.  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the chemical maker that
emerged from bankruptcy in 2010, lowered its rates on $3 billion
of debt sold in two issues last month to 5 percent and 5.75
percent, compared with 8 percent and 11 percent for debt it’s
seeking to repurchase with proceeds from the new bonds.  Citigroup Rebound  Investors last quarter shifted money out of low-risk, low-
return assets such as  money market funds  and put some of that
cash into credit markets, O’Brien said. According to JPMorgan
global bond indexes, that caused yields on the debt of the
highest-rated companies in the quarter to fall below 4 percent
for the first time, he said.  “A lot of corporate issuers across the ratings spectrum
rushed to the market to issue,” he said.  “Several BB
companies were even able to issue 5 percent money.”  Citigroup, which led global underwriting from 2007 to 1999,
when Bloomberg began tracking the data, moved to second in the
quarter in part because of new hires made in 2010 and 2011 to
expand the business, Zogheb said. Those bankers include  Stephen Trauber , the global head of energy investment banking, and Kevin Cox, the co-chairman of global industrials investment banking,
he said. Citigroup hired both from UBS AG.  “Our investment in shoring up the banking ranks and
filling some holes we had are really paying dividends,” Zogheb
said. “There continues to be very strong demand for corporate
debt products across all markets.”  One absent driver in the  debt market  during the quarter
were mergers and acquisitions and leveraged buyouts, said Marc Gross, a  fund manager  at RS Investments, who oversees $3 billion
in high-yield and loan funds in New York. With few bonds
maturing in the next two years “to keep up this activity you’re
going to need M&A,” he said.  With the improved credit markets, that’s likely to pick up,
JPMorgan’s O’Brien said. “M&A activity is bound to pick up this
quarter,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  