-- JPMorgan Sued by Ambac Assurance Over Mortgage-Backed Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-04-02T16:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/jpmorgan-sued-by-ambac-assurance-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
Ambac Assurance Corp. sued  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , accusing the company’s EMC Mortgage and Bear
Stearns units of fraud and breach of contract over the sale of
mortgage-backed securities.  The lawsuit is the second filed in New York State Supreme
by the insurer against JPMorgan Chase & Co. over the
investments, a central part of the housing bubble that helped
push the U.S. into the biggest recession since the 1930s. Ambac
sued the New York-based bank in February 2011, claiming it was
fraudulently induced to participate in the investments.  “The securitization transaction and loans at issue in this
action are different, but the story is the same,” lawyers for
Ambac said in the most recent lawsuit, filed on March 30. “The
loans involved in the transactions at issue in this case are
plagued by the same pervasive defects found in the transactions
at issue in Ambac’s original action against Bear Stearns.”  The bond insurer said in the lawsuit that it has had to pay
more than $200 million in claims as of Feb. 29 because of the
failed investments.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the suit.  Ambac Assurance was the second-largest bond insurer before
the 2008 financial crisis, when mounting defaults on mortgages
swamped the company with claims. It guaranteed about $256
billion of $1.4 trillion in insured municipal debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  A U.S. bankruptcy judge in  Manhattan  on March 15 approved a
plan to reorganize the $1.7 billion in debt of New York-based
 Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the bankrupt holding company for
Ambac Assurance.  EMC Mortgage was a unit of Bear Stearns Cos. until the
investment bank was bought by JPMorgan in 2008.  The cases are Ambac Assurance v. EMC Mortgage, 651013/2012
and 650421/2011,  New York  state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 