-- JPMorgan Lead Over Morgan Stanley Widening on Rating Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-04-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/jpmorgan-lead-over-morgan-stanley-widening-on-rating-cuts.html
Potential downgrades of banks
including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and UBS AG, which could have their
credit ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service to the lowest
level ever, threaten to shake up Wall Street’s balance of power.  Morgan Stanley and UBS may be lowered three grades, Moody’s
said Feb. 15, and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp.  could
join Morgan Stanley at Baa2, two levels above junk. The cuts
would raise funding and collateral costs, making the lowest-
rated firms less desirable counterparties in over-the-counter
derivatives trades, according to analysts and executives.  That may push more business to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Deutsche Bank AG, which would be the highest-rated firms among
the top nine global investment banks if Moody’s goes through
with its maximum reductions. Those two firms already have the
highest market share in fixed-income trading and had the biggest
gains in share last year as investors grappled with fears about
global contagion from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “The winners are JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs, who
relatively will have stronger ratings, and the losers will be
Citi, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley,” said Brad Hintz, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York and a former
treasurer at Morgan Stanley. “Lower ratings hurt the
willingness of players to take my name as a derivatives
counterparty, and it is in derivatives where I get some of the
highest-margin businesses in fixed income.”  Three Tiers  If Moody’s cuts each of the 17 banks it placed on review by
the most levels cited in February, the separation between the
top and bottom tiers of global investment banks would widen.
JPMorgan, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse Group
AG would have a rating of A2, five levels above junk.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Barclays Plc and UBS would be one level below
them at A3. Morgan Stanley, Citigroup and Bank of America would
be three grades below the top group, making the spread between
JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley the biggest ever.  Banks don’t expect Moody’s to make ratings changes until
May, according to two people with knowledge of the matter who
asked not to be identified because talks with the ratings firms
are private. Moody’s may not make all or any of the cuts.  The full downgrades would result in a wider gap among banks
than under  Standard & Poor’s  and would bring most lenders to
lower ratings than S&P. That firm rates Deutsche Bank at A+, six
levels above junk, JPMorgan and the three other European banks
one grade lower at A and the rest of the U.S. banks at A-.  Accelerating Separation  The Moody’s cuts could accelerate the separation between
banks with rising market shares and those that are falling.
JPMorgan, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, is the
only one of the nine banks whose trading revenue last year was
greater than in 2006, while Bank of America had the biggest
decline, according to figures compiled by Chris Kotowski, an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York. Kotowski’s 2006
figures included the revenue of firms later acquired by the
banks, such as Bear Stearns Cos. and Merrill Lynch & Co.  JPMorgan gained clients because it was seen as one of the
strongest counterparties, Jes Staley, 55, CEO of the New York-
based firm’s investment bank, said at a February presentation.  “We had a significant swing in our client franchise coming
out of the financial crisis because we were the safe harbor,”
Staley said.  The bank generates 25 percent of its fixed-income trading
in a given quarter from just 0.14 percent of trades, including
some long-dated derivatives, Staley said. Those are the trades
most likely to be affected by the difference in banks’ credit
ratings, analysts including Citigroup’s  Keith Horowitz  said.  The effect of clients moving long-dated derivatives may be
limited as some contracts are pushed to central clearinghouses
under the Dodd-Frank Act. The business also has become less
attractive to banks because of higher  capital requirements  tied
to such trades under Basel III rules, Horowitz said.  Talking Points  Some Morgan Stanley employees received a four-page document
last week with talking points for potential questions after the
New York Times reported on the review for downgrade, said people
with knowledge of the memo who asked not to be identified
because it wasn’t made public.  “Morgan Stanley has done extensive planning and is fully
prepared for all potential ratings-downgrade scenarios,” Mark Lake, a spokesman for the New York-based firm, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Bank of America executives traveled around the world to
reassure corporate clients that the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based company was a steady partner after Moody’s cut the bank’s
credit grades in September, co-Chief Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag, 55, said in a Jan. 19 staff meeting.  ‘Difficult Time’  “We went through a difficult time for a couple of months
where we spent a lot of time with our clients explaining to them
about our balance sheet,” Montag said. “We’ve gotten through
the worst of it, and this firm, and the market by the way, is
telling us this, that this place has incredible potential. From
this point forward, it’s a new game.”  Bank of America is rated Baa1, the third-lowest investment
grade, after the two-level cut by Moody’s last year. The
lender’s credit rating, which trading partners use to judge the
risk of a failure to make good on commitments, now is below that
of some of its counterparties, Montag said. Corporate banking
clients remained loyal after the downgrade, while  hedge funds 
may have been harder to retain, he said.  Jerry Dubrowksi, a spokesman for Bank of America, declined
to comment.  “Our clients tend to be more sophisticated in their
analysis than to rely solely on ratings from a single agency,”
said Jon Diat, a Citigroup spokesman in  New York . “While some
clients might note any changes in ratings from Moody’s, we don’t
believe the impact would be material.”  Additional Collateral  Lenders may have to post additional collateral or terminate
derivatives contracts if they’re downgraded. The nine banks said
in annual filings that if their ratings are cut by one level,
they would have to put up a combined $12 billion more in
collateral or termination payments. Two levels would require
more than $20 billion extra. The companies didn’t disclose the
impact of being downgraded by only one of the ratings firms.  The collateral requirements for U.S. banks are manageable,
as they amount to less than 5 percent of lenders’ liquidity
pools, Citigroup’s Horowitz said in a note to clients last week.  A greater impact on earnings may come if borrowing spreads
widen after the downgrades. The nine banks have $239 billion in
bonds coming due this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A half-percentage point increase in the interest rate
banks would have to pay to refinance that debt means more than
$1 billion of extra expense.  ‘Already Adjusted’  Bank spreads have rallied since Moody’s announced the
reviews, in part because of improved economic conditions in the
U.S. and Europe. Credit-default swaps on five-year senior debt
of the five U.S. firms in the review, which generally move in
line with bond spreads, each have dropped at least 14 basis
points, and Bank of America’s swaps have fallen 66 basis points.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The cost of JPMorgan’s
swaps dropped 26 percent, while Bank of America’s fell 22
percent and Morgan Stanley’s declined 4.3 percent.  “The market has already adjusted,” said  Richard Bove , a
bank analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz,  Florida . “It’s
been adjusting for three years. The thing that is most apparent
in the market is that there has just been a staggering
improvement in the quality of bank balance sheets.”  Bigger Impact  A downgrade of short-term ratings may have a bigger impact
than one on long-term debt, according to analysts including Paul Smillie, who helps oversee about $43 billion of fixed-income
assets at Threadneedle Asset Management in  London .  Moody’s placed all short-term ratings of Morgan Stanley and
Zurich-based UBS on review in February. It also put the short-
term ratings of the operating companies of Bank of America and
Citigroup on review, as well as the holding-company ratings of
Goldman Sachs and London-based Barclays. While all the firms
except Bank of America are currently rated Prime-1, or P-1,
long-term ratings below A2 often lead to P-2 short-term grades.  “The repo market tends to be ratings-sensitive, and a P-2
rating may mean counterparties refuse to roll the repo or demand
additional collateral or higher yields,” Smillie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  