-- Kentucky Favored to Beat Kansas for Eighth NCAA Basketball Title
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/kentucky-favored-to-beat-kansas-for-eighth-ncaa-basketball-title.html
The University of  Kentucky  is
favored by 6 1/2 points over the University of Kansas in a
championship showdown between programs that rank 1-2 for the
most wins in college basketball history.  The National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s
tournament concludes its three-week run tonight, with the title
game between the Wildcats (37-2) and Jayhawks (32-6) scheduled
to tip off at 9:21 p.m. Eastern time in  New Orleans .  Kentucky has 2,091 wins -- the most in NCAA history -- and
its seven basketball championships rank second to the 11 won by
the University of  California ,  Los Angeles . Kansas’s 2,070 wins
rank second to Kentucky and the Jayhawks’ three titles are tied
for sixth all-time. While the schools have a combined 18
championship game appearances dating back to 1940, this is the
first time they’ll square off for the NCAA title.  “I dreamed about it as soon as I saw the brackets,”
 Kansas  coach Bill Self said yesterday at a news conference. “I
said, ‘How cool would it be to play Kentucky in the finals?’
From a historic standpoint, I think that’s really cool.”  Self, 49, led the Jayhawks to an NCAA championship in 2008
with an overtime victory against a University of Memphis team
that was coached by  John Calipari , who now leads Kentucky.  Calipari, 53, has 546 career wins -- including the most
victories of any college coach over the past seven seasons --
yet is still seeking his first title.  “I’m not worried about it,” Calipari said. “If my legacy
is decided on one game, it won’t be me deciding it, it will be
everybody else. I’m just trying to coach a game and do the best
job I can for these kids.”  $350,000 Bonus  Calipari would get a $350,000 bonus if the Wildcats prevail
in their first championship game appearance since winning the
1998 title. Self collects a $200,000 championship bonus if the
Jayhawks beat a Kentucky squad that features three freshmen and
two sophomores among its starting five.  “They’ve been the best team in the country basically from
start to finish with maybe the exception of a week here or a
week there,” Self said. “They’re way beyond their years.
They’ve got six pros, three of them probably lottery picks.”  Kentucky’s 6-foot-10 forward  Anthony Davis , the national
player of the year, is projected as the No. 1 pick in this
year’s  National Basketball Association  draft, according to
NBAdraft.net. Fellow Wildcats freshman Michael Kidd-Gilchrist is
projected to be taken second, while the Wildcats’ other starters
-- Terrence Jones, Doron Lamb and Marquis Teague -- may also be
first-round picks, according to  NBAdraft.net .  Kansas Draft Prospects  Kansas junior forward Thomas Robinson is projected to be
taken third overall, while senior point guard Tyshawn Taylor and
7-foot center Jeff Withey are probable second-round picks.  “They probably got the best five, six, seven guys, on
paper anyway,” Taylor said of the Wildcats. “They’re really
talented. We have to defend, we have to be tough, rebound the
ball, and we have to get good shots. If we do that, take care of
the ball, limit their transition, we’re right in the ballgame.”  Kentucky has a 7-3 record all-time in the NCAA tournament
title game, while Kansas is 3-5.  The schools are meeting for the second time this season,
with tonight’s game coming 4 1/2 months after Kentucky beat
Kansas 75-65 in a Nov. 15 matchup at  New York ’s Madison Square
Garden. It was the second game of the season for both teams.  “They’re here for a reason,” Kentucky senior guard Darius
Miller said of the Jayhawks. “They beat a lot of good teams and
they’re capable of beating us, too. We got to be ready to come
out and be ready to play the whole 40 minutes, trying to do what
we’ve been doing all year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  