-- Knight to Quit as CEO of U.K. Group That Oversees Libor
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-04-02T11:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/knight-to-step-down-as-ceo-of-british-bankers-association.html
Angela Knight  will step down after
five years as chief executive officer of the British Bankers’
Association, the century-old lobby group that oversees the
London interbank offered rate.  Knight, 61, will leave in the summer once a replacement has
been found, the London-based BBA said in an e-mailed statement
today. The group didn’t say why Knight is resigning, or what she
plans to do next.  Knight became a figurehead for the industry as the state
took control of Northern Rock Plc and bailed out  Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  during the financial
crisis of 2008. She is going as the BBA comes under pressure to
find an alternative way to calculate Libor, or cede control of
it, as regulators probe whether banks lied to hide their true
cost of borrowing and traders colluded to rig the rate.  “I have been at the BBA at a time of extraordinary
difficulty and during a crisis of a magnitude that few if any
have seen before or expected,” Knight said in the statement.
“The BBA has played a strong part throughout this challenging
period and has helped the industry it represents with the
significant changes to regulation and legislation required.”  PPI Compensation  At the BBA, she led the industry’s response to the U.K.’s
Independent Commission on Banking, a government-backed panel
that recommended U.K. lenders insulate their consumer units from
their investment banking operations to reduce risks. The
commission gave banks until 2019 to implement the proposal and
stopped short of recommending the full separation of investment
and commercial banking.  She also defended firms against pressure from lawmakers to
reduce bonuses. In a February interview, she said investors
should set pay levels, not politicians.  “It is for the shareholders to make decisions,” Knight
told Bloomberg Television’s Maryam Nemazee. “The real question
is how well are those businesses being run. And those which have
a state involvement, how quickly are they going to be able to
put themselves in the position where they can pay back the
taxpayer.”  The BBA last year abandoned its bid to overturn a court
ruling forcing banks to compensate customers who were improperly
sold insurance on loans after Lloyds broke ranks with
competitors and started offering redress. U.K. banks have since
set aside about 5.4 billion pounds ($8.7 billion) in
compensation for mis-selling of payment protection insurance.  Former Lawmaker  Knight, a former  Conservative party  lawmaker and Treasury
minister, and BBA Chairman Marcus Agius didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment. BBA spokesman  Brian Mairs  declined
to elaborate on the statement.  Knight was a Member of Parliament from 1992 to 1997,
representing Erewash in northern  England . She was Economic
Secretary to the Treasury between 1995 and 1997. After the
Conservative party lost the general election that year, she
became CEO of the Association of Private Client Investment
Managers and Stockbrokers, a London-based lobby group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net 
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  