-- Korea’s Credit Rating Outlook Raised to Positive by Moody’s
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-04-02T05:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/korea-s-credit-rating-outlook-raised-to-positive-by-moody-s-1-.html
  South Korea ’s credit rating outlook
was raised by Moody’s Investors Service to positive from stable,
boosting demand for the nation’s assets.  “Very strong and improving fiscal fundamentals,” were a
key reason for the change, along with resilience in the
country’s external financing position, Moody’s said in a
statement today. The rating remains at A1, the company’s fifth-
highest grade.  The Kospi Index has advanced 11 percent this year as global
investors bought $9.6 billion more Korean shares than they sold
last quarter, the biggest net inflows since September 2009,
exchange data show. The won gained almost 4 percent and bond
risk fell for a second consecutive quarter as  Asia ’s fourth-
biggest economy reduced banks’ reliance on dollar funding, a
vulnerability during the global financial crisis, and Moody’s
said the nation is set for “relatively strong” economic
growth.  “This should be positive for foreign investor sentiment
toward Korea, and should help to increase net capital inflows,”
said Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc.  South Korea’s won extended gains after the statement,
strengthening 0.5 percent to 1,126.98 per dollar as of 11:53
a.m. in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-
default swaps on South Korea dropped 2 basis points to 117 as of
11:54 a.m. in Seoul, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc. The contracts tumbled 37.6 basis points last quarter,
according to data provider CMA.  North Korea ’s regime under Kim Jong Un has yet to cause any
significant elevation of risk, the ratings company said.  Geopolitical Risks  “Our sovereign rating is expected to rise in a year --this
is really a good news when many other countries suffer rating
downgrades,” Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku told
reporters in Gwacheon today. “Moody’s outlook change comes
after the death of North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il , which means
they believe that geopolitical risks are under control.”  The KRX Banks Sector Index, comprised of 10 South Korean
banks, rallied 2.2 percent as of 12:34 p.m. Seoul time, led by
Woori Finance Holdings Co., outpacing a 0.3 percent gain in the
benchmark Kospi Index.  Fitch Ratings  last November upgraded the outlook for South
Korea’s long-term foreign currency rating to “positive” from
“stable,” and affirmed the A+ grade. It cited strengthening
sovereign creditworthiness with resilient economic growth,
moderate public debt, and long-standing fiscal prudence.  South Korea joins Asian nations such as  Indonesia  and the
 Philippines  that may be poised for upgrades as the region’s
growth outpaces the rest of the world. Philippine Finance
Secretary Cesar Purisima said March 23 that he’s confident about
a rating increase after meeting with officials from  Standard &
Poor’s.  (SPY)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  