-- MTN Group Drops After Police Probe Report: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-04-02T12:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/mtn-group-drops-after-police-probe-report-johannesburg-mover.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s largest
wireless operator, fell to the lowest in more than two months
after the  Sunday Times  reported police may probe bribery
allegations made against the company.  The shares retreated as much as 3.8 percent to 129.83 rand,
the lowest intraday level since Jan. 30, and traded at 130.20
rand by 2:11 p.m. in Johannesburg.  MTN has dropped 6.7 percent in three days since  Turkcell
Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  alleged in a lawsuit that the South
African company bribed officials, arranged meetings between
Iranian and South African leaders, and promised Iran weapons and
United Nations votes in exchange for a license to provide
services in the country.  South Africa ’s Hawks police unit may
start an investigation, the Johannesburg-based newspaper
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  “Today’s price decline is further reaction to the Turkcell
law suit and realization that there is unlikely to be any speedy
resolution,” Rob Forsyth, sector head of industrials at
Investec Asset Management in  Cape Town , said in an e-mail.  McIntosh Polela, a spokesman for the police, didn’t
immediately respond to a text message sent to his mobile phone
today. MTN has no comment on the probe, Xolisa Vapi, a spokesman
for the company, said by phone.  Turkcell, which was initially awarded the Iranian mobile-
phone license, is suing MTN in federal court in  Washington  for
$4.2 billion in damages. MTN has said it will oppose the claim
and has denied any wrongdoing.  ‘Volatility’  The Turkcell lawsuit is causing uncertainty as investors
don’t know what to expect, Abri du Plessis, portfolio manager at
Cape Town-based Gryphon Asset Management, said by phone from the
city today. “It’s causing a lot of volatility on the share
price, particularly among smaller investors.”  MTN’s share price will remain under pressure as the case
drags through the courts, said Du Plessis. “At least MTN must
come out and assure the market on the strength of its defense,”
said Du Plessis.  “It’s not going to help for the company to simply refuse
to comment due to the matter being in front of the courts,” Du
Plessis said. “They can come out and say something to assure
the market.”  Phuthuma Nhleko, MTN’s former chief executive officer,
denied that his company bribed officials, he said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  “MTN’s conduct was not unlawful or corrupt and MTN was
certainly not in a position where it could influence or fetter
the decisions made by the South African government or any other
sovereign state,” Nhleko said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story: Sikonathi Mantshantsha in
Johannesburg at   smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong 
at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  