-- New York Tops London as City With Most Global Clout, Index Shows
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-02T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/new-york-tops-london-as-city-with-most-global-clout-index-shows.html
New York  ranks first as a global
business center in a worldwide survey of cities, the fourth such
recognition of its influence in the past five months.  London, Paris, Tokyo and Hong Kong trail New York on the
Global Cities Index, released today by Bloomberg Rankings.
Beijing and  Shanghai  emerged as potential rivals within 10 to 20
years, according to the index.  The survey examined 66 of the world’s busiest commercial
urban centers, judging each on the scope of its business
activity; labor force; access to media and information; cultural
amenities; and political influence.  “Our goal was to find a measure that would help corporate
and government decision-makers determine which of the world’s
cities will best attract and shape the future flow of people,
ideas, capital and goods,” said Mike Hales, a partner at  A.T.
Kearney , a Chicago-based consulting firm that helped Bloomberg
conduct the study.  The rankings support similar findings by  The Economist  and
 Euromoney  magazines, which each published studies concluding
that the most populous U.S. city remained the world’s premier
urban business center.  More recognition came from  Singapore  last month, when New
York received the  Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize , which
recognized “leadership and achievement” in policies to
conserve energy, create parks, increase public safety and plan
for affordable housing.  Catalysts for Growth  “With more than half the world’s people now living in
cities, and with three-fourths of the people on Earth expected
to be city dwellers by midcentury, cities around the globe,
including New York, must confront all the effects of this urban
growth,” New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said in accepting the
award in Singapore March 21. “Such projects can also be
catalysts for private-sector investment.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  Investments in public transportation, cultural amenities,
education, public safety, sustainable energy production and
conservation have become major considerations as cities work to
retain a competitive edge, corporate executives and government
policy makers said in interviews.  More Competition  “We know that the No. 1 position we hold today is coveted
and that the world is changing quickly around us, and that
cities around the world are continuing to invest to strengthen
their competitive positions,” said Seth Pinsky, president of
the New York City Economic Development Corp., during a March 23
talk to executives at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  He was there to accept the
honor from Euromoney, which published the rankings in its
November issue.  New York may be challenged to retain the top spot. Trends
that may reduce its influence include “the growing chasm
between the very rich and the poor,” said  James Parrott , chief
economist at the Fiscal Policy Institute, a New York-based
research and education organization backed by organized labor.  “It weakens our consumer base, makes it harder for the
city to remain a truly open society with lots of opportunity,
and -- although it’s a national problem -- not enough local
leadership has been focused upon redressing that,” Parrott
said.  Polarization in  Washington , driven by “backward-looking
perspectives held by people who even deny the reality of  climate
change , presents a risk for the city and the U.S. in competition
with the rest of the world in the 21st century,” Parrott said.  Study Methodology  A.T. Kearney  measured 25 variables across five criteria to
calculate how 66 of the world’s largest cities stack up against
one another, said Andres Mendoza Pena, a principal of the
company. New York led on human capital and information exchange,
though it trailed London and Paris for cultural experience.  Analysts counted accountants, lawyers, advertising
agencies, management consultants, engineers and other business-
service firms, and looked at how many global companies established
offices there, he said.  They checked Shanghai’s  Jiao Tong University  ranking of
universities and considered how many foreign-born residents were
included in a city’s population to judge the strength of its
 labor force . They pored over Frommer’s, Michelin and Zagat
guides, and counted museums, theaters, sporting events and
restaurants to gauge cultural amenities, Pena said.  Cornell, Technion  Bloomberg has touted the city’s schools, where spending has
doubled to $24 billion in the 10 years he’s been mayor, police
practices that helped to reduce crime by about 35 percent since
2002 and investments in parks, museums and other cultural
amenities that attracted a record 50.5 million visitors in 2011.  Consistent with those goals, the city awarded $100 million
in infrastructure support and land on Roosevelt Island to
 Cornell University  and the Technion Israel Institute of
Technology after the schools won a competition to create a 1.3
million-square-foot engineering campus that the mayor said would
create thousands of jobs in the next 30 years.  A.T. Kearney concluded that New York’s diverse economy,
driven by media, arts, fashion, technology and finance, and its
diverse labor force made the city the world’s most attractive to
conduct business. In the past two years it has eclipsed  Boston 
to become second only to  California ’s Silicon Valley as a source
of  venture capital , according to the city officials.  Rankings can’t capture some of the most important qualities
that set top-rated cities such as New York and  London  apart,
Bloomberg wrote March 27 in  The Financial Times .  “For cities to have sustained success, they must compete
for the grand prize: intellectual capital and talent,”
Bloomberg wrote. “Talent attracts capital far more effectively
and consistently than capital attracts talent.”  The mayor cited recent college graduates’ migration to the
borough of  Brooklyn , where inexpensive commercial and
residential real estate have fostered creativity in music, art,
design, food and energy-conserving lifestyles and building
construction.  “Being cool counts,” Bloomberg wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  