-- New Zealand Able to Cut Interest Rates If Needed, IMF Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-04-02T20:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/new-zealand-has-scope-to-cut-interest-rates-if-needed-imf-says.html
New Zealand (ANZ)  has scope to cut
interest rates should falling exports or deteriorating global
financial conditions threaten to derail a “modest” economic
recovery, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “Authorities have policy space to respond to near-term
shocks with monetary policy serving as the first line of
defense,” the IMF said in its preliminary concluding statement
after its annual Article IV review of  New Zealand .  New Zealand’s central bank has kept the official cash rate
at a record-low 2.5 percent since March last year amid a slow
economic recovery from the global financial crisis and
earthquakes that devastated the city of Christchurch.  Reserve
Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard last month signaled he
may leave borrowing costs unchanged until late this year.  “The current accommodative monetary policy stance is
appropriate,” the Washington-based IMF said in the e-mailed
statement today. “The RBNZ has the scope to lower  interest
rates  and loosen monetary conditions to help buffer against a
downside scenario.”  The recovery pace is “likely to remain modest,” the IMF
said. Earthquake reconstruction will boost growth while other
sources of demand may remain “soft,” it said.  Slow growth is curbing  tax revenue , prompting Prime
Minister John Key’s government to limit new spending and sell
assets in order to reduce debt and return to a budget surplus by
2015. The government’s target will limit pressure on interest
rates and therefore the  exchange rate , the IMF said.  “The New Zealand dollar is currently stronger than would
be needed to bring the current account deficit to a level that
is sustainable over the longer term,” it said. Some of the
currency’s strength “reflects positive interest rate
differentials with major currencies that may dissipate with
eventual tightening by other central banks,” it said.  New Zealand will present a budget next month with zero or
very little new spending over the next four years, Finance
Minister  Bill English  said in an e-mailed statement responding
to the IMF report. That will help the government return to
surplus and reduce reliance on debt, he said.  “Getting back to surplus will help create a buffer against
future global shocks and, as the IMF notes, it will limit
pressure on monetary policy and therefore the exchange rate,”
said English. “This will be important in easing headwinds for
exporters and reducing the current account deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  