-- Abu Dhabi’s NMC Health Raises $187 Million in London IPO
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2012-04-02T15:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/nmc-health-raises-117-million-pounds-from-initial-share-sale.html
NMC Health Plc (NMC)  raised 117 million
pounds ($187 million) from an initial public offering, becoming
the first Abu Dhabi-based company to trade shares on the premium
segment of the  London  Stock Exchange.  NMC Health, a United Arab Emirates-based health-care
provider, sold 55.7 million shares at 210 pence each, it said in
a statement distributed via the Regulatory News Service today.
“Conditional dealings” started today and full trading will
commence April 5. The shares closed unchanged in London after
climbing to 225 pence earlier.  “The pricing is good, and the management wanted to leave
money on the table for investors to make a good value
proposition even after it’s listed,” said  Yazan Abdeen , who
helps oversee about $250 million as a  fund manager  at ING
Investment Management in Dubai. “We wouldn’t be surprised to
see a rise in the price of the stock.”  The IPO comes after a decline in share sales by U.A.E.
companies amid  tumbling stock markets  and political upheaval in
the  Middle East . Topaz Energy & Marine Plc, a Dubai-based oil
and gas services provider, last year pulled an IPO in London,
citing an “uncertain investment climate for new issues.”  NMC Health said March 8 it was seeking to raise as much as
$250 million. The company said today based on the offer price,
it will have a market value of about 390 million pounds.  “The funds we have raised will enable us to implement our
exciting growth plans which include developing new and existing
facilities and funding future growth opportunities,” Chief
Executive Officer BR Shetty said in the statement today.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was bookrunner and global coordinator of
the sale, while Numis Securities Ltd. and  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)  were
the lead managers.  NMC’s network includes three specialty hospitals in  Abu
Dhabi , Dubai and Al-Ain. The company last month said it plans to
buy Healthcare Suites in Dubai, build a hospital at Khalifa
City, Abu Dhabi, and look at potential acquisitions in the
Middle East and North Africa as part of its expansion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  