-- No Contract Freeze for ‘Committed’ Exxon, Kurdish Minister Says
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-04-02T23:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/no-contract-freeze-for-committed-exxon-kurdish-minister-says.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is honoring its
oil exploration contracts in the semi-autonomous Kurdistan
region of northern  Iraq , the Kurdish minister for natural
resources said in disputing a report from Iraq’s government.  Exxon Mobil , the world’s largest energy company, hasn’t
halted the agreements in Kurdistan,  Ashti Hawrami , the natural
resources minister, said yesterday in an interview in
Washington. Iraq’s oil minister said Exxon Mobil confirmed in a
letter April 1 that it has frozen its contracts with Kurdistan.  “What comes out of  Baghdad  is about 90 percent, with
respect, rubbish,” Hawrami said yesterday. The regional
government hears from Exxon Mobil on an “almost daily basis,”
as the Irving, Texas-based company is “committed” to all its
contracts in the region, he said.  Tension between Iraq’s government and Kurdistan’s
leadership is mounting as the U.S. seeks to encourage a unified
Iraq after withdrawing troops at the end of December. Hawrami is
part of a delegation to the U.S. led by Kurdistan President
Massoud Barzani, who is scheduled to meet with Vice President
 Joe Biden  this week.  Alan Jeffers , an Exxon Mobil spokesman, said the company
didn’t have any comment regarding contracts in Kurdistan. The
government in Baghdad refuses to do business with companies
working in the Kurdish region.  Halted Exports  Relations between the Kurds and Iraq’s government soured
April 1 when the Kurdistan Regional Government, which exports
crude using a pipeline controlled by Iraq, stopped deliveries.
The Kurdish Ministry of Natural Resources said Iraq failed to
pay about $1.5 billion owed to oil producers since May 2011.  A dispute over oil revenues between Iraq’s government and
Kurdish authorities led to a yearlong halt in exports from the
region that ended in February 2011.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-biggest reserves of crude,
based on statistics from London-based  BP Plc (BP/) , and it is seeking
to boost shipments to rebuild an economy recovering after years
of conflict.  “It’s a loss for Iraq if they continue with this madness
of this policy,” Hawrami said in the interview. “It has to be
resolved in a few weeks and months ahead.”  He said the Kurds will resume the shipments when they get
“clear understanding” that Iraq will pay for the oil.  The Kurdish region is producing about 100,000 barrels of
oil a day after cutting off the shipments, with most of the
product refined and consumed locally, Hawrami said.  Trucked Through Iraq  Some refined product is trucked through neighboring Iran
because there aren’t other routes “at the moment,” Hawrami
said.  Iran  is used only for transit and the government doesn’t
sell to Iran, he said. It’s unclear whether the shipments to
Iran’s ports breach economic and financial sanctions imposed by
the U.S. and European allies.  Iraq asked Iran and  Turkey  to curb oil smuggling from
Kurdistan across their territories, Iraqi Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi told a news conference yesterday in Baghdad.  Most of the crude smuggled by tanker from Kurdistan is sold
at lower prices to other nations at Iran’s port of  Bandar Abbas ,
he said. “We have indications and detailed reports with numbers
about crude smuggling to Iran,” Luaibi said.  Iraq only exports crude through government terminals and
“doesn’t know where the money from the oil smuggling in
Kurdistan is going,” he said. Kurdistan produced 68.11 million
barrels of oil last year, of which 33.64 million weren’t shipped
via official channels, Luaibi said.  Iraq’s crude exports in March rose to 71.83 million
barrels, or 2.32 million a day, the most since 1980,  Asim Jihad ,
a spokesman for the Iraq Oil Ministry, said. The exports
generated $8.475 billion, with an average price of $118 a
barrel, he said.  Hawrami said the regional government is “not in the
business” of breaking any laws.  The Kurdistan government is seeking contractors to build a
crude-oil pipeline from Kurdistan through Turkey, Hawrami said.
Construction would start this year and be complete by late 2013,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  