-- Nomura, Top Japan Brokerages to Boost Graduate Hires by 13%
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-04-02T06:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/nomura-top-japan-brokerages-to-boost-2013-graduate-hires-by-13-.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s
largest brokerage, and its biggest domestic rivals plan to boost
hiring of college graduates by about 13 percent next year in
anticipation of a global market recovery.  The firms aim to take on a total of 1,580 college recruits
for the year starting April 1, 2013, with Nomura hiring more
than 600,  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  500,  SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc.  300 and  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.  180,
according to spokesmen at the brokerages. The four companies
have 1,402 graduates starting work today.  Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  has returned to
levels seen before a record earthquake and tsunami triggered a
nuclear disaster in March last year, surpassing 10,000 last
month. The country’s gross domestic product may have expanded an
annualized 1.7 percent last quarter after a 0.7 percent
 contraction  in the final three months of last year, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  “Last year was a severe one for the Japanese economy and
brokerages working against the earthquake, the crisis in  Europe ,
floods in  Thailand  and a strong yen,” Fumio Yoshimatsu, a
senior executive officer at Mitsubishi UFJ  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
responsible for hiring at the company, said in an interview.
“This year, circumstances are allowing us to hire graduates as
we expect a V-shape recovery in Japan helped by a steady  U.S.
economy , stabilization in Europe and a stock market recovery.”  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley plans an almost four-fold
increase in graduate hiring next year, and it will mainly
allocate recruits to its retail business, Yoshimatsu said. The
firm hired 47 graduates for the year started April 1, spokesman
Hiroaki Konishi said.  Foreign Freeze  Nomura Securities Co., the brokerage unit of Nomura in
Japan, hired 615 graduates for fiscal 2012, spokeswoman Keiko Sugai said. Daiwa hired 354 for the period, according to
spokeswoman Misato Kinoshita and SMBC Nikko spokesman Tadataka
Ishida said his firm’s recruitment will decline from 386.  “It’s remarkable to see Japanese brokerages boosting
hiring on demand for stocks and cross-border acquisitions, while
foreign banks are still in a hiring freeze,” said Katsunobu Komizo, chief executive officer at Executive Search Partners
Co., the country’s biggest recruitment company focusing on
investment banks. “Overseas banks are conservative and they see
the recovery and business demands as one-time phenomena.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bank of America Corp. and
Deutsche Bank AG are among overseas financial firms that have
cut about 2,000 jobs in Japan since June 2010. About 200
overseas banks,  hedge funds  and buyout firms reduced their Japan
staff to 22,000 as of Dec. 31 from 24,000, according to
Executive Search.  Elite Recruits  Nomura in anticipation of increasing demand for cross-
border deals plans to post as many as 15 top recruits to its
mergers and acquisitions team this month, two people familiar
with the plan said in March.  The college graduates are among 50 hired through a two-
year-old elite recruiting program promising triple Nomura’s
normal starting salary in an effort to raise the firm’s global
investment banking and trading competitiveness, the people said
on the condition of anonymity, citing confidentiality. The M&A
team has 140 members in  Japan .  Nomura hired 604 graduates last year, 40 of them under the
new program, and allocated about five to its M&A team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  