-- Novartis Says Smoker’s-Cough Drug Succeeded in Trials
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-02T15:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/novartis-says-smoker-s-cough-drug-succeeded-in-trials.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  said an experimental
treatment for smoker’s cough met the main goal of three late-
stage trials, advancing the company’s plan to apply for
regulatory approval of the drug.  The treatment, QVA149, is a combination of two other
Novartis drugs, the Arcapta Neohaler and the Seebri Breezhaler,
which are approved in some countries for chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease. In a trial involving 2,144 patients, QVA149
improved lung function more than either drug on its own, the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a statement today. It
was also better than Spiriva, a treatment sold by Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   The three studies are among 10 that the company plans to
use to apply for regulatory approval in  Europe  and  Japan , it
said. Analysts predict QVA149 will garner sales of $700 million
in 2017, according to the average of four  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Two smaller studies showed patients taking QVA149 were able
to exercise for longer than those getting a placebo, and that
the drug had a similar safety profile to placebo, Novartis said.  Current Marketing  The Arcapta Neohaler, which goes by the chemical name
indacaterol, was approved in the U.S. in July and has been sold
in Europe since December 2009 as the Onbrez Breezhaler. Novartis
is awaiting European approval of Seebri, also known as NVA237.
Novartis bought marketing rights to Seebri from Chippenham,
England-based  Vectura Group Plc (VEC)  in 2005.  Vectura gained 18 percent to 64 pence in  London , the
biggest advance since July 2004. Novartis rose 1.8 percent to
50.85 Swiss francs in Zurich. That pared the stock’s decline
this year to 5.3 percent.  The Swiss company said in October that marketing approval
for QVA149 in the U.S. would be delayed after the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  requested more data on Seebri.  More than 12 million people are diagnosed with chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD, and another 12 million
probably have it and don’t know, according to the Bethesda,
Maryland-based  National Institutes of Health . COPD, sometimes
referred to as emphysema, chronic bronchitis or smoker’s cough,
kills more than 120,000 Americans a year as blockages in the
lungs lead to shortness of breath and disability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  