-- Novo Nordisk Plans to Move Ahead With Once-Weekly Diabetes Shot
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-04-02T13:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/novo-nordisk-plans-to-move-ahead-with-once-weekly-diabetes-shot.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  is likely to
proceed with development of a once-weekly version of its daily
diabetes shot Victoza or a medicine from the same class to fend
off competition from  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) ’s Bydureon.  Chief Executive Officer Lars Soerensen is “starting to
open up” to the idea, Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen, chief science
officer, said in a March 30 interview at Novo’s headquarters in
Bagsvaerd, a town outside Copenhagen.  A long-acting version of Victoza or the experimental
semaglutide, a compound that also mimics the hormone GLP-1 to
prompt the pancreas to produce insulin, would allow some
diabetics to cut back on injections and would challenge
Bydureon, the once-weekly version of the older medicine Byetta
that Amylin introduced this year.  Novo will announce which product it has picked when it
releases second-quarter results in August, according to Thomsen.
For now it awaits data on the long-acting version of Victoza.  “Semaglutide is actually looking quite good but what if
once-weekly Victoza looks even better,” he said. “That we
still don’t know.”  Novo pushed back its deadline last year for picking a
compound after rival products, including Bydureon, suffered
setbacks.  The company, the world’s largest maker of insulin, also
said it doesn’t expect last week’s  Food and Drug Administration 
advisory panel recommendation on weight-loss treatments to delay
approval of Victoza as a weapon against obesity.  Heart Check  An FDA panel voted 17-6 on March 29 to recommend that
companies developing weight-loss therapies for the U.S. market
conduct tests to assess heart risks.  Novo began selling Victoza in 2009 to expand its offering
for blood sugar-lowering medicines. The drug is now in advanced
clinical tests for obesity and the Danish company aims to submit
it for approval as a weight-loss treatment by the end of next
year, according to Thomsen.  “We are not expecting a delay,” Thomsen said. The FDA
panel discussions “pertained to new obesity molecules. We
already agreed with the FDA that as part of our post-marketing
requirements for Victoza we will do a cardiovascular outcome
trial.”  There are indications that GLP-1 medicines may be
beneficial to the heart, Thomsen said.  “As it looks now GLP-1s, not only ours, seem to be, if
anything, cardio-protective,” he said. Even so “that’s never
been proven statistically.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  