-- Nursing Homes Won’t Have to Hire Independent Pharmacists
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-04-03T14:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/nursing-homes-won-t-have-to-hire-independent-pharmacists-1-.html
The U.S. Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services backtracked on a plan that would have required
nursing homes to hire independent pharmacists to assess
residents’ prescriptions.  Regulators “decided to further study the issue for future
policy considerations,”  Jonathan Blum , deputy director of the
agency, said in a conference call with reporters late yesterday.  The centers said in October it was considering stricter
rules to oversee patients’ drug regimens, an announcement that
sent the stocks of nursing home pharmacies, including  Omnicare
Inc. (OCR)  and  PharMerica Corp. (PMC) , tumbling. Yesterday, the agency said
it decided against the policy because it “would be highly
disruptive to the industry” without reducing drug utilization.  Omnicare rose 2.9 percent to $36.46 at 10:49 a.m. in  New
York . PharMerica gained 1.4 percent to $12.75.  Nursing home “staff and physicians contribute
significantly to the problem” along with pharmacists, the
agency said in a filing. While the agency left policy the same
for now, it said “changes are necessary and a requirement for
consultant pharmacist independence is part of the right
approach.”  Federal law requires nursing homes to review their
residents’ drug regimens at least once a month. Homes “very
often” contract with pharmacies that provide their drugs to
also conduct the monthly reviews, sometimes at rates that are
“below fair market value,” according to the government.  The relationships can create conflicts-of-interest if the
pharmacists are pressured to fill prescriptions residents don’t
need or substitute higher-priced drugs, the government said.  Anti-Psychotic Drugs  Blum said the agency is concerned about a class of drugs
called anti-psychotics, which include  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Seroquel
and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Zyprexa. The inspector general for the
Health and Human Services Department has said nursing homes give
anti-psychotics to elderly residents who may have a higher risk
of death from the drugs, such as those with dementia.  After the Medicare agency proposed the policy change last
year, people identifying themselves as current or former
consultant pharmacists at nursing homes told the government that
“they had experienced conflict-of-interest in the past” or
confirmed that it is “an on-going problem,” the agency said.  Blum’s agency said in a statement accompanying the filing
that nursing homes should voluntarily change the way they
medicate residents to reduce “inappropriate prescribing,” or
else the government would make changes in a future regulation.  Greg Crist, a spokesman for the American Health Care
Association, which represents nursing homes, said in an e-mail
that the industry would work with the government “on
suggestions such as these to enhance quality in our centers.”
The association has  asked  its members to reduce off-label use of
anti-psychotics by 15 percent by the end of the year.  Omnicare, the largest nursing home pharmacy, dropped a $441
million bid to acquire PharMerica in February after the Federal
Trade Commission sued to block the deal. The combined companies
would have controlled as much as 60 percent of the market to
distribute drugs to nursing homes, hospitals and hospices,
according to  Jeff Jonas , an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New
York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  