-- NY Divide: Upper West Side for Obama, East Backs Romney
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-04-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/ny-divide-upper-west-side-for-obama-east-backs-romney.html
New York , New York, divided by two.
The East Side’s red and the West Side’s blue.  Three zip codes on the east side of the New York City
borough of Manhattan are among the most lucrative locations for
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  to raise campaign cash. Three
zip codes on the west side are ranked as the top areas where
President Barack Obama has collected money, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks campaign donations.  Obama has raised $1.7 million from three zip codes along
the Hudson River, 10024, 10023 and 10011; Romney brought in $1.5
million from zip codes 10021, 10128 and 10065 along the  East
River . The president raised more money in total from New Yorkers
than Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, $9.9 million
compared with $8.2 million, according to the center.  “There are many more rich individuals on the East Side
than on the West Side,” former New York Governor Mario Cuomo
said.  Many of them work on  Wall Street (WCAUUS)  and are attracted to
Romney’s background as a founder of the Boston-based private-
equity firm Bain Capital LLC, said Representative  Peter King , a
Republican from the New York suburbs of  Long Island .  “There’s real strong business support,” he said. “A lot
of the big-money people are, or will be, supporting Romney.”  Palm Beach and Hollywood  Through Feb. 29, Obama raised $161 million for his campaign
while Romney brought in close to $76 million, FEC reports show.
Besides those in New York, residents of  Palm Beach , Florida, and
Greenwich, Connecticut, are among Romney’s most generous
contributors. Obama’s most financially fertile non-New York zip
codes include 90210 in Beverly Hills, California, plus areas of
Chicago and the  Washington , D.C. area.  New York’s East Side had traditionally been home to wealthy
Republicans, while the West Side wasn’t as well-to-do and would
back Democrats, said Alan Chartock, professor emeritus of
political communication at the State University of New York in
Albany.  “While the city has become more Democratic, some of that
balance still exists,” Chartock said.  Still, those Republicans are less likely to be as motivated
as their southern counterparts by such issues as opposition to
abortion rights and gay marriage than they are by financial
matters; indeed, the term “Rockefeller Republicans” comes from
the Republican governor of New York,  Nelson Rockefeller . Former
New York Mayor John Lindsay, who later became a Democrat and ran
for president, once represented the area in the U.S. House.  Same Old Families  “You still have the same old-line Republican money, the
same families probably,” said Representative Jerrold Nadler, a
Democrat who represents Manhattan’s West Side. “If Mitt Romney
lived in Manhattan, he’d probably live on the East Side.”  The East Side has been represented in Congress by a
Democrat, Carolyn Maloney, who ousted Republican  Bill Green  in
1992. She said there are plenty of other Democrats there as
well. Obama raised $444,923 from East Side zip code 10021, about
$155,000 less than Romney.  Contributors from that zip code include Romney backer
 Stephen Schwarzman , chairman and chief executive officer of
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) ; and  Marc Lasry , founder and partner of
Avenue Capital Group and co-host of a New York City fundraiser
earlier this month for Obama.  “The numbers are what they are but I believe the votes
will be there for President Obama,” Maloney said.  Representative Gary Ackerman, a Democrat not seeking re-
election, offered this observation about Manhattan’s “very
diverse community” from the neighboring borough of Queens,
which he represents.  “Some of these people should be voted off the island,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 