-- NYC Population Count Challenge Denied by the U.S. Census
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-02T16:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/nyc-population-count-challenge-denied-by-the-u-s-census.html
The  U.S. Census Bureau  rejected  New
York ’s challenge to its 2010 count setting the city’s population
at 8,175,133, saying the city failed to show the bureau excluded
or mistakenly located residential areas in its survey.  Those two criteria, or inaccurate map-drawing, make up the
only ways a city may challenge a population count under the
bureau’s regulations. While the bureau said it mistakenly coded
an area in its map of the city, that error had no bearing on its
determination of the city’s population.  New York officials, who had estimated the city’s population
at 8.4 million, said the bureau had undercounted neighborhoods
in Brooklyn and Queens, declaring 82,000 apartments vacant in
areas dominated by an influx of Spanish-and Chinese-speaking
immigrants.  “We identified clear anomalies in the census count in
portions of Brooklyn and Queens that revealed significant
shortcomings in the Census Bureau’s procedures,” Rachaele
Raynoff, a spokeswoman for the  Department of City Planning , said
in a statement. “Admissible errors are only those concerning
geographic boundaries and the processing of data already
collected.”  The stakes in appealing the census bureau’s  Count Question
Resolution  include a portion of $400 billion in federal funds
that cities and states get each year based on population. It
also affects cities’ ability to market themselves as growing
urban centers.  Aid Formulas  In New York, federal aid formulas may amount to more than
$3,000 per person, according to a study by the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington . In  Detroit , a population drop below
750,000 could make the city ineligible to enact its own income
tax, according to state law.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan at  mmcquillan@@bloomberg.net 