-- Oaksterdam Marijuana School in California Raided by U.S.
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-04-02T20:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/oaksterdam-marijuana-school-in-california-raided-by-u-s-1-.html
Oaksterdam University, which calls
itself the first marijuana “college”  in the U.S., was raided
by the  Internal Revenue Service  and Drug Enforcement
Administration.  Federal agents raided the Oakland, California-based school
today to serve a search warrant as part of a continuing
investigation, said Arlette Lee, a spokeswoman for the IRS. The
warrant was filed under seal in federal court, she said,
declining to comment further. Jack Gillund, a spokesman for U.S.
Attorney Melinda Haag in San Francisco, also confirmed the raid
and declined to comment.  The  school  was founded in 2007. It offers classes in the
chemistry and growing of marijuana, methods of ingestion, and a
class on the legal issues concerning cannabis, including an
introduction on the conflict between state and federal laws over
the drug, according to its website.  ‎“Agents with the U.S. Marshals Service, the Drug
Enforcement Administration and the Internal Revenue Service’s
criminal investigation division are searching the university,
owned by Richard Lee, at the corner of 16th Street and
Broadway,” the school said on its website.  Conflict Increased  The conflict between  California  and federal authorities
over the enforcement of marijuana sales has increased since last
year, when a  Justice Department  memo to U.S. attorneys said
large-scale growers, sellers and distributors of marijuana may
be prosecuted in states that have passed laws permitting medical
use of the drug.  California was the first state to permit marijuana
consumption for medical purposes when voters approved a 1996
ballot measure. The dispensaries generate sales of as much as
$1.3 billion a year and sales taxes of as much as $105 million
annually, according to the Board of Equalization, the state’s
tax administrator.  Last year’s Justice Department memo supplemented a 2009
letter advising prosecutors that enforcement efforts against
people using marijuana to treat cancer or other serious
illnesses in accordance with state laws may not be “an
efficient use of federal resources.” The 2009 letter was
“never intended to shield” larger scale cultivation, Deputy
Attorney General James M. Cole wrote in last year’s memo.  State laws or local ordinances are “not a defense” to
civil or criminal prosecution of such cultivation, according to
the memo.  Lee didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Some  San Francisco  supervisors and state politicians
planned a demonstration in the city tomorrow to protest federal
crackdowns on medical marijuana dispensaries.  Oaksterdam University sponsored a 2010 ballot initiative to
legalize recreational marijuana use in California. The measure
failed in a statewide vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  