-- Obama Hosts Calderon, Harper to Boost N. American Economy
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-04-03T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/obama-hosts-calderon-harper-to-boost-north-american-econ.html
The leaders of the U.S.,  Canada  and
Mexico concluded private talks at a White House summit by
promising to overhaul rules and expand trade in ways that would
boost jobs in  North America .  “Our three nations are launching a new effort to get rid
of outdated regulations that stifle  job creation ,” President
 Barack Obama  said at a press conference yesterday with Prime
Minister Stephen Harper of Canada and President Felipe Calderon
of Mexico.
Trade among the three nations exceeded $1 trillion last year for
the first time, Obama said, supporting 2.5 million U.S. jobs.  Trade and economic ministers are scheduled to begin work
immediately to comb through regulations of all three nations to
abolish or simplify them to “make our joint economies
stronger,” Obama said.  This would augment other efforts to reduce transaction
costs and improve trade in such areas as vehicle emission
standards, railroad safety and harmonizing rules on workplace
chemicals, according to a statement by the three countries.  The leaders denounced increased violence and trade in drugs
affecting the borders of all three nations. Obama said his
administration accepts responsibility for U.S. drug demand and
said he has accelerated the delivery of equipment to help  Mexico 
battle drug cartels.  Calderon said the expiration of a U.S. ban on assault
weapons coincided with an increase in crime and violence.  Assault Weapons  “If we don’t have mechanisms to forbid the sale of
weapons, such as we had in the 1990s, or for registry of guns,
at least for assault weapons, then we are never going to be able
to stop the violence in Mexico,” Calderon said through a
translator.  The three men pledged to work together to curb violence.  Calderon and Harper also expressed a desire to join the
Trans-Pacific Partnership on trade. Obama acknowledged the
interest but made no commitment.  The U.S., which is leading the talks, hasn’t said yet if it
will let Canada and Mexico into the proposed free-trade deal
that involves Chile, Vietnam,  Australia , Peru,  Singapore ,
Malaysia,  New Zealand  and Brunei. The nine nations already
involved in the discussions would need to reach consensus on any
new members joining the negotiations.  The U.S. administration has said the Trans-Pacific
Partnership, which would be the biggest trade accord for the
U.S. since 1994 when Nafta took effect, is a top priority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  