-- Obama Says Court Overturning Health Law Would Be ‘Activism’
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-04-03T18:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/obama-confident-supreme-court-will-uphold-health-care-law-1-.html
President  Barack Obama , saying he’s
confident the U.S.  Supreme Court (1000L)  will uphold the 2010 health-
care law, said the “burden is on those who would overturn” a
law that requires Americans to have insurance.  “The Supreme Court is the final say on our Constitution
and our laws, and all of us have to respect it,” Obama said at
an Associated Press luncheon in Washington. “It’s precisely
because of that extraordinary power that the court has
traditionally exercised significant restraint and deference to
our duly elected legislature, our Congress.”  The president’s comments marked the second time in as many
days that the one-time constitutional law professor weighed in
on the legality of his presidency’s signature accomplishment. He
professed “enormous confidence” that the law is constitutional
and that “the court is going to exercise its jurisprudence
carefully.”  After his comments yesterday, Senator  Mitch McConnell  of
 Kentucky , the Republican leader, said that inserting the court’s
deliberations into the nation’s partisan political context was a
“threat” that a president shouldn’t make.  ‘Outrageous’ Step  “What the president is doing with the  Supreme Court  is
outrageous,” McConnell said today, before Obama spoke. “He’s
trying to intimidate them into making a decision on Obamacare
that he favors. And the threat is, if you don’t decide the way I
want you to, I will make you an issue in the campaign.”  Obama yesterday said it would amount to “judicial
activism” for the justices to throw out the health-care
statute.  The Supreme Court heard arguments over a three-day stretch
last week on challenges to the law. The court is expected to
issue a ruling by late June.  “There’s not only an economic element to this and a legal
element to this, but there’s a human element to this, and I hope
that is not forgotten in this political debate,” Obama said
yesterday, pointing to provisions that provide medical care to
people who otherwise wouldn’t have it.  The Supreme Court arguments have hurt the image of both the
court and the health-care law, according to a poll by the Pew
Research Center for the People and the Press and the  Washington 
Post. Twenty-one percent said their view of the court is less
favorable and 23 percent said their opinion of the statute is
less favorable, the survey found.  The  survey  of 1,000 adults was conducted March 29-April 1.
It has an error margin of plus or minus four percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  