-- Hogs Rebound as Consumers Increase Purchase of Lower-Cost Pork
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-04-02T19:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/hogs-rebound-as-consumers-increase-purchase-of-lower-cost-pork.html
Hog futures rose the most in two
months on speculation that consumers are buying U.S. pork and
shunning higher-priced beef. Cattle rebounded from the biggest
monthly loss in six years.  Wholesale-pork (BOXPC185)  prices rose 0.4 percent last week, the first
such gain since mid-February, as demand increases amid warm
weather in the U.S. Consumers may be boosting purchases because
the meat, down 16 percent in the past year, is relatively cheap
compared with beef, which has declined about 2 percent.  “Pork has some value at these levels,” said David Kruse,
the president at broker CommStock Investments Inc. in Royal,
 Iowa . “What’s important is the demand outlook, and it looks
like we’re poised for some recovery,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Hog futures for June settlement advanced 2 percent to
settle at 92.175 cents a pound at 1 p.m. on the  Chicago 
Mercantile Exchange, the biggest gain since Jan. 31. The price
gained 7.2 percent last quarter, the first increase in a year.  McDonald’s Corp. halted the use of meat containing beef
trim treated with ammonium hydroxide to kill pathogens, and Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. has stopped selling the product, dubbed pink
slime by activists. The companies will throw away the beef and
buy more, said  Lane Broadbent , a vice president at KIS Futures.  “McDonald’s and Wal-Mart aren’t using it anymore, so
there’s going to be less tonnage of meat on the market, and the
American public will go back to eating hamburgers,” Broadbent
said by telephone from  Oklahoma City .  Cattle futures for June delivery climbed 0.6 percent to
$1.168 a pound on the CME. The price lost 10 percent last month
and 4.4 percent in the first quarter.  Feeder-cattle futures for May settlement rose 0.2 percent
to $1.49425 a pound in Chicago. The price lost 5.2 percent in
March, the biggest monthly decline since May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  