-- Oil Drops After Biggest Gain in Six Weeks on Outlook for Supply
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-04-03T07:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/oil-drops-from-three-day-high-on-signs-u-s-stockpiles-climbed.html
Oil fell after the biggest gain in
six weeks as a forecast for rising inventories in the U.S., the
world’s biggest crude consumer, signaled demand may be easing.  Futures slid as much as 0.5 percent in  New York . U.S. crude
stockpiles probably rose a second week to the highest level
since August, according to a Bloomberg News survey before an
Energy Department report tomorrow. Prices advanced yesterday
after U.S. manufacturing in March expanded at a faster pace than
estimated. Oil has climbed this year amid concern tension with
Iran will disrupt global supplies.  “Demand has been so subdued for many months now and we
can’t really see that picking up,” said  David Lennox , an
analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney.  Oil prices  are at this level
because of Iran, and “traders aren’t willing to let go of that
risk premium,” he said.  Oil for May delivery slid as much as 57 cents to $104.66 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $104.72 at 3:10 p.m. Singapore time. It climbed 2.2
percent yesterday, the most since Feb. 21, to $105.23. Prices
are 6 percent higher this year.  Brent oil for May settlement fell 57 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to $124.86 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-
traded West Texas Intermediate was at $20.14, compared with
$20.20 yesterday, the widest since October.  Oil Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories may have gained  2.2 million barrels 
last week, according to the median of eight analyst estimates in
the Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies probably fell
750,000 barrels, the survey shows.  Oil stockpiles grew by 7.1 million barrels to 353.4 million
in the week ended March 23, the largest increase since July 2010,
the Energy Department reported on March 28. Supplies have gained
in five of the past six weeks.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Iran will not surrender to international pressure as
tightening sanctions restrict the country’s trade in the run-up
to the talks over its nuclear program, Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said in an interview with the official  Islamic
Republic News Agency  published yesterday.  Salehi spoke after U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said March 31 that negotiations between Iran and the five
permanent members of the United Nations Security Council plus
 Germany  are scheduled for April 13 to April 14 in Istanbul.  The cost of importing oil may rise to a record $2 trillion
in 2012 for consuming nations if Brent prices remain at about
$120 a barrel, the  International Energy Agency  said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  