-- Molycorp Seen Too Cheap as Rare Earth Lures Deal Talk: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-04-02T14:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/molycorp-seen-too-cheap-as-rare-earth-lures-deal-talk-real-m-a.html
Molycorp (MCP)  Inc.’s gambit to supply
Chinese-made magnets to carmakers in Japan is making it one of
the mining industry’s most attractive takeover candidates.  The owner of the biggest U.S. rare-earth deposit, which
rose 30 percent since agreeing in March to buy Neo Material
Technologies Inc. to bolster its magnet-making ability, was
still valued last week at 3.4 times next year’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That was cheaper than nine out of 10
metals and mining companies and a third less than the industry
median, the data show.  “Molycorp’s cheap,” Scott Goginsky, a research analyst
and money manager at Milford, Pennsylvania-based Biondo
Investment Advisors LLC, which oversees $450 million and owns
shares of Molycorp, said in a telephone interview. Being able to
make magnets on its own “does help cushion some of the price
concerns out there. It’s not just a commodity,” he said.  By transforming into a company that also makes magnets for
cars, phones and tanks, Molycorp can protect investors from the
kind of drop in  rare-earth prices  that erased 70 percent of its
value, Byron Capital Markets Ltd. said. Molycorp will gain
processing sites in  China (600111) , where 90 percent of the world’s rare-
earth supply is unearthed. That could lure  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  or
 Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , Oracle Investment Research said, just as rare-
earth prices rose last week for the first time in four months.  Jim Sims , a spokesman at Greenwood Village, Colorado-based
Molycorp, said the company doesn’t comment on rumors when asked
whether it would consider selling itself or has been approached
about an acquisition.  Today’s Trading  Molycorp’s shares rose 3.9 percent to $35.16 at 9:54 a.m.
in  New York , the sixth-biggest gain in the Russell 1000 Index.  The rare-earth elements are 17 chemically similar metals,
such as lanthanum, neodymium and dysprosium. They are used in
iPads made by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerrys,
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s plug-in Volt,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Prius
and Tomahawk cruise missiles made by  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   While rare-earth metals are relatively abundant in the
earth’s crust, finding deposits large enough to mine is less
common, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  They are also expensive for producers to extract and are
often laced with radioactive elements. China has come to
dominate the market for the metals because it has been able to
produce them more cheaply and with fewer environmental
restrictions than its competitors.  Molycorp (.MCPCAP) , which owns a 2,222-acre site in the Mojave Desert
that once produced a majority of the world’s rare-earth metals
before it was shut, opened the site in December 2010.  Acquisition Detail  With Molycorp’s agreement on March 8 to buy Toronto-based
 Neo Material (NEM)  for C$1.3 billion ($1.3 billion), the company will
gain production factories in China, Thailand and  North America 
to complement a magnet-making facility at its own site in
Mountain Pass, California.  It will also acquire Neo Material’s patented Magnequench
range of metal powders used to make neodymium-iron-boron
magnets, which are found in electronic motors and sensors.  Molycorp will have the ability to produce the two main
types of rare-earth magnets that most automakers use today, as
well as the only operational rare-earth mine in the U.S. once
the acquisition is completed, according to  Jonathan Hykawy , a
Toronto-based analyst at Byron Capital.  While most rare-earth mining companies only produce the
elements in oxide form, Molycorp will use some of the minerals
it excavates to make sintered magnets, which are used in motors
that power hybrid and electric cars. Neo Material will also give
it the ability to produce bonded magnets that enable car windows
to move up and down and seats to slide back and forth.  ‘Earning Power’  Because magnets sell for higher prices than the raw
materials used to make them, Molycorp can generate greater
profits than other rare-earth mining companies, Hykawy said.  He estimates $80 of neodymium oxide can be used to produce
as much as $1,700 worth of high-end magnets.  Molycorp will turn  each dollar  of sales next year into 35
cents of net income, according to analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s 40 percent more than what they anticipate
for  Inner Mongolia  Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co., China’s
biggest producer of rare-earth metals, the data show.  “Molycorp’s potential in terms of its earning power is
well above that of Baotou,” Hykawy said in a telephone
interview. “Molycorp is undervalued. There’s a growing
realization that the Molycorp model is the right way to go.”  As Molycorp boosts production of rare-earth minerals and
magnets, its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will jump to a record  $769 million  in 2013,
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  BHP, Rio Tinto  That’s more than  three times  the $230 million in Ebitda
that analysts anticipate for Molycorp this year.  Based on next year’s Ebitda estimates, Molycorp traded last
week at a 38 percent discount to the median multiple of 5.5
times Ebitda for metals and mining companies with at least $1
billion in market value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Baotou, based in Baotou, Inner Mongolia, sold for 9.3 times
its 2013 Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  BHP and Rio Tinto, two of the world’s three largest mining
companies, could buy Molycorp before its earnings surge and gain
control of the growing market for rare earths, according to
Laurence Balter, a  money manager  at Fox Island, Washington-based
Oracle Investment, which oversees $100 million.  Global demand for the elements may more than double by 2020
from 125,000 metric tons in 2010, according to  Molycorp’s filing 
last year with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  ‘Scarce Assets’  “Molycorp is a very unique company with scarce assets and
for that reason it may be of interest to other larger players,”
said  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-based fund manager
at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees $369 billion. “It’s
conceivable that someone could want to buy them.”  Ruban Yogarajah, a spokesman for Melbourne-based BHP, and
London-based Rio Tinto’s Tony Shaffer declined to comment on
whether their companies are interested in acquiring Molycorp.  Brian Chin, an analyst for Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York,
says the biggest mining companies could still pass over Molycorp
because the $2.84 billion company may be too small for them.  Analysts estimate that Molycorp will almost double  sales  to
$1.2 billion in 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
less than two percent of the revenue BHP and Rio Tinto, which
both have more than $100 billion in market value, are projected
to generate next year, the data show.  “It’s probably not big enough for them,” Chin said in a
telephone interview. Molycorp is “one of the largest and best
established producers outside of China right now, but it’s not a
huge  industry ,” he said.  Boom-Bust  A takeover would also be a bet on rare-earth prices, which
may dissuade some potential buyers that witnessed the industry’s
rise and fall in the past two years, Chin said.  Molycorp rose  more than fivefold  less than 10 months after
its initial public offering in July 2010 to reach a peak of $6.4
billion as prices for the metals jumped and China cut exports.  The company then lost more than $4 billion of its value in
the next seven months as concern over a global economic slowdown
sapped demand and caused companies to cut back on components
made from the raw materials.  Paretosh Misra, a New York-based analyst at Morgan Stanley,
said in a report last week that the collapse in prices in the
past year will now help to drive a revival in rare-earth demand,
which may benefit producers such as Molycorp.  Last week, the  price  of lanthanum oxide rose for the first
time since November, while  cerium oxide  had its first increase
in six months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Too Cheap’  With signs of a recovery in rare-earth metals, Balter at
Oracle Investment says that Molycorp’s ability to generate cash
from extracting the elements and processing them into high-
powered magnets makes the company an attractive takeover for any
acquirer willing to take the risk.  Its  cash flow  will jump almost 10-fold next year on a per-
share basis, according to a March 11 report from Matthew Gibson,
a Toronto-based analyst at CIBC World Markets Inc.  Balter pointed to  KKR & Co. (KKR) ’s buyout in 2000 of Princeton,
New Jersey-based  Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) , which produces lithium-
based compounds that are now used to power electric cars.  “A buyer just has to look beyond their nose to the next
quarter and look two or three years out,” said Balter, whose
firm owns  Molycorp stock . He estimated that Molycorp could get
at least $60 a share in takeover, about 77 percent higher than
its price last week. “It’s just too cheap to ignore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 