-- Anthrax Kits in 114M U.S. Homes Gets FDA Scrutiny
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-03T12:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/home-stockpiles-of-anthrax-kits-not-the-best-idea-fda-says.html
Making anthrax-antidote kits
available to the 114 million households in the U.S. in case of a
bioterrorism attack may lead to misuse of the medicines and stir
up public fears, regulatory advisers said.  “People may infer an anthrax attack is imminent,” Thomas Moore, chairman of a Food and Drug Administration advisory
committee, said in an interview yesterday after a meeting on the
subject. “It may have an adverse impact on doxycycline,” the
antibiotic that was hoarded after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror
attacks, he said.  The  FDA  met with panels of scientists and academics to
consider whether kits containing a 10-day supply of doxycycline
should be available for all Americans to store in their homes in
preparation for a bioterrorism attack. A branch of the Health
and Human Services Department said it wants to start with 10
million first responders and their families before expanding it
to the rest of the population.  “The public just looks at the system as there you go again
crying wolf,” Diane Cappelletty, an associate professor of
pharmacy practice at the University of Toledo College of
Pharmacy, told the committee during the meeting.  Consumers could misuse the so-called medkits by taking them
for reasons other than an anthrax attack, a move that may
exacerbate antibiotic resistance, the advisers said. A test run
in 2007 with about 4,200 households in the St. Louis area showed
some instances of misuse, including one person who took the
doxycycline during an emergency declared for a snow storm, and
two others who used the tablets to treat sore throats.  Fallout Shelter Craze  “I can’t help but be reminded of the decades old fallout
shelter craze,” Marcus Reidenberg, a panelist and professor of
public health at Weill Cornell Medical College in  New York , told
the FDA committee. “It’s assuming that everyone in the U.S.
knows we have doxycycline and no one in any organization that
might want to attack the U.S. doesn’t.”  The FDA today and April 4 also will hear arguments for the
wider availability of ciprofloxacin and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
Levaquin to treat any terrorist-initiated outbreak of pneumonic
plague, according to  documents  on the FDA’s website. The disease
is the most serious of three forms of plague that occurs when
the bacteria infects the lungs, and can be spread from person to
person through coughing and contaminated articles.  The FDA would require more studies for an anthrax medkit
like those conducted for over-the-counter drugs to ensure
consumers understand the product correctly, Barbara Cohen, a
social science analyst at the agency’s office of drug
evaluation, told the advisers.  Response Time  Only potassium iodide is available for home storage for
similar threats, George Korch, a senior science adviser in the
Health and Human Services office of the assistant secretary for
preparedness and response, said during the meeting.  Potassium
iodide  tablets combat exposure to radioactive iodine and are
available on the Internet, according to the FDA.  The government stores “tens of millions” of 60-day
courses of treatments in case of simultaneous attacks to
dispense after an event, Korch said.  National leaders first brought up the notion of household
medkits in 2005, four years after five people died from anthrax
found in letters. Expanding the products to the rest of the
population was put on hiatus because of concern for misuse and
antibiotic resistance. President  Barack Obama  resurrected the
idea in 2009 when he instructed the government to plan for a
biological attack, Korch said.  Home kits could relieve the burden on community dispensing
centers, which are unlikely to be able to meet a two-day
deadline to hand out drugs to prevent people from getting sick
from anthrax, a potentially deadly infection spread by
inhalation of spores. The response time to a biological attack
is critical, the Homeland Security Department’s Susan Coller-
Monarez, told the committee.  Ready to Act  “The production and dissemination of a biological agent is
something the government may not be ready for, despite its best
efforts, to intervene in its earliest stages,” said Coller-
Monarez, who runs the threat characterization and attribution
branch of the chemical and biological defense division of the
Homeland Security Department.  The U.S. Postal Service is already authorized to deliver
medkits to homes in the event of an anthrax attack under
programs in Minneapolis and Louisville,  Kentucky , that will
expand to  Boston , Philadelphia and  San Diego . The program being
discussed this week would let people obtain kits from pharmacies
whenever they see fit.  FDA backing is needed before a date for rolling out the
kits can be set. The Health and Human Services Department’s
Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, BARDA,
must partner with a pharmaceutical company to guide medkit
through the FDA approval process before a date for rolling out
the kits could be set. Companies that make versions of
doxycycline drugs include  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Impax Laboratories
Inc. (IPXL)   Sore Throats, Snowstorm  The government has tested these waters before with a study
in 2007 in which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
gave 4,182 households in the St. Louis area anthrax medkits. At
the end of the study, 4,076 households were available for
follow-up, 130 of those did not return their medkits.  Most who didn’t return them lost the products or threw them
away while four households used them and five refused to return
them, according to the report from the bioterrorism agency. One
elderly woman took the doxycycline during an emergency declared
for a snow storm, two used the tablets to treat sore throats and
one declined to specify the use, Linda Neff, a senior
epidemiologist in the CDC’s office of public health preparedness
and response, said during the FDA meeting.  The kits used in the study were made by Ivax Corp., which
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  bought in 2006.  The  Institute of Medicine , which advises the nation on
health matters, recommended against broad home storage of
medkits because of the potential for misuse.  Doxycycline works by preventing the growth or spread of
bacteria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  