-- Morgan Stanley Sees 26% Gain for Chinese Shares in H.K.
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-04-02T08:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/morgan-stanley-sees-26-gain-for-chinese-shares-in-h-k-.html
Morgan Stanley is forecasting gains
of about 26 percent for Chinese  stocks  listed in  Hong Kong  amid
low valuations and expectations for improving company earnings
and economic growth this year.  The brokerage expects the Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index
of so-called H shares to rise to 13,400 by the end of the year,
analysts including  Jonathan Garner  wrote in a report today,
compared with the gauge’s previous close of 10,640.16. Morgan
Stanley predicts Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index to rise
to 23,600, 15 percent above its last closing level, while the
MSCI China Index may rise 20 percent to 70.  The H-share index gained 7.1 percent in the three months
through last week for its second straight quarterly gain. The
gauge sank 7.2 percent since March 5 when China unveiled a lower
annual target for the nation’s gross domestic product. The
 measure  trades for 8 times estimated profit, a 22 percent
discount to the  Hang Seng Index (HSI) ’s 10.3 multiple, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are going to look at sequential acceleration from the
second quarter onwards, probably accompanied by additional
gradual policy easing,” Garner said in a telephone interview
from Hong Kong today. “That will lead to a better price-to-
earnings re-rating of the  H-shares (HSCEI)  because that’s more
influenced by China GDP growth.”  The H-share gauge rose 0.2 percent as of the close in Hong
Kong today, while the Hang Seng Index dropped 0.2 percent. The
MSCI China Index lost less than 0.1 percent.  Fine Tuning  Morgan Stanley increased its estimate for China’s 2012
gross domestic product to 9 percent from 8.4 percent, according
to an e-mailed research report on March 29. A  Purchasing
Managers ’  Index (CPMINDX)  rose to a one-year high of 53.1 in March,
China’s logistics federation and the National Bureau of
Statistics said yesterday.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged to “fine-tune” economic
policies as needed as weakness in export demand and a cooling
housing market restrain an economy that probably grew at the
slowest pace in almost three years in the first quarter.  “It’s really those two things -- the degree of cheapness
of the market and the prospect for change in perception about
China’s growth” that will support the shares of Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong, Garner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  