-- Motorola Mobility Wants $4 Billion From Microsoft Over Patents
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-04-02T15:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/motorola-mobility-wants-4-billion-from-microsoft-over-patents.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said  Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  demanded $4 billion a year in patent
royalties for use of technology critical to functioning of the
Xbox video-gaming system.  “Motorola’s demand was so over-reaching that no rational
company could ever have accepted it or even viewed it as a
legitimate offer,” Microsoft said in a March 30 filing.  Both companies want a federal judge in  Seattle  to rule
whether Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility broke its
promise to license patents essential to comply with industry
standards on wireless networking and video coding on fair and
non-discriminatory terms.  The case is part of a broader dispute in which Motorola
Mobility is seeking to block sales of the Xbox, and Microsoft
wants a ban on U.S. imports of Motorola Mobility phones that run
on Google Inc.’s Android operating system.  Microsoft said Motorola Mobility is seeking $4 billion a
year for licensing 50 patents on video compression. The
entertainment division of Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
 generated  $8.9 billion in sales last year. Microsoft’s total
revenue was $69.9 billion in the fiscal year that ended June 30,
2011.  The software maker said it pays $6.5 million a year to a
group of 29 companies with 2,339 patents that cover the same
industry standard.  Standard Offer  Motorola Mobility contends that the licensing offer made in
October 2010 -- a 2.25 percent royalty on the total value of a
product -- was the same one it has presented to every company
over the past decade as a starting point for negotiations.
Instead, Microsoft filed the breach of contract suit.  “Microsoft did not write back to Motorola,” Motorola
Mobility said in its own March 30 filing “Microsoft did not
call Motorola to discuss the letters or any issues it had with
the offers. Microsoft did not apply for a license.”  Microsoft had never licensed the technology, and Motorola
never pushed it, because the two worked together to develop
phones that used Microsoft’s operating systems. The relationship
strained when the Microsoft platform failed to gain market share
and Motorola Mobility turned to Android, Motorola Mobility said.  The court filings were earlier reported by the Foss Patents
blog.  Microsoft also has asked the court to prevent Motorola
Mobility from obtaining a ruling in  Germany  that would limit
sales of Microsoft products in that country. Today, Microsoft
said it was moving its European logistics center out of Germany,
to the Netherlands, because of the patent fight.  Microsoft and Apple Inc., which has its own patent battles
with Motorola Mobility, have both filed complaints with the
European Union accusing the handset maker of misusing its
patents on standard-essential technology  The U.S. case is Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Inc.,
10cv1823, U.S. District Court for the District of  Washington 
(Seattle).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  