-- Ousted Carroll Swears at Liverpool Coach Dalglish: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-02T08:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/ousted-carroll-swears-at-liverpool-coach-dalglish-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Angry Carroll  Andy Carroll, the forward Liverpool paid 35 million pounds
($56.1 million) for last year, swore at manager  Kenny Dalglish 
and stormed off after being substituted in yesterday’s 2-0 loss
at former club Newcastle,  the Sun  reported.  “We don’t have a problem with people showing their
disappointment or frustration,” Dalglish said, according to the
newspaper. Liverpool is on its worst run for more than 50 years, 
and only last-placed Wolves have garnered less league points
than the Reds in 2012.  Spurs Signing  Tottenham will sign Ecuadorian defender Cristian Ramirez,
who has been compared to Brazilian World Cup winner  Roberto Carlos , for 1.5 million pounds when the left-back turns 18 in
August, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Ramirez, who was a standout at last year’s Under-17 World
Cup, has visited  London  to sort out the terms of his move from
Independiente Jose Teran, the newspaper added.  Arsenal Target  Arsenal target Yann M’Vila said he’s interested in joining
the Gunners from French club Rennes, the  Sun reported .  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  believes he could acquire the
21-year-old midfielder, who has a market value of about 22
million pounds, for 17 million pounds after failing with a 10
million-pound offer last year, the Sun added.  “If it is Wenger who asks you and wants you then of course
that changes things,” the Sun cited M’Vila as saying.  Manchester Duel  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  said the Premier
League title race will be over if  Manchester United  beats
Blackburn and Queens Park Rangers in its next two games to go
eight points clear before City plays again, the  Guardian
reported .  “If we go eight points behind then it is finished,” the
newspaper cited Mancini, whose team next faces third-place
Arsenal on April 8, as saying.  Balotelli Blamed  A growing number of City players believe  Mario Balotelli  is
hurting their title chances and also blame Mancini for
tolerating the striker’s wayward behavior, the  Sun reported .  Mancini has had enough of Balotelli and will sell him at
the end of the season, the Sun added.  Chelsea Pair  Didier Drogba and  David Luiz  will receive intensive
treatment on their respective toe and ankle injuries to get them
fit for Chelsea’s Champions League match with Benfica in two
days, the  Daily Mail reported .  Chelsea’s medical team will assess the pair tomorrow before
interim manager Roberto Di Matteo makes a decision on their
availability for second leg of the quarterfinal at Stamford
Bridge, the Mail added.  Beckham Bust-up  David Beckham  argued with Los Angeles Galaxy teammates Sean
Franklin and Marcelo Sarvas as they walked off the field at
halftime in his team’s 3-1 home loss to  New England ,  the Sun 
reported.  Beckham and  Brazil ’s Sarvas didn’t re-appear for the
second half after being substituted.  “I’m sure David’s not pleased about it but that’s not the
issue,” the newspaper quoted Galaxy coach Bruce Arena as
saying. “The issue was that 11 players from New England soundly
outplayed 11 players from the Galaxy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  