-- Passport’s Burbank Sees U.S. Recession as China Slows
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-04-02T09:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/passport-s-burbank-sees-u-s-recession-as-china-slows.html
John Burbank , founder of $3.8
billion hedge fund Passport Capital LLC, said he expects a U.S.
economic recession this year or in early 2013, according to a
letter to investors.  Passport is “very bearish” and anticipates “a major
retrenchment in risk assets,” Burbank said in the March 27
letter, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. The San
Francisco-based firm increased its short positions, or bets that
security prices will fall, added to gold holdings and bought
Brent oil starting in the second half of last year, he said.  “We see a recession in 2012 or early 2013 for the U.S.
which will be difficult to avoid as Europe contracts and China
moderates to 7 percent to 8 percent targeted growth,” Burbank
said in the letter. “The equity market is confused about true
economic growth in the developed world -- we believe it will be
much lower than forecast.”  Passport last month fired 14 employees following losses in
2011. The fund slumped 18 percent last year, compared with an
average loss of 5.8 percent for all hedge funds, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Passport, which has gained 3.7
percent this year through February, expected redemptions of $560
million or less on March 31, Burbank said in the letter.  The firm has reduced its illiquid investments and
commodities equities, while increasing its holdings of Saudi
Arabian stocks and mortgage-backed securities, according to the
letter.  Saudi Stocks  “Saudi equities constitute the best single asymmetric
equity market we can find and as a result continue to be the
single largest equity allocation in Passport Global,” Burbank
said in the letter.  Saudi Arabian stocks will probably comprise a “mid-teens”
percentage of the portfolio through 2012, Burbank said. The firm
hired Jeffrey W. Kong, formerly of Structured Portfolio
Management LLC, last April to oversee its investment strategy
for mortgage-backed securities and related fixed-income assets.  Passport, a multistrategy hedge fund, was founded by
Burbank in 2000. It invests in agriculture, basic materials,
energy, financial services, health care,  capital markets  and the
Internet, among other things, according to the firm’s website.  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for Passport, declined to comment
on the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  