-- Payne Will Face Fellow Newark Councilman for House Seat
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-04-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/payne-will-face-fellow-newark-councilman-for-house-seat.html
Newark  City Council President Donald M. Payne Jr., whose father died last month after a 23-year
career in Congress, will battle a fellow councilman, a state
senator and the mayor of Irvington for the U.S. House seat.  Payne will face  Ronald C. Rice  of Newark’s west ward in the
June Democratic primary, according to the state Elections
Division. State Senator Nia Gill, of Montclair, and Irvington
Mayor Wayne Smith are also on the ballot for the 10th
congressional district, anchored by  New Jersey ’s biggest city.  The seat became vacant when the elder Donald Payne died
March 6 from  colon cancer . As the state’s first and only black
congressman, the former Newark councilman forged a reputation as
a leading advocate for democracy in  Africa . All four candidates
who have submitted papers in the race are black.  “This is really a wide-open race,”  Patrick Murray ,
director of the Monmouth University polling institute in  West
Long Branch , said yesterday by telephone. “This is the best
chance they have. A resignation, a death or a scandal are really
the only things that can open up a congressional seat. And you
can’t count on any of those.”  The race recalls a 2008 Republican House primary in which
seven candidates sought an open seat after then-U.S.
Representative Michael Ferguson, a Republican who had held the
central New Jersey district post from 2001 to 2009, decided not
to run again, Murray said. Former state Senator Leonard Lance, a
Republican from Clinton Township, won.  County Freeholder  Payne, who also serves on the Essex County Freeholder
Board, a legislative body, has been a council member since 2006.
The county includes Newark, Irvington and Montclair.  Rice, the son of state Senator Ronald Rice of Newark, a
Democrat and former deputy mayor of the city, took his seat on
the council in 2006 as an ally of Mayor  Cory Booker .  Gill, 64, has served in the state Senate since 2002 and
heads its commerce committee. She is also vice chair of the
judiciary panel. She began in the Assembly in 1994.  Smith took office in 2002 as mayor of Irvington, a Newark
suburb of about 56,100, and has served as head of the state’s
Urban Mayors Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  