-- Pennsylvania’s Corbett Weighs Hiring Company for Lottery
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-04-02T19:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/pennsylvania-s-corbett-weighs-hiring-company-for-lottery.html
Pennsylvania (STOPA1)  is considering hiring a
business to run its state lottery, the sixth-largest by revenue
in the U.S., to raise more money to aid its aging population.  “Our state’s fast-growing population of older adults means
time is not on our side, and we need to maximize funding for
senior programs and services in a way that does not ask
taxpayers to dig any deeper into their pockets,” Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, said in a statement issued today.  The lottery, which was started in 1971 to generate funds
for services to older residents, sold more than $3.2 billion of
tickets in fiscal 2011, according to the statement. The program
contributed more than $960 million to senior programs that year.  The lottery, which under federal guidelines must continue
to be owned by the state, may benefit from nongovernment
management, Corbett said. Such an operator may be able to adapt
new technologies, develop games and boost sales, he said.
Lottery revenue is projected to rise about 1 percent annually
through fiscal 2015, or more slowly than the costs of senior
programs, according to the statement.  Pennsylvanians ranked eighth in the U.S. among states in a
Bloomberg Rankings Sucker Index that compared spending on
lottery tickets to personal income, at 0.59 percent, or $309 a
year. Massachusetts topped the list at 1.3 percent of income, or
almost $861 a year per adult resident. Pennsylvania awarded
almost $1.87 billion in prizes in 2010.  Corbett has said he supports the sale of the state-owned
liquor system and its retail stores, a proposal that has yet to
pass the Legislature, and formed an advisory council to scout
out other privatization opportunities in September. The state
had hired Greenhill & Co. on Nov. 30 to aid in that effort.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  