-- Petrobras Warns May Be Liable in $11 Billion Chevron Case
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-04-02T21:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/petrobras-warns-may-be-liable-in-11-billion-chevron-spill-1-.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil producer, may be liable for 30 percent of
any damages  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  must pay in relation to a November
spill off Rio de Janeiro’s coast.  The $11 billion claim last year against Chevron and
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the operator of the drilling rig, by a federal
prosecutor in Brazil is “unreasonable,” Petrobras said in the
March 30 regulatory filing warning of its potential liability.  The legal action against Chevron comes as Brazil increases
scrutiny of offshore oil production following the 2010 Macondo
spill in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Chevron is also battling a
separate lawsuit by the country’s main oil union to ban it and
Transocean from operating in the country. Petrobras has a 30
percent stake in the Frade project where the estimated 3,000
barrels of oil spilled into the Atlantic Ocean.  “The Brazilian government is going to come down with some
significant penalties even for minor accidents, there are indeed
some very draconian measures that are being implemented,”
 Gianna Bern , president of Chicago-based risk-management adviser
Brookshire Advisory, said in a telephone interview.  Chevron holds a 52 percent stake in Frade and is the
operator. Partners include Petrobras and Frade Japao Petroleo
Ltda. -- a joint venture of  INPEX Corp. (1605) ,  Sojitz Corp. (2768)  and Japan
Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp. -- with 18.26 percent.  Petrobras fell 0.5 percent to 23.23 reais in Sao Paulo.  Federal prosecutor Eduardo Santos, who’s probing the slick
independently from the country’s oil regulator, charged 17
executives at Chevron and Transocean with environmental crimes
and called for prison sentences of as many as 31 years.  Chevron took out full-page advertisements in several
Brazilian newspapers March 29 to say the Frade leak hasn’t
caused environmental damage. The company said the criminal
charges against its executives are unfounded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  