-- Petronas Plans Canadian Acquisition Topping $5 Billion
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-04-02T20:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/petronas-plans-canadian-acquisition-topping-5-billion.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd (PET) ., the
Malaysian state-owned  oil company , is studying a Canadian
acquisition exceeding $5 billion as part of the company’s drive
to supply natural gas to Asia.  “This is going to be big,” Chief Executive Officer
Shamsul Azhar Abbas said in a March 30 interview on the 81st
floor of the company’s twin towers headquarters that dominates
the Kuala Lumpur skyline. “There are quite a few candidates out
there, who are willing to talk,” he said, adding a deal may be
announced within three months.  Petronas, as the company is known, joins Asian peers
including PetroChina Co., Mitsubishi Corp. and Cnooc Ltd. in
seeking production in  North America , where natural gas sells for
less than 15 percent of Asian benchmark prices. At more than $5
billion, a purchase would be more than double the company’s
biggest deal, the $2 billion acquisition of a 40 percent stake
in  Santos Ltd. (STO) ’s Gladstone LNG project in  Australia  in 2008.  “I want to grow big in Australia and  Canada ,” said 59-
year-old Shamsul, surrounded by modern art from the Petronas
collection that adorned the walls of the round conference room.
“In terms of country risk, it’s less” than other gas-rich
areas such as the Middle East, he said.  There were $8.7 billion in deals announced in Canada’s oil
and gas industry in the first quarter, the busiest start to the
year since 2009, when mergers and acquisitions in the sector
there peaked at $47 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Since 2009, there have been 487 deals, the biggest
being  China  Petrochemical Corp.’s $4.7 billion purchase of a
stake in Syncrude Canada Ltd. from ConocoPhillips in 2010.  Cheap Gas  Asian buyers have been lured by the growing difference
between the price of gas in  Asia  and North America, where
production has surged following the development of technology to
extract gas trapped in shale rock. Gas has averaged $2.50 per
million British thermal units this year on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Japan LNG import prices  were $16.76 per
million British thermal units as of Jan. 31, the most recent
data.  That differential was part of the attraction for Petronas
in June, when the company agreed to pay  Progress Energy
Resources Corp. (PRQ)  C$1.07 billion for a 50 percent stake in three
gas fields in Canada that included as much as C$802.5 million in
development spending.  As part of the purchase, it agreed to invest as much as
C$600 million in the company if it develops a terminal to export
liquefied natural gas from Canada’s west coast, Progress Chief
Executive Officer Michael R. Culbert said at the time.  Progress Energy rose 7.9 percent to C$10.79 at the close in
Toronto.  Competing Projects  Petronas would own 80 percent of the LNG joint venture that
is one of at least three planned in Canada. A group led by
 Apache Corp. (APA)  is leading one of the groups planning a terminal in
Kitimat, British Columbia. Royal Dutch Shell Plc along with
PetroChina and partners from  Japan  and Korea are planning
another terminal.  “By August we should be able to complete the feasibility
study for another liquefied natural gas plant on the west coast
of Canada,” Shamsul said. “We are getting good support from
the government.”  Petronas (PET) ’s total oil and gas production globally has fallen
for two straight years, reaching 2.14 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in the financial year ended March 2011,
according to its annual report.  To be sure, not every planned deal in Canadian shale has
gone ahead. PetroChina, Asia’s largest energy producer, walked
away last year from what would have been its biggest acquisition
-- an agreement to pay C$5.4 billion for a 50 percent stake in
 Encana Corp. (ECA) ’s Cutbank Ridge joint venture and fund development
of about 635,000 net acres in British Columbia and Alberta.  Stable Supplier  Encana later agreed to sell a 40 percent stake in Cutbank
Ridge to Mitsubishi for C$1.45 billion upfront and a commitment
to spend C$4.5 billion on development work over five years.  Petronas may look to Encana, as the Calgary-based company
is seeking additional partners to develop its natural gas
assets, Philip Skolnick, an analyst with Canaccord Genuity Inc.  “Partnering up with national companies would help to
expedite an LNG movement out of Canada,” said Skolnick, who
rates Encana a hold.  Developed Markets  Encana said today it’s seeking minority partners to help
fund drilling on 1.58 million acres of oil and natural-gas
liquids fields in North America, allowing the company to
accelerate development without increasing costs.  Petronas’s push into developed markets is also fueled by
customer demand for energy supplies that can be guaranteed for
years, a promise that seems less sure following rising tensions
in the Middle East, Shamsul said. Buyers of Petronas’s gas such
as Japan, South Korea,  Taiwan  and China are keen on stability in
their supplies. They will probably have to pay a premium for the
higher production costs in these countries, Shamsul said.  “When we mentioned we have projects in  Iran ,  Iraq  or
whatever, to bring in LNG from there, is it acceptable to them.
They said no.” Shamsul said. “The Middle East issue is going
to linger. I don’t see a long term solution there.”  Countries including Egypt and Syria will face problems in
creating enough jobs to stem the social uprising, he said.  Record Spending  Petronas, which plans to spend a record 300 billion ringgit
($98 billion) over five years to help replenish Malaysia’s
diminishing reserves, has embarked on a worldwide review of its
portfolio since Shamsul took over as CEO in February 2010. It
exited projects in places including Ethiopia, East Timor and
Pakistan, while acquiring oil and gas blocks in countries such
as Venezuela, Australia and Brunei.  Funding for its future projects isn’t guaranteed.
Malaysia’s government traditionally relied on Petronas for about
a third of state revenue. Petronas paid 65.7 billion ringgit to
the government in the year ended March 2011, including dividend,
taxes, petroleum proceeds and export duties, according to the
company annual report. The state has estimated revenue of 183
billion ringgit last year, a finance ministry report shows.  The company, whose Engen unit operates the Durban refinery
in  South Africa , isn’t keen to add more assets in the region,
Shamsul said. Many African countries are “challenging”
politically, and Petronas was forced to stop production in  Sudan 
recently, he said. It is also not keen to invest in South
America due to the language differences, even after countries
from  Brazil  to  Argentina  found billions of barrels of oil.  In Iraq, he said one of the four energy fields it operates
there is expected to start producing oil by the end of this
year. Still, it is spending a “massive” amount of money on
security, describing it as a “tough” country to operate in.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net  