-- Philippine Peso Rises Most in 3 Weeks as Remittances May Climb
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-02T08:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/philippine-peso-rises-to-two-week-high-as-remittances-may-climb.html
The Philippine peso strengthened the
most in three weeks on speculation remittances from Filipinos
living overseas will pick up before the start of the new school
year in June.  Government bonds  declined.  The peso extended this year’s advance after central bank
Assistant Governor Cyd Amador said last week a pause in the
current cycle of interest-rate cuts is “on the table.”
Remittances, which account for about 10 percent of the nation’s
gross domestic product, increased to $5.04 billion in the second
quarter of 2011 from $4.60 billion in the previous three months,
central bank data show. More funds are transferred to help pay
school fees and buy books before the new term begins.  “The prospect of remittances for school enrollment” is
helping the peso, said  Jonathan Ravelas , a market strategist at
BDO Unibank Inc. in Manila. “There’s support from yields. The
central bank is expected to keep rates on hold” at an April 19
review, he said.  The peso appreciated 0.5 percent to close at 42.69 per
dollar in  Manila , the highest level since March 14, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency gained 2.2 percent in the first
quarter. The peso’s one-month implied volatility, which measures
exchange-rate swings used to price options, stayed at 5.9
percent today.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has cut the overnight borrowing
rate by 50 basis points this year to 4 percent. Inflation may
have quickened to 2.8 percent last month from a year earlier,
compared with an increase of 2.7 percent the previous month,
based on the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey
before a government report on April 4.  The yield on the 7.375 percent bonds due March 2021 climbed
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.35 percent,
according to prices from Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 