-- Pinnacle Airlines Seeks Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-04-02T21:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/pinnacle-airlines-seeks-chapter-11-bankruptcy-protection.html
Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCL) , which
provides regional flights for  Delta Airlines Inc. (DAL)  and  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , sought bankruptcy protection after
costs rose and revenue declined.  The airline, based in  Memphis , Tennessee, listed assets of
$1.5 billion and liabilities of $1.4 billion in the Chapter 11
filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  New York  yesterday. As it
restructures, Pinnacle said it will reevaluate agreements with
United and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   “Regional airlines have been forced to bid ever-lower
rates and accept increasingly unfavorable contract terms to win
the business of major carriers,” John Spanjers, the airline’s
chief operating officer, said in a court filing.  Pinnacle plans to wind down regional services for United by
Nov. 30 and cease flying for  US Airways  by June, according to
court papers filed today. It will halt United Express services
by Aug. 1. Pinnacle’s flying for United, done under the Colgan
name, covers about 53 aircraft that serve 54 cities to and from
United’s hubs in Newark, New Jersey,  Washington ’s Dulles airport
and Houston, said Mike Trevino, a spokesman for Chicago-based
United.  “We are working with Colgan to transition their flying for
United Express to other carriers,” Trevino said. “We have
contingency plans in place and will contact any customer whose
reservation may change as a result of the transition.”  Pinnacle will start pulling down some United flights in May
and “will do that as orderly as possible,” said Eric Epperson,
a spokesman for Pinnacle.  Reject Leases  Pinnacle is seeking to reject leases for certain aircraft,
engines and related equipment, some of them effective as of
yesterday. Pinnacle also seeks to end a consulting agreement
from March 2011 with Philip Trenary and an October “officer”
agreement with Douglas Shockey, its former chief operating
officer.  Trenary received $1.58 million in compensation in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shockey got $871,552 in
salary, bonuses, stock and options awards and other compensation
in 2010, the data show.  Pinnacle also wants to end three agreements with partners:
one with  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  for the German airlines’
provision of crew to Pinnacle, and two contracts for engine
maintenance with Pratt & Whitney Canada and General Electric Co.
that would each save $600,000 a month.  Delta Loan  Pinnacle said it obtained a $74.3 million loan from Delta
to help maintain operations while it reorganizes and to repay a
$44.3 million debt to the larger airline.  Pinnacle flies about 200 regional jets for Delta, the
world’s second-largest carrier. Delta, whose business accounts
for 80 percent of Pinnacle’s flying, will “continue to support
Pinnacle during its restructuring and is working closely with
them to ensure there’s no impact to our customers,” said  Betsy Talton , a spokeswoman for the Atlanta-based airline.  The bankruptcy filing is the 43rd by a U.S. carrier since
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, based on data from industry
lobbying group Airlines for America, as they contend with
stiffer competition and higher fuel costs. Other regional
airlines to seek bankruptcy protection include Mesaba Airlines
and Delta’s Comair unit, which both filed in 2005.  Mesa Air
Group Inc. (MESAQ)  filed in 2010 and American Eagle filed as part of  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s bankruptcy in November.  Pinnacle fell 49 percent to 69 cents at the close in New
York. Before today, the stock had gained 65 percent this year
after dropping 90 percent in 2011.  Daily Flights  Pinnacle has about 7,500 employees, according to the court
filing. It had 199 regional jets and 77 turboprops, according to
its website. The airline said it makes more than 1,300 daily
flights to 188 cities and towns in the U.S., Canada and  Mexico .  “We intend to use the Chapter 11 process to reset our
financial and operational structure in order to position
Pinnacle for viability over the long term,” Chief Executive
Officer Sean Menke said in a statement. “We are committed to
delivering safe, reliable travel throughout this process.”  The airline has long-term debt of about $690 million owed
to Export Development Canada, which is secured by  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B)  Q400 and CRJ-900 planes, Spanjers said.  Before Pinnacle, Ryan International Airlines Inc., a
charter airline, was the last U.S. carrier to file for Chapter
11 protection, on March 6, according to  Airlines for America .  AMR Loss  The filing by AMR, the parent of  American Airlines , was the
latest for a major U.S. carrier. AMR, based in  Fort Worth ,
 Texas , posted a loss of $1.76 billion for the three months
through February, its first quarter in bankruptcy protection. A
court hearing on the company’s request to reject union contracts
in its reorganization is scheduled to begin April 23.  On Pinnacle’s first day in bankruptcy court, it will also
seek permission to pay pre-bankruptcy wages, fuel contracts,
shippers and other service providers, according to court papers.  Pinnacle also filed a request to keep confidential
agreements with Delta under which the companies agreed to
release each other from claims over disputed amounts in their
contracts.  The case is In re Pinnacle East Coast Operations Inc., 12-
11343,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (New
York).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  