-- Russian Aircraft Crash in Oil-Rich Region Kills at Least 31
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-04-02T14:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/plane-crashes-in-russia-s-tyumen-region-emergency-ministry-says.html
A turboprop plane crashed in
 Russia ’s oil-rich Tyumen region early today, killing at least 31
of the 43  passengers  and crew on board, including an OAO
Surgutneftegas board member and employees of OAO Lukoil.  The plane, which had just taken off from Tyumen en route to
Surgut, crashed while trying to make an emergency landing three
kilometers (1.9 miles) from the airport,  UTair  airline said on
its website, without elaborating on the cause of the accident.
More than 200 emergency workers arrived at the scene, the
country’s Emergency Ministry  said  on its website.  President  Dmitry Medvedev , who has pushed to modernize the
economy and called for purchases of foreign aircraft to
guarantee safety of  air travel , delayed his meeting with leaders
of opposition groups until tomorrow after the disaster. Russia
had the world’s worst safety record for air travel last year,
ahead of the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, according to data
compiled by researcher Ascend Worldwide Ltd. Two of the world’s
five most deadly air crashes last year happened in Russia,
Ascend said in a report in January.  “Working in contact with local authorities and the region,
we must take all the necessary decisions concerning the support
of victims’ families and the survivors,” Medvedev  said  during a
meeting with Health Minister Tatyana Golikova at the
presidential residence in Gorki, outside Moscow.  Surgutneftegas, Lukoil  Surgutneftegas, the fourth-largest Russian oil producer
whose pension fund owns 55.7 percent of UTair, said board member
Nikolai Medvedev was among several employees aboard the plane
when it crashed. Lukoil, the country’s second-biggest oil
company, lost two employees in the catastrophe.  Russia’s Investigative Committee opened a criminal inquiry
for violation of air safety and said it was considering three
possible causes of the crash: a technical malfunction, pilot
error or a mistake by ground control.  The committee said it’s ruling out a terror strike on the
aircraft and considers a technical defect its “priority”
version, adding that the exact cause won’t be determined until
investigators decode flight-data recorders recovered at the
sight of the accident.  Fuselage Icing  The crash was probably caused by fuselage icing, Interfax
reported, citing an unidentified official involved with the
search and rescue mission. Both engines were operating until the
aircraft’s collision with the ground, according to the news
service. Eyewitnesses reported seeing smoke billowing from the
engines at the time of the plane’s descent, according to the
Investigative Committee.  UTair shares dropped as much as 4.9 percent and were down
4.1 percent to 19.55 rubles at 5:45 p.m. in Moscow.  The ATR 72-201, a 68- to 74-seat twin turboprop aircraft,
is made by Avions de Transport Regional, a venture between
Airbus SAS-maker  European Aeronautic, Defense & Space Co. (EAD)  and
 Italy ’s  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)  Today’s crash was the first in Russia
of a non-Soviet plane since September 2008, data from the
Aviation Safety Network shows.  “At this time, the circumstances of the accident are still
to be determined,” Toulouse, France-based ATR said in an e-
mailed statement.  The plane was delivered from the  production line  in October
1992, with UTair operating it since August 2008, ATR said. The
aircraft had 35,000 flight hours and last underwent “serious”
technical maintenance in  Germany  in 2010, also passing a
scheduled checkup two months ago in Tyumen, according to the
Investigative Committee.  France ,  Canada  and the U.K. will take part in the
investigation, the Moscow-based Interstate Aviation Committee, a
body that oversees air safety in the  Commonwealth of Independent
States ,  said  on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  