-- Private Equity Tax Break Won’t Apply to Health-Care Levy
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-02T15:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/private-equity-tax-break-won-t-apply-to-health-care-levy-1-.html
Private-equity executives, who spent
millions of dollars successfully fighting efforts to raise taxes
on their investment profits, may not escape a new 3.8 percent
levy in President Barack Obama’s health-care law.  The overhaul enacted two years ago includes a tax on
unearned income to help pay for the expansion of insurance
coverage. It’s set to start in 2013 and will apply to  capital
gains  -- such as private-equity managers’ profits on leveraged
buyouts -- as well as interest, dividends, annuities, royalties
and rents for married couples who make more than $250,000 and
individuals who earn at least $200,000.  “It’s going to make a huge difference for people with
capital gains and any type of investment income,” said Jere
Doyle, senior vice president at BNY Mellon Wealth Management, a
unit of New York-based  Bank of New York Mellon Corp .  The impact will be even greater if tax cuts enacted during
the presidency of  George W. Bush  expire as scheduled at the end
of this year. Unless Congress acts, the top rate on long-term
capital gains and dividends, now 15 percent, would go to 20
percent and 39.6 percent. For high earners above the threshold,
the health-care tax would bring the levy on dividends to as much
as 43.4 percent.  The  Supreme Court  heard arguments last week on the
constitutionality of parts of the health care law, and a ruling
expected by the end of June could determine whether the tax
takes effect.  Carried Interest  The share of profits private-equity managers receive from
investments is known as carried interest. It is often taxed as
capital gains, which carry a lower rate than ordinary income and
fall under the new Medicare levy, said Elizabeth Kessenides, a
tax attorney in New York City who represents people in financial
services including private-equity and hedge-fund managers.  “Investors in these funds and also the managers in these
funds are likely to incur this tax,” said Kessenides. “It
looks like they’ll be caught.”  The largest U.S. private-equity funds and venture capital
firms have relied on a five-year, multimillion-dollar lobbying
campaign to protect the carried interest tax break that has
 benefited  fund managers including Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , whose effective tax rate was below 14
percent in 2010, according to returns released by his campaign.  The private-equity industry has argued that carried
interest should be taxed as investment income rather than wages
because it encourages entrepreneurial risk-taking.  Impact on Investments  “Raising taxes on capital gains income could adversely
impact future investment in all sectors of the economy,”  Steve Judge , president and chief executive officer of Private Equity
Growth Capital Council, said in an e-mail. “The new surtax
would apply to all long-term capital gains investments,
including carried interest.” The council is a trade group in
 Washington  that represents private-equity firms.  The new Medicare tax also captures gains made by businesses
that trade financial instruments or commodities, according to
the legislation. That means it may apply to hedge funds and
others trading derivatives, said Patrick Cox, tax chair and
partner at the law firm Brown Rudnick LLP in  New York .  The government may release its regulations implementing the
tax in the next few months, Lisa Zarlenga, tax legislative
counsel at the Treasury Department, said at a panel discussion
March 23. Details also are needed on what deductions or offsets
may be available, Cox said.  Not Indexed  In addition to the tax on investment income, the health-
care law applies a 0.9 percentage point increase starting in
2013 to the Medicare payroll tax on wages in excess of $200,000
for individuals or $250,000 for joint filers.  An estimated 4.1 million households, or 2.4 percent, would
be affected by one or both of the new health-care taxes,  data 
released by the  Tax Policy Center  in Washington on March 28
show. The thresholds aren’t indexed for inflation so the
percentage of people subject to the levies almost doubles by
2022, said Jim Nunns, a senior fellow at the nonpartisan group.  Combined, the two additional taxes mean a couple earning
$400,000 in wages next year with $650 in interest income, $7,150
in dividends and $7,150 in long-term and short-term gains on
investments would pay an extra $1,914 in federal taxes, said
Christopher Judge, senior manager in financial services at Ernst
& Young LLP.  Total Tax Bill  The family’s total tax bill including state and federal
liabilities would be about $150,700 in 2013 if they live in  New
York City . For California residents that figure would be about
$140,400, Judge’s calculations show. Both scenarios assume that
Bush-era tax cuts expire and that the family owns a home with a
mortgage.  In  cases  where property values have risen dramatically, the
tax would apply to profits from home sales. The law doesn’t
change current rules that allow the first $250,000 in home-sale
gains for individuals and the first $500,000 for married couples
to be excluded from income and exempt from taxation.  The pending tax is spurring planners to come up with ways
to lessen its impact, said Jeanne Sullivan, a director at KPMG
LLP in Washington. Because the tax takes effect Jan. 1, those
affected may need to start paying for it as early as April 2013,
if they file estimated payments, she said.  Strategies advisers suggest include realizing capital gains
in 2012, shifting assets to Roth retirement accounts and adding
to municipal bond holdings where gains likely won’t be taxed.
Investors in any business partnerships or S-Corporations should
consider taking a more active role.  Taking Gains  “Anyone who has gains in their investment portfolio should
consider selling and taking their profits in 2012 before this
Medicare surtax comes into play,” said Allison Shipley, a
principal in the private company services division of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. “You need to consider your
transaction costs in trading but taking gains may be an
effective strategy for people.”  The tax makes Roth individual retirement accounts more
attractive because the income isn’t subject to tax when it’s
distributed. The distributions also aren’t included in the
$250,000 and $200,000 income thresholds, William Long, who heads
the private wealth services team at  McGuireWoods LLP (1148L)  in  Chicago ,
said in an e-mail.  The tax also won’t apply to municipal bond interest, said
Tim Steffen, director of financial planning at  Robert W. Baird  &
Co. in  Milwaukee ,  Wisconsin . “That will make munis more
attractive,” he said. While municipal bonds may have lower
yields than corporate issues, the securities generally are
exempt from federal taxes as well as state and local levies for
residents in many states where they’re issued.  Passive Activity  Distributions from retirement accounts and life insurance
proceeds also wouldn’t be counted, making it even more important
for high earners to maximize contributions to their 401(k)
plans, Elda Di Re, area leader of the personal financial
services tax division of Ernst & Young, said.  Income from passive interests in partnerships or certain
closely held corporations generally will be subject to the levy,
said Michael Grace, a managing director at  Milbank, Tweed,
Hadley & McCloy LLP (1174L)  in Washington.  That means taxpayers who might be affected may want to
become more active in any partnership they’ve invested in, said
Cox of Brown Rudnick. The  tax code  includes a number of ways to
determine if a taxpayer is taking an active role in a trade or
business such as by participating for more than 500 hours a
year, Cox said.  Taxpayers shouldn’t overreact because tax laws may change
again before 2013, said Steffen of Robert W. Baird.  Even with the uncertainties around tax law next year, BNY
Mellon’s Doyle said he’s trying to make clients aware of
scheduled increases and prepare strategies.  “It’s going to be like watching the NCAA tournament,” he
said. “You never know what happens until the very end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  or  Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 