-- Q-Cells Falls to Record as Company to File for Insolvency
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-02T15:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/q-cells-tumbles-to-lowest-on-insolvency-risk-frankfurt-mover.html
Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the world’s largest
solar-cell maker, fell to a record low in  Frankfurt  trading
before the German company said it will file for insolvency as
soon as tomorrow.  Q-Cells tumbled 41 percent to 13 euro cents as of the close
of trading in Frankfurt. The manufacturer held its  initial
public offering  in October 2005, when the shares sold at 38
euros apiece.  The stock has plunged 77 percent this year as Q-Cells
worked to reorganize debt while  Germany ’s government reduces
solar subsidies and the industry fights overcapacity. Solarworld
AG and Conergy AG are also struggling with competition from
Chinese companies led by Suntech Power Holdings Co. that have
expanded capacity, creating a glut in solar panels.  A court ruling on a separate company’s restructuring set a
precedent that makes the overhaul of Q-Cells unfeasible, the
Bitterfeld-Wolfen solar-panel maker said in a statement today.  “After considering several alternative concepts to
implement the debt restructuring, management is convinced that
the company faces too many legal risks,” Q-Cells said. “We are
legally bound to file for insolvency.”  Q-Cells based its decision on a ruling in late March by the
Frankfurt Higher Regional Court that required  Pfleiderer AG (PFD4) , a
wood processing company, to seek unanimous agreement from
creditors to a debt restructuring. Until that court decision, Q-
Cells had planned to restructure its debt based on approval by a
majority of creditors.  Q-Cells, which said on March 30 that it was exploring
alternatives to the plan after reaching agreements with its main
bondholders and authorities in  Malaysia  and Germany, also said
today its board no longer sees the company as a going concern.  ‘Strong Brand in Europe’  “At continuously low prices of photovoltaic cells,
currently at $0.51 a watt, most manufacturers are bleeding out
of cash and Q-Cells has largely depleted its options as the
market is not showing signs of recovery anytime soon,” Martin Simonek, an analyst at London-based Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said.  “However, Q-Cells still has something that many Asian
companies don’t; a strong brand in  Europe ,” he said today.
“This could play a role, once the price is right.”  It doesn’t make sense for an industry insider to buy Q-
Cells, Alla Gorelova, an analyst at Steubing AG in Frankfurt,
said by phone. The larger manufacturers already have enough
capacity and the smaller ones don’t have the cash, she said.  “If anything then it’s probably going to be a complete
outsider, or an outsider with some existing activities in the
solar market,” Gorelova said today. The company’s operations in
Malaysia and to an extent, their project business, could be of
value, she said.  “Q-Cells European module capacity might become of value in
the future due to its location.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  