-- QuickLogic Gains on Optimism Over Clients: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-04-02T19:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/quicklogic-gains-on-optimism-over-clients-san-francisco-mover.html
QuickLogic Corp. (QUIK) , a designer that
makes customizable semiconductors for tablet computers,
smartbooks and other mobile products, rose the most since
December on speculation its products will win broader favor with
top-tier manufacturers.  QuickLogic shares climbed as much as 14 percent to $3.10 in
 New York . The stock, which dropped 59 percent last year, had
climbed about 5 percent this year before today.  “It’s the promise of being inside tablets and smartphones,
the company needs to get inside new phones and tablets,” Hamed Khorsand, an analyst at BWS Financial Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “Management stated there would be some sort of model
and design win in the first half and people will be waiting for
that announcement.”  QuickLogic technologies , designed to improve visual display
and enhance battery life, are used in  Kyocera Corp. (6971) ’s Digno, an
Android smartphone for the Japanese market, and  Pantech Co. (025930) ’s
tablet phone released in  South Korea .  “In addition to the Pantech Vega 5 and the Kyocera Digno,
we expect the third smartphone design to move into production
during the first half of 2012 that uses our ArcticLink II VX
CSSP,” QuickLogic Chief Executive Officer Andrew Pease said
during the company’s  fourth-quarter earnings  conference call
Feb. 7.  CSSP stands for customer specific standard products, which
help enable QuickLogic customers to bring their products to
market more quickly, the company said.  “We have engagements with Tier 1 and Tier 2 smartphone and
tablet manufacturers, who are very interested in our recently
announced ArcticLink III VX family,” Pease said on the call.
“These include tablet manufacturers who provided us with their
technical information.”  Projector Market  The Sunnyvale, California-based company also won “two
designs with two customers in the Pico projector market,” with
one customer initiating a production order scheduled for
shipment at the end of the first quarter, Pease said. The second
customer is a large manufacturer Pease didn’t identify.  “They are in Kyocera and Pantech, but it’s all non-U.S.,”
Khorsand said. “They are looking for any kind of win.”  Khorsand has a buy rating on the stock with a target of
$5.50 a share.  QuickLogic was founded in 1988 and has been listed on the
Nasdaq Stock Market since 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in  San Francisco  at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  