-- Rabobank Takes Over Friesland Bank as Capital Hurdles Loom
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-04-02T15:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/rabobank-takes-over-friesland-bank-as-capital-hurdles-loom-2-.html
Rabobank Groep (RABO) , the biggest Dutch
mortgage lender, will take over Friesland Bank NV as the smaller
99-year-old lender struggles to meet new  capital requirements 
and sets aside more money for bad loans.  “Friesland Bank has in recent years been confronted with a
combination and accumulation of negative factors,” Chairman
Kees Beuving said today in a statement. “These negative
developments make it impossible for Friesland Bank to have a
sustainable continued independent existence.”  Friesland Bank, based in the Dutch city of Leeuwarden, said
bad-loan provisions rose to “unusually high” levels in 2011
and funding became more expensive after  Fitch Ratings  cut the
lender’s long-term credit rating in June. The bank, which
reported a 43 million-euro ($57 million) loss in 2010, said last
year’s results were also hurt by a writedown on its 23 percent
stake in  Van Lanschot NV. (LANS)   “This sends a ripple through the Dutch financial sector,”
said Jan Willem Weidema, an Amsterdam-based analyst at ABN Amro
Bank NV. “This is not just an issue with a small regional bank,
as Friesland Bank has stakes in Van Lanschot, BinckBank NV and
an insurance joint venture with  Delta Lloyd .”  To meet capital requirements under Basel III rules, “we
needed to be profitable, cut the Van Lanschot stake and not have
any setbacks,” Beuving told reporters today. Results for 2011
“won’t be great,” he said, adding that Friesland hasn’t been
rescued.  Van Lanschot Stake  The stake in Van Lanschot, the oldest Dutch independent
bank, would have cut Friesland’s Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.9
percent under Basel III, according to Weidema.  “Under Basel III, it is punitive to have a stake of more
than 10 percent in another financial institution,” he said.
“That would have reduced Friesland Bank’s core Tier 1 ratio to
below 5 percent.”  Prior to its takeover, Friesland Bank agreed to pay a cash
dividend of about 100 million euros to its shareholder Stichting
Friesland Bank, plus an 11 percent stake in Van Lanschot and
assets including an art collection. Rabobank will now own 12
percent in the Dutch private bank.  Van Lanschot rose 6.9 percent to 20.74 euros in Amsterdam
trading, the biggest gain in 10 years. The stock fell 28 percent
last year.  Regulators gave permission for an “immediate merger,” the
banks said.  Negligible Impact  “We gave a statement of no objection for the share
transaction between Friesland Bank and Rabobank,” said Herman Lutke Schipholt, a spokesman for the Dutch central bank. “We
understand and subscribe to the decision of Friesland Bank to no
longer continue as an independent bank.”  The merger has “no or a negligible impact” on Rabobank’s
capital ratios, according to Chairman Piet Moerland. The Dutch
cooperative made up of independent lenders currently has a core
Tier 1 ratio of 12.8 percent, with assets of 732 billion euros
at the end of December.  Delta Lloyd (DL)  will study the impact of today’s announcement
on its joint venture for the distribution and sales of insurance
products. For now, it’s “business as usual,” said Martijn
Donders, a spokesman for the Amsterdam-based firm.  Friesland Bank started lending to farmers in the north of
the Netherlands in 1913, before expanding to other parts of the
country, including Amsterdam, Utrecht and Rotterdam, in the
1990s. The firm was linked to Rabobank, the world’s biggest
agricultural lender, until 1962.  Friesland Bank will merge with local member banks of
Rabobank over the next two years, the firms said. The bank has
300,000 customers and 1,000 employees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  