-- Rally Persisting as Iran Ignites Oil: Russia Overnight
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-04-02T03:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/rally-persisting-as-iran-ignites-oil-russia-overnight.html
Russian equities  will extend their
best quarter in a year in U.S. trading as tensions over Iran’s
nuclear program spur oil higher and the cheapest valuations
among emerging markets lure investors, according to UBS AG.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian companies
listed in  New York  jumped 18 percent in the first quarter, the
most since the first three months of 2011.  OAO Surgutneftegas (SGTPY) ,
the country’s fourth-largest oil producer, was the biggest
gainer, posting its best January-March advance since 2000. OAO
Lukoil, the biggest non-state crude company, climbed 14 percent,
the most in any quarter since the start of 2011.  Moscow’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF) , which had its best quarter since the
last three months of 2010,  trades  for 5.8 times analysts’
earnings estimates for member companies, the cheapest valuation
among 21 developing markets tracked by Bloomberg and below the
10.7 ratio for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Crude,  Russia ’s
biggest export earner, has rallied as the U.S. and  Europe 
intensify sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program, and
the Persian Gulf state threatens to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a
transit route for a fifth of the world’s oil.  Russia “is still the cheapest of all  emerging markets , and
were the price of oil to remain elevated as it looks like it’s
doing, we expect that market to continue to attract investors,”
Nicholas Smithie, an emerging-market equities strategist at UBS
in New York, said by phone on March 30.  The world’s largest energy exporter, almost 50 percent of
Russian government revenue last year came from energy sales,
which contribute about 17 percent of gross domestic product.  Cheapest BRIC  The Micex may rise to 7.4 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for member companies should  oil prices  continue to
climb, according to UBS. That would still leave Russia as the
cheapest of the biggest emerging stock markets, with the
valuation on Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  at 10.3 times estimated
earnings, 9.2 times on the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  and a ratio
of 13.4 for the  BSE India Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   “Russia will always be a cheap market, the Achilles’s heel
of the Russian market is there is no rule of law,” said UBS’
Smithie. “As long as investors aren’t able to enforce the
rights of property and rights of contract, the market will trade
at a discount.”  Viewed as the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to  Transparency International , Russia has been criticized by the
 World Bank  and ratings companies for its energy-dominated
economy and inaccessibility to foreign investors.  Futures Climb  Companies aren’t yet required to report earnings to
international standards and President-elect  Vladimir Putin  has a
history of intervening in private business, orchestrating the
takeover of top oil producer OAO Yukos Oil Co. in 2003 and
halving coal miner OAO Mechel’s share price in 2008 by alleging
it fixed prices.  Futures (VEA)  expiring in June on Moscow’s  RTS (RTSI$)  Index added 0.5
percent to 159,195 in U.S. trading on March 30. The Bloomberg
Russia-US Equity Index gained 1.2 percent to 107.28, the most
since March 23, boosting the measure’s advance last quarter to
17 percent, the most in a year. Every company on the 14-stock
gauge rose last quarter.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
lost 2.5 percent to HK$5.80 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:16
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed.  American depositary receipts of Surgutneftegas fell 0.6
percent to $7.08 in New York on March 30, trimming their first-
quarter jump to 39 percent, the most of all stocks on the index
of Russian U.S.-listed companies. The ADRs traded at a 0.1
percent  discount  to Surgutneftegas’ Micex-listed preferred
shares on March 30, from a 1.8 percent premium the day before.
Each ADR is equal to 10 ordinary shares.  ‘Very Attractive’  Crude oil for May delivery climbed 0.2 percent to $103.02 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on March 30, bringing
its gain in the quarter to 4.2 percent, the least since the
three months to Sept. 30, 2009.  Brent oil for May settlement rose 0.4 percent to $122.88 on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, adding 15 percent
last quarter. Urals Crude, Russia’s chief export blend, advanced
0.4 percent to $119.63 on March 30, up 13 percent in the
quarter, the most in a year.  “If you’re looking for an investment right now, Russian
 oil companies  are very attractive, because the stock prices are
still so depressed,” John Connor, founder and portfolio manager
of the Third Millennium Russia Fund, which manages $20 million
including shares of state-run gas export monopoly OAO Gazprom,
said by phone from Florida on March 30.  Russia ETF Gains  ADRs (PBR)  of Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil producer,
climbed 14 percent in the quarter to trade at 4.4 times
estimated earnings, the lowest since Feb. 22. That compares with
the 7.7 times valuation for ADRs of  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,
Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Petrobras shares in the U.S. added 6.9 percent
in the first quarter.  Crude in New York will climb to $106 a barrel by the end of
2012, according to the median of 28 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Lukoil (LKOH)  gained 4.7 percent on the Micex last
quarter, the most in a year.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 0.7 percent to $30.88 on March 30,
boosting its advance in the quarter to 16 percent, the most
since the last three months of 2010. The  RTS Volatility Index (RTSVX) ,
which measures expected swings in the index futures, dropped 2.1
percent to 31.92.  Russian equity funds posted inflows of $1.2 billion in the
first quarter, compared with the $3.6 billion recorded for the
same period of 2011, according to data research firm EPFR
Global. The average emerging-market equity portfolio saw a 13.5
percent increase in inflows for the quarter through March 28,
according to  Cameron Brandt , EPFR’s director of research.  Yandex Advertising  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s most popular Internet search engine,
was the second-biggest gainer in the first quarter on the
Bloomberg Russia-US gauge. The stock jumped 6 percent to $26.87
in New York, the highest price since Nov. 8. Yandex gained 36
percent in the quarter, bringing its advance since being listed
in May to 7.5 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised Yandex’s  target price  to $44
per share from $40 on March 30, saying in a research report that
The Hague, Netherlands-based company’s consolidated revenue in
the first quarter probably rose about 60 percent from a year ago
on higher demand for online advertising, revising up a previous
estimate.  Yandex reports first-quarter earnings in early May,
according to the JPMorgan report.  Gazprom Dividend  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY) , Russia’s largest lender, gained 35 percent
last quarter, the third-biggest advance on the Bloomberg Russia-
US index. Each ADR is equal to four ordinary shares and the
U.S.-listed stock traded at a 3.7 percent  premium  to the bank’s
Micex shares on March 30, the most since Nov. 30, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 30-stock Micex climbed 8.2 percent in the first
quarter, its second straight quarterly advance, while the
dollar-denominated  RTS (RTSI$)  surged 19 percent, the best performance
since the third quarter of 2009.  Gazprom’s (OGZPY)  ADRs gained the most in two weeks in New York on
March 30, on speculation the world’s largest natural gas
producer will pay a record 2011 dividend after profit doubled.
The stock has risen 16 percent in New York this year, the
biggest quarterly advance since the first three months of 2011.
The ADRs trade at a 0.1 percent premium to Micex shares.  Net income for state-run Gazprom, based on Russian
accounting standards, more than doubled to 880 billion rubles
($30 billion) last year as the company benefited from rising
European gas prices, according to the earnings report issued on
March 29.  Gazprom may pay a record-high dividend of 9.29 rubles a
share for last year, according to the  average analyst estimate 
compiled by Bloomberg and based on profit levels and company
dividend guidance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  