-- Rand Gains for Second Day as Growth Outlook Boosts Commodities
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-02T14:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/rand-gains-for-second-day-as-growth-outlook-boosts-commodities.html
The rand advanced for a second day
as improved economic data from  China  boosted metals prices,
benefiting currencies of commodity-exporting countries and
outweighing a decline in South African factory output.  South Africa’s currency gained as much as 0.8 percent and
traded 0.3 percent stronger at 7.6498 per dollar as of 4:08 p.m.
in Johannesburg. The yield on South Africa’s 13.5 percent bonds
due 2015 fell three basis points to 6.673 percent.  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index climbed to a one-year
high of 53.1 in March, exceeding the 50.8 median of estimates
from a Bloomberg survey of economists, a government report
showed yesterday. In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index rose to 53.4 in March from 52.4 a
month earlier, data showed today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a gain to 53.  “China’s March PMI provided an upside surprise that
restored some market optimism,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in
e-mailed comments. “Naturally, commodity currencies were the
main beneficiaries, strengthening after the data was released.”  Copper for three-month delivery gained as much as 1.2
percent to $8,545 a metric ton. Commodities including metals
account for 64 percent of  South Africa ’s exports, according to
government data. The nation has the world’s biggest reserves of
platinum, manganese and chrome. Currencies of other commodity
producers including  Australia ,  New Zealand  and  Canada  also
strengthened.  Manufacturing  South Africa’s  purchasing managers’ index  fell from the
highest level in two years in March as a decline in sales orders
curbed the outlook for manufacturing, Kagiso Tiso Holdings said.  The seasonally adjusted index fell to 55.1 from 57.9 in
February, Johannesburg-based Kagiso said in an e-mailed
statement today. An index level above 50 indicates an expansion
in factory output.  “Although remaining at a favorable level, the forward-
looking indicators of the PMI also pointed to a somewhat less
optimistic outlook,” Hugo Pienaar, senior economist at the
Bureau of  Economic Research , which conducts the survey on behalf
of Kagiso, said in the statement.  Factory output, which accounts for about 15 percent of the
economy, is struggling to recover as a probable recession in
Europe crimps export demand from a region that buys about a
third of South African manufactured goods.  Euro-region manufacturing contracted for an eighth month in
March, adding to signs the 17-country economy continued to
shrink in the first quarter.  The factory gauge, based on a survey of purchasing
managers, fell to 47.7 from 49 in February, London-based Markit
Economics said today.  The rand advanced 5.3 percent in the three months through
March, its best first quarter since 2004. It declined 18 percent
last year, the second-worst performance by an emerging-market
currency after  Turkey ’s lira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at  