-- Transportation Week Ahead: Fisker and Fuel Economy at Auto Show
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-04-02T04:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/transportation-week-ahead-fisker-and-fuel-economy-at-auto-show.html
Supporters of a $157 billion U.S.
fuel-economy rule opposed by auto dealers will gather at the New
York International Auto Show this week to release a study about
how the proposal would affect automakers’ bottom lines.  The study, jointly issued by Citigroup Inc. Investment
Research and Ceres, a network of investors, environmental groups
and public interest groups that focus on  climate change , will be
released April 4. It will forecast the effect of the rules on
profits and sales by 2020.  The groups won’t say what the report’s findings are
beforehand. They co-produced a study last year that found the
new 54.5 miles-per-gallon fuel-economy standard would create
about 484,000 jobs in the U.S., including 43,000 directly for
the  auto industry . And Ceres, which is based in  Boston , last
year ran radio ads across the U.S. saying a tougher fuel-economy
standard would create jobs.  The Environmental Protection Agency and  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration  issued their proposed fuel-economy
rule in November. The rule would double automakers’ average fuel
economy of the vehicles they sell in the U.S. by 2025, adding an
average of $2,000 to the price of each new passenger vehicle by
that year while saving as much as $515 billion in fuel spending,
the two agencies said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration says it plans to
publish a final fuel-economy rule by July 31, before Obama faces
a re-election vote in November. The deadline is self-imposed and
not set by law, so start placing bets on a delay.  Elsewhere at the New York auto show, startup luxury
electric carmaker Fisker Automotive Inc. plans to unveil a
prototype of its Nina model that it plans to build at a
shuttered General Motors Co. plant in Wilmington,  Delaware .
Fisker received two U.S. Energy Department loans to design and
build cars in the U.S. and so far has used a contract automaker
to produce its first model in  Finland .  Fisker, which is still in a wrangle with the Energy
Department after losing access to its loan money for missing
deadlines related to the Nina, plans to finally reveal a
prototype of the car at the auto show tomorrow.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  ROAD RAGE: Senators including  Barbara Boxer , a California
Democrat, and Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat, plan
to hold home-state rallies this week to push the House to pass a
long-term surface transportation bill when it returns from its
two-week recess that began this week.  NEXTGEN REPORT: The Washington-based Eno Center for
Transportation Policy plans to release a report on April 4
assessing the cost and benefits of NextGen, the FAA’s new
satellite and GPS-based air traffic control system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  