-- RBC Sued by U.S. Regulators Over Wash Trades
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-04-03T20:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/rbc-sued-by-u-s-regulators-over-wash-trades-seeking-tax-benefit.html
Royal Bank of Canada  was sued by
U.S. regulators over claims the Toronto-based lender engaged in
illegal futures trades worth hundreds of millions of dollars to
garner tax benefits tied to equities.  Canada’s biggest bank made false and misleading statements
about “wash trades” from 2007 to 2010 in which affiliates
traded among themselves in a way that undermined competition and
price discovery on the  OneChicago LLC  exchange, the  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  said yesterday in a complaint filed
in Manhattan federal court.  “A fundamental purpose of the  futures markets  is to
provide an arm’s-length mechanism for market participants to
discover prices and shift risks associated with products traded
in those markets,” CFTC enforcement director David Meister said
in an e-mailed statement. “RBC not only designed and executed a
wash sale scheme that undermined that purpose, it went a step
further and misled the exchange into believing that its conduct
was lawful.”  Royal Bank yesterday in a statement called the lawsuit
“meritless” and said it intends to defend itself against the
allegations.  “We certainly reject the allegations as unwarranted,”
Royal Bank Chief Executive Officer Gordon Nixon said today in a
conference call. “This is not a financially material event to
RBC, but we certainly take the situation seriously and we intend
to vigorously defend our reputation.”  Stock Overhang  Royal Bank  fell  1.7 percent to C$57.01 at 3:59 p.m. trading
in Toronto, the biggest decline since Jan. 24.  “We believe the suit will serve as an overhang on the
stock in the near term until investors get more clarity as to
the scope of the potential damages,” Morgan Stanley analyst
Cheryl Pate said in a note to clients.  The bank intends to defend against the allegations,  Kevin Foster , a Royal Bank spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  “Before we made a single trade, we proactively contacted
the exchange to seek its guidance,” Foster said. “These trades
were fully documented, transparent, and reviewed by both the
CFTC and the exchanges, and for the next several years were
monitored by them.” The trading was permissible under the
CFTC’s published guidance, Foster said in the statement.  Hundreds of Transactions  Royal Bank enlisted affiliates to help carry out hundreds
of futures transactions that were done off-exchange and then
reported to OneChicago as block trades between independent
affiliates, according to the CFTC. A single group of RBC
employees designed and managed the strategy, the agency said.  The trades, which resulted in Royal Bank not having a
financial position in a market, were conducted for Canadian tax
benefits tied to holding certain stocks, the CFTC said in its
statement. The transactions, involving single-stock futures and
narrow-based indexes, were used to hedge the risk of holding the
equities, according to the statement.  “We do not believe that the tax benefits were material,
say C$20-C$30 million annually (our best guess),” John Reucassel, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets, said today in a
note to clients. “While we expect this matter to be settled
relatively quickly, this event may highlight why investors
remain lukewarm to trading businesses.”  Between 2006 and 2010, the narrow-based index trades
between a Toronto-based bank account and RBC Europe Ltd., a
London-based bank subsidiary, represented all of the narrow-
based index volume on OneChicago, the CFTC said in the
complaint. Senior members of the bank’s Central Funding Group
determined the prices and contracts traded. A co-head of the
group, unnamed in the complaint, created and coordinated the
trading strategy, the CFTC said.  Banking Regulator  From 2005 to 2010, RBC concealed material information and
made false statements about the trades to  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which
had regulatory oversight of the exchange, according to the CFTC.
RBC’s responses to CME questions about the trades “concealed
information concerning the central role” of the Central Funding
Group employee and the bank’s single-stock futures trades, CFTC
said.  Canada’s banking regulator, the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, is “aware of the
situation and is monitoring it,” spokesman Rod Giles said in an
e-mail. “It would not be appropriate to comment until the court
has heard the evidence and the arguments from each party and
issues its judgment.”  Chris Grams, a CME spokesman, declined to comment.  The CFTC is seeking monetary penalties and an injunction
against further violations, the agency said. Those penalties
should be triple the monetary gain for each violation, or
$130,000 for each one from October 2004 to October 2008, and
$140,000 for each violation since then, said the CFTC, which
didn’t disclose the number of incidents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  