-- RBS to Sell Asian Investment Banking Assets to Malaysia’s CIMB
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-04-02T08:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/rbs-to-sell-asian-investment-banking-assets-to-malaysia-s-cimb.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest state-owned lender, agreed to sell most of its
Asia-Pacific cash equities and investment banking businesses to
Malaysia’s  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  to cut costs.  CIMB will pay 88.4 million pounds ($142 million) to  RBS (RBS)  for
the operations and inject a further 85.5 million pounds into the
business, the Kuala Lumpur-based bank said in a statement today.  RBS is selling assets and cutting jobs as it pares business
after receiving the world’s biggest banking bailout during the
global financial crisis. The Edinburgh-based bank, led by Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , said in March that it would
shut some operations in  South Korea , Indonesia and  Singapore 
after failing to find buyers for those units.  “The principal benefit to RBS of the sale is to mitigate
partially the shutdown costs otherwise associated with these
businesses,” RBS said in a statement today.  CIMB,  Malaysia ’s second-biggest lender, is seeking to
extend its regional reach after being the nation’s top
underwriter for equity and rights offerings in the past three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank has
made acquisitions in Singapore,  Thailand  and Indonesia in the
last seven years and is in talks to buy a stake in Bank of
Commerce in the Philippines.  ‘Excellent Opportunity’  “This is an excellent opportunity to complete the build-up
of our capabilities in Asia-Pacific markets, and to do it
quicker and less expensively than if we grew organically,” CIMB
Chief Executive Officer  Nazir Razak  said in the statement.  CIMB said it will retain between 350 to 400 staff under
Matthew Kirkby, currently head of global banking for Asia-
Pacific at RBS.  Profit at the Kuala Lumpur-based lender climbed 30 percent
in the fourth quarter of 2011 to a record 1.13 billion ringgit
($370 million). Nazir said in February that 2012 earnings could
surprise on the upside.  CIMB shares rose 1.3 percent this morning to 7.79 ringgit,
their highest level since August, before being suspended for
today’s announcement.  RBS said in January that it planned to cut about 3,500 jobs
worldwide at its investment-banking unit and sell or close
unprofitable divisions. The U.K. bank will continue to operate
its debt financing, transaction services and risk-management
businesses in  Korea , Indonesia, Singapore and eight other Asia-
Pacific countries, RBS spokeswoman Hui Yuk Min said on March 20.  It is selling its Hoare Govett U.K. corporate broking unit
to Jefferies Group Inc., transferring about 50 jobs. The bank
hasn’t found buyers for the rest of the U.K. equities business
and in February eliminated as many as 300 posts.  The British government injected 45.5 billion pounds into
RBS at the height of the financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  