-- Treasury Yields Drop as Fed Buys Longer-Term Securities
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-04-02T21:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/treasuries-fall-before-factory-employment-reports-this-w.html
Treasury 10-year notes rose as the
 Federal Reserve  bought $4.5 billion of government debt in the
first of four rounds of purchases over three days that equals
the most by the central bank since December.  Yields declined in the first day of trading after the
biggest quarterly rout in the U.S. government-bond market since
2010 as policy makers continue to buy debt to ensure borrowing
costs remain low as the economy shows signs of strengthening.
The drop came even as a report showed manufacturing in the U.S.
expanded at a faster pace than forecast in March.  “There’s no supply,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed-income
in New York at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., one of 21
primary dealers obligated to bid in U.S. debt auctions. “We
have buybacks all week.”  Yields on  10-year (USGG10YR)  notes fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.19 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in February 2022 rose 7/32, or $2.19 per
$1,000 face amount, to 98 12/32.  The central bank is  scheduled  to purchase as much as $12
billion in Treasuries maturing from July 2018 to February 2042
this week and up to $1.5 billion in inflation-indexed debt. The
Fed today purchased Treasuries maturing from May 2020 to
November 2021.  Jobs Report  The Fed is consolidating the purchases in a three-day
period before the Labor Department releases a report on April 6,
a partial holiday for Good Friday, showing the U.S. added
205,000 jobs last month, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
The purchases are part of a program ending in June that replaces
$400 billion of shorter-term debt in the Fed’s holdings with
longer maturities to hold down borrowing costs.  Treasuries remained higher even as the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s U.S.  factory index  advanced to 53.4 in March from
52.4 in the previous month.  Valuation measures show government debt is near the most
expensive level in almost three weeks. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, dropped to negative 0.46
percent today after reaching negative 0.26 percent on March 19,
the least expensive since October. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  Construction spending in the U.S. unexpectedly fell in
February, reflecting broad-based declines that indicate the
building industry will take time to stabilize, Commerce
Department figures showed today.  GDP Estimate  The 1.1 percent decrease, the biggest in seven months,
followed a revised 0.8 percent retreat in January that was
larger than previously estimated, Commerce Department data
showed.  Barclays Plc, a primary dealer, today lowered its first-
quarter gross domestic product estimate to a 2 percent annual
rate, from 2.4 percent, citing the weak construction data. GDP
in the U.S. will probably expand 2.2 percent in 2012, according
to the median estimate of more than 70 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Growth in the U.S. should be 2.5 percent this year, and
three percent next year, said Cleveland Fed President Sandra
Pianalto today in a speech in Marietta,  Ohio . Employment could
take four to five years to fall to 6 percent, from the current
8.3 percent.  ‘Get Long Again’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that the
central bank will consider further stimulus, even after
upgrading its economic outlook March 13.  “We saw several months of good economic data in the
U.S.,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “Over the past week or two, the data
has been weaker than what people were hoping for. Coupled with
Bernanke’s comments, it’s setting up for people to get long
again.” A long position is a bet a security will rise.  The U.S. 10-year  yield  will finish 2012 at 2.48 percent,
according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
primary dealers.  Signs of strength in the economy may fade in the second
half of 2012, the dealers said. Tax cuts are expiring, $1
trillion of mandatory federal budget cuts are due to kick in and
$100-a-barrel oil is eating into  consumer spending .  Primary dealer  holdings  of  U.S. government debt  rose to $91
billion last month from a net bet against the securities of
$53.4 billion in May, according to the Fed. In the survey, 15
primary dealer said odds are the Fed will need a third round of
bond purchases to bolster the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  