-- Reduced Tanker Rates Raise Safety Concerns, Industry Group Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-04-02T12:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/reduced-tanker-rates-raise-safety-concerns-industry-group-says.html
Lower earnings for tankers that
carry energy products are sparking concern about possible cuts
in spending on maintenance and crews, according to an industry
group representing companies including BP Plc.  “We’re beginning to see the start of a trend,” David
Cotterell, director of the London-based  Oil Companies
International Marine Forum , said by phone today. Four
“serious” tanker fires took place in the first quarter,
resulting in the loss of 15 lives, he said separately by e-mail.  “It’s a big concern and something that we’ll continue to
watch very closely,” Cotterell said. “We’ve seen from previous
downturns that one of the things that happens quickly is the
need to reduce costs on vessels. One of the ways to reduce costs
on vessels is crews and also on maintenance.”  Rates for the largest  oil tankers  fell to the lowest level
in 14 years in 2011 amid a glut of vessels and slowing global
crude demand. Earnings for five types of oil-product and crude
tankers on 16 routes were below break-even levels on average in
the last year, data from shipbroker Poten & Partners Inc. and
investment bank Pareto Securities ASA show.  Forum members transport 95 percent of all oil carried by
sea, according to Cotterell. The group’s membership includes the
shipping arms of BP and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the world’s two
biggest charterers of tankers, its website shows.  Reduced returns over the past two years are affecting
maintenance, Craig Stevenson Jr., chief executive officer of
Diamond S Shipping, said in an interview March 22. The poor
condition of some vessels offered for distressed sale by banks
was evident in potential purchases assessed by the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based owner of 40 tankers, he said.  “There’s been a good two years of really poor economic
environment in shipping,” Stevenson said. “What do you think
happens to maintenance? It stops.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  