-- Regulators Should Propose New Volcker Rule, Paredes Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-04-02T15:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/regulators-should-propose-new-volcker-rule-sec-s-paredes-says.html
U.S. financial regulators should
“re-propose” the so-called Volcker Rule that bans banks from
engaging in proprietary trading, Securities and Exchange
Commission member Troy Paredes said.  “At this point, the most prudent path forward would be a
re-proposal,” Paredes, one of two Republicans on the five-
member commission, said at a conference in  Washington  sponsored
by the Council of Institutional Investors. “We run the risk
that when we solve one problem we create many other problems and
other unintended consequences.”  The SEC, along with the  Federal Reserve , Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency released a 298-page proposal in October to implement
the proprietary trading ban, which was a part of the 2010
financial regulatory overhaul.  The proposal includes exemptions that would allow banks to
conduct proprietary trading that is tied to market-making
activities or hedging risk. Those exemptions have been
criticized for adding complexity that would make implementing
the ban difficult.  Former FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  has told lawmakers that
the Volcker Rule is so complicated that regulators should
consider starting over.  The Dodd-Frank Act calls on regulators to finalize the
Volcker Rule by July 21, a deadline that Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has told Congress is unlikely to be met. A bipartisan
group of six senators introduced legislation in March that would
align the deadline with regulators’ completion of detailed rules
for the proprietary trading ban.  Representative  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts, co-author of
the Dodd-Frank Act, issued a statement last month urging
regulators to release a simplified version of the proprietary
trading ban by Sept. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  