-- Richard Chandler Appoints Team for Sino-Forest Restructure Plan
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-04-02T02:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/richard-chandler-appoints-team-for-sino-forest-restructure-plan.html
Richard Chandler  Corp., the biggest
shareholder of Sino Forest Corp., appointed a team to lead its
proposal to restructure the forestry company that filed for
 bankruptcy protection  last month.  Richard Chandler, owner of a 19.49 percent  stake , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, said Sino-Forest needs to rebuild
based on good governance, entrepreneurship and conservative
financing, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Singapore-based private investment group.  Sino-Forest Corp. filed for bankruptcy protection as part
of a plan that may see the Chinese timber grower sold to
bondholders, nine months after it was accused of fraud by short
seller Carson Block.  “Sino-Forest faces a range of complex problems,”  David
Walker , an adviser on the forest products industry appointed to
lead the restructuring team, said in the statement. “A
successful restructuring which builds a long term sustainable
plantation business will take a considerable amount of time and
a strong team to drive the process.”  Investors in Sino-Forest, once the largest Chinese forestry
company by market value, lost about C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion)
since Block’s research firm  Muddy Waters LLC  published a  report 
June 2 accusing it of overstating earnings. The shares plunged
74 percent before being suspended Aug. 26 amid investigations by
Canadian regulators and police.  Allen Chan , the company’s co-
founder, stepped down as chief executive officer in August.  Bennett Jones is Sino-Forest’s Canadian legal adviser.
Osler Hoskin & Harcourt LLP is Canadian legal adviser to its
board. Moelis & Co., Goodmans LLP and Hogan Lovells LLP are
advising the group of bondholders.  The cases are: In the Matter of a Plan of Compromise or
Arrangement of  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , CV-12-9667-OOCL, and Sino-
Forest Corp. v. Muddy Water LLC, CV-12-9666-OOCL, Ontario
Superior Court of Justice (Toronto).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  