-- Romney Sees Wisconsin Win to Knock Santorum Out of Race
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-04-02T21:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/romney-sees-wisconsin-win-to-knock-santorum-out-of-race.html
On the eve of  Wisconsin ’s Republican
presidential primary, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum campaigned
in the state with two different missions: Romney worked to pivot
to President Barack Obama and the November general election,
while Santorum fought to keep his candidacy viable.  “His vision of a perfect world is a big-spending big
government,” Romney said of Obama today at a  lumber supply
company  in a suburb of Green Bay. “My vision of a more perfect
world is a smaller  government spending  less and letting the
people keep more.”  The former  Massachusetts  governor also characterized Obama
as out of touch with the woes of average Americans.  “These are tough times for Americans and he has not done
the job people expected him to do,” Romney said.  Lis Smith, a campaign spokeswoman for Obama, responded with
an e-mail attacking Romney’s gubernatorial record.  “We’ve seen what happens when  Mitt Romney  is in charge and
it’s greatly at odds with his message today of more jobs, less
debt, and smaller government,” she said. “During his four
years as governor, Massachusetts had the fourth-worst job
creation rate of any state in the nation, debt increased by 16
percent, government jobs grew six times as fast as private
sector jobs, and taxes increased by $750 million each year.”  Gender Gap  Obama holds a 51 percent to 42 percent lead over Romney in
a dozen states expected to be the closest in the November
general election, according to a USA Today/Gallup  poll  published
today. The survey found Romney has lost support among women
during the primaries, giving Obama an 18-percentage-point
advantage among female voters combined in Colorado, Florida,
 Iowa ,  Michigan , Nevada, New Hampshire,  New Mexico , North
Carolina,  Ohio ,  Pennsylvania ,  Virginia  and Wisconsin.  Romney, 65, wants to focus more attention on Obama while
seeking to wrap up his party’s nomination. His next test comes
tomorrow in a trio of primaries in Wisconsin, Maryland and
 Washington , D.C., as party leaders increasingly join Romney in
trying to bring a swift conclusion to the nominating contest.  In his stop near Green Bay, Romney criticized the health-
care legislation Obama championed that is now being reviewed by
the U.S. Supreme Court.  ‘Government-Centered Society’  “In a government-centered society like this president
favors, government bureaucrats can tell you what kind of health
insurance you ought to have and ultimately, I’m convinced,
they’re going to tell you what kind of treatments you can
have,” he said. “This is where they’re going: government
directing your health-care life.”  Obama told reporters today his signature health overhaul is
constitutional and he’s confident the court will uphold it.  “This is not an abstract argument,” as millions more have
care now “because of this law,” he said during a White House
news conference after meeting with Mexican President Felipe Calderon and Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper .  Romney blamed Obama’s administration for causing stress
even among those who have jobs.  “People who are employed are still concerned about the
future,” he said. “Their policies have helped create anxiety
in this country.”  Asked by a listener whether he views interracial marriages
as a sin because he’s a Mormon, Romney said he doesn’t.  “No,” he said. “Next question.”  Until 1978, the Mormon Church had a policy against
ordaining blacks for the priesthood.  Joined by Ryan  For the fourth consecutive day, Romney was accompanied by
Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the House Budget
Committee chairman who endorsed him last week and is often
mentioned in media reports as a possible running mate.  Santorum, 53, a former U.S. senator from Pennsylvania,
dismissed Romney’s organizational and financial advantages.  “The longer we’re in this, and I would argue even if it
ends up in a convention, that’s a positive thing for the
Republican Party,” he told reporters in Appleton.  A contested convention in Tampa,  Florida , in August would
be an “energizing thing” for Republicans, Santorum said.
Whoever wins the nomination would get the party’s backing and
have little difficulty raising money or expanding the campaign
staff, he said.  Cheese-Head Hat  Still, with polls showing him behind in Wisconsin,
Santorum’s campaign has taken on the air of a Midwestern family
vacation. He made a stop at cheese store in Appleton, where he
signed a cheese-head hat, headed behind the deli counter to cook
a grilled cheese sandwich, and indulged in a lunch-time beer.  From there it was off to a bowling alley in nearby Menasha
-- his seventh such stop in eight days -- to bowl several frames
and reinforce his everyman image against Romney, a former
private-equity executive.  While Santorum says he’ll stay in the race even if he loses
all of tomorrow’s contests, his campaign shows signs of retreat.
After days stumping across Wisconsin, he plans to appear on
election night in his home state of Pennsylvania, which holds
its primary April 24. Among his challenges will be keeping his
campaign alive through April.  “The map looks a lot better for us in May,” he said
today, referring to primaries scheduled that month in southern
and border states that include  North Carolina ,  West Virginia ,
Arkansas and  Texas .  April 24 Contests  A three-week voting lull follows tomorrow’s contests. Along
with Pennsylvania, primaries on April 24 are being held in four
states where Romney is favored --  Rhode Island ,  Connecticut ,  New
York  and  Delaware .  With about half of the Republican nominating contests
complete, Romney has exactly half -- 572 -- of the 1,144
delegates needed to capture the nomination at the party’s
convention in August, according to an Associated Press tally.
Santorum has 273 delegates and would need to win about three-
quarters of those remaining to become the party’s nominee.  In a NBC News/Marist poll released March 30, Romney led
Santorum in Wisconsin, 40 percent to 33 percent. The telephone
survey of 740 likely Republican primary voters was conducted
March 26-27 and had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.6
percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Howard, Wisconsin at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Lerer in Appleton, Wisconsin at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  