-- Royal Jordanian Seeks Merger as Gulf Carriers Squeeze Profit
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-04-02T12:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/royal-jordanian-seeks-merger-as-gulf-carriers-squeeze-profit-1-.html
Royal Jordanian Airlines (RJAL) , a member
of the British Airways-led Oneworld alliance, said a merger with
a larger carrier is inevitable as high fuel prices, competition
from local rivals and a sluggish economy squeeze earnings.  While Amman-based Royal Jordanian, founded in 1963 and one
of the  Middle East ’s oldest airlines, has no concrete plans for
a transaction, it views consolidation as “a must,” Chief
Executive Officer Hussein Dabbas said in an interview.  “We are looking and reviewing options and talking to
airlines to see when the time is right for us to do something,”
Dabbas said yesterday. “With the pressure we are seeing from
mega-carriers around the world, whether European or regional, to
continue as we are is going to be a difficult game to follow.”  Airline earnings will likely drop 62 percent to $3 billion
this year, equal to a 0.5 percent margin, the  International Air
Transport Association  said last month. Royal Jordanian had a
loss of 57.9 million dinars ($82 million) in 2011, versus a 9.6
million dinar year-earlier profit, as traffic was hurt by
political unrest in the region and competition from Gulf-based
rivals including Emirates, Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways Ltd.  ‘Right Synergies’  “It’s a very difficult business environment and if airlines
can find the right synergies, they should look at merging their
operations and consolidating,” Dabbas said by telephone. “This
is the trend of many airlines around the world now.”  Royal Jordanian shares rose as much as 3.5 percent to 59
qirsh before trading at 57 qirsh on the Amman exchange.  The carrier joined Oneworld, which includes  AMR Corp. (AMR1) ’s
 American Airlines , in 2007, becoming the first Middle Eastern
recruit to one of the three major global groupings.  Willie Walsh , CEO of  International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG) , the parent of British Airways, has said he’s eager to
expand the company and that mergers will most likely happen
between existing alliance partners. Dabbas didn’t say if a
transaction involving another Oneworld member was most likely.  Among Middle Eastern airlines, Abu Dhabi-based Etihad has
the active acquisition policy, increasing its stake in  Air
Berlin Plc (AB1) , Europe’s third-biggest discount operator, to 30
percent and buying 40 percent of Air Seychelles Ltd.  Carriers worldwide are being squeezed as earnings shrink.
Barcelona-based Spanair SA collapsed Jan. 27, followed that week
by Hungarian national carrier Malev Zrt., while Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. of  India  may lose its license amid cash shortages
and AMR itself has filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection .  Route Review  Royal Jordanian, which scrapped more than 1,300 flights in
2011 due to low demand during the “Arab spring” and euro crisis,
has abandoned four routes this year and cut frequencies on
others. Dabbas said he’s examining all remaining destinations
with a view to either reducing capacity or stimulating traffic.  Still, the carrier is looking at adding services to
Algiers, the Ghanaian capital Accra and Lagos in  Nigeria , and
the CEO said there are signs of improvement in Arab markets as
political unrest eases. Passenger numbers grew at least 20
percent in each month of the traditionally slow first quarter,
which while unprofitable was “much better” than last year.  “We’re not shrinking but we’re consolidating,” Dabbas said.
“Where we see room for improvement we’ll move there, and where
we see the move is fruitless and useless we’ll pull out.”  The carrier operates 32 aircraft, mostly from  Airbus SAS (EAD) ,
with two A310 wide-bodies to be retired this month and seven of
its older A320-series single-aisle jets due to be swapped for
newer versions of the same type later this year. The first five
of 11  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 on order will arrive in 2014, the CEO said.  Capital Boost  Royal Jordanian is also looking at raising equity over the
next two or three years, Dabbas said, adding that many of the
company’s problems stem from it being “very under-capitalized.”  The airline has 84.4 million shares outstanding, including
a free float of 28.2 million, Bloomberg data. The examination of
a capital increase already has investor approval and a decision
to go ahead could be taken before the end of 2012, the CEO said.  Royal Jordanian is hedged on about 10 percent of fuel needs
for this year, and its budget assumes the cost of crude is $110
a barrel, versus $85 in 2011. That “very conservative” figure
resulted from feedback provided by banks, hedging companies and
other institutions suggesting the oil price would drop, and even
the new number may prove to be too low, Dabbas said.  Brent crude  for May settlement was priced at $122.31 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 12:48 p.m. in
 London , and has gained almost 9 percent so far this year.  “During the past month the increase was unreal,” he said.
“It seems we may have underestimated, but we’ll wait and see. We
review prices every day. If the price goes up again maybe we’ll
need to increase the expected budget.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at   twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  