-- Rubio’s Half Dream Still an Immigration Nightmare
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-02T23:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/rubio-s-half-dream-still-an-immigration-nightmare.html
Stirrings in the Senate Republican
caucus suggest that some members are seeking a way to smooth the
party’s bumpy relations with Hispanic voters.  Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida  says he is working on
legislation to enable illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. as
children to gain some form of legal status. Senators  Jon Kyl  of
 Arizona  and  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas are said to be working
on legislation of their own, to be unveiled at a politically
propitious moment.  Democrats are already denouncing the moves as cynical and
politically inspired. We’re no fans of cynicism, but there’s
nothing wrong with politics being politically inspired. If the
Republican senators can use electoral expediency to push their
colleagues toward a more sensible approach to immigration,
that’s good for the party -- and for every American.  They have some catching up to do. After failing to support
President  George W. Bush ’s comprehensive immigration reform,
Republicans voted most recently in 2010 to kill the  Dream Act ,
which would have given legal status and a path to citizenship to
young illegal immigrants who serve in the armed forces or attend
at least two years of college. This year’s presidential primary
has featured calls for “self-deportation” and Arizona-style
crackdowns.  With 2 million more Hispanics expected to vote in 2012 than
in 2008, when  Barack Obama  won the Hispanic vote by more than 2-
to-1, polls show Republicans facing a potentially decisive
deficit among Hispanic voters. A new approach to the Dream Act
might help narrow the divide for Republicans up and down the
ticket.  Risk of Backfiring  An insincere approach to the Dream Act, however, runs the
risk of backfiring. In interviews, Rubio has been unclear about
what he’s hatching for Dream-age illegal immigrants (those under
35 who entered the U.S. before age 16 and have spent at least 5
years here),  saying  he wants “a visa process that legalizes
them and wouldn’t prohibit them in the future from accessing the
citizenship process, but it wouldn’t give them a pathway to it
specially carved out.”  The second half of that sentence gives us pause. The normal
pathway to citizenship is being born in the U.S. and/or having
American parents. Any process that transforms illegal immigrants
into American citizens, or even legal residents, by definition
would be “specially carved out.”  That’s what the Dream Act is -- a special process by which
young people first gain interim legal status, then permanent
resident status, becoming eligible for citizenship. According to
the  Congressional Budget Office , the law would apply to roughly
1.1 million individuals by 2020 -- a tiny fraction of the U.S.
population of 310 million. Its cost is negligible; in fact, the
CBO  predicts  it would slightly reduce the  deficit  because of
increased tax revenue.  Many Dream youths are culturally American but lack legal
status. A half-measure that produces only a different sort of
legal limbo will not do these young people much good. Nor is it
likely to solve the Republicans’ electoral problem.  Rubio  has said  that Democrats want to keep the issue alive
“because they want to use it as a political tool.” That sounds
pretty cynical, too, though it certainly has a ring of truth
about it. Fortunately for Republicans, all they need to do to
remove that “tool” from the Democratic workshop is to stare
down the nativists in their midst and vote to help kids who want
to dedicate their lives and talents to their adopted homeland.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  Myanmar’s elections ;
Ramesh Ponnuru on why the U.S. will not go to  single-payer
health care ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on the
 fallibility of economists ;  Margaret Carlson  on the  recall
movement in Wisconsin ; Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff
on why this crisis  really is different ; Eric Posner and Glen
Weyl on creating an  FDA for derivatives trading .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 