-- Rusal Would Study Norilsk Sale at Right Price, New Chairman Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-04-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/rusal-would-study-norilsk-sale-at-right-price-new-chairman-says.html
United Co. Rusal (486) ’s Chairman Barry Cheung, whose predecessor quit citing a “deep crisis” at the
company, said the world’s biggest aluminum producer would study
selling its stake in OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel  at the right price.  The departure of the billionaire former Chairman  Victor Vekselberg , who wanted Rusal to sell its 25 percent holding in
Norilsk, wouldn’t have a negative effect on the company, Cheung,
who joined Rusal as a non-executive director in 2009 and took
over as non-executive chairman on March 16, said in  Hong Kong .  “It’s a long-term strategic investment,” the new chairman
said in an interview yesterday. “That’s not to say the stake is
never for sale. If the price is sufficiently attractive, the
board has the obligation to look at it.”  Proposals by Vekselberg, a Rusal shareholder, to sell the
holding in Norilsk to cut debt and resume dividends clashed with
the plans of billionaire Chief Executive Officer  Oleg Deripaska .
Cheung said he was among those Rusal board members who rejected
a Norilsk offer to buy back a 20 percent stake for $12.8 billion
in February 2011. Rusal in March booked a $1.4 billion drop in
the value of the holding to $7.4 billion as of the end of 2011.  “As demand increases and supply continues to decline, I
expect the value of Norilsk Nickel will go up,” Cheung said.  “I don’t think the company faces a deep crisis,” he said.
“That is not to say there are not things that should concern
us. We’re watching the price of aluminum very carefully. We want
to continue to improve corporate governance.”  Agrees on Strategy  Cheung said he so far agreed on strategy with Deripaska,
whose En+ Group owns 47 percent of the aluminum producer.  “I’m hopeful with the various changes that have been in
place or are going to happen, we have put that kind of
disagreement and dispute behind us,” Cheung said.  Rusal, which has slumped 56 percent in Hong Kong trading in
the past year, declined by 2.4 percent yesterday in the city.  Cheung, also the head of the Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange
and chairman of the city’s  Urban Renewal Authority , said his job
is to “make the company more transparent to investors and the
public so people have a better understanding of the company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun at 
 yun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  