-- S. Korea’s Ruling Party Sees Popularity Boost Ahead of Elections
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-02T06:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/s-korea-s-ruling-party-sees-popularity-boost-ahead-of-elections.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
and his ruling party’s approval ratings rose after his hosting
of the Nuclear Security Summit, a poll today showed ahead of
parliamentary elections next week.  The ruling New Frontier Party’s popularity rose 2.4
percentage points to 39.8 percent, according to a weekly poll by
Seoul-based Realmeter conducted March 26-30. Lee’s approval
rating increased 3.9 percentage points to 32.7 percent, which is
still less less than half of the 76 percent he began his term
with in February 2008.  Lee and his party seek to maintain control of the
legislature in April 11 elections over an opposition coalition
created to garner more votes. The NFP has struggled to counter
public discontent over widening income gaps, rising inflation
and a series of scandals including allegations that Lee ordered
illegal surveillance of citizens critical of him.  “The NFP’s ratings are expected to fall as they already
started to do so over the weekend, when the surveillance
allegations were made,” the pollster Realmeter said in an e-
mailed statement of the weekly result. “The popularity contest
between the ruling party and the opposition is expected to be
very close until the day of the voting.”  The main opposition Democratic United Party’s popularity
was at 30.5 percent and ratings of its coalition partner, the
United Progressive Party, were at 8.1 percent, according to the
Realmeter poll. The survey of 3,750 people had a margin of error
of plus or minus 1.6 percentage points.  Prosecutors opened an investigation into accusations that
Lee’s government performed illegal surveillance of civilians and
politicians between 2008 and 2010, Chae Dong Wook of the Supreme
Prosecutors’ Office told reporters yesterday. The probe came two
days after a labor union said it obtained thousands of
classified government reports confirming illegal monitoring
activities.  Most of the documents detail cases under the previous
administration’s rule and the government will wait for results
from the prosecution’s investigation, Lee spokesman Choe Geum
Nak said yesterday in a statement on the presidential website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  