-- Samsung to Spend $7 Billion on Mobile-Chip Plant in China
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-04-02T09:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/samsung-to-spend-7-billion-on-mobile-chip-plant-in-china.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest maker of computer-memory chips, will spend $7 billion
building a semiconductor factory in China as demand grows,
fueled by mobile devices including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad.  The company will invest $2.3 billion initially in the Xi’an
plant, Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung said in a regulatory
filing today. The factory will start producing semiconductors
known as NAND flash next year.  Samsung is boosting spending as demand for flash memory,
used to store media including photos, videos and applications
permanently, is expected to climb 49 percent in the five years
to 2015, according to Englewood, Colorado-based  IHS Inc. (IHS)  The
Xi’an facility is the company’s largest investment in an
overseas factory, Samsung said in a statement.  “A single factory of this size could be the largest in the
industry,” Seo Won Seok, a Seoul-based analyst at  Korea 
Investment & Securities Co., said by phone. “For NAND flash,
China will be a key production site, along with Korea.”  Samsung is building the plant in China because the world’s
most populous country is growing as a key chip market, the
company said in December. Competing memory chipmakers, including
Tokyo-based  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , are losing money after the
prices for DRAM chips, another type used in personal computers,
reached a record low.  Samsung opened a new factory in South Korea in September.
The 12 trillion-won ($10.6 billion) facility is the largest in
the industry and can produce NAND flash chips as well as DRAM.  The company also has a semiconductor plant in Austin,
 Texas , making both memory and logic chips, including application
processors used in mobile phones.  Samsung started operating the Austin factory’s logic-chip
production line at full capacity in October, about five months
after operations began.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  