-- Saudis Skip Arab Spring as Nation Pours Money Into Jobs
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-04-02T21:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/saudis-skip-arab-spring-as-nation-pours-money-into-jobs.html
When the three Saudi men met each
other in school 11 years ago, they dreamed that by the time they
had reached their mid-20s, each would have a well-paid job, a
house, a new car and maybe a wife.  Today, all three still live at home, get pocket money from
their parents and are jobless in  Riyadh , capital of the world’s
largest crude oil exporter.  Now in their mid-20s, the three men say they feel
resentment when they see the shops along major highways packed
with the latest electronics, furniture and designer clothes, the
showrooms displaying shiny sedans and the restaurants offering
delicacies prepared by French and Italian chefs.  Most of the facilities are run by expatriates who return
home often able to afford a house, car and a wife -- apparently
benefiting more from the kingdom’s wealth than some of the
locals do, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its May issue.  “Wherever I go, companies say they want someone with
experience, but I don’t have it,” Hussein al-Ghamdi, 25, says.
“So they bring in foreigners with experience and deny us the
chance to get a start and prove ourselves. That upsets me very
much.”  Under-30s such as al-Ghamdi and his friends make up 66
percent of the Saudi population -- a group that also has the
highest rate of unemployment. About 27 percent of the Saudi
 labor force  aged 20 to 29 is unemployed, according to data from
the  Central Department of Statistics and Information .  That’s almost on a par with  Spain , where 36.4 percent of
16- to 29-year-olds were unemployed in the fourth quarter of
2011, the highest rate in the European Union.  Quota System  For years, the government has been trying to address the
issue with its “Saudization” quota system that requires
companies to employ Saudis for at least 30 percent of their
positions. So far, only a third of the target has been achieved,
according to the Labor Ministry.  In a country of 28 million people, about 8.6 million are
foreigners, who make up most of the labor force. Just 4.3
million of the almost 19 million Saudis were in the workforce in
2009, according to the most-recent statistics agency data.  Saudi unemployment has acquired a new urgency following
popular uprisings that have toppled regimes in  Tunisia ,  Egypt ,
 Libya  and Yemen and have shaken Syria and Bahrain, which is
linked to Saudi Arabia by a causeway. In all of those countries,
high levels of idle young people helped spark the turmoil.  ‘Time Bomb’  “Youth unemployment is a time bomb for Saudi Arabia,”
says Jean-Francois Seznec, a professor at  Georgetown
University ’s Center for Contemporary Arab Studies in  Washington .  King Abdullah responded by announcing in 2011 a $130
billion plan to create jobs, build subsidized housing and
support the religious establishment that had backed the
government’s ban on domestic protests.  Labor Minister Adel Faqih in May 2011 announced a program
to reduce unemployment called Nitaqat, or Ranges, that for the
first time rewards companies that employ a higher percentage of
Saudis.  “What they’ve done to slow any reaction to the Arab Spring
is to throw money at people, with some success,” Seznec says.  Persistent unemployment could have broad repercussions.
Though there are some informal efforts to create activities
ranging from impromptu comedy clubs to a girls’ basketball
league, Saudi youth have few sanctioned outlets where they can
have fun, exacerbating frustrations over unemployment.  Unrest?  “You are talking about the risk of this frustration going
into political activism,” says David Butter, regional director
for the Middle East at the London-based Economist Intelligence
Unit.  If political unrest got out of hand, it could threaten the
oil industry and its exports, Butter says. The kingdom’s proven
oil reserves of 263 billion barrels are the world’s largest.  In February, the country produced 9.68 million barrels a
day -- about a third of the total for the  Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Any instability in  Saudi Arabia  would also create ripples
throughout the Middle East. As the birthplace of Islam and home
to its two holiest sites, in Mecca and Medina, the country
wields immense sway in the Muslim and Arab world and maintains
influence in countries such as Lebanon and Bahrain and in the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  Government Largesse  Saudi Arabia is unlikely to have its own Arab Spring
anytime soon, social activist Abdullah Hamidaddin says. For one
thing, he says, there isn’t a critical mass of people in
economic pain, because strong family networks ensure financial
support for the unemployed.  And the Saudi government’s largesse means that people have
an interest in maintaining the status quo, he says. For
instance, the government is now paying 2,000 riyals ($530) a
month to over one million unemployed Saudis for a year while
helping to train them to find work.  “People here feel that the government is a cash cow that
should be preserved,” Hamidaddin says.  Even if there were dissent, political parties are banned,
so the country lacks networks to mobilize people. An absolute
monarchy, Saudi Arabia is the least democratic country in the
Middle East, according to the Economist Intelligence Unit’s 2011
 Democracy Index .  Aging Rulers  The country’s rulers are aging --  King Abdullah , a son of
the country’s founder, is 88 this year, while Crown Prince Nayef
is 78 -- making succession a potentially contentious issue.
There’s no obvious candidate to rule the country among the
founder’s grandsons.  The Allegiance Commission, made up of 35 representatives of
founder Abdul-Aziz’s descendants, is charged with selecting a
king or crown prince if either dies or becomes incapacitated.  It’s in the ruling family’s interest to avoid conflicts
over the transfer of power, says  Theodore Karasik , director of
research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis.  “Almost everybody recognizes that keeping a smooth
succession process guarantees stability,” he says.  The Al Saud family remains in control with the blessing of
religious leaders. The kingdom follows an ascetic strand of
Islam that emerged in the 1700s based on the doctrines of cleric
Muhammad bin Abdul-Wahhab.  Key religious positions are still held by Abdul-Wahhab’s
descendants, allowing them to influence policy. Because of that
pact, the ruling family finds itself constantly playing a
balancing act in its quest for modernity.  Selling Lingerie  At times, the balance can tip into the incongruous: Until
recently, for instance, laws forbidding women to work in mixed-
gender malls meant that they had to undergo the embarrassment of
buying lingerie and makeup from men.  Seeing salesmen stretching panties to show how widely they
can fit, arguing with women about bra sizes, suggesting flimsy
nightgowns and thongs or smearing hairy wrists with eye shadow
was jarring amid the kingdom’s strict gender segregation rules,
which require women to cover themselves in public with black
cloaks called abayas.  In June, King Abdullah decreed that salesmen should be
removed from stores that sell “women’s necessities,” opening
up employment opportunities for women that were unthinkable 10
years ago.  ‘This Job Is Fantastic’  “This job is fantastic,” says Lulu al-Mihdar, 23, who was
recently hired by Nayomi lingerie store at a mall in  Jeddah .
Across from Nayomi, six female vendors at cosmetics store
Mikyajy huddle together, cutting each other off in midsentence
in their eagerness to talk about their new careers.  A “Families Only” sign on the window indicates men
unaccompanied by women are banned from the premises.  “During training in Dubai, my trainer used to say I should
raise my voice, but I was too shy,” Laila Sultan, 29, says.
“Now, people across the hall can hear it.”  With an unemployment rate of 55 percent for women aged 20
to 29, it’s not surprising that Sultan and her friends jump at
the few chances offered to them. Keeping their male cohorts
happily employed is trickier.  The under-30 generation faces a big gap between
expectations and job prospects, says Ibrahim Warde, adjunct
professor of international business at the Fletcher School of
Law and Diplomacy at  Tufts University .  Pampered Youth  “Young Saudis feel that they are not getting their
rightful share of the national wealth,” Warde says. “They have
been relatively pampered by a generous welfare system and will
not take just any job.”  At the same time, he says, “Their anger is stoked by the
fact that they are surrounded by wealth and all its
manifestations.”  Some 90 percent of the private-sector workforce in Saudi
Arabia is foreign. It’s rare to find a laborer, waiter or
construction worker who’s Saudi: They tend to prefer desk-bound
managerial positions.  Mohammed al-Mushayqeh, one of the three former schoolmates
in Riyadh, quit his job as an administrative assistant in a
private company two years ago because his career wasn’t moving
forward.  With only a high school degree, al-Mushayqeh, 25, was
offered two positions at a government-organized job fair:
cashier in a store or shelf stocker in a supermarket.  ‘Silly Offers’  “They were silly offers,” he says. “I want something
prestigious.”  Despite the embarrassment of being financially dependent on
his parents, he’s holding out for a better offer.  So is Abdul-Rahman Abdullah, 27, who quit his job as a
supervisor at a telecommunications company three years ago
because he couldn’t put up with the 10-hour shifts.  “There wasn’t any time left to do anything else,” he
says. “Foreigners come here without their families just to work
and make money. But Saudis have family obligations.”  Abdullah, who has a high school diploma, says he has been
offered “bad” jobs: as a waiter, security guard and cashier.  “In my previous job, I used to sit at a desk in my own
office,” he says. “I want the same standard of work.”  The  Labor Ministry  is trying to make hiring Saudis, even
those without skills, more attractive to employers. Under the
new Nitaqat Saudization program, companies will get a rating
based on whether they meet their quotas for hiring local
workers.  Rewards for Complying  Those rated “green,” or excellent, will be able to
benefit from various ministry services, such as the transfer of
visas and issuance of new visas. Those rated “red” won’t.
While previous programs imposed a blanket quota of 30 percent
Saudis on all companies, Nitaqat bases the quotas on the type of
work, the number of job seekers and the size of the business.  “Nitaqat is an improvement on previous efforts,” says
 Paul Gamble , head of research at Riyadh-based Jadwa Investment.
“It’s unreasonable to assume the same quota for construction
and financial services, as was the case previously.”  Labor Ministry officials consulted business executives
before announcing the new quota system. In the past, “people
that did reach the quota didn’t get anything in return,” says
Lama al-Sulaiman, vice chairman of the board of directors at the
 Jeddah Chamber of Commerce and Industry .  Now, she says, the government is offering executives a
deal: “Employ Saudis and see how much better your life is going
to be with all government agencies.”  Paying for Training  To make employing locals more palatable, the government is
also helping pay for companies to train Saudis for new jobs --in
some cases positions they never dreamed of taking.  Said Al-Shaikh, senior vice president and group chief
economist at the  National Commercial Bank , says there’s a good
chance that the government’s efforts to fight unemployment will
work because they’re comprehensive.  “However, it will take some time before this issue is
resolved,” adds Al-Shaikh, who is a member of the Consultative
Council, which is appointed by the king and functions as a
parliament.  He identified three areas with the potential to attract
thousands of Saudis: construction, wholesale and retail, and
manufacturing. Foreign nationals make up 93 percent of the 2.6
million people in construction, 85 percent of the 1.5 million
people in wholesale and retail, and 80 percent of the 650,000
people in manufacturing,  Al-Shaikh says.  Learning Welding  Before joining  Riyadh Polytechnic Institute  last year,
Abdul-Karim al-Saeed, 24, thought his only job option was being
boss at a private company. Then he learned welding at the
institute and discovered he enjoyed it.  Abdallah Obeikan, chief executive officer of  Obeikan
Investment Group , a maker of packaging and educational products,
set up RPI in 2009 in partnership with the government’s
 Technical and Vocational Training Corp ., which provides
infrastructure and accreditation.  Another government institution, the  Human Resources
Development Fund , financed by fees companies pay to bring in
foreign laborers, pays 75 percent of the training costs and
salaries. OIG covers the remaining 15 million riyals a year in
costs.  The two-year program targets C-average students, who start
with intensive classes in English and communication skills.
Eight months into the program, they choose from among eight
specializations needed at OIG’s 18 factories, such as printing
and packaging, sales and finance. The trainees are considered
company staff.  English Skills  Moayyed Hisham was hired in October 2010 although he had no
qualifications and no clue what kind of work he’d like to do.
Obeikan pays him 1,500 riyals a month, plus benefits, and
enrolled him in RPI, where he’s now studying electromechanics,
which could lead to a job as a machine operator or a quality or
maintenance technician.  “I started with zero English and nothing in terms of
skills,” says Hisham, a slim, 20-year-old man dressed in the
institute’s navy-blue uniform. “Today, I feel I have a
future.”  Hisham and al-Saeed both say they’ve gotten personal
benefits from the English classes, too. Al-Saeed can now watch
American movies without subtitles, while Hisham can now speak
with strangers abroad in English.  Obeikan says his company has now exceeded its Saudization
quota of 20 percent and is starting to see the benefits in the
form of less bureaucracy.  ‘You Shut Down’  “If you are in the red zone, you lose all your non-Saudi
employees because they will not renew their residencies,” he
says. “You shut down.” Of Obeikan’s 3,600 employees in the
kingdom, 34 percent are Saudi.  The government isn’t just training high school graduates.
It has earmarked a total of 169 billion riyals, about a quarter
of the 2012 budget, for education and training. The money will
be spent to build 742 new schools and 40 new colleges and to
create curriculums that produce graduates with marketable
skills.  About 20 billion riyals have been allocated for the more
than 120,000 Saudi students studying abroad to pay tuition,
medical insurance, a stipend and a ticket home once a year.
Saudi Arabia’s spending on education is the highest in the
 Middle East , according to the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization.  Some Saudis say that no matter how comprehensive the plans
to ameliorate unemployment, more needs to be done for youth.  No Place for Fun  There are almost no places where they can have fun: Movie
theaters are banned, malls are off-limits to men unaccompanied
by a female relative on weekends and even restaurants are
segregated.  Many youths head to the desert to escape. On a Friday
afternoon in the Thumamah Desert outside Riyadh, young Saudi
men, some with traditional red-and-white-checkered headdresses
thrown over their shoulders, drive all-terrain vehicles across
the sand dunes.  Every now and then, they stop and press on the brakes and
the accelerator to spin their wheels. The aim is to see who can
shoot the tallest fountain of sand into the air.  Though men wear identical white robes in public and women
wear the black abayas, Saudis aren’t as homogenous as they first
seem. Some are liberals who want more freedom, while others are
conservative, pushing for more restrictions.  To survive, liberal youths live in a parallel, underground
world, where they can experiment with freedom away from the eyes
of the religious police who are charged, among other things,
with ensuring the genders don’t mix.  Clandestine Comedy Club  Home cinemas make up for the lack of movie theaters, long
phone conversations pass for dating and those who want to mark
Valentine’s Day -- which is banned -- can find shops that sell
red velvet pillows, cats with hearts dangling from their mouths
that meow when pressed and puppies hugging a heart that says “I
love you.”  One night in January, about 60 Saudi youths sit on stools,
armchairs and a carpet inside an empty pool on the grounds of a
Jeddah home, where comedians poke fun at some of the quirks that
mark their culture. Standing in the deepest part of the pool,
one of the men jokes about how the bare arms, legs and chests of
women in magazines are blacked out by censors.  Laughter rises from the bottom of the pool as one comedian
says: “I bought a Spice Girls CD, and I was surprised to see
they were wearing abayas.”  The Next Generation  Humor has also attracted hundreds of thousands of viewers
to online shows such as the two produced by Kaswara al-Khatib,
creative chairman of  Full Stop Advertising , which satirize
government bureaucracy and aspects of daily life such as
excessive shopping during Ramadan.  “Instead of being out on the streets, now they have
something to do,” al-Khatib, 42, says of his viewers.  At a rooftop restaurant in Jeddah, 29-year-old Khaled
Yeslam finds little to laugh about. He blows a cloud of smoke
from a pipe whose base is filled with red-tinted water and then
launches into a tirade about the restrictions youths face.  Yeslam, who’s studying English in  New York , vents his
frustrations on Twitter, where his posts have drawn more than
21,000 followers.  “I want to see my kids falling in love, dating, going out
with their soul mates,” Yeslam says as the sweet smell of
tobacco drifts in the cool air. “I really hope that the next
generation will be normal like the rest of the planet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net 
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net . 