-- Scene in D.C.: Hot Cocktails Fuel Artini Fundraiser
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-02T14:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/scene-in-d-c-hot-cocktails-fuel-artini-fundraiser.html
Lovers of art and artful cocktails
gathered at the  Corcoran Gallery  Saturday night for its fifth
annual “Artini” fundraiser.  Mixologist Andy Bixby, who works for D.C. restaurant Smith
Commons, drew inspiration from John George Brown’s  “The
Longshoremen’s Noon,”  an 1879 painting hanging in the Corcoran
that depicts blue-collar workers enjoying a midday break.  “I love Manhattans,” Bixby said, thinking about what he’d
drink on a break, and then revealed the magic ingredient of his
“Smoke Over  Manhattan ”: honey-smoked Jack Daniels.  Bixby and 10 other mixologists shared their cocktails with
almost 700 young professionals who paid between $100 and $150 to
sample the drinks and support ArtReach, the Corcoran’s
educational program.  Sam Haltiwanger from Ardeo + Bardeo mixed apple and brown
sugar into his “HANDlebar,” inspired by artist Jane Hammond’s
work “ Hand Held .”  Haltiwanger said he was struck by the “collage-like”
effect of the piece, so he wanted to “have a lot going on ...
flavors from different American cultures.”  The party showcased local DJ Chris Nitti and featured
appetizers like chocolate-covered strawberries and roast-beef
sliders. It was hosted by the  1869 Society , the Corcoran’s
organization for young art lovers, and sponsored by  Remy
Cointreau SA (RCO)  and other liquor companies.  ‘Theo’s Flower’  Joe Ambrose from P.O.V. at the  W Hotel  was anointed the
“Critics Choice” winner for his “Theo’s Flower,” featuring
42 Below Vodka. It was his take on Terry Winters’s painting
“ Theophrastus Garden 2 .”  Readers voting in  the Washingtonian  magazine, Artini’s
media sponsor, deemed Ronald Flores of Art and Soul their “fan
favorite.”  His “Zeitgeist” brewed Mount Gay Rum with rooibos
tea. His muse was the Aaron Douglas painting “Into Bondage.”  Lee Brenner, a former MySpace executive who now runs
 hypervocal.com , said he agreed to serve on the steering
committee because the crowd of culturally attuned people between
the ages of 18 to 35 falls precisely into his irreverent news
site’s ideal demographic.  Public-relations professional Lindley Thornburg, the
chairwoman of the event, said Artini exposes the variety of
restaurants and bars “all over the city”.  The event also gives people like Thornburg and the
Corcoran’s vice president of communications and marketing,
Kristin Guiter, a chance to show off their artsy chic.  Guiter wore a bright-red vintage number while Thornburg was
radiant in white, which blended well with the luminous alabaster
sculptures on the Corcoran’s grand staircase.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 