-- Cigarette Paper Patent Fight To Be Decided by U.S. Agency
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-04-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/schweitzer-mauduit-loss-over-paper-patents-to-be-reviewed-1-.html
Schweitzer-Mauduit International
Inc. (SWM) ’s efforts to block a German competitor from selling self-
extinguishing cigarette papers in the U.S. were revived by a
trade agency that can block imports of the rival products.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington  said
yesterday it will review Judge James Gildea’s findings from
 February  that Julius Glatz GmbH of Neidenfels,  Germany , and its
LIPtec unit didn’t violate Schweitzer-Mauduit’s patent rights.
Notice of the commission’s  decision  was posted on the agency’s
website.  The dispute is over so-called low-ignition proclivity
papers, which have thick bands that act as buffers so a
cigarette goes out if a smoker isn’t drawing air through it. All
50 U.S. states and the  District of Columbia  have passed laws
requiring so-called fire-safe cigarettes.  While cooking is the leading cause of U.S. home fires,
smoking is the top reason people die in home conflagrations,
with an estimated 700 to 900 deaths each year,  according  to the
National Fire Protection Association.  The fire association  projected  that, once the laws are
fully implemented in every state, the number of smoking-related
fire deaths will drop by as much as 77 percent.  Schweitzer-Mauduit, based in Alpharetta,  Georgia , said in
its complaint that it has about 23 percent of the global
cigarette-paper market and supplies about 80 percent of the U.S.
market for low-ignition proclivity papers. Schweitzer-Mauduit
makes papers under the name Alginex, and has said in regulatory
filings that it has additional patents protecting its flagship
brand from competitors.  Fire-Safe Cigarettes  Glatz and its LIPtec make and import their own papers,
which are sold through  Charlotte , North Carolina-based KneX
Worldwide LLC, according to documents in the case.  The company’s business is primarily in  Europe , though it is
expanding in the U.S. Its papers are used in the Signal and
Skydancer brands, discount cigarettes produced by American
Indian tribes and sold online.  Gildea said a patent issued in 1999 covering papers that
have bands of a “film-forming composition” that’s fire-safe
without changing the tobacco’s flavor wasn’t infringed. He said
a second patent, issued in 2004 for a process to make the papers
so the bands didn’t shrink more than the uncoated parts, was
invalid even though Glatz was using the invention.  The six-member commission said it will consider whether the
judge erred in his interpretation of key terms in the patents,
as well validity issues of the 2004 patent. The agency is
scheduled to announce its final decision on June 5, according to
information on the agency’s website.  In October, Schweitzer-Mauduit said it had settled its
dispute with one competitor, Germany-based Delfortgroup AG, and
its distributor, Astra Tobacco Corp. of  Chapel Hill ,  North
Carolina . Under the terms of the agreement, Delfortgroup agreed
to pay a minimum of $4 million a year for five years, with
additional payments through the life of the patents, some of
which last through 2023.  The case is In the Matter of Reduced Ignition Proclivity
Cigarette Paper Wrappers, 337-756, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  