-- Secret Settlements, Wells Fargo, Confirmations: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-04-02T12:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/sfo-secret-settlements-wells-fargo-confirmations-compliance.html
Britain’s Serious Fraud Office,
which prosecutes corporate bribery, uses too many secret
settlements in foreign corruption cases, the  Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development  said.  The SFO is using more so-called civil-recovery orders that
require less oversight from courts and aren’t as transparent as
criminal plea agreements, the Paris-based think tank said in a
report March 30.  “The low level of information on settlements made publicly
available by U.K. authorities often does not permit a proper
assessment of whether the sanctions imposed are effective,
proportionate and dissuasive,” the OECD said in a summary of
the 79-page  report .  The study praised Britain’s anti-corruption law, which took
effect in July and is one of the strictest in the world. Under
the Bribery Act, companies must prove they have adequate
controls to prevent corruption in order to defend themselves if
a bribe is paid on their behalf anywhere in the world, even if
company officials didn’t know.  Britain has been too slow to extend anti-bribery rules to
its overseas territories, some of which are considered offshore
financial havens that “may be used facilitate corrupt
transactions,” the OECD said.  The U.K. also needs to clarify what is considered
“reasonable and proportionate” hospitality and promotional
expenses in relation to the new bribery law, the OECD said.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Should Narrow Swap-Dealer Rule, Bipartisan Lawmakers Say  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  should narrow
its regulation determining which companies will face the highest
capital and margin costs under Dodd-Frank Act derivatives rules,
Republican and Democratic lawmakers said.  The agency, which is writing rules for the global swaps
market, should exclude from a dealer definition rule companies
that use the transactions to hedge volatile prices in their
products’ raw materials, said Senator  Debbie Stabenow  of
Michigan, the Democratic chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture
Committee, and Representative Frank D. Lucas of Oklahoma, the
Republican chairman of the House Agriculture Committee.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are
preparing to complete the swap-dealer regulation, which will
lead banks, hedge funds and possibly energy companies to face
higher capital and margin requirements. The dealer regulation is
among the most contentious rules the agencies have yet to
finish. The CFTC has delayed a series of scheduled votes on the
regulation since January.  Shell Energy North America LP and Vitol Inc. are among
energy companies that have told the CFTC they use swaps and
other derivatives to hedge risks tied to oil, natural gas and
other underlying assets.  EU Unveils Plan for Investor Losses in Big Bank Failures  The European Union will seek views on what order unsecured
senior bondholders and other creditors at failing banks should
be forced to take losses as part of plans to end taxpayer
bailouts of financial firms.  The measures would “in principle” cover all of a bank’s
liabilities except those “whose inclusion could have a
detrimental effect on financial stability or those that are
essentially client related,” the  European Commission , the 27-
nation EU’s executive arm, said in a consultation paper
published on its website. “No creditor should be worse off than
if the bank went into insolvency.”  Writing down a bank’s creditors “must be an option” for
regulators,  Michel Barnier , the EU commissioner for internal
market and services, told reporters March 30 in Copenhagen,
Denmark. He said there is “international consensus” on the
principle.  SEC Weighs Sanctions for Lawyers Who Advise on Fraudulent Deals  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigators are
considering extending the reach of enforcement actions in cases
involving complex financial transactions to lawyers who provided
the legal advice on fraudulent deals, an agency official said.  The SEC typically sanctions individuals who play an active
role in making false statements or material omissions to
investors, not the lawyers who advise them. Often, in matters
involving a company and its employees, the individuals claim the
lawyers signed off on the conduct in question,  Kenneth Lench ,
head of the structured products unit in the SEC’s enforcement
division, said March 30 at a law event in  New York .  Lench said he’s seen some situations where advice “didn’t
look like it was done in good faith,”  That claim presents a challenge for the SEC because
communications between attorneys and their clients are generally
considered confidential and not available to regulators who are
investigating a matter. If the company refuses to waive
confidentiality in the course of the probe, it can be difficult
for the SEC to prove that someone willfully violated the law, he
said.  Lench, whose unit is responsible for uncovering fraud in
structured products such as mortgage-backed securities and
derivatives, also said that the agency is prepared to pursue
negligence claims against individuals who didn’t take reasonable
steps to keep a fraud from occurring. Negligence is a lower
legal standard than intentional or reckless fraud.  Regulators Set July 2013 Deadline for Dodd-Frank Swaps Pushout  Banks must push out by July 2013 part of their swaps-
trading business from subsidiaries that get U.S. assistance
through deposit insurance or the Federal Reserve’s discount
lending window, three regulators said.  Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. 
and Citigroup Inc. must comply with the Dodd-Frank Act’s so-
called push-out provision by July 16, 2013, the Fed, Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency said in a statement March 30.  Compliance Action  EU Antitrust Agency Probing Derivatives Linked to Tokyo Rate  European Union regulators are probing companies involved in
trading derivatives tied to the Tokyo interbank offered rate,
the region’s antitrust chief said, adding to existing inquiries
into two other interbank loan rates.  The European Commission started investigations last year
into companies that may have violated antitrust rules by
colluding on products linked to Euribor, Libor and specific
currencies, EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said.  Almunia has made financial markets one of his  priorities 
and said March 30 that he would monitor them with “special
care.” In April, he began a probe into  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and 14 other investment banks over
agreements in the market for credit-default swaps that may harm
competition. He also vetoed Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE
Euronext’s (NYX)  plan to create the world’s biggest exchange after
concluding the merger would hurt competition.  Switzerland Wants German Investigators Arrested on Espionage  Switzerland is seeking to arrest three German tax
investigators who negotiated the purchase of data on  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  clients for economic espionage, a German
government spokeswoman said.  The tax investigators from the state of North Rhine-
Westphalia negotiated the 2.5 million-euro ($3.3 million)
purchase of personal information of clients of Credit Suisse who
may have evaded taxes in Germany in 2010. Ingrid Herden, the
spokeswoman for the state’s finance ministry, said she couldn’t
confirm more details.  The two countries have been trying to agree on a proposal
for a withholding tax that would legalize undeclared assets by
Germans held in Switzerland by imposing a retroactive income
tax. German political parties have been fighting over the
proposed tax rate.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the warrant
won’t affect efforts by the two countries to reach such an
accord.  There is “concrete suspicion” that people inside Germany
gave instructions to “spy on Credit Suisse” to gather the
data, Jeannette Balmer, a Swiss prosecution spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail March 31, without giving further detail.  EU Finance Ministers to Overhaul Credit-Rating Rotation Plan  European Union finance ministers agreed to overhaul  plans 
to force companies to rotate the credit-ratings companies they
use on concerns that the measure may lead to lower quality
assessments.  Governments have “great concerns” about the rotation
proposal, Danish Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  told
reporters March 31 in Copenhagen after a meeting of EU finance
chiefs. Denmark holds the rotating presidency of the 27-nation
bloc.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services commissioner,
proposed the rotation rule last year as part of a draft law to
toughen regulation of the industry amid concerns that some
rating decisions were unjustified and exacerbated the region’s
debt crisis. Under his proposal, companies would be expected to
change the company that they pay to rate their credit every
three years. The time limit could be extended to six years if a
business hired more than one rating company.  The bill must be agreed on by national governments and
lawmakers in the European Parliament.  For more, click here.  Courts  Wells Fargo, SEC Ordered to Confer About Subpoena Requests  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission lawyers were told by a federal judge to meet to
discuss the agency’s subpoenas for documents about an
investigation of mortgage-backed securities.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Laurel Beeler in  San Francisco 
rejected the SEC’s request for an order compelling the bank, the
largest U.S. home lender, to deliver documents it agreed to
produce under subpoenas dating from September, according to a
court filing March 29. Beeler said the parties’ lawyers should
meet in person, and if that doesn’t work, file a letter to her.  The SEC has said it’s looking into the possibility of fraud
by the San Francisco-based company and hasn’t concluded anyone
broke the law. Wells Fargo failed to produce subpoenaed
documents and should be forced to cooperate with the probe into
its sale of almost $60 billion in residential mortgage-backed
securities, the agency said in a March 23 filing.  When the regulator asked a U.S. judge to compel delivery of
the documents, the matter was referred to Beeler.  Marc Fagel, the head of the SEC’s office in San Francisco,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail and phone messages March 29
and March 30 seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Wells
Fargo & Co., 12-80087, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  Interviews  Frankel Sees ‘Full Coordination’ Between Rescue Funds  European Financial Stability Facility Chief Financial
Officer Christophe Frankel discussed the euro area’s rescue
funds.  He spoke from Cernobbio, Italy, with Maryam Nemazee on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  For more, click here.  Gensler Says CFTC May Seek Automated-Trade Comments by July  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  may seek
comment before July on ways to test and supervise automated and
high-frequency trading systems, said  Gary Gensler , the agency’s
chairman.  He made the remarks to reporters after a speech at the
Agribusiness Club of Washington.  The agency, which has scrutinized such trading in the wake
of the May 2010 crash that temporarily roiled markets, is
considering a so-called concept release, which is a regulatory
step prior to publishing proposed new rules for direct market
access.  The concept release would cover testing, supervision and
protections of participants with direct market access, “to
ensure orderly trading in markets,” Gensler said.  The CFTC’s technology advisory committee held a meeting
March 29 on high-frequency trading.  Comings and Goings  Juncker May Convene Euro Finance Chiefs in Mid-April on ECB Job  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, may convene the group in mid-April
to discuss a vacancy on the European Central Bank’s Executive
Board, his spokesman said.  The meeting may be held by conference call or in person,
Guy Schuller said by telephone in Copenhagen March 30.  Citigroup Hires Sumitomo Mitsui’s Jono to Head Japan Bank  Citigroup Inc. (C)  hired Kazuya Jono, a former executive at
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , to head its banking
operations in Japan, according to an internal memo obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Citibank Japan Ltd. ’s board March 30 approved his
appointment as chief executive officer, succeeding Peter Eliot,
who will become president of the Japanese holding company,
according to the document. Mika Nemoto, a Tokyo-based
spokeswoman at Citigroup, confirmed the contents of the memo.  Citigroup is seeking to bolster the Japanese unit’s local
governance and management after the Financial Services Agency
punished the New York-based lender for at least the third time
in seven years in December following regulatory breaches.  Jono, 57, will join Citibank on June 1. He has 35 years of
experience in the Japanese banking industry, and held positions
in corporate banking, retail banking and risk management at
Sumitomo Mitsui.  U.S. Senate Confirms Nominees in Deal with White House  A U.S. Senate agreement has inserted new voices into the
debate on the future of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Lawmakers last week confirmed four regulatory nominees,
including  Thomas Hoenig  and Jeremiah O. Norton as directors on
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. board and Thomas J. Curry as
the new comptroller of the currency.  The FDIC nominees, along with dozens of other federal
appointees, were confirmed unanimously without a vote on the
Senate floor under the agreement between the White House and
Senate Republicans.  Although the lawmakers didn’t reach an agreement to confirm
Martin J. Gruenberg as chairman and Hoenig as vice chairman, the
board confirmations add new voices to the debate over the
implementation of a financial overhaul that includes the so-
called Volcker rule, as well as oversight of a banking system
that still faces threats from the European sovereign debt
crisis.  Hoenig, the former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City, and Norton, a former Treasury Department official
under President  George W. Bush  -- two Republicans suggestions as
nominees, and Curry, who has been serving as an FDIC board
director, will play roles as regulators push to finalize a large
swath of rules required by the 2010 financial regulatory
overhaul. They will also complete the five-member FDIC board.  “This is an important step as the FDIC continues to
respond to a number of challenging issues and continues with the
rulemaking process,” said Gruenberg, who was confirmed March 29
to another term on the FDIC board, where he will remain acting
chairman, said March 29 in a statement.  A top item on the agenda is a rule banning banks trading
with their own funds, also known as proprietary trading,
required by the law.  Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican, said that the nominees were confirmed in exchange
for assurances from President Barack Obama that there would be
no appointments while the Senate is out of session during the
congressional recess.  For more, click here.  Separately, the U.S. Senate confirmed New York attorney
Kathryn Keneally as assistant attorney general of the Justice
Department’s tax division, where she will help run the
crackdowns on identity theft and offshore tax evasion.  Keneally, a partner at  Fulbright & Jaworski LLP , was among
scores of nominees confirmed March 29 by the Senate for top
government jobs. She will lead more than 300 civil and criminal
lawyers who handle a wide range of investigations and
litigation. Bloomberg News reported March 27 that the division
lost almost 30 percent of its 95 prosecutors in last month,
slowing a U.S. crackdown on offshore banks that enabled tax
evasion, according to four people familiar with the matter.  Keneally didn’t immediately return a call or e-mail seeking
comment on the confirmation.  Separately, the U.S. Senate confirmed two Treasury
Department appointments March 29, Mary Miller as the
undersecretary for domestic finance, and Alastair Fitzpayne as
assistant secretary for legislative affairs.  For more, click here.  BBA Says Angela Knight to Resign as Chief Executive Officer  Angela Knight  will step down after five years as chief
executive officer of the British Bankers’ Association, the
century-old old lobby group that oversees the London interbank
offered rate.  Knight, 61, will leave in the summer once a replacement has
been found, the London-based BBA said in an e-mailed statement
today. The group didn’t say why Knight is resigning, or what she
plans to do next.  She is going as the BBA comes under pressure to find an
alternative way to calculate Libor, or cede control of it, as
regulators probe whether banks lied to hide their true cost of
borrowing and traders colluded to rig the rate. Libor is the
benchmark for $360 trillion of securities worldwide.  Knight, a former Conservative party lawmaker and Treasury
minister, and BBA Chairman Marcus Agius didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment. BBA spokesman  Brian Mairs  declined
to elaborate on the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 