-- Sina Drops to 5-Week Low After Suspending Weibo Commentary
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-04-02T21:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/sina-tumbles-to-5-week-low-after-suspending-weibo-user-comments.html
Sina Corp. (SINA) , which runs the Twitter-
like Weibo service in  China , slid to the lowest in five weeks in
 New York  after the company suspended user comments on its
microblogging platform.  Sina dropped 2.1 percent to $63.66 at the close on the
Nasdaq Stock Market, the lowest price since Feb. 27. The stock
earlier tumbled as much as 4.9 percent to $61.85. The amount of
shares traded reached 8.7 million, or 49 percent above their
average three-month volume in U.S. trading, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Shanghai-based Sina, which has more than 300 million
registered users, started a 72-hour suspension of Weibo’s
comment function from 8 a.m. in Beijing on March 31, citing a
need to “clear up rumors and illegal information,” according
to a  statement  on the site. Users opening a microblogging site
run by  Tencent (700)  Holding Ltd., China’s biggest Internet company by
market value, saw a similar notice.  “Initially, there was a knee-jerk reaction to the
potential of a stricter regulatory environment,” Andy Yeung, a
New York-based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co said by telephone.
It’s “a signal by the government to social networking sites to
take steps internally to be more careful in the future.”  China arrested 1,065 suspects and deleted more than 208,000
“harmful” online messages as part of a nationwide crackdown on
Internet-related crimes since mid-February, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported on March 31, citing an unnamed spokesman
from the Beijing City Police’s cyber-security department. On
March 30, Beijing Police announced the detention of six people
for “fabricating and spreading rumors” on the Internet and
forced 16 websites to close.  Weight on Sina  The prospect of further government-ordered shutdowns of
Weibo will weigh on Sina’s share price, Echo He, a New York-
based analyst who covers Chinese Internet stocks for Maxim Group
LLC, said by telephone, reiterating her sell recommendation and
a $51 price estimate for the shares.  “Even though I would think Sina will try their best to
prevent this from happening again, the possibility of another
shutdown is not going to go away,” He said. “Regardless of the
suspension it’s very hard to make money in Chinese online
advertising.”  Sina recorded 76 percent of its revenue from ads last year
and said in February that ad sales in the first quarter will be
“disappointing” as customers cut spending.  The closing of Sina’s comment function is “negative, as we
believe that comment functionality is key to Weibo user
engagement,” Qi Guo, a San Francisco-based analyst at
ThinkEquity Partners LLC, wrote in a research note today.  Guo reiterated a buy rating on Sina, and a 12-month price
target of $87. Analysts at three other securities companies
reiterated their buy ratings on Sina today.  Tencent was unchanged at HK$216.60 in  Hong Kong  today,
after dropping as much as 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  