-- Sino-Forest Peek Made Buyers ‘Run Away’: Corporate Canada
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-04-02T15:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/sino-forest-peek-made-buyers-run-away-corporate-canada.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese tree
grower that filed for  bankruptcy protection  last week after
failing to shake off fraud allegations, will struggle to find a
buyer, according to timber industry professionals.  Sino-Forest obtained an initial order for creditor
protection in Ontario’s Superior Court on March 30. The move is
part of an accord with bondholders owed $1.8 billion to either
sell the company to a third party or undergo a restructuring
that would give them most of the remaining assets.  “We know a number of prudent investors who have looked at
Sino-Forest and run away screaming,” David Edson, chief
executive officer of Old Town, Maine-based James W. Sewall Ltd.,
a forest valuation adviser, said by telephone. He declined to
identify the potential buyers. “If you cannot, through
reasonable efforts, verify clear title to the resource, you’re
just asking for trouble,” he said.  The company was accused in June by short seller Carson Block of exaggerating its revenue. A $50 million, eight-month
probe by Sino-Forest directors concluded that some of the
allegations may never be disproved. Chairman William Ardell said
in February the company hasn’t been able show it controls a
purported 788,700 hectares (3,045 square miles) of timber.  Stan Neve, a spokesman for Hong Kong- and Mississauga,
Ontario-based Sino-Forest, declined to comment. Robert Chadwick,
a lawyer representing the bondholders, didn’t immediately return
a telephone call seeking comment.  Chinese Buyer  Richard Chandler , the Singapore-based investor who’s the
largest investor in Sino-Forest, said today he’s appointed a
team to help lead a proposed restructuring of the company.  “There’s a lot of investment funds looking for timber
ownership, but there are many far less risky opportunities that
have much more provable cash flows,” Kevin Mason, managing
director of Gibsons, British Columbia-based ERA Forest Products
Research, said by telephone. “Anyone with any fiduciary duty
probably shouldn’t be touching this thing at all.”  While  China ’s appetite for timber used in construction,
packaging and paper is still increasing, investors may be
deterred by its forestry industry’s business practices and a
lack of confidence in the country’s legal system, Edson, 64,
said. A Chinese buyer may make the most sense, he said, a view
shared by Mason.  “From a Western standpoint, the systems and how things
work over there don’t fit neatly with how we do things,” Mason
said.  About 80 percent of Sino-Forest’s timber assets measured by
value are held by subsidiaries based in the British Virgin
Islands, Ardell said in a February interview.  ‘Black Hole’  Those units use suppliers and what the company calls
“authorized intermediaries” in China to buy and sell timber
and plantation harvesting rights. That structure is “an
unjustifiable black hole” used to fabricate sales, avoid taxes
and overstate timber holdings, Block’s research firm  Muddy
Waters  LLC said in a June 2  report .  Sino-Forest has denied the allegations. “I have a belief
in the business,” Ardell said in February.  Sino-Forest filed a lawsuit, also in Ontario Superior
Court, on March 30 against Muddy Waters and Block relating to
the allegations, which it says are defamatory. The company said
it’s seeking damages and the recovery of profits made by Muddy
Waters and others in connection with the report. Block said in a
March 30 e-mail that the lawsuit is “entirely without merit”
and that he stands behind the report.  ‘Cleansing Process’  Sino-Forest’s collapse would have happened “sooner or
later” even if the report hadn’t been published, Block said
today in an interview with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack.”  Muddy Waters’ allegations increased investor scrutiny of
Chinese companies trading on North American stock exchanges. The
 Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks 82 Chinese
companies trading on U.S. bourses, fell 43 percent in the year
to March 30, while the  S&P 500 Index  rose 6.2 percent.  “There are a lot of Chinese companies that have been
unfairly punished in their valuations because of some of the
allegations of fraud,” Kevin Pollack, a  fund manager  at Paragon
Capital LP in  New York , which invests in U.S.-listed Chinese
stocks, said in a telephone interview. Pollack said he’s never
been a Sino-Forest investor.  “Clearly there are some situations where short sellers
have provided value to the space in the cleansing process,” he
said. “Sino-Forest is one of those cases.”  Richard Chandler  Shares of Sino-Forest, once the largest Chinese forestry
company by market value, plunged after the report. They dropped
74 percent before trading was halted in Toronto on Aug. 26,
losing investors including  John Paulson ’s hedge-fund firm
Paulson & Co. about C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion).  The largest Sino-Forest shareholders are Chandler with 19.5
percent, Tucson, Arizona-based Davis Selected Advisers LP with
12.6 percent, and Boston-based Wellington Management Co. with
11.5 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. While
Paulson & Co. sold its holdings after the Muddy Waters report,
booking a C$462 million loss, Chandler and Wellington bought
shares.  Sino-Forest’s 6.25 percent notes due in October 2017 fell
to 32 cents on the dollar on March 21, according to the most
recent data on Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The International Swaps & Derivatives Association  said 
today it will rule if there has been a bankruptcy credit event
that would trigger credit-default swaps on Sino-Forest.  Licenses Withheld  Sino-Forest founder  Allen Chan  resigned as chief executive
officer in August after the Ontario Securities Commission and
the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police  started probes.  His successor, Judson Martin, said in November that the
company may go private or seek a merger. By December, Sino-
Forest had missed an interest payment on some of its bonds. It
agreed to a waiver with bondholders the following month,
pledging to submit a strategic plan by the end of March.  Houlihan Lokey, the Los Angeles-based investment bank
advising Sino-Forest, has begun soliciting interest from
“prospective strategic or financial parties,” Sino-Forest said
March 30.  “There are limited potential buyers for these assets,”
Martin said in  affidavit  filed with the court. The Chinese
government has been less supportive of the company since the
Muddy Waters report and has withheld timber-cutting licenses, he
said. Potential Sino-Forest buyers will need an “in-depth and
intimate knowledge” of the Chinese market, Martin said.  “No one’s kidding themselves: finding a buyer will not be
easy,” Derrick Tay, a lawyer at Gowling Lafleur Henderson LLP
who’s working for the bankruptcy monitor, FTI Canada Inc., said
in court on March 30. “The process that has been constructed
gives us the best shot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  