-- Yoo Wins LPGA’s First Major of 2012 After Kim Misses 1-Foot Putt
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-02T04:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/south-korea-s-sun-young-yoo-wins-lpga-s-first-major-of-season.html
Sun Young Yoo won the LPGA Tour’s
first major championship of the season in a playoff after fellow
South Korean I.K. Kim missed a one-foot putt for the title on
the final hole of regulation play.  Yoo won the Kraft Nabisco Championship with a birdie putt
of about 12 feet on the first extra hole -- the par-5 18th -- at
Mission Hills Country Club in Rancho Mirage,  California . It was
same hole at which Kim missed her short par putt minutes
earlier, costing her the chance of winning her fourth LPGA Tour
title and first major.  “She really doesn’t miss those kind of putts,” Yoo, 25,
told reporters. “Some people were telling me that that’s golf.
You never know what’s going to happen.”  Yoo and Kim each shot rounds of 3-under-par 69 yesterday to
finish regulation play at 9-under, one shot ahead of Yani Tseng,
the No. 1 ranked women’s golfer in the world.  Kim had birdies at the 14th, 16th and 17th holes to move
into the lead before her gaffe at the 18th hole. After hitting
her first putt about one foot past the hole, her tap-in attempt
caught the lip of the cup, looped around and almost came back to
her feet. Kim put her hand over her mouth in disbelief and gasps
could be heard from the gallery.  “Sometimes things happen,” Kim said. “Hopefully I’ll
have better or more chances.”  Yoo turned professional at the age of 17 in 2004 and
claimed her lone previous LPGA Tour title in 2010 at the World
Match Play Championship.  The second major tournament on the  women’s schedule  is the
LPGA Championship, from June 7-10. The U.S. Open follows from
July 5-8 and the final major, the  British Open , will be played
Sept. 13-16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  