-- South Korean Bond Issuance Jumps to Record as Samsung Sells
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-04-03T01:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/south-korean-bond-issuance-jumps-to-record-as-samsung-plans-sale.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  sold its
first dollar-denominated bond since 2004 as South Korean
borrowers offer a record amount in the global market with yields
falling to a six-month low.  International bond sales by companies and state-run
enterprises rose to $11.7 billion last quarter, the most since
Bloomberg started compiling the data in 1999. That was almost
double the amount from the same period a year earlier. Average
 yields  on Korean dollar-denominated notes slid to 3.59 percent
on March 9, the lowest since September, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes show, compared with 4.38 percent for top-rated three-
year won corporate debt,  according  to the  Korea  Financial
Investment Association.  “The large volume of new issuance out of the Korean
corporate sector in the first quarter is a function of abundant
liquidity in the market, improved investor sentiment and a low
rate environment,” according to Cho Jin-Woo, head of global
capital markets origination for Korea at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the
biggest underwriter this year.  At the same time as rates are falling, the cost of swapping
won into dollars has increased, making it more attractive to
raise funds in the U.S. currency directly. South Korean issuers
are seeking capital after  exports  fell and Asia’s fourth-biggest
economy grew at the slowest pace in two years. Samsung, the
world’s largest maker of televisions and memory chips, offered
$1 billion of five-year notes.  Dollar Debt Sales  South Korean companies including  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and
Korea National Oil Corp. have recently sold dollar-denominated
debt. The sales come as investors poured $14.4 billion into
emerging-market bond funds in the first quarter of this year,
more than a seven-fold increase than the same period a year ago,
as they sought better returns, according to EPFR Global, a U.S.
provider of fund flows.  South Korea ’s credit rating outlook was raised by Moody’s
Investors Service to positive from stable yesterday, boosting
demand for assets from the country’s companies.  “Selling U.S. dollar bonds has become more favorable for
issuers than selling won-denominated notes,” Lee Hak Seoung, a
credit analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc., the biggest
arranger of won securities last quarter, said in a phone
interview from Seoul on March 30.  Swap Costs  The five-year won basis-point swap, which measures the cost
of switching U.S. dollar debt into the Korean currency, fell 100
basis points to minus 188 basis points as of March 30 in the
last 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
lower number means it is more advantageous for South Korean
companies to borrow in dollars, rather than selling bonds in won
and using swap markets to exchange the proceeds into the U.S.
currency.  Deutsche Bank arranged $1.28 billion of international bonds
for South Korean companies in the first quarter, after managing
no deals in the same period last year, the data show.  Companies are also shunning bank borrowing as loan costs
soared to a two-year high and as banks, in particular European
lenders, curbed lending. Syndicated loans in South Korea fell to
$1.34 billion last quarter, from $2.93 billion in the same
period of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s probably cheaper for issuers to tap the  bond market 
and get longer-dated funding than to borrow in the loan
markets,” Frank Kwong, head of Asia syndicate at BNP Paribas
SA, the second-biggest underwriter, said in a phone interview
from  Hong Kong  on March 29.  Samsung, Hyundai  Samsung’s callable notes were sold by the company’s U.S.
unit with a coupon of 1.75 percent, or 80 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The maker of processors and parts used in Apple
Inc.’s iPhone and iPad, plans to use the proceeds to expand
production capacity at its factory in Austin,  Texas , Samsung
said in January.  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Samsung Securities Co. arranged
the offering, the data show.  Samsung and its affiliates plan to spend 47.8 trillion won
($42 billion) this year on new product research and upgrading
plants. The company, which doesn’t forecast annual results,
reported a 17 percent increase in fourth-quarter net income.  Its U.S. unit issued $100 million of floating-rate three-
year notes, placed privately with investors in 2004, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It previously sold dollar bonds
that aren’t convertible into equity in April 1998, the data
show.  Market Stabilizes  “Companies are now seeking to raise dollars because the
market has stabilized,” Kim Yun Kyoung, vice president at the
Korea Center for International Finance, a research institute in
 Seoul , said in a telephone interview March 28.  Yields on Korea dollar bonds were 3.63 percent on March 30,
JPMorgan data show. They plunged from 4.24 percent on Oct. 5,
according to the data.  Hyundai Motor, which sold $500 million of June 2017 notes
on Dec. 1 at 315 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, hired banks in February to arrange a benchmark sale,
a person with direct knowledge of the matter said at the time.
That typically means at least $500 million. The bonds were
trading at a yield premium of 231.4 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries yesterday, ING Groep NV prices show.  ‘Lot of Demand’  The automaker is delaying a planned $1 billion sale from
early this month, Maeil Business Newspaper reported on March 28,
citing unidentified industry officials.  Hyundai declined to comment on the timing of the sale in an
e-mailed statement on March 29.  Export-Import Bank of Korea, known as Kexim, sold $2.25
billion of notes in January, its largest offering to date.
Kexim, which has led issuance since 2006, has already raised
more than half the amount it sold for all of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Korea National Oil, the second-largest issuer, cut the
spread on its March 26 offering of 3.125 percent April 2017
notes to 210 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That was 100 basis points, or 1 percentage point,
cheaper than similar-maturity notes it sold in October.  Busan Bank received orders for more than sixteen times the
$300 million of 4.125 percent notes offered in February, its
first sale since 2009, according to an e-mailed statement from
the lender.  “We’ve seen a lot of demand from investors in the U.S. and
 Europe  in the Korean space, because it’s one of the developing
parts of  Asia  where investors feel there is potential for
performance,” BNP Paribas’ Kwong said. “With new money being
invested by bond funds and improving credit conditions, the
market is conducive for corporate issuers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  