-- Square Hires Tesla Executive Amid Effort to Double Staff
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-04-02T18:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/square-hires-tesla-executive-amid-effort-to-double-staff.html
Square Inc., a startup that makes
credit-card readers for smartphones and tablets, hired
communications executive Ricardo Reyes amid an effort to double
its staff to 500 this year.  Reyes, who previously ran communications at Tesla Motors
Inc. and  Google (GOOG)  Inc.’s YouTube, started today as Square’s vice
president of communications and brand marketing, said Aaron Zamost, a spokesman for the San Francisco-based company.  “Ricardo has tremendous experience launching beautiful,
design-driven products for world-class brands like Tesla and
YouTube,” Zamost said in an e-mail. “We look forward to the
expertise he’ll bring to Square.”  Square aims to ward off competition from larger companies,
including EBay Inc.’s PayPal division and Intuit Inc., which are
pushing deeper into the mobile-payment market. The company
announced last month that it hired PayPal veteran Alyssa
Cutright to manage international business, and Square added
former Apple Inc. executive Jesse Dorogusker to run its hardware
division in November. The company has more than 250 employees
and expects to end the year with 500, Zamost said.  Square’s technology lets U.S. businesses handle payments
via  Apple (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad, as well as devices running on
Google’s Android software. The card reader plugs into the
headphone jack of the mobile device, enabling merchants to swipe
customers’ credit and debit cards.  Square’s card reader, introduced in 2010, is now processing
more than $4 billion in payments a year. Merchants can buy the
equipment at Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Apple outlets and Target
Corp. stores.  Created by Twitter Inc. co-founder Jack Dorsey, Square has
raised more than $140 million from venture capitalists,
including Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers,  Sequoia Capital  and
Khosla Ventures.  Last month, PayPal unveiled its own smartphone card reader
to challenge Square. The thumb-sized device, called PayPal Here,
can scan checks. Like Square’s reader, it works with all four
major credit-card networks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  