-- Sri Lanka to Receive $426.8 Million After IMF Review
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-04-02T22:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/sri-lanka-to-receive-426-8-million-after-imf-review-1-.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
board of directors released $426.8 million to  Sri Lanka  after
reviewing the country’s implementation of economic policies
attached to a $2.56 billion loan.  Sri Lanka in February raised  interest rates  for the first
time since 2007, let its currency weaken to a record low and
increased fuel prices. The moves aim to curb imports such as
oil, contain a  trade gap  and stem a decline in foreign-exchange
reserves, as officials grapple with resurgent domestic demand
following the end of the island’s civil war in 2009.  “The adjustment measures implemented by the authorities
have placed the economy on a more sustainable trajectory,” IMF
Deputy Managing Director Zhu Min, who presided over the board
meeting, said in a press release.  “However, it will take time for the new monetary and
exchange rate regime to become fully established, and the
authorities will need to stand ready to adjust policies further
to stabilize external reserves, especially if the global
environment becomes less favorable,” he said.  The board of the Washington-based IMF also agreed to extend
the period of the loan to July 23 to allow one more review of
policies, it said in an e-mailed statement.  “The release of funds and IMF approval will be positive
for stability, investment and the markets,” Sanjeewa Fernando,
an analyst at CT Smith Stockbrokers Pvt. in the Sri Lankan
capital  Colombo , said before the IMF announcement. “It will
help support the rupee.”  Sri Lanka’s foreign reserves fell about 26 percent to $5.96
billion by December from $8.1 billion in July as the trade gap
swelled. The decline prompted  Standard & Poor’s  to lower the
island’s sovereign rating outlook to stable from positive at the
end of February.  Fitch Ratings  has said the depleted reserves
have increased balance-of-payments risks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  