-- Sudanese Rebels Say They Killed 21 Troops in Blue Nile
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-04-02T16:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/sudanese-rebels-say-they-kill-21-government-troops-in-blue-nile.html
Rebels in  Sudan  said they killed 21
government soldiers during an ambush of two army convoys in the
border state of  Blue Nile .  The attacks on March 31 occurred near the Bau locality and
town of But, the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North said
today in an e-mailed statement. Rebels in the state of Southern
Kordofan and the western region of Darfur have also clashed with
government troops, it said. Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi
Khaled didn’t answer calls seeking comment.  Fighting between Sudanese government forces and the rebels
has intensified in the states of Blue Nile and Southern Kordofan
since South Sudan seceded in July, assuming control of three-
quarters of the former unified nation’s oil production of
490,000 barrels a day.  Border clashes last week between the armies of Sudan and
 South Sudan  prompted expressions of alarm from the  United
Nations Security Council , the U.S. and the  African Union .  About 140,000 refugees have fled Blue Nile and Southern
Kordofan to escape the violence, the U.S. State Department said
today.  Most have migrated to neighboring South Sudan, as well as
to Ethiopia, Catherine Wiesner, deputy assistant secretary of
state for population, refugees and migration, said on a
conference call with reporters.  “With these numbers, obviously relief agencies are in a
race against time,” said Wiesner, who visited South Sudan last
week.  An estimated 4.7 million people face food shortages in
South Sudan this year, she said.  Refugees are arriving exhausted to camps in the Upper Nile
region, which is scarcely populated and will be inaccessible in
the rainy season that begins in about a month, Wiesner said.  The U.S. has provided about $6.8 million in aid to South
Sudan, with an additional $80.4 million given to the  United
Nations ’ World Food Programme, Wiesner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  