-- Suu Kyi Win Risks Myanmar Backlash Without Economic Gains
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-04-03T08:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/suu-kyi-win-risks-myanmar-army-backlash-without-economic-gains.html
Myanmar dissident  Aung San Suu Kyi ’s
sweeping by-election win risks invigorating hardliners opposed
to change if she fails to join reformers in implementing
policies that boost incomes in one of Asia’s poorest countries.  Suu Kyi yesterday called for a “new era” after her
 National League for Democracy  rejoined the political system and
claimed victory in 43 of 44 seats it contested in April 1 by-
elections. It boycotted a 2010 election won by President Thein Sein’s army-backed party, which along with the military still
controls more than 80 percent of parliamentary seats.  The victory “will definitely scare a number of people who
were expecting the government party would do better than this,”
said Hans Vriens, managing partner of  Vriens & Partners , a
Singapore-based political risk firm. “I don’t think the army is
in a position to roll back reforms now, but the reformers have
to point to successes, which ultimately means jobs.”  Myanmar lawmakers are pushing to revamp the financial
system and attract investment to revive an economy hindered by
decades of military rule and sanctions from the U.S. and
European Union. The  central bank  implemented a managed float of
its currency yesterday to improve the business climate in the
country of 64 million people that borders China and  India .  ‘Key Test’  How the government reacts to Suu Kyi’s win will be a “key
test” of its commitment to reform, according to Andrew Rickards, chief executive officer of Singapore-listed  Yoma
Strategic Holdings Ltd. (YOMA)  Shares of the company, which develops
properties in Myanmar, have risen 580 percent in the past year.  “Twenty years ago when we had this situation, what
happened next wasn’t very nice,” he said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television yesterday. “It’ll be different this time.
There’s a maturity in government that will see them embracing
party politics.”  In 1990, the military rejected an election victory by the
National League for Democracy in which the opposition party won
about 80 percent of seats for a committee to draft a new
constitution. Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize winner known in
Myanmar simply as “The Lady,” was detained during both that
vote and the 2010 elections.  In that time, the U.S. and EU imposed economic and
financial sanctions against the country that are now under
review following  Thein Sein ’s recent reforms.  ‘Important Step’  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  called the April 1
elections, held to fill parliamentary vacancies, an “important
step.” The EU will consider whether to renew sanctions at a
meeting of foreign ministers on April 23, Maja Kocijancic, a
spokeswoman for EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , said
yesterday in Brussels.  “We urge the international community to consider lifting
economic sanctions on Myanmar so that the people of Myanmar can
enjoy better opportunities,” Hor Namhong, foreign minister of
 Cambodia , said in a statement today. Cambodia holds the rotating
chairmanship of the 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations , which includes Myanmar.  Rich in natural gas, gold and gems, Myanmar represents one
of  Asia ’s last untapped frontier markets, attracting investors
such as  Jim Rogers , the chairman of Rogers Holdings, who
predicted a global commodities rally in 1999. Cambodia-based
Leopard Capital plans to raise $100 million for a fund to invest
in Myanmar once sanctions are lifted, Douglas Clayton, founder
and chief executive officer of Cambodia-based Leopard Capital,
said in an interview yesterday.  Mobile Phones, Internet  Myanmar’s per capita gross domestic product amounts to
$2.25 per day, about half that of Vietnam and 14 percent of
neighboring  Thailand ’s, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates. Only one in 30 people has a mobile phone and even
fewer have  Internet access , Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a March
14 report.  “We are encouraged by the positive developments in
Myanmar, and what appears to have been a much improved electoral
process compared to the last elections,” three U.S. business
groups whose members include  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Google Inc. and
 Intel Corp ., said in a  statement . “Resolving political
differences will be fundamental to Myanmar’s economic
development, and to the welfare of its people.”  Shwe Mann  Suu Kyi’s party will hold less than 10 percent of seats in
the 664-member national legislature, where lawmakers have shown
a willingness to discuss everything from ethnic conflicts to
foreign investment to fish and rice prices. One of the most
vocal members is Lower House speaker Shwe Mann, the former No. 3
member of the junta who has been cited as a presidential
contender in the next nationwide election set for 2015.  Shwe Mann “is a very dynamic man who has assembled a good
brain trust and is clearly interested in making the most of
parliament,” said  Michael Montesano , visiting research fellow
at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore . “The
trick here is whether the NLD MPs are able to relate as
successfully to their fellow MPs in the parliament as Suu Kyi
has with Thein Sein.”  Suu Kyi met Thein Sein last August, paving the way for her
party to re-register for elections. The former general released
hundreds of political prisoners several months later, including
pro-democracy activists and ethnic minority leaders.  “I am confident that he genuinely wishes for democratic
reform,” Suu Kyi said of the president in a March 30 press
briefing in Yangon. “But as I have always said, I have never
been certain as to exactly how much support there is behind him,
particularly from the military.”  British Children  For Suu Kyi to have a shot at the presidency in 2015,
she’ll need the army’s help. The constitution passed in 2008
bans her from becoming head of state because her children are
British. Amending that article requires support from 75 percent
of lawmakers, a quarter of whom are active-duty soldiers,
followed by a referendum, according to the  constitution .  “Now that she’s in the parliament, will she test how far
she can go and will that upset people, or will she try to get
incremental change?” said  David Steinberg , a professor at
 Georgetown University . “There would have to be a broad mandate
for changing the constitution so she could run.”  Suu Kyi’s party didn’t field a candidate for one of the 45
legislative seats up for grabs on April 1, leaving the
possibility that Thein Sein’s ruling United Solidarity and
Development Party may win at least one seat.  The result is a “tremendous humiliation,” said Derek
Tonkin, a former British ambassador to  Vietnam , Thailand and
 Laos  and now chairman of  Network Myanmar , a U.K.-based group
that promotes reconciliation.  Suu Kyi’s “greatest challenge to begin with is to ensure
her relations with other political parties and particularly the
USDP have not been too seriously damaged,” he said. “We don’t
want to go to Plan B where the conservatives and hardliners take
over and reverse all the gains that have taken place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  