-- Stocks in Switzerland Rise After U.S. Manufacturing Data
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-04-02T16:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/swiss-stocks-climb-for-second-day-roche-novartis-gain.html
Swiss stocks  rose to a two-week high
as health-care companies rallied and the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s U.S. factory index increased more than economists
forecast in March.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s largest maker of cancer
drugs, jumped 2.5 percent after saying it looks forward to the
“swift completion” of its takeover offer for Illumina Inc.
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  added 1.8 percent after an experimental treatment
for smoker’s cough met the main goal in three trials.  Barry
Callebaut AG (BARN) , the world’s biggest maker of bulk chocolate,
dropped 3.5 percent after reporting earnings that missed analyst
estimates.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest and most
actively traded companies, rose 1 percent to 6,299.38 at the
close in Zurich, after earlier dropping as much as 0.4 percent.
The benchmark gauge has  gained 6.1 percent  this year as the
 European Central Bank  disbursed more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) to the region’s lenders. The broader Swiss Performance
Index added 1.3 percent today.  “The ISM index lies comfortably in the expansion zone, so
no doubts about the economic recovery in the U.S. should come
up,” Ulrich Wortberg, an analyst at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen, wrote in e-mailed comments.  The SMI fell last week as reports showed that more
Americans filed claims for jobless benefits than economists had
estimated and data from the Conference Board indicated a drop in
U.S. consumer confidence in March.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 1.3 percent less than the average over the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Manufacturing  Swiss stocks extended gains after the ISM’s U.S.
manufacturing index rose to 53.4 in March from 52.4 a month
earlier. Fifty is the dividing line between growth and
contraction, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected
the gauge would climb to 53.  China ’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index increased to 53.1 last
month, the nation’s logistics federation and the National Bureau
of Statistics said yesterday. The gauge has a pattern of rising
each March. In contrast, a PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed manufacturing contracting and export orders
falling.  Swiss manufacturing output expanded for the first time in
seven months in March, adding to signs the economy is
stabilizing. The  procure.ch Purchasing Managers’ Index  rose to
51.1 from 49 in February, when adjusted for seasonal swings,
Credit Suisse Group said today. That’s the first reading above
50, signaling expansion, since August 2011. Economists had
forecast a gain to 49.5, the median of 12 estimates in a
Bloomberg  survey  showed.  Roche, Novartis Climb  Roche advanced 2.5 percent to 161 francs, the largest gain
since Feb. 7. Illumina forecast first-quarter sales will surpass
analyst estimates.  Separately, Roche reported FDA approval of a re-analytical
instrument that provides a primary tube handling for its
automated molecular-testing platform.  Novartis added 1.8 percent to 50.85 francs after it said an
experimental treatment for smoker’s cough met the main goal in
three trials. Novartis said today it plans to use the results as
part of an application for U.S. marketing approval of the drug,
QVA149.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON) , the hearing-aid maker, increased 1.6
percent to 101.90 francs and  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) ,  Switzerland ’s
largest biotechnology company, added 1.6 percent to 33.54
francs. A gauge of European health-care companies was the best
performer of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600.  Barry Callebaut  lost 3.5 percent 872.50 francs after it
reported first-half earnings before interest and taxes of 175.1
million francs ($194.2 million), missing the average analyst
estimate of 196.2 million francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  