-- Syria Rebels Will Use Aid to Survive Assad Military Assault
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-04-02T12:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/syria-rebels-need-aid-to-prevent-rout-by-assad-opposition-says.html
Syrian rebels will use financial
support sent by Gulf countries to prevent President Bashar al- Assad’s government from crushing the uprising by armed force,
according to an opposition leader.  “Without this aid, the regime will crush this revolution
once and for all,” Motee al-Bateen, a member of the Syrian
National Council, said in a telephone interview from Istanbul
today. “This aid is essential to keep the rebels and their
fight against the regime going.”  Persian Gulf nations agreed at a weekend meeting in
Istanbul to provide funds allowing the Syrian opposition to pay
cash to fighters battling government forces.  Saudi Arabia  and
Qatar have promised to help, though the amount hasn’t been
settled yet, said Abdalsalam Albitar, another member of the
council.  The decision came during the second “Friends of Syria”
meeting where the 83 nations represented in Istanbul, including
the U.S., Arab states and the European Union, recognized the SNC
as the leading negotiator for the Syrian people. Later today,
the United Nations and Arab League envoy to Syria,  Kofi Annan ,
will address the UN Security Council to update the 15-member
body on developments since Syria accepted his peace plan six
days ago.  Heavy Artillery  “Payments and salaries is positive in a sense, but it’s by
no means enough, as this development by itself will not
dramatically change the situation,” Anthony Skinner, Middle
East director for Bath, U.K.-based Maplecroft, a global risk
adviser, said in a telephone interview today. Syrian fighters
need heavy artillery, a logistics organization, improved command
and control and additional training, he said.  Gulf countries plan to give millions of dollars a month to
the main Syrian opposition group, according to a participant at
yesterday’s conference who was not authorized to speak to
journalists.  Opposition groups estimate that more than 200 people have
been killed since  Syria  accepted the peace plan and the Friends
group called on Annan to issue a cut-off date for renewed UN
action “if the killing continues.” The UN said on March 27
that more than 9,000 people have been killed since the uprising
started a year ago.  Homs Clashes  A further 17 Syrians were killed today in various parts of
the country as clashes between rebels and government troops
continued, Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights, said in a telephone interview.
There are “heavy clashes” in the central city of Homs, which
is being targeted by artillery fire, he said. The government
said last month that it had recaptured the city.  Al-Bateen said some of the Gulf aid would “go to the free
army that is currently defending civilians and is relying on
internally supplied ammunition.” He said the pledge of
financial support is a signal that “tougher measures will be
taken” if Syria fails to meet a deadline for implementing
Annan’s initiative.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. will
also supply opposition forces with communications gear and will
increase funding for humanitarian aid to Syria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  