-- Osborne Called On to Do More to Help Weak U.K. Recovery: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-03T10:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/u-k-to-avoid-recession-though-growth-remains-weak-bcc-says.html
British businesses are keeping up
pressure on Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to do
more to boost a “weak” recovery as the government pursues
the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II.  “The U.K. economy is still facing huge challenges and the
recovery is much too slow,” British Chambers of Commerce
Director General John Longworth said in a report today. “It has
the potential to recover, but to achieve that the government has
to set businesses free to grow.”  Manufacturing and construction surveys this week indicate
the U.K. economy returned to growth in the  first quarter  and a
report tomorrow will probably show services continued to expand.
While Osborne’s budget statement last month included corporation
tax cuts to support business,  consumer confidence  remains low
after disposable income fell the most since 1977 last year and
unemployment rose.  Gross domestic product  probably rose 0.3 percent in the
first quarter after a 0.3 percent drop in the last three months
of 2011, the London-based BCC said. It forecast full-year growth
of 0.6 percent, less than the 0.8 percent predicted by the
government’s fiscal watchdog.  The pound rose 0.1 percent against the dollar today and
traded at $1.6038 as of 10:35 a.m. in  London . It’s risen about 5
percent since falling to an 18-month low on Jan. 13.  Tax Cut  Osborne announced a 20 billion-pound ($32 billion) National
Loan Guarantee Scheme last month to boost lending to small and
medium sized companies. He also announced that the corporation-
 tax rate  will fall to 24 percent from 26 percent from this
month, double the cut previously planned. Reductions in each of
the next two years will bring it to 22 percent in 2014 instead
of 23 percent.  His Conservative-led coalition government still intends to
narrow a record  budget deficit  as indebted countries in  Europe 
struggle to tame their finances and regain investor confidence.
Other measures he announced included a freeze on pensioners’ tax
allowances and an increase in stamp duty on the most expensive
homes.  “There was no plan for jobs and growth from this out-of-
touch government” and “we urgently need practical measures to
help businesses and get our economy moving again,” Owen Smith,
a Labour party spokesman on economic issues, said in a
statement. “Our economy should be doing more than just
recovering the output lost at the end of last year.”  ‘Modest Improvement’  In a quarterly survey today, the BCC said a gauge of
domestic orders at manufacturers rose to 6 in the three months
through March from minus 13 in the previous quarter. For
services, the domestic orders index increased to 7 from minus 9.
On export orders, the measures for both industries jumped to the
highest in a year.  Separate reports from Markit Economics Ltd. this week
showed  manufacturing  grew at the fastest pace in 10 months in
March and construction expanded the quickest in 21 months.  It’s a “welcome but modest improvement,” BCC Chief
Economist  David Kern  said, adding that economic growth probably
won’t return to a “more normal” pace until next year. He also
said the government must make its credit plan more effective and
the Bank of England should do more to ensure its bond-buying
program “encourages increased lending to viable” small and
medium sized companies.  The Bank of England will probably maintain its  bond-
purchase target  at 325 billion pounds and keep its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent this week,
according to economists in two Bloomberg News surveys. The
central bank expanded the target by 50 billion pounds in
February and those purchases are due to be completed early next
month.  Japan Deflation  A  Bank of Japan (8301)  report today showed the country’s  liquidity
supply  dropped in March for the first time in more than three
years, fueling complaints from politicians that the central bank
should be doing more to end deflation. The monetary base fell
0.2 percent from a year earlier after climbing 11.3 percent the
previous month.  Elsewhere,  Australia ’s central bank kept its  benchmark
interest rate  at 4.25 percent today, and signaled it may resume
cutting borrowing costs as soon as next month if weaker-than-
expected growth slows inflation. A Chinese index for non-
manufacturing industries rose in March, according to a report
from the statistics bureau and the logistics federation. Thai
inflation accelerated for the first time in five months in March
on rising oil prices, while the  Philippines  reported its first
 budget surplus  in six months.  U.S. Manufacturing  In the U.S.,  orders at factories  increased 1.5 percent in
February after a 1 percent decline in January, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
the report today.  Euro-area  producer-price inflation  slowed for a fifth month
in February as waning consumer demand forces companies to cut
costs. Factory-gate prices in the 17-nation region rose 3.6
percent from a year earlier, down from 3.8 percent the previous
month, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said. Annual energy-cost gains accelerated to 9.3 percent from
9.2 percent in January.  Rising oil and food costs may mean that U.K.  inflation 
slows less quickly than expected this year, the BCC said. While
consumer-price growth eased to 3.4 percent in February, that’s
still above the  Bank of England ’s 2 percent target. Kern said
the group is also “still concerned that the unresolved problems
in the euro zone may trigger new upheavals later this year.”  “There must be a greater focus on policies to support
growth that will enable businesses to create jobs, invest and
export,” Longworth said. “As the public sector’s share of
economic activity shrinks over the next few years, forceful
measures are needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  