-- U.K. Stocks Advance a Second Day After U.S. Manufacturing Report
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-04-02T16:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/u-k-stocks-advance-a-second-day-after-u-s-manufacturing-report.html
U.K. stocks  jumped for a second day,
for the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index’s biggest two-day rally since January, as
a report showed that manufacturing in the U.S. expanded last
month at a faster pace than economists had estimated.  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , the third-biggest mining company, advanced
3.2 percent and  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  gained 4.1 percent as base metals
increased.  Cookson Group Plc (CKSN)  rose 6 percent after a report that
it plans to spin off its electronics unit.  The FTSE 100 added 1.9 percent to 5,874.89 at the close in
 London . The benchmark measure gained 3.5 percent in the first
quarter. The gauge advanced on March 30 as the euro area’s
finance ministers set the maximum lending capacity of the
proposed European Stability Mechanism at 500 billion euros ($666
billion). The FTSE All-Share Index rose 1.7 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 1.1 percent.  “Beginning today with the manufacturing numbers, U.S. data
has the power to fuel the stocks rally beyond the first
quarter,” said Jakup Petur Baerentsen, a chief equity adviser
at Nordea Private Bank in Copenhagen. “Though, upside gains may
be more limited than the downside risks if data disappoints.”  A U.S. report today showed that the country’s manufacturing
expanded last month at a faster pace than economists had
estimated. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index 
climbed to 53.4 in March from 52.4 in February, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group’s report showed today. Readings greater than
50 signal growth. The  median forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a gain to 53.  Euro-Area Manufacturing  Euro-area manufacturing  contracted for an eighth month in
March, adding to signs that the economy of the 17 countries
using the single currency continued to shrink in the first
quarter. A manufacturing gauge, based on a survey of purchasing
managers, fell to 47.7 last month from 49 in February, London-
based Markit Economics said today.  A separate release from the European Union’s statistics
office showed that  unemployment in the euro region  rose to 10.8
percent in February from 10.7 percent in January.  In  China , a  purchasing managers’ index  compiled by the
country’s logistics federation and the National Bureau of
Statistics rose to 53.1 in March from 51 in February. The gauge,
which was released yesterday, has a pattern of rising each
March. By contrast, a PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics fell to a four-month low of 48.3, showing that
manufacturing contracted and export orders declined.  Lloyds, HSBC Slip  Investors in Greek bonds issued under foreign law rejected
the nation’s attempts to restructure the debt at meetings held
last week. In 20 out of 36 meetings, bondholders either turned
down the government’s proposal, adjourned the talks or failed to
achieve a quorum, according to  a press release  today from
 Greece ’s Public Debt Management Office.  Mining companies  rose as copper and nickel advanced on the
London Metal Exchange.  Rio Tinto  rose 3.2 percent to 3,556
pence, while Fresnillo rose 4.1 percent to 1,664 pence.  BHP
Billiton Plc (BLT) , the  world’s biggest mining company , jumped 3
percent to 1,965 pence  Cookson surged 6 percent to 732.5 pence after the Sunday
Times reported that the world’s biggest maker of ceramic linings
for metal smelters plans to spin off its electronics unit. The
newspaper did not say where it obtained the information. The
company has hired Rothschild to help the unit sell shares and
list on the London Stock Exchange, the Sunday Times reported.  Goals Soccer Centres Plc surged 16 percent to 125 pence,
its biggest advance since 2004. The company said it has received
a preliminary approach from  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  that
may or may not lead to an offer for the company.  SABMiller, ARM Holdings  SABMiller Plc, the second-biggest brewer, gained 3.7
percent to 2,602.5 pence as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said that
the brewer is among the least-likely consumer-goods stocks to
suffer from slower  consumer spending  in German, France and the
U.K.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  gained 2.6 percent to 607.5 pence. The
Sunday Telegraph reported that Vodafone Group Plc’s deputy
chairman,  John Buchanan , will resign from the mobile-phone
operator to become chairman of ARM, which designs chips for
Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  