-- U.K. Police Relations With Tabloids ‘Symbiotic,’ Ex-Editor Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-02T13:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/u-k-police-relations-with-tabloids-symbiotic-ex-editor-says.html
London ’s Metropolitan Police Service
commanders used meetings with journalists to get introductions
to politicians, advice on public opinion and tips on crimes, a
former  News Corp. (NWSA)  editor said.  “It is a symbiotic relationship,” Neil Wallis, the former
executive editor at News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid, told
a judge-led inquiry into media ethics today. Wallis, who also
worked at the Sun tabloid, was hired to give public relations
advice to the department after leaving News Corp.  Wallis met with police commissioners and officials from at
least 1998. They would go for dinner or drinks and Wallis would
give his views on how police activity was publicly received. He
might also tip them off about a crime that reporters had
uncovered or facilitate an introduction, he said. In return, he
said, officers sometimes gave his paper an exclusive story.  Wallis offered the example of former police commissioner
Paul Condon, who gave an interview that claimed the force had
hundreds of corrupt police officers, as part of a push to end
police tenure.  “Any journalist is about their contacts, and you work on
those contacts and you don’t do it for the instant hit,” Wallis
told the inquiry led by Judge Brian Leveson.  A spokesman for the Met police declined to comment.  The News of the World, the newspaper Wallis helped run as
deputy editor until July 2009, was shut down last year by the
New York-based company after reporters had hacked into subjects’
voice mails and bribed police for stories. Wallis has been
arrested as part of the probe. A relationship with him has cost
at least one high-ranking official at the Met his job.  Stephenson Departure  The last commissioner,  Paul Stephenson , quit July 17 citing
“accusations” about his department’s decision to hire Wallis
to give public relations advice from 2009 to 2010.  John Yates ,
the assistant commissioner, resigned the next day. He has been
criticized for not going far enough to uncover phone hacking at
Wallis’s tabloid. Yates and Wallis have described themselves as
close friends.  The Met’s director of public affairs, Dick Fedorcio also
resigned last week, amid an investigation into a contract for
press advice given to Chamy Media, the company run by Wallis.
Fedorcio was also linked to the loan of a retired police horse
to Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer at News
Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit.  The Leveson inquiry was commissioned by U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  to delve into media practices and recommend
changes to the way the press is regulated.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  