-- U.S. Wheat Crops in Better Shape Than Year Ago, USDA Says
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-04-02T20:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/u-s-winter-wheat-crop-in-better-shape-than-year-ago-usda-says.html
The U.S. winter-wheat crop is in
better shape than it was at this time last year, the government
said, as warm temperatures and ample rainfall in March benefited
plants in the southern and central Great Plains.  About 58 percent of the wheat was rated good or excellent
as of yesterday, up from 37 percent a year earlier, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said today in a  report , the first this
year to assess conditions in all growing states. An estimated 52
percent of the crop received the top ratings on Nov. 28, before
plants went dormant for the winter.  “The market was expecting good conditions, and that’s what
the USDA reported today,” said Alan Brugler, the president of
Brugler Marketing & Management LLC in Omaha, Nebraska. “The
crops will not be safe from freezing temperatures for the next
30 days, but overall the crop is looking pretty good.”  Plants benefited from temperatures as much as 12 degrees
Fahrenheit above normal last month from  Texas  to Montana,
according to  data  from the University of  Nebraska  at Lincoln.
Soil moisture in the southern Plains improved with some fields
getting more than twice the normal amount of rain. Harvesting
will begin in late May.  Warm weather also accelerated planting of spring varieties
from Washington state to  Minnesota , Brugler said.  Sowing was 8 percent completed as of April 1, up from 1
percent a year ago and 2 percent on average for the prior five
seasons, the USDA said. Planting was the most advanced in  South
Dakota  with 25 percent of the seeds in the ground, up from 2
percent on average from 2007-2011, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 