-- U.S. Manufacturing, Household Spending Probably Rose
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-02T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/u-s-manufacturing-household-spending-probably-rose.html
Manufacturing probably picked up in
the U.S. in March, showing it is weathering a slowdown in global
growth, economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  climbed
to 53 from 52.4 in February, according to a median estimate of
55 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Readings greater than
50 signal growth. Construction spending rose in February, other
data may show.  “Manufacturers are benefiting from a variety of positive
catalysts, including the need to replace a fleet of motor
vehicles,” said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York. “And we just haven’t
got back to the previous peak in inventory that should benefit
the sector and the national economy for some time.”  Increased  auto sales , sustained corporate purchases of
equipment and inventory rebuilding are underpinning the industry
that led the U.S. out of the recession more than two years ago.
At the same time, less demand from overseas customers remains a
risk for manufacturers, which account for about 12 percent of
the economy.  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s manufacturing report is due
at 10 a.m.  New York  time. Estimates ranged from 51.7 to 54.5.
The gauge averaged 55.2 in 2011 and 57.3 a year earlier.  Also at 10 a.m., the Commerce Department will release data
on  construction spending . Economists project a 0.7 percent gain
after a 0.1 percent January decrease, according to the Bloomberg
survey median. Forecasts ranged from a drop of 0.6 percent to an
increase of 1.5 percent.  Regional Data  Regional reports reinforce the strength of manufacturing.
New York-area factories grew in March at the fastest rate since
June 2010 and manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded
the most in almost a year, figures from the  Federal Reserve 
showed.  While companies are investing in new equipment, a stronger
 labor market  is giving households the means to purchase big-
ticket items, benefiting companies like motor-home maker
 Winnebago Industries Inc. (WGO)   “We’re beginning to see positive signs that the economy is
improving,” Randy Potts, chief executive officer of the Forest
City, Iowa-based company, said on a March 15 conference call.
“ Consumer confidence  has been trending higher and the jobless
rate is improving.”  Manufacturing shares have outperformed the market. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Industrial Machinery  Index (S15MACH) ,
which includes Caterpillar Inc. and Deere & Co., advanced 16
percent since the end of 2011 through March 30, compared with a
12 percent increase in the broader  S&P 500 .  Auto Sales  Light-vehicle sales in March, set for release tomorrow, may
have run at a 14.6 million seasonally adjusted annual rate, the
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. It would cap
the strongest quarter since the first three months of 2008,
according to Ward’s Automotive Group statistics.  A report last week showed orders for non-defense capital
goods excluding aircraft -- a proxy for business investment in
items such as computers, engines and communications gear --
increased 1.2 percent in February.  Business spending on equipment and software climbed at a
7.5 percent pace in the final three months of 2011 after a 16.2
percent surge in the prior quarter, according to the latest
Commerce Department data on gross domestic product.  The growth helps explain why companies like  Deere & Co. (DE)  are
expanding. The world’s largest maker of agricultural equipment
said March 1 that it would invest $70 million to expand tractor
production in Waterloo,  Iowa .  Fed’s Bernanke  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week
that while he was encouraged by the recent decline in the
 unemployment rate , a further reduction will probably require a
quicker expansion of business production and consumer demand,
which “can be supported by continued accommodative policies,”
he said.  Recent “better news” on the  U.S. economy  has also
included strength in manufacturing, Bernanke said. The
improvement could contribute to higher consumer confidence and
lead to a self-sustaining recovery, he said. “We haven’t seen
that in a persuasive way yet,” Bernanke said in a speech in
Arlington, Virginia.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  