-- U.S. Economy Needs Stimulus, Not Soothsayers
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   a n d   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-04-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/u-s-economy-needs-stimulus-not-soothsayers.html
Here’s something you don’t often
hear an economist admit: We have very little idea where the
economy will be next year.  Truth be told, our best guesses just aren’t very good.
Government forecasts regularly go awry. Private-sector
economists and cutting-edge macroeconomic models do even worse.  For a spectacular example, let’s go back to August 2008.
The economy had been in  recession  for nine months, the
investment bank Bear Stearns Cos. had already collapsed, and
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. was  well on its way  to bankruptcy.  Yet leading economists responding to the Survey of
Professional Forecasters  predicted  that unemployment would
average 6 percent in 2009. Just a few months later, the White
House projected that with the passage of the stimulus bill,
unemployment would be less than 8 percent -- far short of the
9.3 percent it ultimately reached.  This was a big miss. It’s also not unusual. The dismal
science is more dismal and less science than most people
recognize. Careful studies by both Federal Reserve  economists 
and the  Congressional Budget Office  have found that forecasts of
the next year’s economic-growth rate typically miss by about one
percentage point, and often more. Unemployment forecasts aren’t
much better.  Why? Data are imperfect. Theories are coarse. Models
oversimplify. The economy is constantly evolving and can’t be
subjected to controlled experiments. Economic cycles are
infrequent, so our understanding of them necessarily proceeds
very slowly.  False Confidence  None of these drawbacks, though, is fatal to the
enterprise. Rather, they tell us that policy makers, the media
and the public should beware of economists who argue their
forecasts with certainty. All too often we fall for false
confidence, bravado and swagger, which crowd out legitimate
discussion about our uncertain future.  Serious forecasters embrace uncertainty, giving rise to the
much-derided stereotype of the two-handed economist. But this is
exactly what we need. Like a meteorologist who warns you to pack
an umbrella because there’s some chance of rain, economists can
assess the risks that lie ahead in a way that helps policy
makers prepare for the future. To do so, they must examine both
the rain and the shine scenarios, and weigh the cost of action -
- or inaction -- in both cases.  Consider the current economic-policy debate. Most
forecasters suggest that as the recovery slowly grinds on,
 unemployment  will fall to about 7.5 percent by the end of 2013,
from the current 8.3 percent. While this isn’t great progress,
it is fast enough that some have argued against further
stimulus.  We know, though, that the consensus forecast is highly
likely to be wrong. Unemployment could fall to 6.5 percent, or
rise to 8.5 percent. Each of these possibilities needs to be
considered, and weighed according to its potential benefit or
harm.  If unemployment falls to 6.5 percent, there’s no
overwhelming reason for concern. Historical experience suggests
that inflationary pressures are unlikely to build unless the
jobless rate drops to 5 percent or 6 percent. Even if inflation
does accelerate, the Fed has ample power to reverse course by
raising  interest rates  to slow growth.  By contrast, the longer-run consequences could be dreadful,
if we find ourselves with 8.5 percent unemployment fully six
years after the recession began.  Europe ’s experience in the
1970s and 1980s demonstrated that persistently high unemployment
can become entrenched, leading to further unemployment in the
future -- a process economists call hysteresis. Skills atrophy,
hope fades and people lose contact with the networks that can
help them find work. If this occurs with the millions of U.S.
workers who have been without jobs for more than a year, it will
be costly and very difficult to undo.  In other words, the cost of too little growth far outweighs
the cost of too much. If we readily bear the burden of carrying
an umbrella when there’s a reasonable chance of getting wet, we
should certainly be willing to stimulate the economy when
there’s a reasonable risk that doing nothing could yield a
jobless generation.  (Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers , both professors
at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, are
Bloomberg View columnists. The opinions expressed are their
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  Myanmar’s elections  and
 Marco Rubio’s immigration bill ; Ramesh Ponnuru on why the U.S.
will not go to  single-payer health care ;  Margaret Carlson  on the
 recall movement in Wisconsin ; Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S.
Rogoff on why this crisis  really is different ; Eric Posner and
Glen Weyl on creating an  FDA for derivatives trading .  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  