-- U.S. Regulators to Move Closer to Designating Systemic Firms
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-04-02T17:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/u-s-treasury-to-move-closer-to-designating-systemic-firms.html
The U.S.  Treasury Department  and
regulators will move one step closer tomorrow to designating
some companies as posing a risk to the country’s financial
system in the event of their failure.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council will hold a
meeting at which it will finalize criteria for singling out non-
bank financial companies as systemically important and thus
subject to greater supervision, the U.S. Treasury Department
said.  The final rule is FSOC’s second attempt to define metrics
and a procedure for designating non-bank companies as systemic.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said March 29 that
FSOC’s designation tool is a way regulators have become more
prepared for a crisis.  FSOC “can designate any institution which it views as not
being adequately regulated to come under the supervision of the
 Federal Reserve ,” Bernanke said in a March 29 lecture. “And
that’s a process that’s going on now, so there will not be any
more large, complex, systemically critical firms that have no
oversight.”  The FSOC, headed by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ,
proposed a rule in October that set standards for determining
which non-bank firms require Federal Reserve scrutiny. Banks
with over $50 billion in assets were automatically deemed risky
to the financial system in the event of their failure.  Final Rule  The final rule regulators will approve tomorrow will be
largely unchanged from that proposed in October, said officials
familiar with the deliberations who spoke on condition of not
being further identified. The wording, however, can be changed
until the vote is taken.  “It is an important step in the whole Dodd-Frank reform,”
said Edward Hida, the global leader of risk and capital
management for  Deloitte & Touche LLP . “Systemic risk is one of
the most important elements of the Dodd-Frank reform and
building that into the oversight of regulation through FSOC and
designation is the cornerstone.”  Under the October proposal, regulators will evaluate non-
bank financial companies with more than $50 billion in assets if
they meet any one or more of the following thresholds: A 15-to-1
 leverage ratio ; $3.5 billion in liabilities on derivatives
contracts; $20 billion of outstanding loans borrowed and bonds
issued; $30 billion in gross notional credit-default swaps
outstanding; or a 10 percent ratio of short-term debt to assets.  Non-Bank Firms  Under a three-step process, the council will use additional
data, including size, interconnectedness and liquidity risk to
identify a subset of non-bank financial companies. The council
will use publicly available figures to analyze the companies,
and then regulators will contact the firm in question to collect
more information.  FSOC will retain a provision that the panel will have the
flexibility to designate any company as systemically important
even it doesn’t meet any of the criteria, according to the
people familiar with the deliberations.  Geithner said Feb. 2 that the first non-bank companies to
be deemed systemically risky will be named this year.  Under the Dodd-Frank act, once the FSOC designates
companies as systemic, the Fed would then subject these firms to
heightened standards, including raising capital and reducing
risky practices. The companies also would have to file “living
wills” so they could be unwound in an orderly way if they
failed.  Risky Firms  Plans to designate systemically risky firms were set back
after lawmakers and industry executives complained that the
initial proposed criteria, released in January 2011, were too
vague. FSOC responded in October with a new proposal with
metrics for designation.  Even after the rule is final, it is unclear how long it
will take FSOC to begin designations.  “They probably need to proceed carefully because there
could be court challenges, there could be other procedural
hurdles.” said Satish Kini, co-chairman of the banking group at
law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP. “Congress is going to be
interested in how they go about this.”  “They know this is a task that is not going to make any
friends for the administration,” said Ernest Patrikis, a
partner at the law firm White & Case LLC and a former general
counsel at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York . “Politically
it’s not an easy task because even if you meet certain criteria
there are going to be significant costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  