-- UBS Said to Hire Mimaroglu From Credit Suisse for Turkey
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-04-02T14:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/ubs-said-to-hire-mimaroglu-from-credit-suisse-for-turkey-1-.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  hired Emre Mimaroglu, former
head of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s investment bank in Turkey, for
a dual role in investment banking and wealth management in the
country, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Mimaroglu, 37, has left Credit Suisse and will join UBS in
Istanbul on May 1, the person said, declining to be identified
because the hiring hasn’t been publicly disclosed. Dominique
Gerster, a spokesman for UBS in Zurich, declined to comment.  During Mimaroglu’s tenure, Credit Suisse’s clients included
airport operator TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS, which agreed to
sell a 38 percent stake to Aeroports de Paris for $874 million
last month. That’s the biggest acquisition of a Turkish asset
this year, according to Bloomberg records. Credit Suisse also
advised  South Africa ’s Defy Appliances (Pty) Ltd. as it was sold
to Turkey’s Arcelik AS for $272 million last year.  Last month, UBS hired Andrea Orcel, one of Merrill Lynch &
Co.’s biggest dealmakers, to co-lead its investment bank from
July as UBS Chief Executive Officer Sergio Ermotti reduces the
division’s size. Ermotti, who took the top job at Switzerland’s
biggest bank after a trading scandal last year prompted the
departure of Oswald Gruebel, is refocusing the securities unit
to support its private bank, which provides services and
products for wealthy individuals.  Mimaroglu previously worked for Merrill Lynch, according to
a  biography  published for an investment conference in Istanbul
last year. He attended  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York
and the Stern School of Business at  New York University .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  