-- UBS’s McCann Taps 3 Former Merrill Colleagues to Rebuild
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-04-02T20:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/ubs-s-mccann-taps-3-former-merrill-colleagues-to-rebuild.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  Americas Chief Executive
Officer  Robert McCann  named three former Merrill Lynch & Co.
colleagues to help reverse a three-year slide in the Swiss
bank’s U.S. market share.  Michael Stewart, Robert Mulholland and Brian Hull, who
already work for Zurich-based UBS, will join a six-member
executive committee led by McCann, the CEO wrote in a staff memo
scheduled for distribution today. The panel includes Samuel Molinaro, an ex-Bear Stearns Cos. chief financial officer who
joined UBS last month, and Shawn Lytle, head of  money management 
in the Americas.  McCann, 54, is the ex-Merrill brokerage chief who helped
restore profit at UBS’s U.S. retail brokerage since joining in
2009. He’s turning his attention to the investment bank after
UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest lender, suffered a $2.3 billion loss
from unauthorized trading. The firm has said its trading and
mergers-advisory franchise should be simpler, with more
consistent profit and less need for capital.  “More of my time is going to be spent on our investment
bank,” McCann said in an interview today. “None of this will
happen overnight. I’ve been working at the wealth management
turnaround for two and a half years, and I expect this to take
an equally long period, if not a little longer, but we’re
putting a stake in the ground, and we started today.”  UBS CEO  Sergio Ermotti , 51, another former Merrill banker,
will take part in an “Americas Town Hall” meeting tomorrow
with employees, according to the memo.  Targeting Bureaucracy  McCann’s goals include “eliminating unnecessary
bureaucracy that is impeding our ability to adapt to changing
markets,” he wrote in the memo.  Where past regional CEOs held ceremonial and sales
responsibilities without direct oversight of global business
lines, McCann said he expects to have more responsibility for
the bank’s biggest three U.S. businesses, including brokerage,
money management and investment banking.  “Sergio has changed the job of regional CEO and what it
means,” McCann said. “He’s made me responsible and accountable
for driving our successes as a company in the Americas.”  Team Members  Stewart, 43, hired from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in July to be
co-head of global equities, became the sole head in October when
his co-heads, Francois Gouws and Yassine Bouhara, resigned in
the wake of the unauthorized trading loss.  Mulholland, 59, head of wealth management and investment
solutions, and Hull, 52, who leads strategic clients and
partnerships, were hired by McCann in November 2009.  Molinaro, 54, was hired as the UBS investment bank’s chief
operating officer. Lytle, 42, has been with UBS since 2002, when
he joined from JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  McCann was promoted in December to oversee all of the
bank’s operations in the region after leading the U.S. retail
brokerage to a pretax profit in 2011.  Pretax income  in the
 Wealth Management  Americas unit was 504 million Swiss francs
($558 million), compared with a 2010 loss of 130 million Swiss
francs. Clients added a net 12.1 billion Swiss francs of new
money to their accounts last year, following outflows of 6.1
billion Swiss francs in 2010.  Ranking Declines  The U.S. investment bank, which includes trading and
investment banking as well as mergers advice and underwriting,
didn’t fare as well. Among advisers on U.S. mergers and
acquisitions, UBS tumbled last year to 10th with a 10 percent
market share, from eighth and a 13 percent share in 2010. In
2008, the bank ranked sixth with an 18 percent market share.  “If you want to succeed globally you’d better be
competitive in the  United States ,” McCann said. “It is the
largest fee pool in the world for  investment banking .”  McCann’s role as regional CEO returns him to the trading
and  investment-banking  side of  Wall Street  after spending eight
years in retail brokerage.  He started his 26-year career at Merrill in 1982 as an
associate in equity sales and trading, rising by the late 1990s
to run the equities division. In the early 2000s, as Merrill
faced allegations over misleading stock reports, he was put in
charge of the firm’s research division. In 2003, he moved to the
brokerage side and in 2005 was named president of global wealth
management by then-CEO Stan O’Neal.  Merrill Lynch almost collapsed in late 2008 because of bad
bets on subprime mortgages made under O’Neal, and the firm had
to sell itself to Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . McCann announced his resignation on Jan. 5, 2009, four
days after the merger was completed. UBS received its own
bailout in 2008 from the Swiss government.  At the time of his departure, Merrill Lynch’s retail
brokerage had about 16,090 financial advisers -- more than
double the 6,697 U.S. advisers at UBS as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 