-- Uganda Central Bank Keeps Key Interest Rate at 21%
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-04-02T11:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/uganda-central-bank-keeps-key-interest-rate-at-21-correct-.html
(Corrects name of bank in second paragraph.)  Uganda’s central bank left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for the first time in three
months to help bolster the currency as oil prices climb.  The policy rate was kept at 21 percent, Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile told reporters today in the capital, Kampala,
today. The Bank of Uganda lowered the rate by 2 percentage
points since January.  The shilling has slumped 6.2 percent against the dollar
since March 1, adding to price pressures in  East Africa ’s third-
largest economy. The central bank had raised its key rate by 10
percentage points between August and November to curb inflation
after the worst regional drought in 60 years in 2011.  The rate was “maintained because the central bank is
countering the depreciation of the shilling,” Arthur Nsiko, a
researcher at African Alliance  Uganda  Ltd., an investment
advisory company in Kampala, said in an interview before today’s
decision. “Since Treasury bills and bonds are pegged on the
rate, it has to remain high to attract offshore investors for
dollar inflows.”  Inflation slowed to 21.2 percent in March from 25.7 percent
in February, the Kampala-based statistics agency said on March
30. The underlying inflation rate, which excludes food crops,
fuel, electricity and metered water, fell to 23.6 percent from
26.7 percent in the period.  The  bank rate , the rate at which the central bank advances
short term loans to commercial banks was at 26 percent on March
22, according to Bank of Uganda’s website.  Ugandan shop owners closed for several days in January to
protest soaring interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  