-- Lumena Falls 28% in Hong Kong as Acquisition Deal Pulled
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-04-02T05:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/lumena-falls-28-in-hong-kong-as-acquisition-deal-pulled.html
(Corrects net income figure in fifth paragraph of story
published on March 31.)  China Lumena New Materials Corp. (67) ,
which produces the minerals thenardite and glauberite, fell the
most in Hong Kong trading since its debut, as the company
canceled an acquisition agreement signed last year.  The shares  dropped 28 percent , the biggest decline since
the June 2009 IPO, making the stock the worst performer in the
 Hang Seng Composite Index. (HSCI)  A total of 265 million shares changed
hands, twice the stock’s three-month daily  average .  Lumena won’t complete the purchase announced on June 6, the
company said in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing yesterday,
after the market closed. The termination of the deal doesn’t
have “any material adverse impact” on operations, it said,
without giving a reason for pulling the purchase.  In June, Lumena said it would pay 320 million yuan ($51
million) for two mining companies in Meishan in southwestern
 China ’s Sichuan province.  Lumena’s full-year  net income  rose 72 percent to 1.25
billion yuan, according to a separate company filing yesterday
after the market closed. That was less than the 1.49 billion
yuan average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The maker of thenardite, used in detergents and medical
products, said on March 14 it expected to report a
“substantial” increase in 2011 profit after completing the
acquisition of Sino Polymer New Materials Co.  “The company is unaware of the reasons for the movements
in the share price,” Lumena said in a separate e-mailed
statement yesterday. “There have been no changes to the
company’s management or operation.”  Lumena has slumped 51 percent in the past year, compared
with the 12 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .
The stock closed at HK$1.39 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ryan Woo at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net  