-- Hungarian President Schmitt Quits After Plagiarism Ruling
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-04-02T14:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/hungarian-president-schmitt-quits-office-after-plagiarism-ruling.html
Hungarian President  Pal Schmitt , an
ally of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  who has signed off on all
legislation since taking office in 2010, quit after losing his
doctoral title because he plagiarized his thesis.  Schmitt bowed to pressure to quit after Semmelweis
University in Budapest stripped him of his doctoral title in
sports last week. Schmitt initially resisted resigning, saying
on public television on March 30 that there was “no link”
between his degree and his office. Lawmakers accepted the
resignation today and Parliament Speaker Laszlo Kover took over
his duties until the legislature elects a successor.  “Hungary’s basic law, which I signed, says the head of
state is the symbol of national unity,” Schmitt said. “This to
me means that in this situation, when my personal case divides
rather than unites my beloved nation, I feel it is my duty to
end my service and return my presidential mandate.”  Schmitt, an Olympic champion fencer and long-time
 International Olympic Committee  member, is the first president
to resign since  Hungary ’s transition to democracy in 1990. One
of Orban’s deputies in the ruling Fidesz party, he vowed to be
the “motor” of government policy as president, raising concern
over the lack of checks and balances on a premier who won an
unprecedented two-thirds parliamentary majority in 2010
elections.  EU Objections  European Union objections to some of the government’s laws
signed by Schmitt, including new regulations on the central bank
and the judiciary, have blocked Hungary’s talks on an
 International Monetary Fund  loan.  The forint traded at 295.24 per euro at 4:37 p.m. in
Budapest from 294.47 on March 30. It has gained 7 percent this
year, the world’s second-best performance behind the Polish
zloty. The benchmark BUX stock index declined 0.5 percent to
18,547.01.  While the office of the president is largely ceremonial and
the bulk of executive power lies with the prime minister,
Schmitt’s predecessors regularly returned legislation to
Parliament or sought Constitutional Court review. Schmitt on
June 24, 2010, said that as president he “wouldn’t block the
government’s agenda.”  Schmitt was nominated to the presidency by Orban, who until
today rejected calls to demand the president’s resignation,
including from politicians from within his ruling party, Fidesz.
All four parliamentary opposition parties demanded that Schmitt
quit and hundreds rallied in Budapest over the weekend to demand
his resignation.  German Defense Minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg stepped
down last March over allegations he plagiarized passages of his
doctoral thesis.  No Credit  A fact-finding commission set up by Semmelweis University
confirmed last week that 180 pages of Schmitt’s 215-page
dissertation, entitled “The Analysis of the Program of Modern
Olympic Games” in 1992 were “partially identical” to another
work, while another 17 pages were “completely identical” to a
separate study, with neither receiving credit.  While Schmitt’s thesis included a bibliography, it didn’t
cite sources and didn’t include footnotes or endnotes, according
to the report, published on the university’s website. The
commission didn’t use the word “plagiarism” in the three-page
summary of its report.  ‘Loss of Trust’  Schmitt’s thesis “didn’t meet the ethical and professional
criteria of scientific work,” Tivadar Tulassay, the rector of
Semmelweis University, said on March 29 after the university
stripped the president of his doctoral title. Tulassay quit
yesterday, citing a “loss of trust” from the government
ministry overseeing the university.  The probe into Schmitt’s dissertation was launched after
the  HVG .hu news website reported on Jan. 11 that Schmitt may
have copied word for word from the work of Bulgarian sports
researcher Nikolay Gueorguiev.  Schmitt, who won Olympic gold medals in fencing in 1968 and
1972, was a deputy chairman of Fidesz from 2003 to 2007 and a
vice president of the European Parliament from July 2009 to May
2010. He has headed the Hungarian Olympic Committee since 1990
and was vice president of the IOC from 1995 to 1999. He was a
deputy state secretary for sports under communism in the 1980s.  His approval rating sank to 30 percent this month from 49
percent when he took office in June 2010, pollster Ipsos said on
its  website , without giving a margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  