-- Turkey Growth Slowed in 4th Quarter as Basci Curbed Credit Boom
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-04-02T07:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/turkey-growth-slowed-in-4th-quarter-as-basci-curbed-credit-boom.html
Turkey ’s  economic growth  slowed in
the last quarter of 2011 as the central bank raised borrowing
costs to rein in a boom in consumer loans.  Gross domestic product grew by 5.2 percent from a year
earlier, faster than the 4.9 percent median estimate of 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, the government statistics
office in Ankara said on its website today. The economy expanded
0.6 percent from the previous quarter. For the whole year,
growth was 8.5 percent, compared with 9 percent in 2010.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci reversed course in
October by tightening monetary policy as he sought to curb
growth that rivaled  China ’s in the first nine months. The move
aimed to restrain a widening trade gap and halt a slide in the
lira that threatened to fuel inflation.  “The slowdown we were hoping for in the third quarter of
last year is finally taking place in the fourth quarter, showing
that central bank policies are working, albeit with a delay,”
said Nilufer Sezgin, chief economist at Istanbul-based brokerage
Ekspres Invest. “We were seeing domestically driven growth led
by private-sector consumption and investments. A slowdown in
these channels will bring down growth.”  Consumer  lending  grew 3.2 percent in the fourth quarter
from the previous three months, the  slowest pace  in more than
two years. The benchmark  ISE-100 (XU100)  stock index dropped 14 percent
in the quarter, the most since 2008, led by lender  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , which plunged 19 percent.  Export growth  also slowed in the fourth quarter with the
worsening of the debt crisis in the European Union, Turkey’s
main export market.  Rate Corridor  Turkey’s $735 billion economy has been growing at an
average pace of about 9 percent for two years. A slowdown may
help reduce the country’s  current-account deficit , which stands
at about 10 percent of GDP, and an  inflation rate  of 10.4
percent that is close to a three-year high.  The interest-rate corridor adopted by the central bank in
October allows him to vary bank borrowing costs daily. Basci
says the system allows flexibility as he seeks to reconcile the
country’s growth targets with the need to stabilize the lira and
bring inflation down.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government has set a
goal of 4 percent growth this year. The median forecast of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg is 2.6 percent.  “The central bank is not willing to hold its tight policy
for long,” said Tim Ash, head of emerging market research at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, in an e-mailed report to
clients. “It remains focused on trying to engineer a soft
landing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 