-- TV Keeping Airwaves May Spell Crunch for Smartphones Using AT&T
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-04-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/tv-keeping-airwaves-may-spell-crunch-for-smartphones-using-at-t.html
Paul Karpowicz runs 12 television
stations for  Meredith (MDP)  Corp. He has a quick answer about whether
he’d offer the company’s airwaves in a U.S. auction to free up
frequencies for data-gobbling smartphones and tablet computers.  “No. The answer would be, ‘No,’’ Karpowicz, president of
the local media group of  Des Moines , Iowa-based Meredith, said
in an interview. ‘‘I haven’t talked to anyone who is personally
excited about jumping into an auction.’’  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has set a 10-year
schedule to provide more broadband capability to mobile  Internet
providers  such as  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , to ward off
what Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  has called ‘‘a looming spectrum crisis.’’  Its strategies, though, depend on TV-station owners selling
some or all of their airwaves, and the Pentagon and other
federal agencies moving frequencies for functions such as video
links for remote control of bomb-disposal robots.  ‘‘It takes a long, long time to do this,’’  John Hane , a
Washington-based communications lawyer with Pillsbury law, said
in an interview. ‘‘You can anticipate there are going to be
roadblocks and they’re going to be serious roadblocks.’’  Blair Levin, who as an FCC official helped devise the U.S.
plan, said in a March 6 speech, ‘‘We are moving backward, not
forward.’’  Failure to bring more spectrum to the market will yield
‘‘unhappy consumers who are paying more for less service,’’  Tom Tauke , executive vice president for Verizon parent  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , said at a March 20 conference in
Washington.  Broadband Crunch  U.S. mobile providers led by Verizon Wireless and No. 2
AT&T are pushing for more airwaves as wireless data use has more
than doubled for four years running. Use is projected to
increase 18-fold by 2016, according to network-gear maker Cisco
Systems Inc. More than two-thirds of handset buyers  are choosing 
smartphones, according to market researcher Nielsen Holdings NV.  Obama in 2010 adopted the policy of freeing 500 megahertz
of airwaves. The U.S. can’t fall behind as the world moves to
mobile Web service, or broadband, Obama said in a memorandum.  At the FCC, ‘‘We look at freeing 500 megahertz as a goal
and a process,’’ Neil Grace, an agency spokesman, said in an e-
mail. ‘‘The commission has taken a number of steps to find
innovative ways to unleash spectrum,’’ including loosening
restrictions on using some airwaves and letting wireless devices
operate in spaces between TV channels, Grace said.  Broadcast Auction  The largest swath of spectrum identified by the FCC as a
candidate for reassignment is now used by broadcasters. TV
station owners could sell all or part of their airwaves in U.S.-
run auctions and won’t be required to take part.  Bidders could include Dallas-based AT&T, Verizon Wireless
based in  Basking Ridge ,  New Jersey , third-largest U.S. wireless
carrier  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and No. 4 T-Mobile USA Inc., a unit
of  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  Genachowski on March 21  appointed  a  task
force  to devise rules for the auction, for which no date has
been set.  The process ‘‘will take years to play out,’’ Commissioner
Robert McDowell, the sole Republican on the FCC, said in an
interview. The agency has two Democrats including Genachowski,
and is short two members as nominees await Senate confirmation.  ‘‘We don’t know how many broadcasters will be interested in
relinquishing their spectrum,’’ McDowell said. ‘‘We won’t know
until we ask.’’  Levin, the former FCC official who’s now a fellow at the
Washington-based policy group  Aspen Institute , said auctions of
TV stations may reap 60-to-80 megahertz of airwaves, compared
with 120 anticipated in the  National Broadband Plan  that he
helped write at the FCC under Democratic officials.  Motivation to Sell  Many broadcasters are intrigued by the possibility of
sending digital streams to mobile devices and would be reluctant
to part with their airwaves, said Karpowicz, who is chairman of
the  National Association of Broadcasters . The Washington-based
trade group lists members including CBS Corp.,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBC, the Walt Disney Co.’s ABC and News Corp.’s Fox.  ‘‘Why would I give up spectrum and forgo this potential
opportunity for a one-time payoff when you don’t know what that
payoff will be?” Karpowicz said.  Hane, the attorney, said some broadcasters may be willing
to sell, particularly those that own TV stations in smaller
cities that aren’t national network affiliates and don’t attract
large audiences.  “These stations are scraping by,” Hane said. “There are
just not a lot of things to do if you’re not the lead dog.”  ‘New Path Forward’  The  National Telecommunications and Information
Administration , a Commerce Department arm that advises the White
House and FCC, on March 27 said U.S. agencies could share
airwaves with commercial wireless companies in a 95-megahertz
swath.  Larry Strickling, the NTIA administrator, on a conference
call said sharing was part of a “new path forward” needed in
part because there’s not much open spectrum to receive relocated
U.S. users. Moving U.S. agencies aside could cost $18 billion
and take more than 10 years, according to an NTIA report.
Sharing can allow a quicker, cheaper transition, Strickling
said.  The NTIA said in a report that a classified document
discusses costs for relocating “certain national security
systems.” It didn’t provide details.  The Defense Department doesn’t want to move functions
including satellite tracking and electronic-warfare testing and
training, according to the NTIA’s report.  The report is “very encouraging,” Verizon
Communications’s Tauke said in an e-mailed statement. He said
the company wants to work with agencies “to make the maximum
amount of spectrum available for mobile use as soon as
possible.”  ‘Wrestling’ Frequencies  The NTIA’s decision shows the Obama administration is
serious about spectrum reassignments, Jeffrey Silva, a
Washington-based analyst for Medley Global Advisors LLC, said in
an e-mail.  “Actually wrestling frequencies away from the Pentagon and
other government agencies remains an uphill battle and a
beneficial outcome for wireless carriers is far from
guaranteed,” Silva said.  Air Force Lt. Col. April Cunningham, a Defense Department
spokeswoman, said the Pentagon will consider “innovative
spectrum sharing arrangements.”  “The Defense Department remains committed to work
cooperatively on a balanced approach that protects mission-
critical military operations while making spectrum available for
broadband use,” Cunningham said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  