-- Vinacomin Said to Offer 460 Basis-Point Rate for Dollar Loan
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-04-02T09:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/vinacomin-said-to-offer-460-basis-point-rate-for-dollar-loan.html
Vietnam National Coal-Mineral
Industries Group is offering to pay an all-in price of about 460
basis points more than the London interbank offered rate for a
$120 million loan, a person familiar with the matter said.  The state-owned miner, known as Vinacomin, which had its
long-term  credit rating  cut by  Standard & Poor’s  in December
2010, was seeking a $150 million facility last year with an all-
in rate, which included margin and fees, of 318 basis points, a
person familiar with the matter said at the time. The borrower
decided to postpone the transaction until market conditions
improved, that person said in October.  Standard Chartered Plc is helping to arrange the new loan,
the person said, asking not to be identified because the details
are private.  Le Thi Truc, deputy head of Vinacomin’s financial
department, declined to comment on the loan on March 30. Pham
Trung Hung, a company spokesman, also wasn’t immediately
available to comment when reached on his mobile phone last week.
Today is a public holiday in  Vietnam .  “As Vietnam’s sovereign credit quality remains on negative
outlook, the scope for corporate debt financing from
international markets remains challenging,” Philipp Lotter,
senior vice president of corporate finance at Moody’s Investors
Service, said by telephone from Singapore today. “I expect it
to remain that way until some of the more pressing macro issues
such as dwindling foreign-currency reserves and inflation are
addressed.”  Hanoi-based Vinacomin’s corporate credit rating was lowered
to BB- from BB in 2010 after a restructuring at a state-owned
shipping company prompted a review of risk assumptions in the
Southeast Asian nation. Moody’s rates Vietnam’s debt at B1, its
fourth-highest non-investment grade, with a negative outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  