-- Vulcan Trading Below Hostile Bid Reflects Deal Obstacles
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-04-02T20:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/vulcan-sinks-below-hostile-bid-as-obstacles-cast-doubt-on-deal.html
Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  fell below
 Martin Marietta Materials Inc.’s (MLM)  hostile bid for the first time
last week, indicating doubts among investors that the all-stock
deal valued at $5.5 billion will succeed.  Vulcan, the largest U.S. producer of gravel and sand,
closed at $42.73 in New York on March 30, 0.2 percent lower than
 Martin Marietta ’s Dec. 12 offer. Vulcan’s shares, which traded
as much as 7.7 percent higher than the bid in February, inched
0.8 percent above the offer today.  The deal faces two obstacles this month: a Delaware judge’s
ruling that may block Martin Marietta’s bid and a possible U.S.
Justice Department decision to order more asset sales than the
suitor expected. A negative outcome on either may put the
transaction in jeopardy, said Todd Vencil, a Richmond, Virginia-
based analyst with Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc.  “It’s obvious on the face of it that some investors think
that the deal is less likely to happen than they did a few days
ago,” Vencil said. “There’s a fair amount of downside in
Vulcan shares relative to Martin’s if there’s no deal in
place.”  Martin Marietta Chief Executive Officer Ward Nye made the
hostile bid of half of one of his company’s shares for each of
Vulcan’s after talks with the target’s Chief Executive Officer
Don James broke down in mid-2011. The two began merger
discussions in 2010 and eventually disagreed on cost savings,
who would run the new company and what asset sales would be
needed to comply with antitrust regulations.  Vulcan rose 1.1 percent to $43.19 in  New York  at the close
in New York. Martin Marietta rose 0.1 percent $85.72, valuing
half a share at $42.86.  ‘Low Ball’  James rejected the hostile offer as “very low ball” and
said Martin Marietta used confidential information. Martin
Marietta preempted Vulcan’s legal complaint with a Dec. 12
lawsuit seeking a ruling that a May 2010 confidentiality
agreement didn’t prohibit the bid.  Judge Leo Strine is scheduled to hear post-trial arguments
on April 9 and may decide the case that week.  Both James and Nye have been wooing investors prior to
Vulcan’s annual shareholders meeting, which may be held as soon
as May. Martin Marietta nominated candidates to replace five of
the 11 Vulcan directors, then trimmed its slate to four when
Vulcan reduced the size of the board to 10 following a member’s
retirement.  While Martin Marietta can’t gain control of the board, the
vote will gauge support for its offer, said Ted Grace, a  Bala
Cynwyd , Pennsylvania-based analyst with Susquehanna Financial
Group.  Martin Marietta Agreements  In a letter today, Vulcan said that Martin Marietta entered
into confidentiality agreements with the nominees it proposed
that should have been disclosed before a Feb. 13 deadline under
Vulcan’s bylaws. Vulcan requested in the letter that Martin
Marietta provide the agreements.  Martin Marietta said in an e-mailed statement today that
its nominees to the board are independent, are qualified under
Vulcan’s bylaws, and don’t have any contractual agreements with
the Martin Marietta.  Vulcan may convince shareholders to reject Martin
Marietta’s offer with a plan disclosed in February to cut costs
by $100 million this year in addition to $55 million last year
and sell $500 million of assets to repay debt, Grace said.  “Increasingly people have come to the realization that the
chances of the deal getting done are low,” Grace said.  Florida Rock  The combined companies would create the world’s largest
producer of sand and gravel and generate annual cost savings of
$250 million, Martin Marietta has said. The merger also would
bolster Vulcan’s finances after  earnings slumped  following the
$4.2 billion acquisition of Florida Rock in 2007, Martin
Marietta said. The suitor proposed a quarterly dividend equal to
20 cents a Vulcan share, partly restoring the  payout  that Vulcan
cut to 1 cent from 25 cents last year.  Boosting its bid might help Martin Marietta win support
from Vulcan shareholders, said Brent Thielman, an analyst with
D.A. Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon . Vulcan’s shares had
traded higher than the offer since Dec. 12, after an initial
jump of 15 percent, amid speculation that Martin Marietta would
raise its offer, he said.  “I can’t imagine Martin Marietta came into this without
some thought they may have to sweeten this deal,” Thielman
said. “I still feel there’s an opportunity for that to be on
the table.”  Asset Sales  Martin Marietta, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , said it
will discuss the deal’s antitrust issues with the Justice
Department in the last two weeks of April and will try to reach
a consent order on assets that may need to be sold. If a  Justice
Department  accord can’t be reached then, Martin Marietta pledged
not to seek to close the transaction before mid-August.  Antitrust issues will probably force asset sales that would
“destroy value,” Vulcan has said. The Birmingham, Alabama-
based company said gross profit from operations that overlap
with Martin Marietta’s range from $177 million in a 20-mile
radius to $344 million at 60 miles. The Justice Department
requested information from Vulcan on aggregates transported from
20 miles (32 kilometers) to 200 miles of quarries and asphalt
shipped as far as 60 miles, the company said in January.  Vulcan shares may drop further because of investors
concerned that the deal will hit a roadblock with decisions
against Martin Marietta from the trial and antitrust talks,
Vencil said. Favorable rulings would keep the deal going without
ensuring it will be successful, he said.  “It comes down to the divestitures and the judge,” Vencil
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  