-- Walnut Place Asks Appeals Court to Revive Bank of America Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/walnut-place-appeals-dismissal-of-bank-of-america-lawsuit-1-.html
The dismissal of a lawsuit against
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  was appealed by investors seeking the
repurchase of defective loans underlying more than $1 billion in
securities.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick last
week dismissed the complaint filed last year by Walnut Place LLC
and related entities, saying the lawsuit was “premature,”
according to a decision dated March 28. Walnut Place appealed,
according to a court filing yesterday.  Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial unit was accused of
making false representations and warranties about the loans
backing the bonds, according to the complaint. Walnut Place owns
about $1.4 billion in face value of the securities at issue, it
said in court papers.  Walnut Place had said in court papers that it was suing
because  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , as trustee for
bondholders, “unreasonably failed” to sue Bank of America to
enforce the obligation to repurchase loans.  In her decision, Kapnick said the lawsuit was “premature
under the circumstances” because it came just days after BNY
Mellon said it needed more time to evaluate the matter. Walnut
Place had directed BNY Mellon to sue Countrywide over the loans.  In addition, BNY Mellon “did, in fact, act upon” Walnut
Place’s complaints, as demonstrated by an $8.5 billion
settlement with Bank of America and a group of institutional
investors over Countrywide mortgage bonds, the judge wrote. That
settlement, which Walnut Place has challenged, awaits court
approval.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
appeal.  The case is Walnut Place LLC v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 650497-2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  