-- Warm Weather in U.S. Midwest May Curb Natural Gas Demand
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-04-02T13:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/warm-weather-in-u-s-midwest-may-curb-natural-gas-demand.html
Another week of warm weather across
the central U.S. this week may mean less natural gas needed to
warm Midwestern homes and businesses.  Temperatures through the Great Plains to the  Gulf of Mexico 
are expected to be 8 to 14 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 to 7.8
Celsius) above normal, according to a 1- to 5-day outlook from
MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  The warm weather may mean 30 to 60 percent less energy is
used to heat homes and business, said  David Salmon , owner of
Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri. About 51 percent of
U.S. households use natural gas for heating, according to the
Energy Department.  Commodities traders watch temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand. Across the U.S. 7,700 daily high
temperature records were set or matched in March, according to
the National Climate Data Center. Demand for heat nationwide was
17 percent below normal for the winter season though March 24,
Salmon said.  The heating degree days value for this week is forecast to
be 66, or 35 below normal and 22 lower than last year, said the
 U.S. Climate Prediction Center  in  Camp Springs , Maryland.  Heating-degree days values are calculated by subtracting
the daily average temperature from a base of 65 degrees to show
energy demand. Higher values mean cooler weather and more energy
being used to heat homes and businesses.  Gas-Weighted Values  The natural gas-weighted value is expected to be highest in
the six New England states, including Massachusetts, at 128, or
32 below normal, according to the center.  While warm weather stays focused on the central U.S.,
temperatures in the Pacific Northwest may be 3 degrees below
normal, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  The Western chill may drive energy consumption for heating
10 to 30 percent higher than normal from  San Francisco  to
Seattle, according to Salmon.  After this week, temperatures across much of the U.S. are
expected to be only about 3 degrees warmer than normal, Rogers
said in his 6- to 10-day outlook.  The exceptions will be in the Pacific Northwest and the
Southeast, where seasonal weather is probable, he said.  The normal average temperature for April 11 in  New York  is
about 51, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
Maryland. It’s 47 in Boston, 46 in Chicago, 56 in St. Louis, 61
in Atlanta, 64 in Dallas, 68 in Houston, 50 in Seattle and 61 in
Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  