-- Wisconsin’s Primary Political Concern: Scott Walker
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-04-02T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/wisconsin-s-primary-political-concern-scott-walker.html
     April 3 (Bloomberg) -- The political excitement in
 Wisconsin  is not about today’s presidential primary.  For Wisconsinites, the most important political news of the
season came Friday, when the state’s Government Accountability
Board  announced  that the effort to recall Republican Governor
 Scott Walker  had amassed enough valid signatures to force an
election June 5. It will be the first such election in state
history, and if Wisconsin votes out Walker, he will be only the
third sitting governor in U.S. history to be recalled, joining
 North Dakota ’s Lynn Frazier in 1921 and  California ’s  Gray Davis 
in 2003.  The precipitating event was Walker’s quick move, upon
taking office, to reward the 1 percent with a  tax cut  while
asking the 99 percent to sacrifice. He didn’t campaign on his
antipathy for public unions. Yet within his first few weeks as
governor, Walker declared war on public-sector workers (except
for police and firefighters, many of whom supported his
candidacy), cutting benefits, limiting pay increases and sharply
curtailing collective bargaining rights, even after the unions
agreed to many of his demands.  The reaction was swift and sustained. Democratic
legislators decamped to  Illinois  to deny Walker a quorum. Tens
of thousands of protesters showed up at the State Capitol,
filling the building’s rotunda with signs, chants and shouts.  Well-Mannered Occupiers  The 24/7 movement was a precursor to Occupy  Wall Street 
(although with nicer manners, warmer outerwear and daily
entertainment). The Solidarity Singers (and occasionally polka
dancers) still gather every day at noon with lyrics (“We Shall
Not Be Moved,” “Roll Out the Recall”) and harmony so honed they
could compete on  American Idol .  That’s the real difference between the Occupy movement and
Wisconsin’s: Democrats, union members and independents in
Wisconsin didn’t just get mad, they stayed that way -- and
channeled their anger into mastering the state’s arcane recall
procedure. The modern tools of politics (email, Facebook, and
the like) took a back seat to old-fashioned grass-roots
organization. More than 30,000 volunteers had to waylay folks
hurrying in and out of the supermarket or drugstore in freezing
weather to sign the recall petition -- and they had to sign not
once but twice, because the movement was aiming to recall the
lieutenant governor as well. Volunteers had to get a quarter of
the electorate from the last election -- just more than 540,000
voters -- in 60 days.  On Jan. 17, they delivered one and a half tons of petitions
to the Government Accountability Board in Madison. The
vibrations could be felt in Columbus, Indianapolis and any other
state capital where governors or lawmakers were trying to
balance their budgets on the backs of janitors and teachers.  More than 900,000 signatures of the million delivered --
almost twice as many as needed -- were eventually certified. The
petition has almost as many signatures as Walker got votes in
2010.  That doesn’t mean Walker is toast. His opponents may have
most of the energy, but his supporters have most of the money.
Due to a quirk in campaign finance laws, Walker was allowed to
raise as much as he wanted before the date of the recall
election was set. While the governor accused out-of-state
agitators of fueling the recall, he was out of state collecting
large sums to fight it.  On the day the petitions were being filed, Walker,
according to the  New Yorker , was being feted by Maurice Greenberg, the former chairman of American International Group.
For $5,000, a donor could dine with Walker and his host. Since
January 2011 the governor has  raised  more than $12 million, a
lot of it from outside Wisconsin. The money has allowed him the
luxury of being on the air with ads while his opposition was
focused on collecting signatures.  Polls Tightening  In a recent Marquette Law School  poll , Walker is running
two points ahead of Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett and four points
ahead of former Dane County Executive Kathleen Falk, down from
six and seven points, respectively, since January. Falk was the
favorite until Barrett got in. Two other Democrats are running
in the May 24 primary.  Walker has another problem: An investigation into his
tenure as  Milwaukee  County executive is creeping ever closer to
him. His deputy chief of staff has been charged with embezzling
money meant for the families of dead soldiers. Another aide was
charged with working on Walker’s campaign for governor while on
the county staff. Walker’s former chief of staff and
spokeswoman,  according to  court documents obtained by Fox News 6
in Milwaukee, are implicated in e-mails for politicking on
county time.  Walker comports himself like a Boy Scout and compares
himself favorably to  Ronald Reagan , including in a prank phone
call with someone pretending to be one of the Koch brothers,
wealthy backers of the anti-union movement. In  that call , he
turned down an offer to infiltrate the protests with a few
violent participants, not because it was illegal but because it
might backfire. He also compared his efforts to bust the unions
to Reagan’s effort to break the air traffic controllers and, by
extension, the  Soviet Union .  Of course, Walker won election in 2010 as part of the
Republican surge, and he had a hand to play -- some public-union
work rules are ridiculous, and there are always a few bad
apples. But his changes harm those in the working and middle
class in favor of the haves -- as in, they have the  tax code ,
the marketplace and most of the rest of life’s breaks. His
erstwhile allies, police and firefighters who were exempt from
the union-busting rules, didn’t come to the aid of the governor
when he called on them to oust protesters from the Capitol.  The paucity of recalls is historical evidence that those in
power will be allowed at least to serve out their terms if the
public perceives them as evenhanded. The whole country is
watching to see what happens when life turns too unfair.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .   Today’s highlights: The View editors on  Myanmar’s elections  and
 Marco Rubio’s immigration bill ; Ramesh Ponnuru on why the U.S.
will not go to  single-payer health care ; Betsey Stevenson and
 Justin Wolfers  on the  fallibility of economists ; Carmen M.
Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff on why this crisis  really is
different ; Eric Posner and Glen Weyl on creating an  FDA for
derivatives trading .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 