-- Myanmar Sets Kyat Reference Rate as It Adopts Managed Float
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-02T06:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/myanmar-sets-kyat-reference-rate-as-it-adopts-managed-float-2-.html
Myanmar’s central bank adopted a
managed float for its currency, scrapping a 35-year fixed
 exchange rate , after elections yesterday that will pave the way
for the end of economic sanctions.  The central bank set a daily rate of 818 kyat per dollar,
near the black-market level that Bank of America Merrill Lynch
said last week was about 820, having strengthened from about
1,055 in 2009. Myanmar dissident Aung San Suu Kyi will become a
lawmaker for the first time after a victory in by-elections in
the Asian nation of 64 million people.  The biggest financial market policy shift since President
 Thein Sein  took power a year ago is an attempt to unify the
multiple exchange rates and weaken the grip of the black market,
where appreciation is hurting exporters. The previous official
rate, pegged to the International Monetary Fund’s special
drawing rights, was 6.4 kyat, 125 times stronger than the black
market and available only to state-owned companies.  “Close alignment with black market rates means that
potential for speculative pressures due to arbitrage will be
averted, or at least mitigated,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an
economist in  Singapore  at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “It’s
broadly in line with expectations.”  The U.S. bans imports from Myanmar, restricts money
transfers, freezes assets and targets jewelry with gemstones
originating in the country. The European Union bans weapons
sales and mineral imports.  Removes Constraints  “The dollar has seen some weakening pressure against the
kyat and that is quite a big pain for exporters,” Toshihiro
Mizutani, managing director of the Japan External Trade
Organization in Yangon, said in an interview on March 28. “If
they can manage to keep it from rising fast it would help.”  The kyat will be allowed to move as much as 0.8 percent of
either side of the reference rate, said a central bank official,
who declined to be identified. The reference rate was determined
through an auction for dollars involving 11 local banks with 
authorized dealer licenses, said the official, who was not 
authorized to speak to the media.  Bordering  China  and  India  and with the second-largest land
area in  Southeast Asia  behind  Indonesia , Myanmar’s resources
include rubber and natural gas, as well as deposits of gold,
copper and gemstones. Gross domestic product is projected to
increase 5.5 percent this year, the same pace as 2011, according
to an IMF  estimate .  Currency Reforms Positive  Exports increased 19 percent in the fiscal year through
March 2011, while imports surged 55.5 percent, according to
JETRO, citing Myanmar government data.  Thailand  was the
country’s biggest market, taking almost 33 percent of overseas
shipments, followed by  Hong Kong  and China. China is the biggest
source of imports, followed by Singapore and Thailand.  Scrapping the complex multiple-rate system would reduce
constraints on growth in a country with the potential to become
“the next economic frontier in  Asia ,” the Washington-based
IMF, which has provided guidance to Myanmar, said on Jan. 25.  Local laws prevent foreign banks from conducting
transactions in the country, something that must change in 2015
as part of an agreement with the 10-member Association of
Southeast Asian Nations. As of November 2010, 13 foreign lenders
had set up representative offices in Myanmar, including 10 from
Asean member countries, according to the central bank.  China was the largest foreign-direct investor in Myanmar
between from 2007 through 2011, pumping about $19 billion into
economy, followed by Thailand and  South Korea , according to data
on the Central Statistical Organization’s  website .  “The currency reform will be positive for overseas
companies doing business there,” Roh Dong Hoon, a Seoul-based
senior manager at  Daewoo International Corp. (047050) , a trading company
involved in a natural gas project in Myanmar, said in a phone
interview on March 29. “Last year, the currency strengthened to
700, and it was difficult for some foreign companies there as
they earn money in dollars, but have to pay income to local
workers in kyat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  