-- Myanmar’s Exchange Rates Mean More Than Election Results
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-02T23:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/myanmar-s-exchange-rates-mean-more-than-election-results.html
The parliamentary election wins of
 Aung San Suu Kyi  and her party weren’t necessarily the best news
out of Myanmar in the past week.  That distinction could just as easily go to the
government’s decision to unify and float its exchange rates -- a
move with the potential to immediately reduce corruption,
improve economic performance and lift the lives of millions.  There’s no denying the symbolic power of this victory by
“The Lady,” as Suu Kyi is known in her country. After boycotting
2010’s elections, the National League for Democracy appears to
have won 43 out of 45 seats in parliamentary by-elections, a
strong affirmation of its political appeal.  Still, that represents only a small fraction of the seats
in Myanmar’s  legislature , of which 25 percent are automatically
allocated for the military. The true test will come in 2015,
when most parliamentary slots are up for election. What’s more,
because Myanmar’s voting districts tend to be ethnically
homogenous, the current electoral system has the potential to
 exacerbate  troubling divisions between Myanmar’s ethnic groups.
For all the hoopla and symbolism of free and fair elections,
they are no guarantee of peace and harmony, and represent a
moment in time rather than a sustained commitment to freedom,
human rights and democracy.  More promising in some ways are the government’s recent
 decisions  on economic policy. The April 1 implementation of a
managed float for Myanmar’s kyat, and the elimination of a more
than 100-to-1 discrepancy between the official and black market
exchange rates, will  help  Myanmar’s manufacturing and
agricultural sectors and make it harder for corrupt officials to
hide illicit gains.  A planned law on foreign investment promises to give
investors the right to lease land, repatriate profits and import
skilled workers, as well as allow foreign banks the right to
operate in country. Two critical additional initiatives that the
outside world should promote are property reform that would give
farmers the right to own the land they cultivate and the
granting of credit to farmers and small-business owners.  Last weekend’s election results have prompted calls to lift
sanctions and provide more aid and investment to Myanmar. There
are good reasons to think  twice , and they can be summed up in
one word:  Cambodia . That nation, the beneficiary of huge amounts
of foreign aid after the fall of the Khmer Rouge in the 1980s,
is now a paragon of corruption and crony capitalism. Myanmar
lacks the institutional capacity to absorb much aid and
investment, which at this stage would probably only enrich the
already powerful. Moreover, color us skeptical about the current
government’s intentions, which have yet to be tested by the
prospect of surrendering any real power.  Instead of unleashing a flood of investment and assistance,
the outside world should grant Myanmar liberal technical
assistance, including parliamentary and ministerial exchanges,
and pay for initiatives to improve its agriculture and
manufacturing.  The lifting of  sanctions  and the application of aid to
those areas should also be limited to where they can do the most
good. Congress, for example, should renew sanctions laws such as
the Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act (which blocks imports and
international financial institution assistance, freezes assets
and bans visas for certain Burmese officials) and the JADE Act
(which bars importing gemstones of Burmese origin, expands the
ban on visas and restricts financial transactions) while
ensuring that President  Barack Obama  can waive their
implementation based on the regime’s actions. The administration
can then be as forward-leaning as circumstances warrant. It also
makes sense to waive the ban on U.S. visas for members of
Myanmar’s current government; exposure to democracy can’t hurt.  For all the strides that Myanmar is making, the trick with
sanctions will be to maintain leverage by loosening the right
ones, in the right order.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  Marco Rubio’s
immigration bill ; Ramesh Ponnuru on why the U.S. will not go to
 single-payer health care ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on
the  fallibility of economists ;  Margaret Carlson  on the  recall
movement in Wisconsin ; Carmen M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff
on why this crisis  really is different ; Eric Posner and Glen
Weyl on creating an  FDA for derivatives trading .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 