-- Yen Drops Versus Peers as Tankan Fuels Easing Speculation
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-02T21:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/yen-drops-versus-peers-as-tankan-fuels-easing-speculation.html
The dollar fell the most in two
months against  Australia ’s currency as commodity-producing
nations rallied after data showed manufacturing expanded in the
world’s biggest economy.  The yen gained versus all of its 16 most-traded peers amid
investor concern that manufacturing in  China , the second-largest
economy, was weaker as government data conflicted with a
private-sector purchasing-manager index. Norway’s krone rose
after credit growth quickened in February. Stocks and
commodities advanced after the Institute for Supply Management’s
U.S. factory gauge rose in March more than forecast.  “ISM helped the equity market go positive, and that forced
people that were cautious to cave in,” said Greg Anderson, a
senior currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “The
market is bulled up on risk yet again in equities and
commodities.”  The dollar weakened 0.7 percent to $1.0419 to its
Australian counterpart at 5 p.m.  New York  time. It depreciated
as much as 1.2 percent, the biggest intraday drop since Jan. 25.  The yen gained 1 percent to 82.08 per dollar and climbed
1.1 percent to 109.33 per euro. The dollar appreciated 0.2
percent versus the 17-nation currency to $1.3321, after reaching
$1.3386 on March 27, the weakest level since Feb. 29.  Volatility Drops  Implied volatility  for Group of Seven currencies declined
to 9.93 percent, the lowest level since Feb. 24, according to
the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . Lower volatility makes
investments in currencies with higher benchmark lending rates
more attractive because the risk in such trades is that market
moves will erase profits.  The Chinese purchasing manager’s index released yesterday
by the country’s logistics federation and National Bureau of
Statistics for March rose to a one-year high of 53.1. In
contrast, a PMI from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
showed manufacturing contracting and export orders declining.
The index fell to 48.3 in March from 49.6 the previous month.  The figures compare with a gain in the ISM’s U.S. factory
index to 53.4 from 52.4 in February. Economists forecast an
increase to 53. Fifty is the dividing line between growth and
contraction.  The yen gained 1 percent over the past week against nine
developed-nation peers, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The Japanese currency had its worst quarter
since 1995 in the three months ended March 31, falling 10
percent as the  Bank of Japan (8301)  flooded the economy with 10
trillion yen ($120.9 billion) and set a 1 percent inflation
goal, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The dollar
declined 0.4 percent over the past week and the euro weakened
0.3 percent.  Yen Versus Euro  Japan ’s currency is the strongest net-bought today among
the developed-market currencies, according to Bank of New York
Mellon iFlow data. The euro was the strongest net-sold currency
over the past week,  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for
the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. wrote to clients today.  The yen strengthened even after the  Tankan index  for
Japan’s largest manufacturers was unchanged last quarter from
minus 4 in December, the BOJ said today in  Tokyo . That was less
than the median estimate of minus 1 in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists. A negative number means pessimists outnumber
optimists.  The Australian dollar’s rally versus the greenback followed
two weeks of increases, the first back-to-back weekly advance
this year.  RBA Meeting  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will hold a policy meeting
tomorrow. While economists in a Bloomberg poll forecast it will
leave its key  interest rate  at 4.25 percent at the meeting,
traders expect a cut of 74 basis points, or 0.74 percentage
point, over the coming 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse
Group AG  index  based on overnight index swap rates.  Canada’s currency strengthened 0.8 percent to 99.06 cents
to the greenback, and New Zealand’s dollar gained 0.6 percent to
82.34 U.S. cents.  “The ISM was not a bad number at all and was particularly
encouraging from an employment perspective,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at  Miller Tabak  in New
York. “While the  U.S. economy  is moving in the right direction,
it’s not accelerating and faces headwinds from overseas.”  Stocks and commodities rose after erasing earlier losses.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.8 percent after falling
0.3 percent earlier. The S&P GSCI  Index (SPGSCITR)  of 24 raw materials
gained 1.7 percent after earlier dropping 0.6 percent.  Lowest Since 2010  The euro may weaken to match the lowest level since
September 2010 against the pound after failing to rise above 84
pence,  Karen Jones , a technical strategist in  London , wrote in
an e-mailed note.  Europe ’s shared currency, which lost 0.4 percent against
the pound last week, is poised to decline to its Jan. 9 low of
82.21 pence, she said.  Norway’s krone advanced 0.3 percent to 5.6751 per dollar
and gained 0.5 percent to 7.5596 versus the euro after a report
today showed credit growth at an annual pace of 7 percent in
February, up from 6.9 percent in the first month of the year.
The central bank last month lowered its main  interest rate  for a
second time since December to support growth and avoid excessive
gains in the krone.  Brazil’s real was the biggest loser against the dollar on
speculation the nation’s central bank will keep intervening to
weaken the currency. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  expanded
financial taxes last month to discourage capital inflows, and
the central bank stepped up dollar purchases.  The real weakened 0.3 percent to 1.8323 to the dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  