-- YPF Slumps on Loss of Most Productive Field in Argentina
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-04-02T19:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/ypf-set-to-lose-most-productive-oil-field-as-dispute-intensifies.html
YPF SA (YPF) , Argentina’s largest oil
producer, plummeted to the lowest in more than two years after
Chubut province said it plans to revoke the company’s most
productive field.  YPF’s American depositary receipts dropped as much as 16
percent to $23.77, the lowest intraday since June 15, 2009, and
were down 15 percent to $24.10 at 3:25 p.m. in  New York .  The oil producer has lost 12 licenses in five provinces
since March 14 after President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
government demanded higher investment to curb output declines
and help cut imports. The Manantiales Behr field, which produced
about 10 percent of Buenos Aires-based YPF’s oil last year, is
among four more licenses Chubut plans to revoke.  “Our level of comfort with short-term investment prospects
in general is diminishing by the day,” Banco Itau BBA analysts
Ricardo Cavanagh and Paula Kovarsky said in an April 1 report to
clients. “We expect an adverse market reaction to this news,
which could lead to YPF revisiting its recent market lows.”  Chubut decided to end four more concessions because of
YPF’s failure to comply with contracts in the province, Governor
Martin Buzzi said in  a March 31 statement  on the government’s
website.  “We are gathering very precise information on the
company’s failure to comply with contracts in our province, due
to which we have decided to continue with the license withdrawal
process,” Buzzi said, according to the statement.  Takeover Speculation  Newspaper Pagina/12 reported March 31 that Argentina is
preparing to take control of YPF, citing officials it didn’t
identify. That followed similar local media reports that the
government is weighing a takeover.  Manantiales Behr produced about 1.09 million cubic meters
of oil in 2011, compared with YPF’s total crude output of 11.25
million cubic meters, according to the secretariat data.  Argentine oil licenses are assigned by provincial
governments and divided into one or more fields.  Prior to March 14, YPF, which accounts for about 30 percent
of  Argentina ’s crude output, held 104 licenses in the country,
 Energy secretariat data  show.  YPF on March 28 filed a lawsuit with the  Supreme Court 
against Chubut for having revoked two licenses, according to a
company official who can’t be named because the lawsuit wasn’t
yet announced publicly. The province has taken away the most
productive fields from YPF.  Neuquen province announced March 30 that it would withdraw
the Don Ruiz license after having ended two licenses earlier
last month. Don Ruiz, an area of 109 square kilometers (42.1
square miles), has the potential to produce shale oil because it
sits on the Vaca Muerta formation, according the Neuquen
government.  Vaca Muerta  On Feb. 9 YPF said an independent audit by Ryder Scott
showed that an 8,000 square kilometer area of Vaca Muerta holds
at least 23 billion barrels of shale oil, of which about 13
billion belong to YPF.  YPF invested $330 million dollars in Manantiales Behr in
2011, up from $180 million in 2010, to increase annual
production by 9 percent, a company official, who cannot be
named, said in a telephone interview from  Buenos Aires 
yesterday. The official declined to comment on Chubut’s
announcement.  On March 29, YPF said it discovered an estimated 1 billion
barrels of shale oil in a part of the Vaca Muerta formation in
Mendoza province. The resources are additional to those included
in the Ryder Scott survey.  Share Decline  Before today, YPF’s ADRs fell 20 percent this year,
compared with a 4.5 percent increase in Argentina’s benchmark
Merval index. The country’s securities regulator said March 30
it will investigate recent YPF trading because of  increased
volatility .  The government’s requests for YPF to increase investments
included demanding last month that instead of paying  semi-annual
dividends , the company use the cash to invest in exploration and
production. The company’s board, on which the government has a
seat, voted against the proposal and decided to use the cash to
issue new shares that will be handed for free to shareholders.
The proposal requires approval from a general shareholders
meeting, scheduled for April 25.  YPF is controlled by  Spain ’s Repsol YPF, which  holds  a 57.4
percent stake. Argentina’s Eskenazi family own 25.5 percent and
operate the company. The government has a 0.2 percent stake and
holds a so-called golden share, which entitles it to block
certain decisions, such as takeovers.  Fitch Ratings March 26  downgraded  YPF’s to B from B+
following the withdrawal of concessions because it “suggests a
greater degree of government interference in the energy
sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  