-- Yuan Money Market Expands in Hong Kong as JPMorgan, ICBC Enter
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-04-02T05:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-02/yuan-money-market-expands-in-hong-kong-as-jpmorgan-icbc-enter.html
Yuan money markets are expanding in
Hong Kong as more banks quote interbank  interest rates  for the
currency, helping widen its use for trade and investment beyond
 China ’s borders.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , ICBC ( Asia ) Ltd., Bank of
Communications (Hong Kong) Ltd.,  Bank of East Asia Ltd.  and Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. started providing  interbank rates 
for yuan in Hong Kong today, according to Jack Cheung, chief
executive officer of the city’s Treasury Markets Association.
That brings to eight the number of lenders quoting prices. Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi and Citigroup Inc. completed the first yuan
interest-rate swap involving the Hong Kong interbank rate.  “It’s a breakthrough,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong
Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “In order for the
market to fully develop, you do need a swap curve. This will
allow more financial instruments like hedging for Dim Sum bonds
and benchmarks for loans to develop in the offshore yuan
market.”  The need for benchmark lending rates in Hong Kong’s
offshore center for yuan is building as companies increasingly
turn to the city to obtain financing in China’s currency. The
city’s outstanding yuan-denominated loans totaled 30.8 billion
yuan ($4.9 billion) at the end of 2011, up from 1.8 billion yuan
at the start of the year, Hong Kong Monetary Authority data show.  Sales of yuan-denominated bonds in Hong Kong, known as Dim
Sum bonds, almost tripled to 50.7 billion yuan in the first
quarter of this year from 18.6 billion yuan a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Reputable Rate’  BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd.,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  have been quoting interbank rates for offshore
yuan since January, though there’s no official daily fixing as
yet.  “Our committee is aware of the market expectations and the
need for an offshore interbank fixing,” TMA’s Cheung said in a
phone interview. “We want to make sure it’s a reputable rate
before we post it up.”  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi and Citigroup Inc. agreed a one-
year interest-rate swap involving 100 million yuan, according to
two people with direct knowledge of the matter. Under the terms
reached, the Japanese lender will pay 2.45 percent in exchange
for the three-month interbank offered rate, which will be set
quarterly. Spokesmen at the banks declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  