-- Abu Dhabi Shares Rise Most in 2 Weeks Before Quarterly Earnings
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-04-18T11:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/abu-dhabi-shares-rise-most-in-2-weeks-before-quarterly-earnings.html
Abu Dhabi’s benchmark stock index
advanced the most in more than two weeks after company earnings
in  Saudi Arabia (SABIC)  beat expectations, boosting demand for Persian
Gulf assets. Oil traded near the highest close in two weeks.  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) , the United Arab Emirates
third-biggest bank by assets, gained 1.3 percent.  Sorouh Real
Estate Co. (SOROUH) , which may post a 24 percent increase in first-
quarter earnings, advanced the most in more than a week. Abu
Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  rose 0.3 percent, the most since April
1, to 2,513.01 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate. The  Bloomberg
GCC 200 (BGCC200)  Index was little changed at 1:16 p.m. in Riyadh and
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  added 0.1 percent today
after surging 3.2 percent yesterday.  “Earnings in  Saudi Arabia  have lifted sentiment here as
investors await first-quarter results of the heavy-weight
companies,” said Ziad Dabbas, a financial analyst at  National
Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the U.A.E.’s second-biggest bank by
assets.  Companies in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council have
started announcing first-quarter results. Saudi Arabia’s gauge
advanced the most in more than a year yesterday after first-
quarter profit at Saudi Basic Industries Corp., the world’s
biggest petrochemicals maker, exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Profit Outlook  Abu Dhabi Commercial may report a 5 percent increase in
first-quarter profit to  612 million dirhams  ($167 million),
according to the  median estimate  of three analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares gained the most since April 3 to 3.23
dirhams.  Sorouh, Abu Dhabi’s second-biggest developer, advanced 0.9
percent, the most since April 10, to 1.11 dirhams. The company’s
 quarterly net income  may increase to 80 million dirhams, the
median estimate of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Oil for May delivery increased as much as 0.3 percent to
$104.51 in New York after the  International Monetary Fund 
boosted its growth outlook and a Spanish debt sale raised more
than planned, easing concern an economic slowdown will curb
crude demand. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.3
percent. Gulf Arab oil exporters, including Saudi Arabia and the
U.A.E., supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Kuwait’s Stock Exchange Price Index (KWSEIDX)  rose 0.5 percent,
Bahrain’s  BB All Share Index (BHSEASI)  advanced 0.8 percent, and Oman’s
 MSM 30 Index (MSM30)  climbed 0.4 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  was little
changed. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  fell 0.4 percent after earlier
rising as much as 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  