-- Abu Qatada Can’t Be Deported Before Rights Court Review
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-18T16:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/abu-qatada-can-t-be-deported-before-rights-court-review.html
The Islamic cleric known as Abu Qatada can’t be deported from the U.K. to  Jordan  to stand trial
on terrorism charges until judges at the  European Court of Human
Rights  decide whether to again take up his case, the court said.  The Jordanian, whose real name is Omar Othman, won a ruling
Jan. 17 from the Strasbourg, France-based court blocking his
deportation on the grounds Jordan may use evidence it gained
from torture against him.  That ruling led to Qatada’s release from jail in  England .
He was re-arrested yesterday and his lawyers filed the latest
appeal at 11 p.m., the ECHR said today in an e-mailed statement.
U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May traveled to Jordan last month,
where she said she received assurances from the government
Qatada would receive a fair trial in a civilian court, with the
right to call witnesses, and therefore he would be deported.  “We are absolutely clear that the deadline to appeal had
expired,” May told BBC News television today. “This is a
delaying tactic.”  The cleric “has no right to refer the case to the Grand
Chamber of the  European Court  of Human Rights, since the three-
month deadline to do so lapsed at midnight on Monday,” the  Home
Office  said in an e-mailed statement. The U.K. said the deadline
to appeal the Jan. 17 ruling was April 16.  The rights court declined to comment on the British
government’s view, a spokeswoman said in an e-mail, noting
whether the request was timely was a question the Grand Chamber
panel will have to decide upon.  Right-Hand Man  The cleric, who has denied links to al-Qaeda, was described
by a judge in  Spain  as its former leader Osama bin Laden’s
right-hand man in  Europe . A British man was kidnapped and
murdered in Niger in 2009 by the terror group’s North African
network, which threatened to kill him if the U.K. didn’t release
Qatada.  Qatada’s filing means the “injunction against removal
remains in force,” the court said. The so-called referral
request goes to a  panel , which decides whether the court’s Grand
Chamber will hear the request. Referral requests were granted in
just 5 percent of the cases since the judges’ panel was formed
in 1998, according to court figures.  While the court agreed with Qatada’s argument that his
right to a fair trial would be violated, it ruled that
deportation wouldn’t breach his rights against torture or the
right to a prompt trial.  Risk of Torture  Qatada argued in his request that the court was wrong to
decide that he himself would not be at risk of torture if
returned to Jordan, according to the court.  Calls to Angus McCullough and Gareth Peirce, U.K. lawyers
who have represented Qatada, weren’t immediately returned.  He was granted bail by a British court in February and
freed from a high-security prison under a 22-hour curfew.  Qatada’s current conviction in Jordan, following a trial
held in his absence, will be quashed on his arrival. He will be
retried in line with Jordanian laws, the country’s minister of
state for media affairs, Rakan Majali was quoted as saying by
the state-run Petra news agency. “The Jordanian constitution
ensures a fair trial,” he said.  The ECHR ruling is one of a number that have angered Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party , which argues that
European judges are interfering too much in British justice and
political decisions. Cameron called in January for changes to
the court to reduce that interference. A meeting of the 47-
nation Council of Europe in Brighton, southern England, begins
today to discuss the future of the tribunal.  The court ruled last week that Abu Hamza al-Masri, an
Islamic cleric jailed for inciting murder and racial hatred, can
be extradited from Britain to the U.S., dismissing his argument
that prison conditions there would violate his human rights.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Smith at   hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  