-- Affiliated Managers to Acquire Yacktman Asset Management
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-04-18T14:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/affiliated-managers-to-acquire-yacktman-asset-management-2-.html
Affiliated Managers Group Inc. (AMG) , the
company that owns stakes in more than two dozen money managers,
agreed to buy Yacktman Asset Management Co., the Austin, Texas-
based firm founded in 1992 by  Donald Yacktman .  Yacktman, 70, and other management partners will retain a
“substantial” equity position and continue to direct day-to-
day operations in the company which manages $17 billion,
Beverly, Massachusetts-based AMG said today in a statement.
Terms were not disclosed.  AMG, which owns firms that together oversaw about $352
billion as of Dec. 31, specializes in taking stakes in boutique
asset managers, typically allowing management to own a portion
of their business and remain operationally autonomous. All of
Yacktman’s “senior professionals” have agreed to long-term
commitments with the firm, according to the statement.  “With a remarkable long-term track record of
outperformance, Yacktman is positioned for continued success
globally,” AMG’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sean M. Healey, said in the statement.  AMG rose 2.1 percent to $112.82 at 10:47 a.m. in  New York .
It has increased 18 percent this year, compared with the 16
percent gain by Standard & Poor’s 20-company index of asset
managers and custody banks.  Technology Boom Losses  The $7.6 billion  Yacktman Fund (YACKX)  and the $6 billion  Yacktman
Focused Fund (YAFFX) , which invest in stocks of large companies seen as
undervalued, have each beaten 99 percent of competing funds over
the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The funds returned an annual average of 8.8 percent and 9.7
percent, respectively, in that period.  The funds posted losses in the technology boom of the late
1990s, when Yacktman’s strategy of holding stocks with low
prices and strong cash flows kept it out of some of the era’s
big winners. Its outperformance during the market slumps of 2002
and 2008 helped it return an annual average of 6.6 percent in
the decade, about 8 percentage points more than peers, according
to data compiled by Chicago-based research firm Morningstar Inc.  Morningstar named Yacktman and his son Stephen Yacktman as
finalists for its 2011 manager-of-the-year award in the domestic
stock fund category.  Evaluating Cash  Yacktman said in 2010 he evaluates stocks as if they were
bonds, estimating how much cash a company will produce relative
to what he has to pay for it per share. Macroeconomic issues are
“fun to talk about” while offering little use in deciding
which stocks to own because forecasting the economy’s future is
too difficult, he said.  PepsiCo (PEP) , the Purchase, New York-based food and beverage
maker, and New York’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company embroiled in
a phone-hacking scandal in the U.K., are the top holdings in
both Yacktman funds.  AMG was started in 1993 by William Nutt, who founded the
firm after serving as president of the Boston Co. The company
became publicly listed in 1997. Its first investment was in New
York-based J.M. Hartwell LP in 1994. Healey, a former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. executive, succeeded Nutt as CEO in 2005.  The firm’s affiliates include Third Avenue Management LLC,
the New York firm founded by Martin J. Whitman; Foster S. Friess’ Friess Associates in Greenville,  Delaware ; and New York-
based Tweedy, Browne Co., founded by Christopher H. Browne.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  