-- Geithner Takes Lead in ’Much Ado About Nothing’
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-04-18T22:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/take-a-deep-breath-and-ignore-the-monthly-jobs-report.html
What if the Bureau of Labor
Statistics had reported a 220,000 increase in March nonfarm jobs
two weeks ago instead of 120,000?  Simple. We would have been spared a lot of market
volatility, political grandstanding, I-told-you-sos and
speculation that, like 2010 and 2011, solid job growth early in
the year would peter out by summer.  Not to mention that there isn’t a heck of a lot of
difference between 120,000 and 220,000. If you don’t believe me,
listen to the statisticians.  Every month, the BLS includes a  technical note  with the
employment report -- too bad so few people read it -- explaining
that the “confidence interval” for the change in total nonfarm
employment from the establishment survey is on the order of plus
or minus 100,000.  Translation: From a statistical point of view, an increase
of 120,000, 220,000 or 20,000 is pretty much the same. But oh
what a difference it makes in our world of snapshot analysis!  In a  labor force  of about 155 million, 100,000 is a
rounding error. It’s also a net change, offsetting the millions
of workers who are hired each month with those who are fired or
quit. The BLS’s monthly  JOLTs report  (Job Openings and Labor
Turnover) details the high degree of churning in the U.S. labor
market. During the 12 months ended in February, for example,
50.6 million people were hired while 48.6 million left their
jobs for a net employment gain of 2 million.  Safety in Numbers?  This isn’t to denigrate the work of the civil servants at
the statistical agencies. As someone who  spent a day  with a BLS
employee on her rounds checking prices for the monthly  consumer
price index , I can testify that there is a method to the
madness.  But the numbers have a lot of noise. Warm winter weather
can turn a few construction hires in February into a seasonally
adjusted boom. It also depresses industrial production through
reduced output of natural gas and electricity (utilities are
part of industrial production). The timing of Easter, a moveable
feast, may shift retail sales from March to April or vice versa.
An early or late payroll survey week may distort employment
gains or losses. Holidays may shift first-time filings for
 unemployment benefits  from one week to the next.  These are the vagaries of economic data. What’s so
striking, and depressing, is the reaction. Short of true shocks
that ripple through the financial system, a $15 trillion economy
doesn’t turn on a dime. Businesses don’t start hiring one month,
only to get cold feet the next. And consumers don’t open their
wallets and immediately shut them -- unfortunately, in cases
where they are empty.  The hyperventilating over the March employment report is
really much ado about nothing. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said as much when he was dispatched to the Sunday
morning talk shows -- not on April 8 but on April 15, nine days
after the employment report was released -- to try and quell the
angst. He told the various network anchors that the  U.S. economy 
is gradually getting stronger. No, it’s not good enough yet. And
yes, there are challenges and risks ahead. But the preponderance
of evidence from employment, exports, agriculture,
 manufacturing , energy, high-tech, and business and consumer
confidence, suggests a gradually improving trend.  Deep-Breathing Exercise  He’s right. Take a step back, take a deep breath and look
at the big picture. Recoveries from financial crises, such as
the one the U.S. experienced, are different, we learned from
economists  Ken Rogoff  and  Carmen Reinhart . They are more
protracted, on average, with some metrics, such as employment
and  house prices , still depressed as much as a decade after the
crisis erupted.  The government can’t wave a magic wand and make things
better quickly, try as it might. That’s why the true legacy of
financial crises, according to the authors, is a boatload of
 government debt . And  Washington  is doing nothing to alleviate
it.  Everyone, both Republicans and Democrats, agrees we need
fundamental  tax reform  that would lower the rates and broaden
the base. Where’s the legislation to implement it?  Congress crafts bills (see health care) and budgets to
comply with a 10-year window, with the goodies front-loaded and
the pain to-be-delivered sometime in the future.  The future is now. Yet somehow it’s never a good time to
make the hard choices to put  spending  on a sustainable path in
relationship to  revenue . It’s never a good time to let the Bush
tax cuts expire (the economy is too fragile). It’s never a good
time to do away with tax breaks and deductions, such as the one
for mortgage interest (the housing market is too weak) or
charitable contributions (charities are still hurting from the
recession).  The political classes are always eager to “do something”
to help in the short run. The last thing we need is a steady
stream of snapshot data analysis to egg them on.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  fixing U.S.-Pakistan
relations  and creating a  bureau to study climate change ;  Ezra
Klein  on post-election  tax reform ; Caroline Baum on the myopia
of  short-term economic statistics ; A. Gary Shilling on his
readers’ questions about  his economic forecast ; the Squam Lake
Group on  money market reforms ; Fredrik Erixon on  Europe’s coming
welfare cuts .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  