-- Halliburton Profit Rises as U.S. Oil Fracking Demand Grows
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-04-18T20:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/halliburton-first-quarter-profit-rises-as-fracking-demand-grows.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s
largest provider of hydraulic-fracturing services, weathered
producers’ shift from natural-gas basins to  oil fields  in the
U.S. and  Canada  better than analysts expected in the first
quarter.  Net income climbed to $627 million, or 68 cents a share,
from $511 million, or 56 cents, a year earlier, Houston-based
Halliburton said in a statement today. Excluding a $191 million
charge related to the 2010 Macondo well explosion, the company
beat by 4 cents the average of 32 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 30 percent to $6.9 billion.  The number of active oil rigs in the U.S. climbed to a 25-
year high, as energy companies shifted production away from
lower-profit gas operations, the company said. The average
number of active rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. rose 12
percent from the fourth quarter while gas rigs fell 17 percent,
the company said.  “The expectation had gotten pretty dire that  North America 
was going to deteriorate significantly,” Brian Youngberg, an
analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , who rates the shares a
hold and owns none, said today in a telephone interview. “They
are having a pullback, but I don’t think as much as some
investors were expecting.”  Halliburton helps companies drill and complete oil and gas
wells using a pressure-pumping technique known as fracking,
which blasts water mixed with sand and chemicals underground to
free trapped hydrocarbons from shale formations.  Halliburton rose 4.6 percent to $34.17 at the close in New
York. The shares, which have 29 buy and five hold  ratings  from
analysts, fell 3.8 percent during the quarter.  Growing Competition  The operating margin in North America climbed to 25.5
percent from 24.5 percent a year earlier. The margin for the
region is expected to fall 2 to 2.5 percentage points in the
second quarter, Chief Executive Officer Dave Lesar said in the
statement.  “While the total rig count only declined one percent, the
shift to natural gas from oil was dramatic and disruptive to
operations,” Lesar told analysts and investors today on a
conference call. The negative effects from the transition will
lessen in the second half of this year, he said.  The growing competition for fracking work will lead to a
lower operating margin and slower earnings growth through next
year for the world’s largest oilfield service companies,  Stuart
Miller , a senior analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in
an April 12 statement.  Fracking Surge  Fracking capacity in North America is expected to rise 28
percent this year to about 18 million horsepower after growing
42 percent in 2011, according to Tulsa, Oklahoma-based  Spears &
Associates . Fracking capacity is measured in horsepower rather
than number of active pumping trucks to accommodate for size
differences.  Halliburton will delay some of its planned deliveries of
newly built fracking equipment until next year, Chief Financial
Officer Mark McCollum said on the call.  Rising crude prices are pushing  oil companies  to boost
exploration, especially in the U.S. onshore market.  Oil prices 
climbed 8.9 percent to average $103.03 a barrel on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange in the first quarter, up from $94.60 a year
earlier.  Spending to Rise  In North America, which accounts for 87 percent of the
global market for fracking, spending is expected to reach $30
billion this year, according to Spears, an industry consultant.  The company’s operating margin for the eastern hemisphere
is expected to climb to a range in the mid to upper teens by the
end of this year, McCollum said.  Halliburton’s Macondo-related charge was for losses related
to the incident that can be reasonably estimated now, the
company said in the statement.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig at the Macondo well killed 11 workers and caused the biggest
offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. The accident prompted
hundreds of lawsuits against London-based  BP Plc (BP/) , rig owner and
operator Transocean Ltd. and Halliburton, which provided
cementing services at the well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  