-- AmEx Profit Increases as Spending Rises, Defaults Improve
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-04-19T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/amex-profit-increases-as-card-spending-climbs-defaults-improve.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, said profit climbed 6.7 percent
in the first quarter as customer spending rose and the lender
posted the lowest write-off rates in the industry.  Net income  advanced to $1.26 billion, or $1.07 a share,
from $1.18 billion, or 97 cents, a year earlier, the New York-
based company said yesterday in a statement. That beat the
average  estimate  of $1.01 a share by 22 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Net revenue climbed 8.3 percent to $7.61 billion.  AmEx, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault, increased the  dividend  and is repurchasing shares
after Federal Reserve stress tests showed the lender was among
the best-equipped of 19 banks examined to withstand a severe
recession. Write-offs for soured loans fell to an industry best
2.3 percent in the quarter from 3.7 percent a year earlier, AmEx
said in a slide presentation.  “Higher cardmember spending, excellent credit metrics and
disciplined expense management helped us to start 2012 with
record first-quarter earnings and revenues,” Chenault, 60, said
in the statement.  American Express fell 14 cents to $58.04 yesterday in  New
York  and was little changed in extended trading after the
results were announced. The shares had gained 23 percent this
year, the fourth-best  performance  in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  after Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Home Depot Inc.  Dividend, Repurchases  AmEx boosted its quarterly dividend last month by 11
percent to 20 cents a share and said it may repurchase as much
as $5 billion of its stock within the next year, including $4
billion in 2012.  The lender may use some of the money set aside for share
buybacks to instead make acquisitions “if we identified the
right opportunities,” Chief Financial Officer Dan Henry said
yesterday in a conference call with analysts.  “It’s really a tradeoff between acquisition spending and
buybacks,” Henry said. “The less we do in acquisitions, the
more we will do in buybacks.”  First-quarter U.S. card income rose 35 percent to $752
million from a year earlier and international card income
climbed 4 percent to $197 million, according to the statement.  Worldwide card spending, or billed business, rose 12
percent to $211.2 billion, the company said in a financial
 supplement . Individuals spent an average of $3,772, an increase
of 10 percent from a year earlier, when AmEx had fewer cards
outstanding. Total expenses rose 4 percent to $5.43 billion.  ‘Credit Quality’  The firm set aside $412 million to cover future loan
losses, up from $97 million in last year’s first quarter as
“credit quality continued to be at historically strong
levels,” according to the statement.  Amex accounted for 25 percent of $2.05 trillion in U.S.
credit-card spending last year and almost a third of the
industry’s $179.9 billion increase from 2010, according to the
Nilson Report, an industry newsletter. New York-based JPMorgan
had the second-biggest share of spending with 18 percent.  Chenault has sought to expand AmEx’s reach beyond the
company’s affluent clients with a new payment system for
smartphones and computers as it vies for customers who prefer
debit cards. The electronic wallet, called Serve, may draw more
transactions to the firm’s payments network, the fourth-biggest
after  Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and China UnionPay Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  