-- AMR Cuts 1,200 More Jobs in $1.25 Billion Labor-Savings Plan
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-04-19T02:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/amr-cuts-1-200-more-jobs-in-1-25-billion-labor-savings-plan-2-.html
American Airlines  will cut 1,200
airport agent, baggage and cargo jobs and close an Arizona
reservations center under a bankruptcy restructuring plan to
trim annual labor spending by $1.25 billion.  The reductions announced today mean all of the carrier’s
airport jobs in seven U.S. and two Canadian cities will be
outsourced.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American detailed changes for the
nonunion group 11 weeks after telling other employees it would
do away with 13,000 of their jobs, freeze pensions and make
work-rule and benefit changes.  American, the third-biggest U.S. airline, will begin
presenting testimony on April 23 to persuade a bankruptcy judge
to let it void union contracts and impose new ones to secure the
spending cuts. The request follows the  Fort Worth , Texas-based
company’s failure to negotiate agreements with any of its
unions. Talks can continue during the court hearings.  “Not a single decision that affects a single employee was
made lightly,” the carrier said in a letter signed by Craig Kreeger, senior vice president for customer experience; Virasb Vahidi, senior vice president for marketing and planning; and
Jim Ream, senior vice president for operations.  American’s goal to cut annual expenses 20 percent for each
work group translates to a $95 million reduction for the 10,000
airport and cargo agents. Most of the changes will occur during
the next 60 to 120 days, the airline said.  Airports Affected  The company will outsource all jobs at airports with the
fewest daily flights. Those facilities in the U.S. are in or
near Hartford, Connecticut; Columbus, Ohio; Memphis, Tennessee;
Ontario and Sacramento,  California ; Portland, Oregon; and Reno,
Nevada. In  Canada , they are in Calgary and Vancouver.  American will close Admirals Clubs at Dulles airport in
 Washington ; Kansas City, Missouri; Panama City; and  Santo
Domingo ,  Dominican Republic .  About 680 agents at the closed reservations center in
Tucson, Arizona, will be offered jobs at other offices or a
chance to move to home-based work, the carrier said. Another 800
will be shifted to homes from offices, and some part-time
positions will be eliminated. Base pay will be increased for
some workers and reduced for others.  AMR filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on Nov. 29 as it headed
for a fourth straight annual loss, becoming the final major
full-service U.S. carrier to seek court protection. American
said it was left at a labor-cost disadvantage after rivals used
bankruptcy to change work rules and drop or reduce pensions and
other costly benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  