-- Man. City Eyes France’s Under-16 Team Captain: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-18T07:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/man-city-eyes-france-s-under-16-team-captain-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Internet.  Next Desailly  Manchester City  will try to beat competition from Arsenal,
Inter Milan and Juventus to sign Le Havre midfielder Jules
Ntcham, who has been billed as the most promising French
youngster of his generation and likened to Marcel Desailly, the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  Ntcham, who captains  France ’s under-16 team, has resisted
attempts by Le Havre to sign him to a professional contract
since his 16th birthday in February and may be available for no
more than a small compensation fee, the Telegraph added.  Beckham Makes Cut  Former England captain  David Beckham  survived a selection
cut for Great Britain’s Olympic soccer squad, the  Daily Mail
reported .  The Los Angeles Galaxy midfielder and Wales duo  Craig Bellamy  and Gareth Bale were among the 80 names included as
manager Stuart Pearce pared down his list of 191 players, the
newspaper said. The final 18-man squad is expected to be named
at the end of May, the Mail added.  Icelandic Interest  Newcastle United manager  Alan Pardew  is lining up a move
for Icelandic midfielder Gylfi Sigurdsson, who’s scored seven
goals for Swansea since joining on loan from German club
Hoffenheim in January, the  Sun reported .  Pardew was impressed by Sigurdsson during Newcastle’s 2-0
win at Swansea on April 6, the newspaper added. Swansea manager
Brendan Rodgers wants to sign the 22-year-old permanently,
though Hoffenheim’s 8 million pound ($12.7 million) asking price
is more than double the Welsh club’s record transfer fee, the
Sun added.  Cover for Evra  Manchester United  is considering a move for FC Copenhagen
left-back Bryan Oviedo and sent scouts to watch the Costa Rica
international last weekend, the  Mail reported .  United wants a left-back to cover for Patrice Evra as Fabio
da Silva is expected to be loaned to Portuguese club Benfica
next season, the Mail said, adding that Oviedo is available for
about 2 million pounds.  United manager  Alex Ferguson  would prefer to loan Fabio to
a Premier League club so he can better monitor the Brazilian’s
development, the  Independent reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  