-- Apollo Raises Great Wolf Offer to $7 a Share, Matching KSL
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-04-19T00:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/apollo-increases-great-wolf-offer-for-third-time-matching-ksl.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  raised
its offer for  Great Wolf Resorts Inc. (WOLF)  to $233.8 million in its
third public attempt to buy the water-park operator and win a
private-equity bidding contest with KSL Capital Partners LLC.  Apollo’s $7-a-share bid is $2 higher than the original deal
it struck with Great Wolf last month. Great Wolf said April 15
that its board received a “committed offer” for $7 a share
from Denver-based private-equity firm KSL and that it would
terminate a sweetened $6.75 per share agreement with Apollo from
April 6 if it didn’t get a better offer by today.  Great Wolf said in a statement that its board unanimously
approved New York-based Apollo’s latest offer and believes it
“is in the best interest of all shareholders.” The board said
shareholders will have until May 2 to decide whether they will
tender their shares.  The Madison, Wisconsin-based water-park operator traded at
$7.22 in after-market trading after closing in  New York  at
$7.16. The stock traded at $4.19 on March 12, the day before the
board approved Apollo’s original offer.  Shareholders sued Great Wolf following Apollo’s initial
proposal of $5 a share, claiming Great Wolf didn’t obtain the
highest possible offer.  ‘Sitting on’ Cash  KSL didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail request for
comment.  U.S. leveraged-buyout investors are looking to put to work
the $425 billion of unspent capital commitments they had at the
end of 2011, according to PitchBook Data Inc., a Seattle-based
private-equity research company.  “They are going for targets that don’t seem to be
particularly attractive but are relatively still promising,”
said Murillo Campello, professor of finance at  Cornell
University ’s Johnson Graduate School of Management. “That’s how
I see the war on this resort company,” he said.  Great Wolf operates 11 resorts in the U.S. and  Canada  with
attractions including indoor water parks, restaurants, spas and
arcades. The company is getting financial advice from Deutsche
Bank AG and legal counsel from Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton &
Garrison LLP and Young Conaway Stargatt & Taylor LLP.  Apollo is being advised by  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  