-- Areva Set for ‘Strong Play’ Supplying U.K. Offshore Wind Market
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-04-18T09:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/areva-set-for-strong-play-supplying-u-k-offshore-wind-market.html
Areva SA (AREVA) , the supplier of turbines
for three offshore wind-power projects in  Germany , said it’s set
to grab a share of the U.K. market, the world’s biggest, as
developers move into deeper waters further from shore.  The Paris-based company, whose main business is nuclear
power equipment and services, is talking with “many customers”
across  Europe  and has “more projects in the pipeline” in
addition to those announced in Germany and  France , Jean Huby,
head of Areva’s wind-power unit, said in an interview at the
European Wind Energy Association conference in Copenhagen.  “We’re perfectly poised to make a strong play in the U.K.
market,” Julian Brown, country director for Areva wind in the
U.K., said in the interview. “Our competitiveness is as we move
into deeper waters where the later Round 2 and Round 3 projects
come into play.”  Britain in January 2010 awarded licenses for 32 gigawatts
of projects in its third round of offshore wind farm tenders.
The country is betting on the technology to help meet its
European Union carbon emissions and renewable energy goals.
Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said in July that Britain is
planning to develop 18 gigawatts of offshore wind by 2020.  U.K. round three winners included  Spain ’s  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  as
well as EON AG and Vattenfall AB of Germany, all clients of
Areva, which is majority-owned by the French state.  Iberdrola was part of a group with Areva that won approval
this month from the French government to develop a 500-megawatt
wind farm off the coast of Brittany. EON and Vattenfall are part
of a group that developed the Alpha Ventus offshore wind farm,
Germany’s first, where six of Areva’s 5-megawatt turbines were
installed. That project delivered 15 percent  more power  than
projected last year, the consortium said on March 5.  Bigger Turbines  In addition to Alpha Ventus, Areva has sold 40 turbines to
the Borkum West II wind farm and 80 to the Global Tech 1 wind
farm, both off the German coast. With another 80-turbine project
close to raising all its necessary funds, Areva will have more
than a gigawatt of turbines installed before the U.K. round 3
projects start development in 2014 and 2015, Huby said.  “To raise the funding for the U.K. projects, developers
need to be able to reassure people that this is going to work,”
Huby said. By then, “we will have done this 80, 160 times,” he
said, referring to the two largest German projects in deeper
waters.  Areva, the world’s largest supplier of nuclear fuel and
services, will add to its existing factories in Germany with a
plant in  Le Havre , France, to assemble turbines for the French
project, Huby said. Brown said he’s developing an “industrial
plan” for the U.K. that will involve bringing some
manufacturing by Areva or its suppliers to the U.K.  Siemens, Suzlon  Rivals Siemens AG, Suzlon Energy Ltd.’s RePower unit and
 Alstom SA (ALO)  all have unveiled 6-megawatt turbines, while Vestas
Wind Systems A/S is developing a 7-megawatt offshore machine.
Huby said Areva too plans to develop bigger turbines, without
providing further details.  “Of course we’re working on future generations of bigger
turbines,” Huby said. “We’re not standing still on R&D. We’ll
go higher. Don’t believe that 5, 6, 7 megawatts is going to be
the limit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Copenhagen via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 