-- Argentina to Take Control of YPF Gas as Seizures Continue
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-04-18T21:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/argentina-to-take-control-of-gas-company-belonging-to-repsol-ypf.html
Argentina will seize natural-gas
producer YPF Gas SA as part of plans to boost control of its
natural resources, two days after seizing oil producer  YPF SA. (YPFD)   “We supposed it was a unit of YPF, but it isn’t, it’s a
separate company,” Senator Anibal Fernandez said today in
 Buenos Aires . “Both companies need to be expropriated.”  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  seized
control of YPF, the country’s largest energy company, on April
16, and sent a bill to nationalize the stake. Argentina said
Spanish parent  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  was responsible for declining
Argentine oil and gas output since 1998. Senators will vote on
the bill April 25 after senate committees approved it today.  Argentine provinces withdrew 15 oil field licenses from YPF
before this week’s nationalization announcement as the
government demanded the Madrid-based oil producer increase
output and investments as it seeks to cut back on fuel imports
that doubled to $9.4 billion last year.  Kristian Rix, a spokesman for Repsol, declined to comment.  Argentina’s largest gas distributor is bankrupt  Metrogas
SA (METR) , in which YPF SA owns a stake. Metrogas, in which the UK’s BG
Group Plc is the largest shareholder, is under government
control since filing for bankruptcy in June 2010.  Gas, oil and utility prices regulated since at least 2002
as part of government’s anti-inflation policies have reduced
investments and driven foreign companies such as GDF Suez to
leave the country while others, such as BG, closed their local
offices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  