-- Arizona’s Brewer Vetoes Bill Opening Buildings to Guns
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/arizona-s-brewer-vetoes-bill-opening-buildings-to-guns.html
Governor Jan Brewer vetoed a bill
that would have allowed guns in libraries, city halls and other
public buildings in  Arizona .  Brewer said she was concerned about the costs for local
governments, which would have been required to equip libraries,
city halls and other buildings with metal detectors security
officers and gun lockers in order to prohibit firearms.  “They would face this choice: Either spend untold dollars
in order to provide their officials and employees the same level
of protection that we have at the Arizona state Capitol complex,
or accept weapons on the premises,” Brewer said yesterday in a
veto letter. “The result would be extensive confusion regarding
where guns are permitted or not permitted.”  The measure passed the House March 6 and the Senate on
April 12. Last year, U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , a
Democrat, was shot in the head during a constituent event in
Tucson. Brewer made her decision amid increased scrutiny of gun
laws following the Trayvon Martin killing in  Florida .  Proponents of the bill said allowing guns would make public
buildings safer.  “Currently if there is a sign that says ‘no guns,’ the
law-abiding people disarm and the criminal looks at that sign
and says ‘Wow, disarmed-victim zone,’” Charles Heller, a co-
founder of the Arizona Citizens Defense League, said by
telephone last week. The 6,500-member group pushed for the law.  Local Cost  Some local governments opposed the bill, saying that
measures it required to keep guns out of public buildings would
cost millions of dollars. Maricopa County, which includes
Phoenix, said adding such security would take $11.3 million for
equipment and $19.5 million in continuing expenses, according to
a legislative  analysis .  Brewer, a 67-year-old Republican who was backed by the
 National Rifle Association  with an A+ rating in 2010, quoted
U.S. Supreme Court Justice  Antonin Scalia  in her veto letter on
the legitimacy of forbidding guns in “‘sensitive places such as
schools and government buildings.’”  “The decision to permit or prohibit guns in these
extremely sensitive locations -- whether a city council chamber
or branch office staffed with state workers -- should be
cooperatively reached and supported by a broad coalition of
stakeholders, including citizens, law enforcement officials and
local government leaders,” she said in the letter.  Praising Decision  Brewer’s veto drew praise from Maricopa County Supervisor
Mary Rose Wilcox, a Democrat who was wounded years earlier in a
shooting at a building where the governing board met. Brewer was
serving on the board with Wilcox at the time.  “I congratulate Governor Brewer on her decision,” Wilcox
said in a statement. “I’m grateful that common sense prevailed
over the ideological views of a few. Government employees will
sleep better tonight.”  Brewer, who described herself as a “strong proponent of
the Second Amendment” in her letter, has signed several
measures expanding gun rights, including allowing them in bars
and letting residents carry concealed firearms without a permit.
Last month, she approved an NRA-supported bill to let hunters
use silencing devices on their weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
acrawford24@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 