-- Army Corps Contract Kickback Probe Yields 6th Guilty Plea
-- B y   F r e d   S t r a s s e r
-- 2012-04-18T21:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/army-corps-contract-kickback-probe-yields-6th-guilty-plea.html
The owner of a Virginia-based
construction management company pleaded guilty to charges of
conspiracy to commit  money laundering  in a probe of contracts
awarded by the Army Corps of Engineers.  James Edward Miller, 64, today became the sixth person to
plead guilty in what prosecutors called a scheme to steer
contracts from the Army Corps worth about $1 billion. It
involved more than $20 million in bribes and kickbacks, the
 Justice Department  said today in a statement. Miller entered his
plea before U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan in Washington.  Miller was a close friend of Harold Babb, head of contracts
at Dulles, Virginia-based Eyak Technology LLC, who suggested
Miller’s company could obtain business as a subcontractor of
Eyak, a contract manager for the agency, the government said.  Babb, 60, was already allegedly involved in a conspiracy
with a program manager for the  Army Corps  to funnel business for
kickbacks, prosecutors said. He pleaded guilty in March to
bribery and unlawful kickbacks.  Babb was one of four people initially charged in a case
that prosecutors called one of the most brazen frauds in federal
contracting history. A U.S. Army Corps contracting official,
Michael A. Alexander, in February admitted taking bribes and
conspiring to launder money.  Alexander was accused along with a colleague, Kerry Khan,
who pleaded not guilty, of funneling more than $45 million
through a contract he was in charge of though Eyak to a
subcontractor, which kicked back $20 million generated by
overbilling.  The case is U.S. v. Miller, 1:12-cr-00063, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Strasser in Washington
at   fstrasser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 