-- Marriott Rises as Company Lifts Forecast on Group Demand
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-04-19T20:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/marriott-earnings-climb-amid-rising-business-group-demand.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, surged the most in
almost five months after reporting a higher profit and raising
its forecasts for 2012 amid climbing business-group demand.  Marriott, whose brands include Ritz-Carlton, probably will
have earnings of $1.58 to $1.69 a share this year, the Bethesda,
Maryland-based company said yesterday in a statement. That’s
higher than its $1.52-to-$1.64 forecast from February.  “The hotel recovery continues with solid demand growth and
minimal supply,” Robert LaFleur, an analyst at Cantor
Fitzgerald LP in New York, wrote today in a note to clients.
“Marriott’s confidence has improved in the past three months
and it is comfortable enough to raise its 2012 guidance. The
stock should react well today.”  Marriott rose 4.3 percent to $39.45 at the close in  New
York , the most since Nov. 30.  The company’s results are being buoyed by improving demand
and rates in the group travel segment, which accounts for about
40 percent of Marriott’s business, according to  Patrick Scholes ,
an analyst at FBR Capital Markets Corp. in New York. Smaller
groups are leading the demand increase, President and Chief
Executive Officer  Arne Sorenson  said today during a conference
call with analysts.  “The relatively smaller meetings are leading group
bookings -- meetings that fill 300, 400, 500 to 600-room hotels
not necessarily those that are filling the marquee 2,000-room
hotels,” he said. “Most industries are showing good
appetite,” with the possible exception of government groups.   Ritz-Carlton  Increasing demand at the company’s Ritz-Carlton hotels has
enabled the luxury brand to raise rates in the last quarter,
Sorenson said.  Net income climbed to $104 million, or 30 cents a share, in
the first quarter from $101 million, or 26 cents, a year
earlier, Marriott said. The company was expected to have
earnings of 29 cents, the average estimate of 24 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Marriott yesterday forecast second-quarter
earnings of 39 cents to 43 cents a share.  Revenue climbed to $2.5 billion in the first quarter from
an adjusted $2.4 billion, which excludes Marriott’s timeshare
business, spun off in November. Without the adjustment, revenue
fell 8.1 percent.  Room Revenue Rises  Marriott said comparable revenue per available room rose
6.9 percent at hotels systemwide in  North America  and 6.8
percent worldwide. That’s more than the 5 percent to 6 percent
increase, before adjustments for currency fluctuations, that it
forecast in February for North America and worldwide.  For this quarter and the full year, Marriott now expects
revpar, an industry measure of occupancy and rates, to gain 6
percent to 8 percent in all regions before currency adjustments.  Marriott plans to invest between $600 million to $800
million in its properties in 2012, including acquisitions and
$100 million on maintenance.  “We’ll expect to see hotel transactions in the industry
step up, and there’ll hopefully be some opportunities we can
participate in with our partners or on our own,” Sorenson said
on the conference call. “The most compelling place to invest
our own money in is in new brands.”  In the first quarter, the company purchased 4.2 million
shares of its stock for $150 million. With its planned spending,
Marriott expects to deliver about $1 billion to shareholders
through share buybacks and dividends.  First-quarter results were announced after the close of
regular U.S. trading yesterday.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  rose 3.3 percent
to $58.46 at 11:38 a.m. The owner of the luxury St. Regis and W
brands plans to report first-quarter results on April 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  