-- Asia to Cut West African Crude Imports to Five-Month Low
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-04-19T09:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/asia-to-cut-west-african-crude-imports-for-may-to-five-month-low.html
Asian refiners will reduce daily
imports of West African crude in May by 3.6 percent to the
lowest in five months, a survey of five traders and an analysis
of loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  A total of 59 cargoes are scheduled for export from  Angola ,
Nigeria, Republic of Congo,  Equatorial Guinea ,  Democratic
Republic  of Congo and Gabon, one less than in April, according
to the survey. This equals 56.1 million barrels, or 1.81 million
barrels a day, the lowest since December, compared with 1.88
million this month.  Refiners in  Asia  can buy Middle Eastern crude or West
African grades and their choice normally depends on the value of
the lighter, low-sulfur, or sweet, blends from Angola and
Nigeria versus heavier, high-sulfur, or sour, grades from  Saudi
Arabia  and  Iran . Lighter crude yields more lucrative products
such as diesel and gasoline.  “Given the limited size of the decline, I think it is in
line with traditional lower demand in the second quarter,”
 Samuel Ciszuk , a consultant for KBC Asset Management U.K., said
yesterday in an e-mail. “Although there might have been some
expectations that Asian purchases would have continued to rise
as Iranian purchases are cut, we are not surprised that seasonal
factors take precedence, since global markets have been very
well supplied in any case.”  The  Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps , which measures the
European benchmark against the Persian Gulf grade, averaged
$3.81 in March, up from February’s $3.35 and $3.07 in January,
according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd. The spread fell
to a 14-month low of $2.32 a barrel on Jan. 16.  Reliance Doubles Imports  India bought 17 cargoes for May, one more than this month,
according to the survey. Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest
refiner, cut its purchases to six shipments from nine in April.
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , which owns the world’s largest
refining complex, doubled its imports to eight cargoes, the most
in at least 10 months, the survey showed.  Chinese refiners purchased 35 cargoes for loading in May,
one more than April, the survey showed. China International
United Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Unipec, bought 24
shipments compared with 23 for this month.  CPC Corp.,  Taiwan ’s state-owned oil company, reduced its
purchases by half to three cargoes, while  Indonesia ’s state-
owned PT Pertamina bought three cargoes, one more than this
month, according to the survey.  Less Nigerian Oil  Asian refineries will import 370,774 barrels a day of
Nigerian crude, the least since December, the survey showed.  The U.S., the largest buyer of Nigerian crude, cut its
 import  from  Africa ’s largest producer to 449,000 barrels a day
in January, the least in more than five years, compared with
968,000 barrels a year earlier, according to the data from the
 Department of Energy .  Nigerian benchmark Qua Iboe was at a premium of $1.79 a
barrel to Dated Brent today, the lowest since Nov. 23, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nigeria  will export 2.24 million barrels a day of crude
next month while Angola will ship 1.7 million barrels, Bloomberg
calculations based on loading programs showed.  The following tables show details of planned Asian imports.
Most cargoes are for 950,000 to 1 million barrels. All the
volumes are in barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  