-- ASML Shares Drop in Amsterdam on Absence of Order Guidance
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-04-18T12:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/asml-expects-steady-sales-on-demand-for-smartphone-chips-1-.html
ASML Holding NV (ASML)  dropped the most in
six months after  Europe ’s biggest semiconductor equipment maker
didn’t provide guidance for future orders in its first-quarter
results.  The  shares  fell as much as 4 percent in Amsterdam, the most
since Oct. 11, and were down 3.2 percent at 36.70 euros as of
2:18 pm, reducing the company’s market value to 15.4 billion
euros ($20.2 billion). Before today, the shares had climbed 17
percent this year.  “A guidance on second-quarter orders is missing as the
group has fewer customers but bigger orders that are harder to
predict,’ said Stephane Houri, an analyst at Natixis Securities,
in a note to clients. Natixis recommends buying ASML shares.  ASML, based in Veldhoven,  Netherlands ,  did provide an
outlook  for sales, saying revenue in the second and third
quarters will be stable, driven by demand for advanced chips for
smartphones and tablets.  Such products have been driving demand
for advanced chip technology, increasing sales at the company,
which makes machines that produce chips for  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s mobile
phones and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads.  “We see sales stability at current first-quarter levels
for the next two quarters with clear indications that the logic
segment will continue its strong demand trend for the remainder
of the year,” Chief Executive Officer Eric Meurice said in a
statement.  Steady Sales  Sales in the first quarter rose to 1.25 billion euros from
1.21 billion euros in the fourth quarter and compared with 1.45
billion a year earlier. For the second quarter, ASML expects
sales about 1.2 billion euros, in line with the average estimate
of 1.19 billion euros in a Bloomberg survey of 16 analysts.  The sales projection is largely underpinned by logic
customers, said Chief Financial Officer Peter Wennink in an
interview on the company’s website. ”Logic chips go straight
into the things that are currently very hot, everything that has
to do with mobile, media and Internet.”  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (2330)  is one of ASML’s
 largest clients . It expects its 2012 capital expenditure will
exceed the $7.3 billion of last year, higher than originally
forecast, Elizabeth Sun, a spokeswoman for the Hsinchu, Taiwan-
based company, said by phone today, citing comments by Chairman
 Morris Chang . Chang said April 9 the budget would be increased
amid better-than-expected demand.  ASML’s net bookings, excluding second-generation extreme
ultraviolet, lithography systems, were 865 million euros in the
first quarter. Net income rose to 282 million euros, compared
with 395 million euros a year earlier, matching the average
estimate of 284 million euros from 13 analysts.  “The results are pretty much in line with expectations,”
said Niels de Zwart an Amsterdam-based analyst at ING. De Zwart,
who has a hold-rating on ASML, expected bookings of 850 million
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  