-- Vodafone Left as Sole C&W Bidder After Tata Drops Offer Plan
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-19T07:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/tata-won-t-make-offer-for-c-w-as-talks-with-vodafone-continue.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is left as the
only potential bidder for  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  after
 Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM)  failed to agree on a price and decided
against making an offer for the U.K. network operator.  Cable & Wireless plummeted as much as 24 percent in London
trading today, the biggest intraday drop since Nov. 22, valuing
the company at 791 million pounds ($1.3 billion). Talks about a
potential bid from Vodafone are continuing and the British
mobile-phone operator has until 5 p.m. today to make a firm
offer, the company said yesterday.  “It’s lowered the prospect of a knockout bid but there’s
clearly still some serious negotiations to be had,” said
Stewart Gordon, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in London. “It
leaves Vodafone in a pretty strong position.”  Vodafone is pursuing a European fixed-line acquisition for
the first time since 2010, when it ended talks with  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) ,  Germany ’s largest cable-operator. The
Newbury, England-based company may use Cable & Wireless’s fiber
network to boost its fixed-line system in the U.K. and relieve
the strain of surging data traffic. A Vodafone spokesman
declined to comment yesterday.  “This is the benefit of Vodafone having waited up to the
end of the deadline to see what Tata does, with them left as the
sole public bidder,” said  Nick Brown , an analyst at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank. “It’s paid off for them to wait if
that’s their intention.”  Pressure on Shares  Tata Communications had won deadline extensions, alongside
Vodafone, for a potential bid and had secured $2 billion to help
finance an offer. The company “has been unable to reach
agreement with C&W on an offer price and therefore confirms that
it does not intend to make an offer,” it said in a separate
statement yesterday.  Cable & Wireless shares dropped as much as 8.94 pence to
28.11 pence in  London  trading and were down 22 percent as of
8:19 a.m. Before today, the stock had risen 88 percent since
Vodafone publicly expressed interest on Feb. 13.  In the last two years, Cable Wireless lost 69 percent of
its market value. In November, Cable & Wireless suspended future
dividend payments as sales fell in its traditional voice network
and it announced that John Pluthero was stepping down as CEO
after less than six months at the helm. The operator said Feb.
16 that profitability in its voice business was declining as
contracts were renegotiated.  Data Push  The U.K. is Vodafone’s only major European market in which
it lacks a fixed-line network. The operator, which said in
February that data revenue climbed 13 percent in the U.K. in the
last quarter of 2011 as more customers bought smartphones, is
seeking to shift traffic onto fixed lines to reduce the burden
on its wireless network.  For Tata Communications, there was little headroom within
its funding, Gordon said. “It always struck me that a bid of
about 40 pence was going to be a push.”  Purchasing Cable & Wireless would have complemented Tata
Communications’ operations in  emerging markets  including  South
Africa (SBK) , the  Middle East  and  Asia . Tata Group, which controls the
telecommunications company, has acquired companies in the U.K.
including Jaguar Land Rover Plc and Corus Group Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  