-- Atlas Iron Speculation Grows With Australia Port Needs: Real M&A
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-04-19T06:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/atlas-iron-speculation-grows-with-australia-port-needs-real-m-a.html
Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO) , already
Australia’s fastest-growing iron-ore producer, is also offering
potential acquirers space to load vessels at the world’s busiest
port for shipping the mineral.  Atlas posted a 22-fold increase in sales over the past two
fiscal years, the biggest surge of any Australian mining company
with a market value of more than $1 billion, and projects its
iron-ore output will rise more than sevenfold by 2017, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $2.7 billion company, which
has no debt, trades at 11.9 times earnings, half the average for
the Bloomberg World Mining Index, yesterday’s data showed.  While  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  needs to build a  4-kilometer (2.5
mile) jetty  and dredge a 32-kilometer shipping lane to add
capacity at Australia’s  Port Hedland , the  gateway to Asia  from
the ore-rich Pilbara region, Atlas already has room for an
expansion that may allow it to boost shipments to 46 million
metric tons from 6 million without having to build over water.
That offers “significant strategic appeal,” said Troy Irvin of
Argonaut Securities Pty, and Atlas could lure a bid from BHP or
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  that’s as much as 26 percent above
its current value, according to EL&C Baillieu Stockbroking Ltd.  “This year is a good year to buy Atlas,” said Trent Barnett, head of research at Hartleys Ltd., a Perth-based
stockbroker and corporate advisor. “For a large, Pilbara-
producing miner, Atlas’s attraction is probably all to do with
ports. If you’re a new entrant into the region, you’d want
everything they’ve got.”  Atlas  shares  today rose 1.7 percent to A$2.99 at the close
in Sydney, the highest level in one month. The benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index gained 0.3 percent.  Trucking Distance  Tony Walsh, the company secretary at Perth-based Atlas,
declined to comment on a potential sale.  From a  single employee  and a market capitalization of less
than A$10 million ($10.4 million) in 2004, Atlas expanded to 400
workers and a value of A$3 billion in seven years. With mines
within trucking distance of Port Hedland, the company has
remained  debt free  even after more than 20 acquisitions, the
largest of which was last year’s purchase of neighboring iron-
ore explorer Giralia Resources NL for $758 million in stock,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company is amassing resources and port space as it
seeks to meet a production target of 46 million tons a year by
2017. With A$377 million in  cash  at the end of 2011, Atlas will
post a second consecutive year of profit in the 12 months ending
June 2012, according to  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The company’s shares, first sold to the public in
December 2004 for 20 cents, closed at A$2.94 each yesterday.  ‘Transport Economics’  “Ports are very scarce,” said Irvin, a Perth-based
analyst at Argonaut Securities. “Building a portfolio of
infrastructure options is difficult and that’s what Atlas has
done. It’s a game of transport economics.”  While Atlas estimates that it can rely on trucks alone to
double annual output to 12 million tons by June 2013, the
company is considering turning to rail transport to tap mines
further south to reach 2017 production targets. Atlas Executive
Chairman  David Flanagan  said in Beijing this week that he’s
already seeking Chinese investors for projects including rail
and port ventures.  Atlas may be easier and cheaper for a buyer to integrate
before it makes those decisions, which could happen after this
year, according to Hartleys’ Barnett.  “They could start to sign agreements with providers, which
might be hard to get out of, and they’ll decide where the
railway is going and maybe sign a contract,” he said.  100 Percent Utilized  Port Hedland , named after the captain of the ship that
anchored at the mangrove inlet in 1863, is currently the  only
location  from which BHP and Fortescue ship ore that is mined in
Western  Australia .  The port’s current ability to handle 220 million tons per
year in exports is “pretty much 100 percent utilized,” and
ongoing expansions may raise total capacity to almost 500
million tons per year in 2015, according to Steed Farrell, a
spokesman for the port.  As miners scout for ways to meet Asian demand, Atlas’s
harbor-front position at Port Hedland is the key to its appeal,
said Argonaut’s Irvin.  “The value they’ve got sits in the infrastructure,” he
said. “It offers some of the best leverage to the Chinese
growth story.”  World iron ore imports are forecast to rise 40 percent to
1.5 billion metric tons by 2017, with  China  accounting for more
than half of that eventual demand as crude steel production on
the mainland surges, according to Australia’s  Bureau of
Resources and Energy Economics . Australia’s exports may rise to
779 million tons from 407 million tons in fiscal 2011, the
agency forecast in a March 21 report.  Dry-Bulk Ships  As part of an $8.4 billion plan to increase iron ore
exports, Fortescue is more than doubling its capacity at Port
Hedland’s  Herb Elliott Port  from 55 million tons to 120 million.
It’s adding train unloaders,  shiploaders , and berths, where dry-
bulk ships that carry ore to China can be loaded.  With available land around the narrow, L-shaped harbor
limited, BHP plans a development estimated to cost A$14 billion
to add as much as 240 million tons of capacity by creating a new
outer harbor. The cost projection comes from a 2011 report by
 Western Australia ’s  Department of Mines and Petroleum .  The program is “pivotal” for long-term growth objectives,
BHP said in a  Feb. 2 statement . The first 100 million ton-per-
year expansion will start construction in 2016. The first phase
of the project calls for building a four-berth wharf as well as
new land infrastructure. Constructed in four stages, the whole
outer harbor will take eight years to build, according to the
port authority.  Spare Capacity  An acquisition of Atlas would give a buyer an immediate 10
million tons of unused capacity, the biggest such space
available at Port Hedland, according to Peter Arden, a resources
analyst at Ord Minnett in  Melbourne . He said Atlas could fetch
A$4 a share in a takeover.  In addition, Atlas has the ability to boost its capacity to
46.5 million tons through the South West Creek project being
developed in a  joint venture  with  Brockman Resources Ltd. (BRM) , at an
estimated cost of A$2.5 billion, according to a  Feb. 29
presentation  to investors.  Like Fortescue’s new capacity, Atlas’s additions will be in
the port’s inner harbor, a zone that’s closer to existing rail
lines and which Adrian Prendergast, an analyst at EL&C Baillieu
in Melbourne, describes as the “prime location” in the port.
Compared to what BHP will spend on building the outer harbor,
acquiring Atlas would be cheap, he said.  ‘Quite Intensive’  “The amount of capital required to build that is quite
intensive versus acquiring a smaller producer with a large
allocation such as Atlas,” said Prendergast, who estimates the
company could fetch A$3.70 a share from BHP or Fortescue in a
takeover.  Antonios Papaspiropoulos, a spokesman for Melbourne-based
BHP, declined to comment, as did Yvonne Ball at Perth-based
Fortescue.  There’s still no guarantee Atlas’s board would entertain an
offer, according to Prendergast. Flanagan, who was managing
director until February, said in September he had rebuffed
several approaches and Atlas wasn’t seeking a buyer. As Atlas
shares fetched A$3.41 on Sept. 13, he described the company as a
“A$30 stock” and said only a hostile offer could succeed.  “They said they are not up for sale, but if you look at
some of their actions they’ve been more promotional than ever,”
said Ord Minnett’s Arden. “They need funding and they need
someone to build the railway. They’ll struggle on their own to
do it.”  Relative Value  With the shares down  14 percent  since then, Atlas traded at
 11.9 times  profit, Bloomberg data showed yesterday. That
compared with the average of 24.5 times fetched by companies in
the Bloomberg World Mining Index.  Fortescue, which has production and rail infrastructure in
the Pilbara region, would be interested in Atlas primarily for
its port access, while  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , Xstrata Plc or a
Chinese bidder may also want to own Atlas for its mines, said
Barnett at Hartleys.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s proposed
takeover of Xstrata will create the world’s fourth-biggest miner
when the transaction completes in the third quarter.  “Also making it more attractive is the fact that they
don’t have their own rail system yet,” said Prendergast at EL&C
Baillieu. “If you’re Fortescue and you’ve got your rail
network, you wouldn’t really want to buy another player with
another rail network.”  Fortescue, with $2.5 billion of cash on its balance sheet
at the end of December, plans to increase total iron ore exports
to 155 million tons by the middle of next year.  ‘Shrinking Pool’  Anglo American, with about $11.7 billion in cash, is always
looking for acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  said in September. The London-based company declined to
comment on Atlas in an e-mailed reply to questions. A
spokeswoman for  Xstrata (XTA) , which said in 2010 it was seeking deals
to build up its iron-ore business, also declined to comment.  Mining companies are looking for additional growth with
commodity prices that are still “reasonably robust,” said
 David Radclyffe , an analyst at Nomura International Plc in
 London , who ranks Atlas at the top of his list of mid-sized iron
ore targets.  “There’s an increasingly shrinking pool of independent
iron ore assets around the world and one of the few places where
there are assets left would be Australia,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  