-- Audi Buys Ducati to Add Luxury Motorbikes to VW Model Lineup
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-04-18T18:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/audi-buys-ducati-to-add-luxury-motorbikes-to-volkswagen-lineup.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi will buy
Italian motorcycle maker Ducati Motor Holding SpA to add luxury
two-wheelers ridden by celebrities such as  Brad Pitt  to the
German automaker’s portfolio.  The VW and Audi supervisory boards approved the purchase
today and aim to complete the transaction as quickly as possible
following regulatory approval, Audi said in a statement.  The VW unit will pay owner Investindustrial SpA about 860
million euros ($1.1 billion), including debt of around 155
million euros, for the Bologna, Italy-based company, two people
familiar with the matter said today, declining to be identified
because the companies are not publicly disclosing the price.  VW Chairman  Ferdinand Piech , who turned 75 yesterday, has
long coveted the brand. He publicly expressed interest in buying
Ducati in April 2008 before eventually losing out to
Investindustrial. The purchase will make Ducati the 11th brand
in VW’s portfolio, alongside super-car marques Lamborghini and
Bugatti and heavy-duty truck manufacturers  Scania AB (SCVB)  and  MAN SE. (MAN)   “Ducati is a strong brand in a very specialized segment --
a bit like Lamborghini,” said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst with
Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt. “It’ll give Audi a bit of a
marketing boost and it’s very profitable, but you still have to
ask whether there’s not better use for $1 billion.”  The deal will also aid Ingolstadt, Germany-based Audi in
its competition with  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , which makes
BMW and Husqvarna motorcycles, as they vie for the lead in
 luxury vehicles .  Deal Value  Ducati, which last year sold about 42,000 motorcycles such
as the $28,000 Superbike 1199  Panigale S Tricolore , posted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
to 93 million euros in 2011, a person familiar with the
financial figures said March 13.  Audi (NSU)  is paying about 7.5 times Ebitda, minus debt, for the
Italian motorcycle maker. Investindustrial, a private equity
firm based in Milan, is earning three times the money it
invested in the deal, one of the people said.  Ducati’s revenue last year rose 20 percent to 480 million
euros, giving it a profit margin of about 19 percent. Audi’s
operating profit was the equivalent of 12.1 percent of sales.  “Ducati is known worldwide as a premium brand among
motorcycle manufacturers and has a long tradition of building
sport motorcycles,” Audi Chief Executive Officer Rupert Stadler
said in the statement. “It has great expertise in high-
performance engines and lightweight construction.”  Porsche Integration  Volkswagen last year sold 8.36 million vehicles, generating
159 billion euros in revenue. VW, which also plans to integrate
the Porsche car brand, had net liquidity of 17 billion euros at
the end of 2011, according to its annual report.  The Ducati deal marks an entry into the motorcycle business
for VW and another asset in Italy after buying Lamborghini and
Italdesign Giugiaro SpA. Piech has also expressed interest in
the past in  Fiat SpA (F) ’s Alfa Romeo brand.  Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL) ,  India ’s biggest motorcycle maker, had
also expressed interest in Ducati after Milan-based
Investindustrial made it known in February that it planned to
sell the company.  Ducati, which was founded in 1926, sells the Superbike,
Monster, Streetfighter, Hypermotard, Multistrada and the new
Diavel models in 65 countries.  “Ducati has thrived with us as a result of the intensive
industrial turnaround and the commercial push into new, fast-
growing markets,”  Andrea Bonomi , Investindustrial chairman,
said in a statement. “We are convinced that the company will
continue to provide a bright and rewarding future to its
customers and employees in the very capable hands of Audi.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 