-- Bachus Urges Schapiro to Study Cost of Money Fund Rule
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-04-19T18:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bachus-urges-schapiro-to-study-costs-of-money-fund-rules-1-.html
(Corrects spelling of Donahue’s name in final paragraph of
story published April 18.)  House Financial Services Committee
Chairman  Spencer Bachus  is urging Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to rethink her approach to
rules for the money-market fund industry.  In a letter to Schapiro dated yesterday, Bachus said he was
unsure why the agency should spend time considering rules for
money-market funds when the SEC has struggled to meet deadlines
to implement rules mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  “Given that the SEC has already missed numerous deadlines
for mandatory rule-makings, the suggestion that the agency is
devoting time and resources to a discretionary rule without
providing Congress or the public with empirical data and
economic analysis to justify such a rule-making raises
significant questions regarding the Commission’s priorities,”
Bachus wrote.  The letter was also signed by Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican who is vice chairman of the
financial services panel.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment on the
letter. As a general matter, Nester said in an e-mail, the SEC
is “committed to rigorous economic analysis in any rule-making
the Commission may consider.”  Schapiro has said regulators must tighten oversight of
money-market funds because a run on the industry could damage
the economy. She hasn’t been able to convince a majority of her
colleagues on the five-member commission that they should
approve new rules that could include  capital requirements  or a
change to the industry’s traditional $1 share price.  Removing Risk  Bachus and Hensarling wrote that it’s not the SEC’s job to
remove risk from investments.  “We would also like to remind you that the SEC’s mandate
is to ensure that investors have all of the material information
about an investment, not to engineer investments so that they
are free of any risk,” the lawmakers wrote. “If investors do
not understand that their investments in money-market funds can
result in losses, then the Commission should use its existing
authority to enhance disclosures rather than change the
fundamental characteristics of money-market funds.”  Concern over money funds, once seen as among the safest of
investments, grew after the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund, which triggered a broader run that
contributed to a freeze in global financial markets. The SEC
adopted rules in 2010 that introduced liquidity minimums,
average maturity limits and new disclosure requirements.  Money-market funds have fought any additional regulation.
Christopher Donahue, the chief executive officer of Pittsburgh-
based  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , the third-biggest U.S. money-
fund provider, said Jan. 27 that his firm would sue the SEC if
it went forward with a proposed rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  