-- Bacon’s Spinoffs Falter as Mikheev Said to Liquidate Fund
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-04-18T10:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bacon-s-spinoffs-falter-as-mikheev-said-to-liquidate-fund.html
Louis Moore Bacon built Moore
Capital Management LLC into one of the biggest and most
successful  hedge funds  over more than two decades. His record
investing in startups run by former traders is less stellar.  Salute Capital Management, run by Lev Mikheev, is the third
hedge fund backed by Moore and run by one of his ex-traders to
liquidate in the past four months. Mikheev returned to Moore two
weeks ago after his two-year-old fund lost 11 percent last year,
said a person with knowledge of the matter, asking not to be
named because the information is private.  Bacon, 55, whose New York-based firm oversees about $15
billion, invests client and partner money in former employees’
startup hedge funds and is often their biggest backer. The
faltering spinoffs show that once-successful traders don’t
always flourish running their own hedge funds, just as a half-
dozen alumni from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. have struggled to
make money for clients since striking out on their own.  “You often see traders not functioning as well as they did
in their old jobs, where they had the benefit of top-down input
from senior people,” said Daniel Celeghin, a partner at Casey
Quirk & Associates LLC, a Darien, Connecticut-based firm that
advises asset managers. “Being able to run a portfolio well is
not the same as running a business well.”  William Tung and Tim Leslie also have told clients they
were liquidating funds they started after leaving Moore.  Mikheev, 49, who managed about $300 million at Salute
Capital, rejoined Moore’s business in London as a portfolio
manager. Salute has offices in the U.K. capital and Moscow.  Fundraising Struggle  Mikheev had left in 2009 to start  Salute , named for the
former  Soviet Union ’s space station program Salyut, and focused
on investing in stocks in  Russia  and Eastern  Europe . Mikheev
struggled to raise money from clients beyond the $250 million
Moore had invested in Salute, according to the person. Mikheev
first came to Moore in 2003 and had overseen as much as $1
billion in emerging markets, the person said.  Shawn Pattison, a spokesman for Moore, declined to comment.  As some traders close their funds and return to Moore,
Bacon has rearranged investments among those who manage money
within his firm, two people with knowledge of the matter said in
November. He pulled some money last year from Greg Coffey, co-
chief investment officer of Moore’s European business, after
what was once his largest fund posted losses, the people said
this month.  The move was a mutual decision between Bacon and Coffey to
cut the trader’s capital amid difficult market conditions, one
of the people said. Coffey, 40, owns a stake of between 10
percent and 25 percent in Moore Capital Management LP, according
to a registration statement filed last month with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Early Enthusiasm  “The downside of giving someone an ownership stake is that
in the beginning people are often very excited, just like in a
marriage, so they only think about how to get in,” said Jerome Lussan, founder of London-based Laven Partners LLP, which
performs due diligence on hedge funds and helps managers
structure their firms.  Tung, who started Avesta Capital Advisors LLC almost a
decade ago after leaving Moore, told clients in January he
planned to return to the firm after shuttering his $636 million
equity hedge fund. Tung lost 6.4 percent last year, an investor
said. His fund declined by 1.7 percent in 2010 after gaining 10
percent in 2009 and 2.9 percent in 2008, according to a November
investor letter.  Hedge funds fell by an average of 5.8 percent in 2011 and
rose 8.2 percent in 2010 and 9.2 percent in 2009 after losing a
record 19 percent in 2008, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Tung’s Return  Tung, 41, said in a Jan. 12 letter to clients that
returning to Moore, a macro-strategy fund that seeks to profit
from economic trends by trading everything from currencies to
commodities, would boost his chances of success because of the
“prominent role that ‘macro’ is playing in the stock market.”  Moore had at least $200 million invested in New York-based
Avesta, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. Tung
had worked at Bacon’s fund for six years before he started his
own business.  Leslie told clients in December that his James Caird Asset
Management LP would liquidate its $1.6 billion credit fund.
Leslie, 46, started the JCAM Global fund in 2003 while working
at Moore and, with the help of an investment from Bacon’s firm,
spun it out in 2008.  Moore had at least $500 million in James Caird, people
familiar with the matter said. Leslie’s fund lost 8.9 percent
last year through November, a person familiar with the matter
said in December.  Energy Stocks  One investor withdrew from London-based James Caird because
Leslie incurred losses on shares of commodity companies,
drifting away from his credit strategy, the client said.  Those investments included stakes in  Australia ’s White
Energy Co. and  Nexus (NXS)  Energy Ltd., said a person with direct
knowledge of the trades. White Energy, a coal-technology
company,  plunged  89 percent last year and Nexus, which helps
develop oil and gas reserves, slumped 52 percent.  Nicki Kahner, a James Caird spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  The firm said in December it planned to raise $500 million
for a fund that will be managed by  Robert Miller , who has worked
with Leslie since 2003.  Liquidations in the hedge fund industry rose to 775 last
year, the most since 2009, as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
roiled global markets, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc., a
Chicago-based research firm.  Goldman Sachs  Former Goldman Sachs trader Pierre-Henri Flamand lost about
2.4 percent through February since his $1.8 billion hedge fund
Edoma Capital Partners LLP in London, started in November 2010,
according to investors. Morgan Sze’s Azentus Capital Management
Ltd. lost about 4.8 percent through February since its April
2011 inception in  Hong Kong .  Closures of Moore spinouts span more than a decade. Tony Anagnostakis, who left in 2001 to run his own hedge fund, Agnos
Group LLC, returned to Bacon’s firm two years later, industry
publication  Absolute Return  reported at the time. His $1 billion
fund rose about 10 percent in 2002, the magazine said.  Ron Connors, who was a fixed-income strategist at Moore,
received $50 million from his former employer when he left in
2003 to start Cornerstone Global Macro Management LP, Absolute
Return reported that year. Connors now works at Rafferty Capital
Markets Inc. He didn’t respond to an e-mail and telephone
message seeking comment.  Gains of 19%  Bacon started Moore in 1989 and his main fund returned an
annual average of 19 percent through March, according to an
investor update.  Bacon’s willingness to bring back traders who struggled on
their own extends to his family. He rehired his older brother,
Zack Hampton Bacon III, in February to oversee strategic
planning after Zack closed his New York fund, Hampton Capital
LLC, a person briefed on the matter said that month. Bacon had
invested his own money with his brother, the person said. Zack
had left Moore in 2005 to work at Alstra Capital Management LLC
before starting Hampton in 2009.  Setbacks haven’t deterred him from investing in spinouts.
Moore allocated $800 million to a hedge fund started last year
by former employees Jens-Peter Stein and Kornelius Klobucar, two
people briefed on the matter said in February.  Their firm, Stone Milliner Asset Management AG, began
trading in January with more than $1 billion and returned 2.3
percent in the first quarter, according to an investor letter, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. Profitable bets
included a wager against the Japanese yen, which fell in
response to favorable U.S. economic data, the firm said.  Macro Funds  Macro hedge funds gained 2.8 percent on average in the
first three months of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Hedge funds of all strategies rose 3.8 percent, the
industry’s best quarter since the final three months of 2010.  Stein and Klobucar, both former Morgan Stanley traders, had
joined Moore in 2006 and produced annual profits of about 8
percent before they left at the end of last year, people with
knowledge of the matter said in February.  Moore also invested about $250 million in Bramshott Capital
LLP, a London-based hedge fund started by Paul Findley in 2011,
people familiar with the matter said.  Bramshott, which invests in European equities, lost about
5.3 percent last year from its May inception through November,
according to investors. Findley had joined Moore in 2008.  Emerging Markets  Within Moore, executives pulled capital from Coffey’s
 emerging markets  macro fund last year and removed hard-to-sell
assets that the trader inherited when he joined the firm in
2008, according to people familiar with the matter. The changes
were made after Coffey lost 6.2 percent through the first 10
months of 2011, the people said. Assets in his fund declined to
$700 million in November from as much as $1.6 billion in 2010.  Coffey, who was from London-based GLG Partners Inc.,
renamed all three hedge funds he manages at Moore last year to
add his GC initials to their titles. Bacon commented on the
rebranding and on “rumors” that Coffey may leave Moore in a
Nov. 17 letter sent to clients, saying he and the trader have a
“strong relationship which has continued to flourish through
our collaboration in navigating these turbulent markets.”  The GC Moore Emerging Macro fund declined 0.8 percent in
the first two months of this year after gaining 1.1 percent in
the last two months of 2011, according to an investor. An equity
fund Coffey oversees slumped 7.9 percent last month and 2.8
percent this year, while his fixed-income and currency fund lost
1.3 percent in March and 0.2 percent in the first quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  