-- Bank of Canada's April Monetary Policy Report Overview (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-04-18T14:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bank-of-canada-s-april-monetary-policy-report-overview-text-.html
Following is the Bank of Canada’s
overview section for the Monetary Policy Report released today in
Ottawa.  The profile for global economic growth has improved since
January.  Europe  is expected to emerge slowly from recession in
the second half of 2012, although the risks around this outlook
remain high. The profile for U.S. growth is slightly stronger,
reflecting the balance of somewhat improved labour markets,
financial conditions and confidence on the one hand, and emerging
fiscal consolidation and ongoing household deleveraging on the
other. Economic activity in emerging-market economies is expected
to moderate to a still-robust pace over the projection horizon,
supported by an easing of macroeconomic policies. Improved global
economic prospects, supply disruptions and geopolitical risks
have kept commodity prices elevated. In particular, the
international price of oil has risen further and is now
considerably higher than that received by Canadian producers. If
sustained, these oil price developments could dampen the
improvement in economic momentum.  Overall, economic momentum in  Canada  is slightly firmer than
the Bank had expected in January. The external headwinds facing
Canada have abated somewhat, with the U.S. recovery more
resilient and financial con­ditions more supportive than
previously anticipated. As a result, business and household
confidence are improving faster than forecast in January. The
Bank projects that private domestic demand will account for
almost all of Canada’s economic growth over the projection
horizon. Household spending is expected to remain high relative
to GDP as households add to their debt burden, which remains the
biggest domestic risk. Business investment is projected to remain
robust, reflecting solid balance sheets, very favourable credit
conditions, continuing strong terms of trade and heightened
competitive pressures. The contribution of government spending to
growth is expected to be quite modest over the projection
horizon, in line with recent federal and provincial budgets. The
recovery in net exports is likely to remain weak in light of
modest external demand and ongoing competitiveness challenges,
including the persistent strength of the Canadian dollar.  The Bank projects that the economy will grow by 2.4 per cent
in both 2012 and 2013 before moderating to 2.2 per cent in 2014.
The degree of economic slack has been somewhat smaller than the
Bank had anticipated in January, and the economy is now expected
to return to full capacity in the first half of 2013.  As a result of this reduced slack and higher gasoline
prices, the profile for inflation is expected to be somewhat
firmer than anticipated in January. After moderating this
quarter, total CPI inflation is expected, along with  core
inflation , to be around 2 per cent over the balance of the
projection horizon as the economy reaches its production
potential, the growth of labour compensation remains moderate and
inflation expectations stay well anchored.  Despite recent improvements to the outlook for the global
and Canadian economies, risks remain elevated.  The three main upside risks to inflation in Canada relate to
the possibility of higher-than-expected  oil prices , stronger-
than-expected growth in the  U.S. economy  and stronger momentum in
Canadian household spending.  The two main downside risks to inflation in Canada relate to
a re-intensification of sovereign debt and banking concerns in
Europe, and the possibility that growth in Canadian household
spending could be weaker than projected.  Overall, the Bank judges that the risks to the inflation
outlook in Canada are roughly balanced over the projection
period.  Reflecting all of these factors, on 17 April, the Bank
maintained the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. In
light of the reduced slack in the economy and firmer underlying
inflation, some modest withdrawal of the present considerable
monetary policy stimulus may become appropriate, consistent with
achieving the 2 per cent inflation target over the medium term.
The timing and degree of any such withdrawal will be weighed
carefully against domestic and global economic developments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  