-- Bank of Canada Sees Firmer Growth as Global Strains Ease
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-04-18T21:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bank-of-canada-projects-firmer-growth-on-easing-global-strains.html
The Bank of  Canada  said the economy
will be stronger this year than it earlier forecast as companies
become more confident in U.S. growth and as risks from  Europe ’s
debt crisis diminish.  The world’s 10th largest economy will expand 2.4 percent in
2012, up from a January projection of 2 percent, the central
bank said today. It raised its outlook for the contribution from
corporate investment to 0.9 percentage point from 0.6 percentage
point, and boosted the consumption estimate to 1.3 points from
1.1 points.  The brighter forecast underscores signs of optimism for the
world economy after the International Monetary Fund raised its
global growth outlook and as officials gather in  Washington  to
consider boosting the IMF’s crisis-fighting war chest. The  Bank
of Canada  yesterday decided to keep the benchmark  lending rate 
at 1 percent for a 13th meeting, while adding that a policy-rate
increase “may become appropriate.”  “Recent indicators suggest better growth in the U.S.,”
said Charles St-Arnaud, an economist with Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York. “In Europe, we have avoided the
worst, but we are still not out of the woods in terms of
sovereign tensions.”  The global economy will expand 3.2 percent this year, the
Bank of Canada said. The  U.S. economy , which buys about 75
percent of Canada’s exports, will grow 2.3 percent this year, up
from an earlier forecast of 2 percent. Europe’s economy will
contract 0.6 percent this year, the bank projected, less than an
earlier prediction of 1 percent.  Canada’s Headwinds  “The external headwinds facing Canada have abated
somewhat,” the central bank in Ottawa said in its Monetary
Policy Report. The U.S. is benefiting from employment and stock-
market gains that are building confidence, while European policy
makers have taken steps to manage the risks from the sovereign-
and banking-debt crisis.  The Canadian dollar traded near a one-month high after
today’s report, strengthening as far as 98.82 cents per  U.S.
dollar . It traded at 99.12 cents at 5 p.m. in Toronto, 0.1
percent weaker from yesterday.  Elsewhere, British  jobless claims  rose 3,600 in March to
1.61 million, the  Office for National Statistics  said in  London .
The median forecast of 29 economists in a Bloomberg survey was
for a gain of 6,000. Unemployment as measured by International
Labour Organization methods dropped to 8.3 percent in the
quarter through February from 8.4 percent.  China Home Prices  In  China ,  home prices  fell in a record 37 of 70 cities
tracked by the government in March as officials pledged to keep
restrictions on property purchases that have sapped buyer
demand.  Chinese authorities should continue with other steps to
make their economy more resilient, such as the decision earlier
this month to widen the yuan’s trading band against the dollar
for the first time since 2007.  That move “creates the possibility of additional
flexibility in the currency, so it’s a step, but we’d like to
see additional flexibility in the currency,” Carney told
reporters today. “There is also a commitment as part of the
G-20 process of Chinese authorities to slow the pace of reserve
accumulation and we’d like to see progress on that.”  IMF’s Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  raised its global growth
forecast for the first time in more than a year yesterday, with
the U.S. leading the improved outlook. The world economy will
expand 3.5 percent this year, compared with a January projection
of 3.3 percent, the IMF said.  Canada’s economy will grow at a 2.5 percent annualized pace
this quarter, up from a January estimate of 1.8 percent, the
Bank of Canada said. Inflation will average 2 percent this
quarter, higher than a previous estimate of 1.5 percent.  Inflation, which was 2.6 percent in February, has exceeded
the bank’s 2 percent goal for 15 straight months, in part
because of higher oil. Crude  oil prices  have increased by 18
percent over the last six months through yesterday, based on  New
York  Mercantile Exchange contracts.  Canada’s status as an oil exporter isn’t translating into
net economic benefits, the central bank said. That’s because the
rise in the benchmark West Texas Intermediate price paid to
exporters has lagged the cost of Brent oil. Most of Canada’s oil
is produced in western Canada and exported, while factories in
eastern Canada consume imported oil.  “If sustained, these oil price developments could dampen
the improvement in economic momentum,” the central bank said.  Reports this month have shown 82,300  new jobs  were created,
while housing starts ran at a 215,600 annual rate in March, both
the fastest since 2008.  The bank said Canada’s economy was operating about half a
percentage point below its full capacity in the first quarter.
The January report said the gap was about 0.75 percent in the
fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  