-- Bank of America Faces Bad Home-Equity Loans: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-18T20:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bank-of-america-faces-bad-home-equity-loans-mortgages.html
Bank of America Corp. , whose home-
equity mortgage portfolio exceeds its stock market value,
probably will say about $2 billion of junior loans are bad
assets tomorrow even as some borrowers are still paying on time.  That’s what  Barclays Capital  estimates the bank will report
in its first-quarter results, following decisions by JPMorgan
Chase & Co.,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to reclassify
$4.1 billion of junior liens as nonperforming.  Regulators are pressing for the change on concern that
falling  home prices  have wiped out collateral on many second
mortgages, leaving them as unsecured debt. About 20 percent of
the nation’s $845 billion of home-equity loans exceed the value
of the properties when combined with primary mortgages,
according to CoreLogic Inc., and about 36 percent of Bank of
America’s were at least partly “underwater” at the end of last
year, according to regulatory filings.  “The reclassification may change the way the investors
look at the company but as far as the vulnerability it does
nothing to take that away,” said Jeffrey Sica, the Morristown,
New Jersey-based president of SICA Wealth Management who helps
oversee $1 billion of assets and who’s bet on a decline in the
 shares  of Bank of America in the past. “This is something they
have very much tried to keep under wraps.”  Almost a quarter of homes in the U.S. were worth less than
the mortgages against them, according to CoreLogic, the data
firm based in  Santa Ana , California. About 4.4 million had home-
equity mortgages, the firm said.  Stripping Value  Banks have been carrying some high-risk junior mortgages on
their balance sheets at full value even after a rout in home
prices stripped almost $7 trillion from property values,
according to the Federal Reserve and other bank regulators.
Executives including Bank of America Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan  and Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf have said
borrowers tend to keep paying as long as they are able, even if
home prices decline.  The risk for lenders is that if the borrower does  default 
and the property is auctioned, a junior loan stands behind the
primary mortgage for repayment. Typically, the second-lien
holder suffers a total loss.  Investors are “trying to find the canary in the  coal
mine ,” said Chris Gamaitoni, a mortgage and banking analyst at
Washington-based Compass Point Research and Trading LLC. “Bank
of America is certainly the most worrisome.”  Quarterly Report  Bank of America, which has the biggest home-equity
portfolio in the U.S., may post a 6.9 percent decline in first-
quarter adjusted  profit  to $1.62 billion tomorrow, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The Charlotte, North Carolina-
based company had been the nation’s largest mortgage lender
after buying Countrywide Financial Corp. and had a portfolio of
$136.7 billion in home-equity loans at the end of last year,
according to a company filing.  The lender was unchanged at $8.92 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
trading. It’s gained 60 percent this year boosting the market
capitalization to about $95.7 billion.  About 22 percent of the bank’s home-equity loans were
actually senior liens at the end of last year, according to a
company filing. That compares with about 28 percent at New York-
based  JPMorgan (JPM)  and 20 percent at San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo. The figures at all three banks exclude impaired loans
picked up in acquisitions.  Potential Impact  Bank of America has identified $4.7 billion of home-equity
loans that stand behind a delinquent first, according to a year-
end filing, and the total reclassified as  nonperformers  may be
higher than Barclays’s estimate, according to Brian Foran, a New
York-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. Citigroup moved about
2 percent of its home-equity portfolio, the smallest of the four
lenders. At that rate, Bank of America would reclassify about
$2.73 billion.  “I would expect BofA to be in the same ballpark and maybe
slightly higher,” Foran said. “Given that they had identified
and disclosed these loans ahead of time my guess is they will do
the same as the others. The only question mark hanging over this
issue: is it the last step, or the first step?”  The three companies collectively hold 40 percent of the
nation’s home-equity loans, according to  Fitch Ratings . Wells
Fargo, the biggest U.S. mortgage lender, and JPMorgan, the
biggest bank by assets, had already set aside reserves for the
loans they reclassified as nonperforming, so there was no impact
on reported profit, the banks said last week.  Still, the changes at the two banks “surprised and spooked
investors, despite not having an earnings impact,” wrote
Barclays analysts led by  Jason Goldberg  in a research note.  ‘No Teeth’  The Fed’s directive, which reiterated rules in force since
at least 2006, isn’t enough to mitigate the risk junior loans
pose to the banking system, said Rebel Cole, a former  Federal
Reserve  economist and now a finance professor at  DePaul
University  in Chicago.  “The guidance has absolutely no teeth,” Cole said. “The
regulators could simply say, ‘We know at least 25 percent of
first mortgages are under water, therefore, at least 25 percent
of your second liens are uncollateralized and have to be
classified as substandard or doubtful.’”  The risk of home-equity loan defaults will increase if real
estate prices continue to decline, analysts and economists said.
Home values have tumbled by a third since reaching a peak in
mid-2006, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller  home price index .
 Diane Swonk , chief economist of Mesirow Financial Inc. in
Chicago, estimates home prices will retreat another 3.9 percent
this year, which would strip $706 billion from home values.  Default Rates  Fitch estimates 20 of the  largest U.S. banks , including
units owned by foreign lenders, may face another $110 billion in
junior-loan losses under a stressed scenario, according to a
Feb. 27 report that cited third-quarter 2011 figures. Bank of
America leads the group with $29.1 billion in potential losses,
Fitch said.  While equity loans carry a higher risk if they default,
delinquencies are lower. In the fourth quarter, 4.08 percent of
home-equity loans were missing payments, according to the
 American Bankers Association  in Washington. That compares with
7.58 percent for first-lien mortgages, according to the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  in Washington.  Some of the difference is because of the way banks book
second liens. Non-performing home-equity loans typically are
written off in six months. That compares to an average two-year
period from delinquency to a  foreclosure  sale on a primary
mortgage. Also, home-equity payments are smaller, meaning
homeowners are likely to keep paying after a default on their
primary mortgage -- at least for awhile.  ‘Pretty Obvious’  “When we analyzed it, it was pretty obvious it was just a
timing difference,” JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon said. “In almost
all cases when the first went delinquent, the second eventually
went delinquent. And in all cases where the first went into
foreclosure, the second was a loss, basically a total loss.”  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment, as did Wells Fargo’s  Mary Eshet  and Citigroup’s  Mark Rodgers .  Amy Bonitatibus , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment beyond Dimon’s remarks.  “We’re seeing the lingering effects of the housing market
bust,” Swonk said in an interview. Guidance from regulators
“is the reality of making sure banks are sound and secure while
we work through the ripple effects of the financial crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  