-- Bank Credit Worst to Companies Since Crisis Peak
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-18T16:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bank-credit-worst-to-companies-since-crisis-peak.html
The debt of banks is trading at the
biggest discount to the broader corporate bond market since the
depths of the funding squeeze in November as  Europe ’s sovereign
crisis again threatens to rattle global financial markets.  From Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  to Morgan Stanley in  New
York , the cost of credit-default swaps on a basket of the
largest banks in Europe and the U.S. is 266 basis points,
compared with 137 for the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings. The 129 basis-point
spread is the most since it reached 133 on Nov. 30.  The  International Monetary Fund  is seeking to boost its
lending capacity from about $380 billion to shield the economy
against Europe’s turmoil as 10-year bond yields in Spain, which
has more than $900 billion of debt, rise above 6 percent. Bank
securities, a barometer of the health of the financial system,
have given up the gains generated by the unprecedented
injections of public cash in Europe since late last year.  “The problem with emergency liquidity injections is that
they become addictive,” said Alex Bellefleur, an analyst at
Brockhouse & Cooper Inc. in  Montreal . “That is especially the
case when injections are trying to fight underlying flows that
are accelerating. This is the dynamic we are currently in.”  The gap between the cost of credit-default swaps on banks
and those linked to the wider market is approaching the record
of 159 basis points on Nov. 25.  IMF Forecast  While the Washington-based IMF raised its 2012 global
growth forecast to 3.5 percent from 3.3 percent, global bank
debt has lost 0.09 percent on average this month through April
16, compared with a return of 0.9 percent for industrialized
companies, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Moody’s Investors Service is adding to the pressure on bank
securities by reviewing lenders in the U.S. and Europe for
downgrades, citing the “difficult” operating conditions caused
by the sovereign crisis.  “There’s going to be a knock-on effect because big banks
paying more to borrow short-term won’t on-lend to smaller ones,
or will push up the price, reducing liquidity,” said Paul Smillie, an analyst in  London  at Threadneedle Asset Management,
which oversees about $43 billion of fixed-income assets.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk increased for the first time in three days,
with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbing 1.5 basis points to a mid-price of
100 basis points as of 11:58 a.m. in New York, according to
Markit Group Ltd.  Rate Swap Spreads  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
 bond market  stress, rose 0.31 basis point to 29.06 basis points
as of 11:57 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Chesapeake Energy Corp. are the most actively
traded U.S. corporate securities by dealers today, with 95
trades of $1 million or more as of 12:01 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Europe is coming back in focus for investors as its
borrowing costs soar.  “We had a positive first quarter,” said Oliver Judd, a
credit analyst in London at Aviva Investors, which manages the
equivalent of $419 billion. “Those sovereign fears are
resurfacing with  Spain  now.”  6 Percent Mark  Yields on the nation’s 10-year bonds climbed to 6.07
percent this week, from this year’s low of 4.85 percent on Feb.
1. They crossed the 6 percent mark on April 16 for the first
time since November, heading for the 7 percent level that
prompted  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  Spain’s central bank chief said yesterday the country risks
missing deficit estimates unveiled last month, and confirmed the
economy is now suffering its second recession since 2009. The
economy will shrink 1.8 percent this year, the IMF forecast.  “The projected course of total revenues in the budget is
subject to downside risks,” Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez told a parliamentary committee yesterday in
 Madrid .  Santander Risk  Default swaps on Madrid-based Santander, Spain’s biggest
bank, surged to 415 basis points as of yesterday from this
year’s low of 230 basis points on Feb. 7, according to data
provider CMA. Contracts on  Morgan Stanley (MS)  of New York climbed to
360 from the 2012 low of 247 on Feb. 8.  Investors are focusing on banks’ holdings of government
debt, with hedge-fund manager  John Paulson , who became a
billionaire in 2007 by betting against the U.S. subprime
mortgage market, said to be buying credit protection on European
sovereign bonds.  Paulson of New York-based firm Paulson & Co., which manages
about $24 billion, told investors on a call that he’s buying
swaps on European debt, said a person familiar with the matter,
who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman
for the firm, declined to comment on Paulson’s call.  Spain Concern  Spanish banks are of particular concern as their holdings
of the country’s debt and client withdrawals make them overly
dependent on European Central Bank financing, Paulson is said to
have told investors.  While investor confidence in the ECB’s two longer-term
refinancing operations that injected cash into Europe’s
financial system has faded, the loans have alleviated pressure
on bank funding in money markets.  The Libor-OIS spread, the difference between the London
interbank offered rate lending benchmark and overnight indexed
swaps and used as a measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to each
other, is approaching the lowest level in eight months. The
measure is 32 basis points from as high as 50 basis points on
Jan. 6. It was about 15 basis points a year ago.  Bellefleur estimates that Spanish banks are losing as much
as 10 billion euros ($13.1 billion) of deposits a month and that
the outflows are accelerating, with no prospect of reversing as
austerity causes the economy to shrink.  Moody’s is reassessing bank credit in light of “fragile
funding conditions” for lenders with global capital markets
businesses and the “deteriorating creditworthiness of euro-area
sovereigns.”  The New York-based firm said on April 13 it would postpone
completing its review until the end of June because it’s
“taking an appropriately deliberate approach.” Bank securities
have come under pressure because euro-region lenders are the
biggest holders of the countries’ debt.  “The short-term ratings are where the impact is going to
be the greatest,” Threadneedle’s Smillie said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  