-- Banque Saudi Fransi Sets Up $2 Billion Islamic Bond Program
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-04-18T07:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/banque-saudi-fransi-sets-up-2-billion-islamic-bond-program-1-.html
Banque Saudi Fransi, a Saudi
Arabian lender part-owned by  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , set up a $2
billion Islamic bond program as part of the Riyadh-based
lender’s plans to diversify its sources of financing.  “We are properly equipped to raise funding when and if
needed from the international market,” Chief Financial Officer
Philippe Touchard said in a phone interview from Riyadh today.
“The $2 billion program might be used during different phases
over the next five years.”  Islamic bond sales in Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil
exporter, rose to a record $6.55 billion so far this year as the
government’s spending plan encourages companies to raise funds
to invest. The state-run General Authority of Civil Aviation
sold 15 billion riyals ($4 billion) of Islamic bonds in January.
 Saudi Electricity Co. (SECO)  last month raised a combined $1.75 billion
from an issue of five- and 10-year sukuk, securities that pay
returns on assets to comply Islam’s ban on interest.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Agricole ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  were
appointed the lead arrangers of the program, Saudi Fransi said
in its  base prospectus posted  on the London Stock Exchange.
Saudi Fransi Capital, the investment banking unit of the bank,
is the domestic financial adviser and co-arranger for the
program in Saudi Arabia, Touchard said.  Banque Saudi Fransi last sold bonds in 2010 when it raised
$650 million from selling five-year debt. The yield on the 4.25
percent notes fell to 2.72 percent today from a high of 4.28
percent in March 2010, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR)  reported a 10 percent increase in
first-quarter profit to 789 million riyals, beating analysts’
estimates. The stock has advanced 15 percent this year compared
with a 17 percent gain for the benchmark Tadawul All Share Index
and 20 percent increase for the Tadawul All Share Bank Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  