-- BlackRock Shares Fall as Fink Says Investor Fears Remain
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-04-18T20:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/blackrock-shares-fall-as-fink-says-investor-fears-remain.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink,
who has been advising investors to put more money in stocks,
said clients are still overwhelmed by fear as global markets
remain “fragile” despite the first-quarter rally.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest asset manager, fell by the
most in four months as Fink said investors remain pessimistic
and customers removed money from active equity products while
turning to passive investments such as exchange-traded funds.
BlackRock’s share of fees from active stock funds, which last
year were the biggest contributor to investment advisory
revenue, fell below stock ETFs this year as investors migrated
to passive products.  “I would still say the fears of the investor still are
more overwhelming than the hope for a better future,” Fink,
chairman and chief executive officer of New York-based
BlackRock, said today during a conference call with investors
and analysts. “Despite the rally in global equities from its
lows, I would still qualify the market to be quite fragile.”  Fink’s message to savers to put money in equities as bond
yields have shrunk to record lows, has yet to resonate as
clients continued to put more money into active fixed-income
compared to stocks. BlackRock has started a new advertising
campaign aimed at making it better known and to help investors
allocate money amid market volatility. The firm is also seeking
to increase deposits into higher-fee actively managed products
as investors have continued their shift into passive products.  ‘Measured Tone’  Fink’s comments during the call indicated “a cautious
outlook on the market due to tepid retail and institutional
interest,” said Macrae Sykes, an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in
Rye,  New York . Fink, during today’s conference call, struck a
very “measured tone” with his belief that investors remain
pessimistic, said Luke Montgomery, a research analyst who covers
asset managers at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  BlackRock fell 2.9 percent, the most since Dec. 8, to
$196.01 in New York. The  shares  gained 2.9 percent in the 12
months through April 18, compared with the 8.3 percent decline
in the 20-member S&P index of asset managers and custody banks.  Investors pulled $48 billion from BlackRock in the quarter,
including a $36 billion previously-disclosed redemption from a
single client. BlackRock attracted $18.2 billion into its
iShares ETFs in the quarter, compared with deposits of $1.1
billion into active bond funds and redemptions of $4.5 billion
from stock funds.  ‘Solid’ Deposits  “Flows were solid, if a little bit volatile and mixed by
category,”  Jeffrey Hopson , a research analyst at Stifel,
Nicolaus & Co. in  St. Louis , said in an interview.  BlackRock’s net income rose 0.7 percent to $572 million, or
$3.14 a share. Rising markets and foreign-exchange swings lifted
assets to $3.68 trillion. The  MSCI ACWI Index (MXWD)  of global stocks
rose 11 percent in the first quarter and the U.S. benchmark
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 12 percent.  The firm’s assets rose about 1 percent to $3.68 trillion
from a year earlier and increased 4.9 percent compared with the
prior quarter. BlackRock’s investment advisory fees fell about
0.4 percent compared with a year earlier.  Investors put an estimated $73 billion into active funds
industrywide this year through March, while depositing $34
billion into passive funds, according to data compiled by
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago . U.S. exchange-traded products had
their best ever start to a year, attracting new assets of $55.6
billion in the first three months of 2011, according to data
compiled by BlackRock.  New World  BlackRock in February started a “new world” campaign to
tell clients how to invest in an uncertain market. Four-page
inserts appeared in publications including the Wall Street
Journal and the Financial Times as part of the branding
initiative. Fink and other BlackRock executives have spoken
publicly about how investors can be harmed by staying in cash-
like products and focusing on short-term investing.  The firm is also planning to start a bond-trading platform
that will allow investors to bypass investment banks. BlackRock
will match clients’ orders using its own system, rather than
relying on Wall Street firms or other electronic networks to
trade bonds. Fink said during the call that BlackRock isn’t
trying to become a broker-dealer and doesn’t expect the platform
to change the relations it has with sell-side firms.  BlackRock, which acquired  Barclays Global Investors  in
December 2009, offers actively managed stock and bond funds,
passive strategies,  hedge funds  and portfolios that use
mathematical models, giving it the broadest array of products
among money managers.  Fink, who co-founded BlackRock in 1988, has built the firm
through a series of acquisitions, including the 2006 purchase of
Merrill Lynch & Co.’s investment unit. BlackRock acquired the
hedge fund-of-funds business of Quellos Group LLC in 2008. The
company last year expanded the alternatives division, which
manages hedge funds, real estate funds and private-equity
strategies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  