-- BlackRock to Move Business From Banks If Moody’s Cuts
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-04-18T22:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/blackrock-to-move-business-from-banks-if-moody-s-cuts.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
asset manager, may be forced to reduce business with some banks
if their credit ratings are downgraded by Moody’s Investors
Service.  BlackRock is required to comply with clients’ portfolio
mandates, which can govern the  credit rating  a counterparty must
have for specific holdings, said Bobbie Collins, a spokeswoman
for the New York-based firm. Potential downgrades may prompt a
shift away from them, Collins said.  Moody’s Investors Service announced in February a review of
17 banks and securities firms with global capital markets
operations, including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , which could
have their ratings cut to the lowest level ever. Moody’s said
last week that it expects to take action in May or June.  Laurence D. Fink, chairman and chief executive officer of
BlackRock, told the New York Times that Moody’s move to
downgrade some banks was misplaced in part because banks had
established deeper capital cushions.  Fink didn’t say which banks BlackRock was concerned about,
according to the New York Times, which first reported that
BlackRock may reduce business with banks that are being
downgraded.  BlackRock said last week that it plans to start a bond-
trading system to match clients’ orders, rather than relying on
Wall Street firms or other electronic networks to trade bonds.  Cuts Possible  If Moody’s cuts each of the firms it placed on review by
the most levels cited in February, the separation between the
top and bottom tiers of the nine largest global investment banks
would widen.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG and
Credit Suisse Group AG would have a rating of A2, five levels
above junk.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Barclays Plc and UBS would
be one level below them at A3. Morgan Stanley,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  would be three grades below the top
group, making the spread between JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley the
biggest ever.  The full downgrades would result in a wider gap among banks
than under  Standard & Poor’s  and would bring most lenders to
lower ratings than S&P. That firm rates Deutsche Bank at A+, six
levels above junk, JPMorgan and the three other European banks
one grade lower at A and the rest of the U.S. banks at A-.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  