-- Blind Mice Given Vision Lead Wave of Regenerative Medicine Tools
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-04-18T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/blind-mice-given-vision-lead-wave-of-regenerative-medicine-tools.html
Mice got new vision and revived
heart muscles and monkeys were able to flex muscles in paralyzed
hands in research reported today that has extended the
boundaries of  regenerative medicine  beyond the test tube.  In one study, night-blind mice implanted with precursor eye
cells saw well enough afterwards to swim to a platform in dim
light underwater. In another, heart cells in mice that had
undergone heart attacks were converted to organ-pumping muscle.
In a third, monkeys with arms that were paralyzed with nerve
blocks were hooked to a computer that relayed signals from the
brain to their hands, enabling them to grasp and move balls.  The reports in the journal  Nature  feature techniques that
are part of research that may one day offer alternatives to
those with bodies damaged by trauma or gene mutations.  “Cells in a dish is one challenge and, five to 10 years
ago, that was exciting.” said  Robin Ali , an author of the blind
mice study, by telephone. “What’s interesting about these three
papers is that we’re really starting to move into regenerative
medicine. What these have in common is looking at repairing
systems in vivo,” or in the whole, living organisms.  In the study by Ali, a molecular genetics professor at
 University College London , the mice with night blindness
received precursors of  rod cells , which function in less-intense
light than other specialized cells called cones. Rods are almost
entirely responsible for night vision. The transplanted cells
formed synapses, improving night vision and enabling the animals
to determine where a platform was in a dim water maze.  Color Blindness Next  The study may be a first step toward being able to repair
all vision disorders, including color blindness, Ali said.  “Most causes of blindness are due to the loss of
photoreceptors,” Ali said. “What I have in mind is approaching
unrealistic -- I want to restore normal vision. But if we’re
aiming to provide useful function, that may be achievable.”  In a second study, structural  heart cells  called
fibroblasts were converted into cardiomyocytes, the cells that
make the heart beat. These cells can’t function when damaged in
heart failure and attacks, and until now, it was thought they
couldn’t be repaired.  By dosing the cells of mice that had suffered heart attacks
with three so-called transcription factors, researchers at the
Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease were able to
convert the structural cells into cardiomycytes and improve
heart function.  Transcription factors  are regulatory proteins
that bind to DNA in the body and help determine which genes are
turned on and off.  ‘Flipped the Switches’  “There are large pools of cells in the heart that aren’t
muscle cells, and even though they aren’t meant to be muscle
cells, if we flipped the switches, we thought we could convert
it,” said  Deepak Srivastava , director of the Gladstone
Institute, located at the University of  California ,  San
Francisco , by telephone.  His group is now testing the method in pigs to see if it
works in larger and more human-like animals.  Regenerative medicine uses biology, chemistry, engineering,
robotics, genetics, medicine and computing to work around
tissues and organs that fail. Previously, monkeys have
controlled robot arms, while embryonic  stem cells  have been used
in mice to form eye-like structures, new skin and cartilage.  Stem cells, though, are just one way of approaching the
problems of degenerating bodies, Srivastava said. The appeal of
the conversion factors is that changing existing cells is less
traumatic than trying to implant stem cells, lowering the risk
of cancer forming, he said.  ‘Reaching Maturity’  “The field is reaching some maturity, and we’re seeing how
this could be used down the road” in people, Srivastava said.
“We’ve been working very hard the last several years, working
things out in a dish. We’ve matured now to a point where we can
make improvements in a whole organism, a step toward people.”  The final study, by  Lee Miller , a professor of physiology
at Northwestern University’s Feinberg School of Medicine in
 Chicago , used two monkeys that had nerve blocks designed to
simulate paralysis like that in patients with spinal cord
injuries. Unlike a previous study, in which monkeys moved robot
arms using signals relayed by a computer, Miller’s technique
used an electrical device to stimulate the monkeys’ own arm
muscles.  Eventually, both monkeys used their paralyzed hands to pick
up and move balls, according to the report.  “In our lab, we’re beginning to work on the technology
necessary to move from one or two hours a day in the lab to
something that would work over 24 hours,” Miller said in a
telephone interview.  Future Questions  Questions remain about using the technology for real spinal
cord injuries in people, Miller said.  For instance, those who permanently stop getting signals
from the nerves in their legs or arms have shown corresponding
changes in their brains. In the future, researchers will study
whether use of techniques including stimulation devices will
restore the brain’s original patterns, Miller said.  The studies were funded by the Medical Research Council UK,
the Wellcome Trust, the  National Institutes of Health  in
Bethesda,  Maryland , and others. Srivastava was also supported by
a grant from the  Roddenberry Foundation , created by Star Trek
creator Gene Roddenberry’s son to “turn science fiction into
science fact,” according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 