-- BNY Mellon Profit Falls as Record-Low Rates Cut Returns
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-04-18T20:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bny-mellon-profit-falls-as-record-low-rates-cut-returns.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp ., the
world’s largest custody bank, said first-quarter earnings fell 1
percent as revenue lost from the sale of a unit and lower
foreign-exchange trading offset gains from rising assets.  Net income fell to $619 million, or 52 cents a share, from
$625 million or 50 cents, a year earlier, BNY Mellon said today
in a statement.  Analysts (BK)  had expected the New York-based company
to report a profit of 51 cents a share, according to the average
of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “The quality of the earnings was mediocre,”  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in Portland, Maine,
wrote in an e-mail, to explain the decline in the stock. Profits
were boosted by a lower than expected tax rate and gains on
security sales, Cassidy said.  BNY Mellon, which joins Boston’s State Street Corp. in
reporting lower profit, said revenue from foreign exchange
trading, the subject of lawsuits against the bank, declined 21
percent from a year earlier. Chief Executive Officer  Gerald Hassell , who in November outlined expense cuts designed to save
as much $700 million before taxes by 2015, said some savings are
already materializing as compensation and software expenses
fell.  “We are seeing the early results of our operational
excellence initiatives as we generated significant positive
operating leverage relative to the fourth quarter,” Hassell
said in the statement.  Record Assets  In August, the bank said it planned to cut 1,500 jobs, or 3
percent, of its workforce.  State Street (STT)  and Chicago-based
 Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  have taken similar steps.  BNY Mellon fell 3 percent, paring gains this year to 16
percent. That compares with a gain of 15 percent for the
Standard & Poor’s index of asset managers and custody banks.  BNY Mellon, which earns fees on assets it manages and
oversees for clients, was helped by a 12 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in the first quarter.  Assets under custody and administration rose 4 percent to a
record $26.6 trillion, and assets under management climbed 6
percent to $1.3 trillion, also an all-time high, the bank said.  Fees from investment services fell 3.6 percent as the
result of the fourth-quarter sale of the Shareholder Services
business to  Computershare Ltd. (CPU)  Investment management fees
dropped 2.4 percent because of higher money-market waivers, the
bank said in its statement.  State Street  Earnings per share climbed as the number of shares
outstanding declined.  State Street said yesterday that first-quarter profit on an
operating basis fell 6.6 percent to $410 million, or 84 cents a
share, as expenses rose faster than revenue. Northern Trust’s
net income rose 6.8 percent to $161.2 million, as rising assets
helped offset higher expenses.  Custody banks have been hurt by the  Federal Reserve ’s
decision to keep rates exceptionally low through at least late
2014. Low rates forced BNY Mellon to waive fees on  money market
funds , accept declining yields on its portfolio and endure a
drop-off in securities-lending revenues because returns have
shrunk on the cash collateral the bank gets to invest.  BNY Mellon’s net interest revenue rose 9.6 percent to $765
million on higher average client deposits.  BNY Mellon will face a  jury trial  in a lawsuit brought by
Virginia which claims that the bank defrauded state pension
funds in foreign currency trades.  Attorneys general  in Ohio,  New
York  and Florida as well as U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan have sued over the same issue. Massachusetts filed an
administrative action against the banks.  Forex Lawsuits  BNY Mellon said the drop in foreign-exchange revenue to
$136 million in the first quarter was due to lower volumes and
decreased volatility.  All the cases center on the pricing of small foreign-
exchange transactions handled automatically on behalf of the
pension funds, a service known as standing instruction. State
Street is being sued in similar cases in Arkansas and
California. Northern Trust has not been accused of wrongdoing in
foreign exchange transactions.  The states say BNY Mellon misled and overcharged them on
standing instruction trades. The bank said it acted properly and
that it offered clients competitive foreign-exchange services.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors.  BNY Mellon  also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  