-- Bo Xilai Son Is at Harvard, U.S. Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-19T09:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bo-xilai-son-not-in-custody-remains-at-harvard-u-s-says-1-.html
Bo Guagua, the son of ousted
Chongqing Communist Party Secretary  Bo Xilai , isn’t in custody,
the U.S. State Department said after speculation he might
request asylum from China.  “As far as we know, there’s nothing to those reports; he
remains at school at Harvard,” Mark Toner, a State Department
spokesman, told reporters in  Washington . The Wall Street Journal
reported April 16 that Bo Guagua, 24, had left his apartment in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , escorted by private security guards.
Bo’s mother, Gu Kailai, is under suspicion by Chinese
authorities of murdering U.K. citizen Neil Heywood.  Focus escalated this week on people linked to Bo Xilai, who
had been seen as a candidate for China’s top policy making body
in the selection of the nation’s next generation of leaders
later this year.  China  has detained dozens of people connected
to the former party boss of one of the nation’s largest cities,
according to the U.K.’s Telegraph newspaper.  While the Communist Party has sought to portray the effort
as a narrow legal investigation, a broader engagement on
economic and social policies is under way, according to Li Daokui, director of the Center for China in the World Economy at
 Tsinghua University  in Beijing.  Policy Direction  “There have been concerns that he was promoting a Cultural
Revolution-style approach to our social tensions,” Li, a former
adviser to China’s central bank, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday. “This is mostly about the future direction
of China’s reform.”  Bo Xilai had championed the state’s role in finance and
industry, creating large conglomerates by merging more than a
dozen smaller state companies. Bo also reintroduced songs and
slogans from the era of Chairman  Mao Zedong  to re-instill a
socialist spirit.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in a press conference last month
that without political change China risked a return to the
1966-1976 Cultural Revolution. During that time, mobs of Red
Guards worshiping Chairman Mao Zedong persecuted millions,
including party cadres.  Authorities are now investigating public spending under Bo
in Chongqing, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people
familiar with the matter. The Communist Party installed
Politburo member  Zhang Dejiang  in Bo’s place last month.  Chongqing Overhaul  The new leadership of Chongqing, a southwestern city that’s
expanded faster than the national economy’s average in recent
years, has started an overhaul of government investment
projects, the Journal cited an unnamed local official as saying.  “After the political succession it’s likely for China to
see a new wave of economic reforms, a new wave of enthusiasm for
market-oriented reforms,”  Li Daokui  said, referring to the
Communist Party’s leadership change later this year. Bo had been
predicted as a candidate for the Communist Party’s nine-member
Politburo Standing Committee.  Two commentaries in today’s English-language Global Times
said the Bo case should not be seen as a political struggle
within China’s top leadership. One of the commentaries said
“some in the west” had overestimated Bo’s influence and that
the only way for officials to realize their ambition is to
promote the Communist Party line.  In another commentary yesterday, China’s official Xinhua
News Agency said the nation’s development “will not be
hindered” by the case against Gu Kailai, the investigation of
Bo for discipline violations and the Wang Lijun incident.  Wang Lijun, Bo’s former police chief, who spent the night
of Feb. 6 at the U.S. Consulate in Chengdu, had concluded Gu
Kailai poisoned Heywood, a Briton who had business links with
the Bo family, the Telegraph newspaper reported this month.  Toner, the State Department spokesman, declined to comment
on whether Wang had requested asylum. U.S. authorities never
publicly announce asylum requests, even if granted, according to
Chris Bentley, a spokesman for the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services.  Gu Kailai, 53, is suffering from bone cancer and may have
only a year or two to live, the  Hong Kong ’s Standard newspaper
said, citing an unidentified person in Beijing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Rishaad Salamat in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Williams  at 
 mwilliams108@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  