-- BOE’s Tucker Says Inflation Rate May Slow Less Than Forecast
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-18T09:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/boe-s-tucker-says-inflation-rate-may-slow-less-than-forecast.html
Bank of  England  Deputy Governor
 Paul Tucker  said policy makers will keep inflation expectations
anchored to the central bank’s 2 percent goal as the pace of
price gains slows less than expected this year.  “Inflation might remain above 3 percent throughout the
second quarter of this year, and possibly into the second half
of the year,” Tucker said in a speech today in Liverpool,
northwest England. The rate of consumer-price gains remains
“uncomfortably above target,” he said.  Fellow policy maker  Adam Posen  ended his push for further
stimulus this month and  David Miles  described his call for more
as “finely balanced” as officials said inflation may turn out
faster than forecast, according to minutes of the  Monetary
Policy  Committee’s April meeting published today. Tucker said
the rate of price increases may be “a little higher” than
estimated as a jump in energy prices threatens to stoke an
inflation rate in its third year above target.  “Monetary policy will underpin the recovery so long as
that remains consistent with anchoring inflation expectations in
line with achieving the 2 percent target over the medium run,”
Tucker told the Association of Corporate Treasurers’ annual
conference. “We shall not let that slip.”  Posen joined the majority of the nine-member MPC in seeking
no change to the 325 billion-pound ($517 billion) asset-purchase
 target , minutes of their April 4-5 meeting showed. While
officials noted the U.K. may face a recession in the first half
of this year, they said inflation might pose more of a danger
than previously anticipated.  Inflation Forecasts  The bank’s forecasts in February showed inflation would
slow to about 3 percent by the end of the second quarter from a
peak of 5.2 percent in September and the rate would fall below
their goal by the end of the year. The MPC split that month as
seven policy makers voted to raise the bond plan by 50 billion
pounds, while Posen and Miles wanted a bigger increase. The two
were outvoted last month seeking a 25 billion-pound increase.  Policy makers  Martin Weale  and  Spencer Dale  have warned
that price gains may slow less quickly than expected. Inflation
accelerated for the first time in six months in March to 3.5
percent from 3.4 percent the previous month, data yesterday
showed.  “In the near term there is considerable uncertainty about
the path” that inflation will follow, Tucker said.  ‘Broadly on Track’  The deputy governor said that the outlook for U.K. growth
“still looks broadly on track” compared with projections
published in February by the central bank. “Surveys point to
growth in underlying activity over the first half of 2012 -- not
stellar growth, indeed modest growth, but growth nonetheless.”  Tucker said temporary factors such as a poor performance in
construction data at the start of the year and the queen’s
Diamond Jubilee in June may result in “weak headline” growth
numbers for the first two quarters of 2012.  “Extremely weak” construction output at the start of the
year may have left economic activity in the first quarter
“close to flat,” Tucker said.  “Company insolvencies have ticked up, and will likely
continue to do so for a while,” the deputy governor said.
“There is also a risk that households will spend less than
expected in order to rebuild their balance sheets.”  “With government needing to set fiscal policy in order to
repair the public finances, that means that the burden of
stimulating our economic recovery falls mainly to monetary
policy,” he said.  Data today showed U.K. jobless claims rose less than
economists forecast in March and a broader measure of
 unemployment  fell for the first time for almost a year, signs
that the labor market is stabilizing.  Jobless-benefit claims rose by 3,600 from February to 1.61
million, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
 London . The median forecast of 29 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a gain of 6,000. Unemployment as measured by
International Labour Organization methods fell to 8.3 percent in
the quarter through February from 8.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in Liverpool, England, at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  