-- BOJ Policy Stance Confuses Investors, Ex-Board Member Says
-- B y   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-04-18T04:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/boj-at-odds-with-itself-confuses-investors-ex-board-member-says.html
A former  Bank of Japan (8301)  board member
said that investors are confused because the central bank is
making decisions that seem at odds with the stance of its own
policy makers.  “The BOJ is probably implementing policies it doesn’t want
to,” said Atsushi Mizuno, 52, managing director of Credit
Suisse AG in  Tokyo  and a member of the policy board from 2004 to
2009. The central bank “announced measures that it doesn’t
necessarily think are effective” for ending deflation by
expanding asset sales and setting a 1 percent inflation goal, he
said in an interview on April 16.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist Naohiko Baba previously
said that those moves in February were “out of character” for
central bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, while JPMorgan Chase &
Co. described them as a “game changer” that marked a new
approach by the monetary authority. Political pressure for
expanding easing was highlighted by lawmakers this month
rejecting a government nominee for the BOJ’s board who some saw
as lacking enthusiasm for bolder measures.  Such pressure may have been a factor in February’s moves,
said Mizuno, who added that there is “no consistency” between
the BOJ’s stance and comments by Shirakawa. “The market is
confused by the BOJ’s communication,” he said.  ‘Not Well Communicated’  The central bank chief has warned of negative effects for
the world economy from loose monetary policies and said last
month that central banks must consider risks associated with low
rates, such as inefficient allocation of resources.  Deputy Governor  Kiyohiko Nishimura  said today that until
the February meeting “the bank’s policy stance was not well
communicated.” The BOJ introduced the inflation goal and
“decisively increased’” the asset-purchase program to make its
intentions clear, Nishimura said in a speech in Okayama.  The monetary authority is “committed to implementing
additional easing measures, if deemed necessary” and financial
markets increasingly understand the bank’s determination to
overcome inflation, the policy maker said.  BOJ policy makers unanimously agreed this month to hold off
from additional easing after adding 10 trillion yen ($122
billion) to the asset-purchase program in February. The central
bank’s key rate remains between zero and 0.1 percent. Mizuno
sees additional easing at an April 27 meeting.  Yen’s Gains  A narrowing yield spread on Japanese and U.S. notes means
easing may have a limited effect on the nation’s currency, which
traded at 81.34 per dollar as of 1:20 p.m. in Tokyo.  The extra yield investors demand to hold two-year
Treasuries instead of  Japan ’s debt was 15 basis points on April
13, the least since Feb. 15 and boosting the relative allure of
yen-based assets. The yield spread between Germany and Japan
inverted last week for the first time on record.  “Unless there’s a big surprise from the BOJ later this
month, any additional easing would have limited effect on the
yen,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign-exchange
department in Tokyo at  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)  “There’s almost no
room for Japan’s two-year yields to fall.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  