-- Bovespa Futures Fluctuate as Europe Outweighs China Optimism
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-04-18T12:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bovespa-futures-fluctuate-as-europe-outweighs-china-optimism.html
Bovespa-index futures fluctuated
between gains and losses as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening outweighed speculation policy makers may act to boost
growth in  China ,  Brazil ’s biggest trading partner.  Mining company Vale SA may move after it said first-quarter
iron-ore production dropped 2.2 percent. Airlines Tam SA and Gol
Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA may be active after the  Finance
Ministry  denied a report saying it may cut payroll taxes to
boost competitiveness in the industry, according to an e-mailed
statement.  Bovespa futures fell less than 0.1 percent to 62,760 at
9:41 a.m. in Sao Paulo after earlier rising as much as 0.1
percent. The real was little changed at 1.8614 per  U.S. dollar .  “The main risk for equities is still Europe, as a
worsening crisis over there increases  risk aversion  and makes
investors think twice before buying in riskier markets such as
Brazil,” Alexandre Ghirghi, who manages about 150 million reais
($80 million) at Metodo Investimentos, said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “In China, growth may be a bit slower than it used to
be, but it’s still robust. And the government has room to act in
case the slowdown is deeper than expected.”  European stocks fell after non-performing loans for Spanish
banks as a proportion of total lending jumped to 8.16 percent in
February, the highest level since 1994, from less than 1 percent
in 2007, according to Bank of Spain data. In China, investors
speculated policy makers will ease monetary policy after  home
prices  in the country fell in a record 37 of 70 cities tracked
by the government in March.  Relative Value  Brazil’s benchmark equity  measure  has gained 10 percent
this year, buoyed by local interest-rate cuts, signs of
expansion in the U.S. and speculation Europe may be closer to
resolving its debt crisis. The gauge trades at 10.4 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, in line with the 10.4 ratio for
MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, weekly
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Traders moved 6.64 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 7.11 billion reais this year through April 12,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  