-- BP, Plaintiff Lawyers Submit Proposed Spill Accord Terms
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k ,   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-04-18T21:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bp-plaintiffs-lawyers-submit-proposed-spill-accord-terms-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and lawyers suing the
company over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill submitted their
proposed settlement agreement to the judge overseeing the
litigation.  Lawyers for both sides filed the accord today with U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  for preliminary
approval. They asked Barbier to hold a Nov. 8 fairness hearing
before final approval of the accord and to postpone any trial on
liability until after the hearing. Barbier today set a hearing
April 25 to consider the request for preliminary approval.  “As in any settlement, neither side will receive
everything it wants,” the lawyers said in today’s filing. The
agreement “represents a resolution that is more than fair,
reasonable and adequate.”  BP in March agreed to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss, property
damage and injuries. The settlement, reached March 2, days
before a scheduled trial on liability for the 2010 spill,
doesn’t cover federal government claims and those of the Gulf
Coast states  Louisiana  and Mississippi.  Also excluded are claims of financial institutions,
casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of  Florida  and  Texas , and
residents and businesses claiming harm from the Obama
administration’s moratorium on deepwater drilling prompted by
the spill.  11 Workers Killed  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and caused the worst offshore  oil spill  in
U.S. history.  “The people and businesses of the Gulf Coast stand to reap
great benefits from these settlements,” plaintiffs’ attorneys
James P. Roy and Stephen Herman said today in a joint statement.
“We have held BP fully accountable for the Deepwater Horizon
tragedy less than two years after the spill.”  Attorneys for the plaintiffs will receive as much as
$600 million in fees and expenses, according to today’s filing.
The money “will be paid separately from any amounts paid to the
settlement class, and it does not reduce their payments or
benefits” under the agreement.  The plaintiffs’ and government claims against BP’s
contractors on the doomed Macondo well also remain, and no new
trial date has been set.  A trial would cover not only federal and state government
pollution claims, but also cross-claims between BP and its
partner companies in the Macondo site and rig. Barbier would
decide if those companies pick up some of the estimated
$26 billion in costs spawned by the disaster.  Hundreds of Suits  The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against London-
based BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner
and operator of the rig; and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,
which provided cementing services.  Beverly Stafford, a Halliburton spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail that the company is reviewing the agreement and had no
comment at this time. The company has set aside $300 million for
“loss contingencies related to Macondo,” Chief Financial
Officer Mark McCollum said in a conference call today.  “Although we continue to believe that we have substantial
legal arguments and defenses against any liability, and that BP
is required to indemnify us for any losses we may ultimately
incur, we’ve determined that we can no longer conclude that a
probable loss associated with the MDL is $0,” he said,
according to a transcript.  Jared Allen, a Transocean spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call and e-mail for comment.  Government Suits  The U.S. government also sued BP, Transocean and BP’s
partners in the well,  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007 and The
Woodlands, Texas-based  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , alleging
violations of federal pollution laws. Louisiana and  Alabama  sued
as well.  Alabama hasn’t decided whether to ask for an earlier trial
date than suggested by BP and the lead plaintiffs’ lawyers, said
Luther Strange, the state’s attorney general.  “We want a trial date as soon as possible,” Strange said
today in an interview. “We don’t think BP will enter into
serious settlement negotiations with us until they have a trial
date.”  The disaster sent more than 4 million barrels of oil
spewing into the Gulf of Mexico, according to the U.S., leaving
BP liable for fines as high as $17.6 billion.  The federal  Clean Water Act  lets the U.S. government seek
fines of as much as $1,100 for each barrel of oil spilled as a
result of simple negligence, often described as a failure to
exercise ordinary care. The maximum increases to $4,300 a barrel
for gross negligence, or a conscious act or omission.  Previous Settlements  BP has settled with MOEX; Anadarko; M-I Swaco, a unit of
Houston-based oil services company  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  that
employed two of the 11 workers killed in the explosion; and
 Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , which provided blowout-prevention
equipment.  Cameron, based in Houston, said Dec. 16 that it agreed to
pay BP $250 million in exchange for the oil company’s
indemnifying it from damage claims. The settlement doesn’t cover
fines, penalties or punitive damages.  Anadarko, which had a 25 percent share in the Macondo well,
agreed in October to pay $4 billion to BP to settle oil-spill
claims. MOEX, which had a 10 percent share, settled for
$1.07 billion in May. The settlements didn’t cover possible
fines.  MOEX has also settled with the U.S., agreeing to pay
$90 million to resolve Clean Water Act claims.  Victims’ Trust  The proposed settlement between BP and the Plaintiffs
Steering Committee, a group of lawyers appointed by Barbier to
handle the lawsuits, will be paid out of a $20 billion trust set
up to compensate spill victims. The trust fund has about $14
billion remaining. Victims’ lawyers said there isn’t a cap on
damages BP must pay.  BP has estimated the cost at $7.8 billion. All sides agree
the amount may increase depending on the number of claims paid.
The amount also may be lower than the estimate. If the trust is
exhausted, the company will pay additional funds directly,
lawyers for the plaintiffs said last month.  Under the agreement, BP has assigned to the plaintiffs the
company’s right to seek cleanup costs and the value of the lost
oil from Transocean and Halliburton, said Joe Rice, an attorney
with Motley Rice LLC in Mount Pleasant,  South Carolina . Barbier
earlier ruled that the drilling contract required BP to
indemnify the companies from compensatory damages owed to those
alleging economic and pollution-related harm from the spill.  Lost Oil  The costs include about $20 billion for cleanup and $5
billion for lost oil, said Rice, a negotiator for the PSC.
Participants in the settlement will be able to collect those
costs, on top of claims paid by BP, if Barbier determines that
Transocean and Halliburton are liable for the spill, he said.  “This settlement demonstrates BP’s continued progress in
resolving significant issues related to the Deepwater Horizon
incident,” Bob Dudley, BP’s chief executive officer, said in a
statement. The agreement offers “those affected full and fair
compensation, without waiting for the outcome of a lengthy trial
process.”  Under terms of the settlement, two groups of plaintiffs
will be eligible to receive payment for their claims. The first
will be those whose businesses or properties were damaged by the
spill, and the second will include those who suffered injuries
from spill exposure.  Claims Facility  BP’s  Gulf Coast Claims Facility , which was set up to
resolve spill claims more quickly than through litigation, was
shut down last month and has been administered by a transitional
administrator, Louisiana lawyer  Patrick A. Juneau . Juneau said
last week that the transition process had issued more than 5,000
payments from March 8 through April 6.  The PSC will take over that process and claims will
continue to be paid while the parties await the fairness hearing
and court approval of the settlement, Rice said.  The deal will allow victims who aren’t satisfied with it to
opt out and pursue lawsuits against BP. Plaintiffs not covered
in the overall settlement, such as those claiming harm from the
drilling moratorium that followed the spill, can continue to
pursue their claims, according to today’s filing.  BP will set up a separate process to handle claims for
those outside the classes, or groups, that are part of the
settlement, Rice said.  ‘Gone Under’  “Whole categories of claims aren’t covered by this deal,”
said attorney  Brent Coon , who represents about 11,000 claimants,
including about 1,000 small coastal business owners. Those
excluded include businesses located away from the coastline,
financial services firms and casinos.  “We’re not going to get approval of this class of claims
until the end of the year,” Coon said. “Twenty percent of my
business owners have already gone under. Am I going to lose
another 20 percent of these business owners if they have to wait
another year?”  The proposed settlement also cuts out some Florida
residents, Pam Bondi, the state’s attorney general, said in an
April 13 filing.  “It appears that the settlement will apply only to claims
from Florida businesses and residents located in the Panhandle
or along the west coast of Florida,” she said. BP and the Gulf
Coast Claims Facility have previously “paid claims from almost
every county in Florida.”  Lawyers with large numbers of spill-related clients “will
have a hard time recommending against the settlement,” Houston
attorney Tony Buzbee, who represents 15,000 claimants, said in a
telephone interview. This settlement may be followed by
agreements covering other categories of claims, he said.  First Step  “This is the first step in what will be multiple
settlements,” he said.  BP said last month the proposed settlement won’t increase
the $37.2 billion charge it previously recorded in its financial
statements for costs associated with the spill. That figure
includes $20 billion BP set aside for the claims trust fund,
from which the proposed settlement payout will be derived.  The proposed settlement includes $2.3 billion earmarked for
economic losses related to the seafood industry in the  Gulf of
Mexico , the company said.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delawre,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 