-- Brazil’s Real Erases 2012 Gains on Central Bank Intervention
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-04-18T21:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/brazil-s-real-erases-2012-gains-on-central-bank-intervention.html
Brazil ’s real tumbled, erasing its
gains for the year, after the central bank intervened to buy
dollars for a third straight day and European debt concerns
sapped demand for higher-yielding, emerging-market assets.  The real slid 0.9 percent to 1.8786 per  U.S. dollar  after
earlier touching 1.8839, the weakest level since Dec. 29. The
central bank purchased dollars in two separate auctions at
1.8703 reais and 1.8800 reais each.  The real was the worst performer among emerging-market
currencies today as the central bank’s dollar purchases spurred
speculation the government wants to keep it weaker than 1.8-per-
dollar to buoy exports and help boost economic growth to 4.5
percent this year from 2.7 percent in 2011. Traders are
anticipating policy makers will reduce the benchmark rate by 75
basis points to 9 percent at today’s policy meeting, further
reducing the attractiveness of Brazilian assets.  “It was a huge move today and it might not be over,”
Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a local markets strategist at RBS
Securities Inc., said by phone from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The
intervention activity over the last week strongly suggests that
the line is outright higher” than 1.80.  The real has lost 0.6 percent this year, the second-worst
performance among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg after
the Japanese yen. The currency has traded weaker than 1.80 since
mid-March, when the government expanded financial taxes to
discourage capital inflows and protect exporters.  Dollar’s Rally  “The principal factor in the dollar’s rally is the central
bank auctions and the second one is the expectation of rate
cuts,” Deives Ribeiro, head of  currency trading  at Fair
Corretora e Cambio and Valores, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .
“On top of the central bank’s pushing up the dollar, it’s
strengthening in the global markets.”  The real also declined amid concern about the sovereign
debt crisis in  Europe  and as disappointing earnings in the U.S.
damped investors’ appetite for higher-yielding assets, Ribeiro
said.  Dollar loan rates in Brazil soared to a two-month high
today as the central bank’s interventions and measures to curb
inflows reduced the supply of the U.S. currency in the country.  Contracts due in March, known as cupom cambial, a measure
of borrowing in dollars in Brazil, reached 1.95 percent, the
highest level since February 8.  Yields on most Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts
fell as investors speculated policy makers may keep cutting the
benchmark rate after today’s monetary policy decision.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2014 were
unchanged at 9.1 percent after earlier falling as much as six
basis points.  Rate Cuts  Policy makers have lowered the benchmark by 275 basis
points since August to 9.75 percent. In the minutes of its March
6-7 meeting, the central bank said there’s “high probability”
that the rate will fall to just above its record low 8.75
percent and stay there.  “A 75-basis-point cut today is practically a given,”
Italo Lombardi,  Latin America  economist at Standard Chartered
Bank, said in a telephone interview from  New York . “If there’s
deterioration in the situation in Europe, the central bank may
re-evaluate the scenario.”  Speculation that central bank President Alexandre Tombini
may extend rate cuts grew after Latin America’s biggest economy
contracted for a second straight month in February and inflation
slowed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  