-- Brazil Promoting Rooftop Solar Market With New Policies
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-04-19T10:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/brazil-rules-let-consumers-trade-renewable-power-to-utilities.html
Brazil , where solar installations
last year were less than 1 percent of those in world leader
Germany, is developing policies that may boost rooftop panel
sales to $3 billion within 20 years.  Homeowners and businesses in Brazil may now trade
electricity generated during the day by rooftop solar systems to
utilities in exchange for the power they consume at night, under
rules  announced  April 17 by the Brasilia-based power regulator
Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica.  The practice, known as net metering, is widely used in
other countries and will make solar energy more practical for
consumers, driving up demand, said Luis Otavio Colaferro,
managing partner of the Ribeirao Preto, Brazil-based panel
distributor  Blue Sol Ltda.   “This market will expand,” he said in an interview
yesterday. “Previously, houses could install panels but only
consume power at the time of generation.”  Blue Sol expects panel sales to increase 50 percent
annually as homeowners seek to cut their power bills.
Electricity  prices  in Brazil are double the rates in some U.S.
markets and increasing by about 10 percent a year, Colaferro
said.  $3 Billion Market  Brazil may install as many as 300,000 rooftop photovoltaic
devices worth $3 billion by 2030, Nelson Fonseca Leite,
president of the Brasilia-based trade group Associacao
Brasileira de Distribuidores de Energia Eletrica, said in an
interview.  Under the net metering rules, power generated by renewable
sources -- solar, wind, biomass and hydroelectric systems --will
earn credits that utilities are required to accept in exchange
for electricity consumed from the grid.  The country installed panels with 4 megawatts of capacity
last year, mostly in rural areas, compared to about 7,500
megawatts in  Germany , the world’s largest solar market last
year, Guilherme Araujo, chief executive officer of Sao Paulo-
based developer Empresa Brasileira de Energia Solar, said in a
telephone interview.  “We’ve got big expectations for the short-term,” he said.
“Net metering is an excellent incentive.”  Sunshine in Germany may generate as much as 1,050 kilowatt-
hours of electricity annually for every kilowatt of installed
capacity, Jenny Chase, an analyst with Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in Zurich, said in an e-mail. Sunlight that falls on
some parts of Brazil, which straddles the equator, may generate
more than 1,400 kilowatt-hours from each kilowatt of capacity
annually, she said.  New Projects  The new rules issued by ANEEL also offer incentives for
larger solar plants. Projects with capacity of as much as 30
megawatts will qualify for an 80 percent discount on fees for
using power distribution and transmission systems.  Companies including state-controlled Eletrosul Centrais
Eletricas SA and  Tractebel Energia SA (TBLE3)  proposed last year 18
photovoltaic  projects  with total capacity of 24.6 megawatts,
according to power regulator ANEEL.  Most of those will start construction by the end of 2013,
Leonidas Andrade, director of photovoltaics at the Brazil trade
group Associacao Brasileira da Industria Eletrica e Eletronica,
said in a telephone interview.  “This year will be a historic moment for solar energy,”
Andrade said.  Brazil has one large-scale photovoltaic project in
operation, a 1 megawatt plant in Taua that’s owned by Rio de
Janeiro-based  MPX Energia SA. (MPXE3)   New Factories  Solar companies are planning to begin or expand production
in Brazil.  Braxenergy Desenvolvimento de Projetos de Energia Ltda., a
Brazilian renewable-energy developer, may build a $50 million
factory to produce solar cells, Chief Executive Officer Helcio
Camarinha said April 3 in a telephone interview.  Tecnometal Equipamentos Ltda., Brazil’s only photovoltaic
panel maker, plans to invest more than $127 million to build a
factory that purifies silicon and another facility to process
the material into solar cells, Business Manager Carlos
Evangelista said at a solar conference in Campinas, Brazil, last
month.  A 12 percent tax on imported panels and domestic taxes
increase the price of solar panels in Brazil to about 10 reais
($5.32) a watt of capacity, about double the price in  Europe ,
said Colaferro of Blue Sol, which buys all its equipment abroad.  Installed costs for solar panels in Germany fell 23 percent
to 1.97 euros ($2.58) a watt in the first quarter of 2012 from a
year earlier, according to Germany’s solar trade group
 Bundesverband Solarwirtschaft .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  