-- Bristol-Myers Expands Hepatitis C Accord With J&J, Medivir
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-04-18T12:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bristol-myers-expands-hepatitis-c-accord-with-j-j-medivir-2-.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  agreed to
conduct two trials of experimental hepatitis C treatments in
collaboration with  Medivir AB (MVIRB)  and  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)  Medivir
shares rose as much as 5.7 percent in Stockholm.  The companies will conduct a late-stage trial of Bristol-
Myers’ daclatasvir and J&J and Medivir’s TMC435, depending on
the outcome of a mid-stage study, Stockholm-based Medivir said
today in a statement. A drug interaction study of TMC435 with
Bristol-Myers’ BMS-986094 will also be conducted, they said.
That expands a collaboration between J&J and Bristol-Myers
announced Dec. 2, Medivir said.  The Bristol-Myers drug in the second study entered the
company’s pipeline with the acquisition of Inhibitex Inc. for
$2.5 billion in February. TMC435 is a protease inhibitor, which
blocks the action of the protease enzyme the hepatitis virus
needs to replicate, directly stopping it from spreading.
BMS-986094 is a nucleotide polymerase inhibitor, which works
differently to block the virus’ ability to replicate in the
body.  “We see the expanded clinical collaboration as a strong
validation of TMC435, especially as we know of no other
competing protease inhibitors running interferon-free
combination trials with other direct-acting antivirals
externally,” which include polymerase inhibitors, said Hans Jeppsson, an analyst at Danske Bank, in a note to investors
today.  Medivir shares rose 4.6 percent to 73.25 kronor at 2:17
p.m. in  Stockholm , giving the company a market value of 2.29
billion kronor ($339 million).  Drug Combinations  Other nucleotide polymerase inhibitors include Gilead
Sciences Inc.’s 7977 compound, which was gained through the
company’s acquisition of experimental hepatitis C-treatment
maker Pharmasset Inc. for $10.8 billion in November. Bristol-
Myers, based in  New York , and Medivir are also testing their
experimental treatments in combination with Gilead’s 7977.  Drugmakers are exploring cocktails of hepatitis C
treatments that exclude interferon, a component of the current
standard of care, because of the injectable therapy’s side
effects.  Hepatitis C affects as many as 170 million people globally,
putting them at risk of developing  liver cancer , according to
the  World Health Organization . The disease is most commonly
transmitted through contaminated blood transfusions, organ
transplants, contaminated syringes and needle-injected drug use,
according to the WHO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  