-- Bumbling Pulitzer Board Fails to Award Fiction Prize
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bumbling-pulitzer-board-fails-to-award-fiction-prize.html
The  Pulitzer Prize  Board had three
fiction finalists to choose from, and they couldn’t manage to
pick a winner.  Maybe they should have been locked in a room without food
and drink until they finally settled on Karen Russell’s
“Swamplandia!” -- a first novel about an odyssey through the
Everglades.  The heroine is Ava Bigtree, who has grown up wise beyond
her 13 years in her family’s alligator theme park. Agile and
inventive, the book is also incredibly funny, and a clear winner
over “Train Dreams” by Denis Johnson and “The Pale King” by
David Foster Wallace.  It’s a total dereliction of duty for the board not to
anoint a winner.  Some will blame the two-part process. For each Pulitzer
category, a jury winnows the submissions to arrive at three
finalists. It forwards those to the board, which chooses the
ultimate winner.  None of the three fiction finalists captured a majority of
votes.  Why didn’t the board members keep voting? Were they too
self-absorbed to think of the message they were sending to the
world -- that no novel was worth a Pulitzer? They could have
shipped the three books back to the jury to choose -- or asked
them to come up with a few more books.  Here are five more works of fiction worthy of the prize.  “ Open City ” by Teju Cole is a subtle, intriguing first
novel about a Nigerian psychiatrist who is doing a fellowship at
Columbia Presbyterian in  New York . He spends his free time
strolling the city streets, talking to people he meets, thinking
about books, movies and art.  “The Marriage Plot” by Jeffrey Eugenides is a comic,
rueful dissection of a young  love triangle  and the hard lessons
of that “last period of total freedom” -- the college years.
Madeleine is an English major at Brown in the early 1980s,
pondering semiotics and  Jane Austen . Leonard and Mitchell are
the two men who love her. The book follows them from  Rhode
Island  to Cape Cod,  India  and  New Jersey  as they create their
adult selves.  “The Art of Fielding” by Chad Harbach is another stellar
first novel, this one about a gifted shortstop at a small
Wisconsin college whose career goes awry after he beans a
teammate in the dugout with a wild throw. There’s enough
baseball to satisfy fans, and the academic setting lets Harbach
have fun with students and faculty.  “State of Wonder” by Ann Patchett sends an American drug
researcher into a modern heart of darkness in the Amazon jungle.
Like her best-selling “Bel Canto,” Patchett’s latest is a rare
combination of literary and popular, full of big ideas yet
smoothly written and packed with intrigue and suspense.  “ Binocular Vision ” by Edith Pearlman won this year’s
National Book Critics Circle award (for which I actually was a
judge) and was a finalist for the National Book Award. The 75-
year-old author has been quietly publishing short-story
collections with small presses since 1996. Imagine the hoopla if
she had won the Pulitzer as well.  (Laurie Muchnick is the book editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include a  review  of  HBO ’s “Veep.’  To contact the writer of this review:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 