-- Bunge Seeks CO2 Credits for California, China After Drop
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-04-18T17:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bunge-seeks-co2-credits-for-california-china-after-price-drop.html
Bunge Ltd. (BG)  is seeking to buy carbon
credits for new markets from  California  to China after prices
plunged to a record and it bought London-based Climate Change
Capital Ltd.  “We don’t think environmental markets are going away,”
Alfred Evans, chief executive officer of Climate Change Capital,
said on April 16 in a phone interview from Geneva. Bunge, the
food and agriculture company, is betting there will still be
markets for credits in some North American states and  Australia ,
even in the absence of a global market, Evans said.  Bunge, based in White Plains,  New York , bought Climate
Change Capital for an undisclosed sum in an accord that closed
April 16 and now owns the world’s largest private carbon fund.
The climate-protection business has committed more than 850
million euros ($1.1 billion) since 2005 to emissions-cutting
projects in developing nations, according to its  website .  Investors, including Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP and
 Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s biggest household energy supplier, are
receiving the credits, whose price fell to a record 3.27 euros a
metric ton on April 4. The money invested was raised in 2006,
when the price for Certified Emission Reductions from projects
was about $10.50 a ton of carbon-dioxide equivalent, according
to the  World Bank .  Climate Change Capital’s supplies of credits from China
complements Bunge’s projects in India and  South America , Evans
said. Carbon prices may be near their bottom, making it a good
time to buy, the executive said.  Expected Credits  Bunge had expected credits for about 12 million tons of
carbon-dioxide equivalent by the end of this year and 34 million
by 2020, according to UN project data compiled by Bloomberg.
Together with Climate Change Capital, the group now expects
about 59 million tons by the end of this year and 170 million by
2020, the data show.  United Nations  CERs for December, the current benchmark,
were unchanged at 4 euros a ton today on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  at 4:57 p.m.  The price of CERs fell 68 percent in the past year because
the European Union carbon market is oversupplied through this
year and beyond, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
Factories and power stations in that market, the world’s largest
by traded volume, can use CERs from United Nations’ Clean
Development Mechanism, or CDM, to cut the cost of compliance.  ‘Continued Belief’  “Bunge’s purchase of Climate Change Capital shows
continued belief in long-term value creation within the CDM
primary markets,” said Mark Owen-Lloyd, head of carbon trading
at CF Partners (U.K.) LLP in London. Price volatility has
underlined the need for sound risk management in the industry,
Owen-Lloyd said.  Camco International Ltd. (CAO) , another London carbon
developer, plunged to a record low on April 5.  Some comments about the market’s gloomy outlook are
“misplaced,” Evans said. “We are definitely somewhere near
the trough.”  Certain emission-reduction offsets, such as projects to cut
 greenhouse gases  at landfill sites in Mexico, may be re-badged
for new carbon markets as they proliferate, including California
and  Japan , as well as voluntary programs across the globe, Evans
said. “California has been in our thinking,” he said.  That state, the world’s eighth-largest economy, has delayed
compliance under its proposed cap-and-trade program by a year to
2013. Factories and power stations in the market will be able to
use offset credits for compliance, once they are converted to
California Air Resources Board-approved instruments, according
to the program’s rules.  China Pilots  China , which is piloting  emissions trading  in seven
programs, may retain its credits for its own use instead of
exporting them, Evans said. China is presently the biggest
supplier in the Clean Development Mechanism, the largest offset
market.  UN climate negotiators have so far failed to extend or
replace the 1997  Kyoto Protocol , whose targets for most
developed nations run through this year. The CDM was formed
under rules of that protocol.  Investors in carbon funds managed by Climate Change Capital
are not seeking to exit after the price plunge, Evans said. That
hasn’t been the subject of communications with them, he said.
Whether some assets come up for sale depends what’s in the
interests of those investors, Evans said.  Climate Change Capital does not publish the performance of
its funds. Data on UN websites show projects it invested in have
produced hundreds of millions of euros of credits.  China Factory  An installation at the  Zhejiang Juhua Co. (600160)  chemical factory
in China, for instance, has produced 30.7 million tons of
credits since 2006. They would be worth 376.7 million euros at
12.26 euros a ton, the average price of 2012 CERs since they
were first offered on ICE in March 2008. The contract rose as
high as 26.65 euros a ton in July 2008.  China has set a floor price for sales at about 8 euros a
ton,  Gareth Phillips , chairman of the Project Developer Forum
lobby group in London, said April 3. That’s double current
prices so some investors that committed to buy at that level may
have loss-making contracts.  The type of CER supplied by Zhejiang Juhua will be banned
from the EU starting May next year. The EU is faced with an
oversupply that prompted the bloc’s lawmakers to consider
tightening the market further. Climate Change Capital’s funds
invested alongside banks including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , according to a  statement .  Bunge may seek to renegotiate purchase contracts with
suppliers that are unprofitable, where there’s flexibility in
the agreements to allow that, Evans said.  Otherwise, the group will abide by the terms, he said. “We
will stand by all contracts,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  