-- Bus Regulator Must Do More to Stop Rogues, Watchdog Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-04-18T14:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bus-regulator-must-do-more-to-stop-rogues-watchdog-says.html
The U.S. intercity-bus regulator
must do a better job identifying unsafe operators and prevent
them from reincarnating under different names after being shut
down, a government watchdog said.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, the
regulators of long-distance buses and commercial trucks, needs
to improve screening of applicants to run bus companies to keep
“reincarnated” carriers out of the market, Transportation
Department Inspector General Calvin Scovel said in a  report 
released today.  Scovel’s agency conducted its review after the  National
Transportation Safety Board  recommended that the bus regulator
beef up its enforcement of motorcoach buses, following fatal
crashes by companies that had been flagged for safety defects.
The agency has promised to improve.  “FMCSA must follow through on the actions it has proposed
and continue seeking an acceptable approach to addressing the
safety oversight gap NTSB identified,” Scovel said in the
report.  The safety board, which has no regulatory authority, called
for bus-safety oversight improvements after a 2008 bus crash
near Victoria,  Texas , that killed one passenger and injured 47
others.  I-95 Crash  In March 2011, 15 people died when a bus run by World Wide
Travel of Greater New York headed to  Manhattan ’s Chinatown from
a Connecticut casino overturned on Interstate 95. Two months
later, a bus operated by Sky Express Inc. crashed outside
Richmond,  Virginia , killing four passengers, while the company
was in a 10-day reprieve from a shutdown order from the FMCSA.  Both of those crashes occurred during the inspector
general’s review, which was from December 2010 until February.  Until a rule the FMCSA proposed last year is finalized, the
report found bus companies such as the one in the Victoria crash
“may be able to circumvent FMCSA oversight by establishing a
lease agreement with another carrier and conducting business
using the other carrier’s operating authority.”  The regulator is seeking more authority from Congress by
more clearly defining “whether a new carrier is a reincarnation
of an old, unsafe carrier,” FMCSA Administrator Anne Ferro said
in the agency’s response to the report.  “The FMCSA continues to make improvements to passenger
carrier safety,” she wrote. “Working with Congress, the bus
industry, oversight organizations and an empowered and informed
American public, we are using all available avenues to make
passenger carrier travel as safe as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  