-- Bush Tax Cut Armageddon Could Yield Better Tax Code
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-04-18T23:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/bush-tax-cut-armageddon-could-yield-better-tax-code.html
How much does the federal
government actually spend? About $830 billion more than you
think.  That’s the conclusion of a recent  study  by  Donald Marron 
and Eric Toder. They analyzed so-called tax expenditures -- the
deductions, breaks and loopholes that clog the  tax code  -- and
sorted them into two groups: “spending substitutes” and “tax
policy design.”  The tax policy expenditures “represent broad choices in
tax policy design but are not associated with any clear spending
objective.” Marron and Toder cite the treatment of qualified
retirement saving plans, which, for good or ill, nudges the tax
code toward taxing consumption rather than savings.  Other expenditures, however, are simply government spending
programs by another name. The mortgage-interest deduction, for
instance, is a spending substitute: it seeks to “subsidize
identifiable activities” -- homeownership in this case -- and
could easily be designed as a spending program in which the
government sends homeowners an annual check. Bloomberg View
columnists  Justin Wolfers  and Betsey Stevenson have proposed
that we “replace all tax expenditures with explicit subsidies -
-that is, with actual federal payments -- so we can really see
the costs and debate all spending programs on an equal
footing.” For spending-like expenditures, at least, that’s a
pretty good plan.  Marron and Toder counted about $600 billion of such
expenditures in the 2010 tax code. Add in $230 billion in “user
fees” that are counted as “negative spending” but are more
like  tax revenue , and you reach the $830 billion total --
“almost 30 percent more than officially reported.”  Some in Washington see this number and their eyes light up:
It’s tax reform time! Democrats can get more  revenue .
Republicans can cut effective federal  spending . Taxpayers can
get a simpler code. And the economy can get a boost from a tax
regime that does less to distort the workings of the free
market.  They’ve even got a model: That’s how the  1986 tax reform 
worked. We cleared out much of the code’s underbrush and used
the savings to lower rates. Now, the undergrowth of expenditure
is larger even than it was in 1986. In addition, there are the
Bush tax cuts, which are set to expire at the end of this year.
There has never been a better time, they argue, for  tax reform .  Urgency for Reform  Ah, but there’s the rub: Although the looming expiration of
the Bush tax cuts adds urgency to reform, they also stand in its
way.  Because the ultimate purpose of the tax system is to fund
the government, reform proposals generally target a certain
revenue level. Usually, it’s the same level as the current code,
or even a bit less. Veterans of past efforts generally advise
against using tax reform as a vehicle for  deficit reduction .
Most say that for reform to succeed, it must be “revenue
neutral.”  But the Bush tax cuts have created a “baseline” problem.
The two parties can’t agree on a plan because they can’t agree
on a common equation for how much revenue counts as “revenue
neutral.”  Republicans work from a baseline that includes a full
extension of the Bush tax cuts. The Democrats’ baseline assumes
the expiration of the tax cuts for families earning more than
$250,000. The  Congressional Budget Office  uses yet another
baseline, one that assumes that all of the Bush tax cuts will
expire, because that’s what current law says will happen at the
end of 2012. The difference in revenue between the Republican
and the current-law scenario exceeds $4 trillion over 10 years.  Polarizing Question  So before we can even discuss what a new tax code should
look like, we somehow need to resolve the most polarizing
question in American politics: Should taxes be higher or lower?  It’s extremely unlikely that the two parties will come to
an agreement on their own. Luckily, they don’t have to. If they
simply continue to disagree, at the end of this year the Bush
tax cuts will expire, and two of the competing baselines will
fade away, leaving only the CBO’s standing.  Some Republican staff members say, though they oppose this
outcome, it would actually make tax reform easier by enabling
both parties to sell reform as a huge tax cut that reverses the
expiration of most of the Bush tax cuts.  Here’s why: Using the Republican baseline that assumes all
of the Bush tax cuts are extended, President  Barack Obama ’s plan
amounts to a $1.5 trillion tax increase. But using a baseline in
which all of the Bush tax cuts have expired, a tax reform plan
that hits the same revenue target as Obama’s amounts to a $2.5
trillion tax cut. Neat, huh?  That’s not just a PR point: Tax reform would, in that
scenario, actually be a huge tax cut because, after expiration,
taxes really would have reverted to a much higher level. Reality
is always more compelling than baselines. The two parties would
still have to settle on a final revenue number, but at least
they could agree on one that would cut taxes on almost all
Americans.  Which highlights another reason that letting the Bush tax
cuts expire might lead to tax reform: Their sudden withdrawal
would be so calamitous to the economy, and so embarrassing to
 Washington , that the crisis could force the two parties to fast
track a reform plan, saving most taxpayers from feeling the bite
of Washington’s failure.  It’s sad to think that the only way to save the tax code
might be to let it collapse at the end of the year. But that
doesn’t mean it isn’t true.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  fixing U.S.-Pakistan
relations  and creating a  bureau to study climate change ; Ezra
Klein on post-election  tax reform ;  Caroline Baum  on the myopia
of  short-term economic statistics ; A. Gary Shilling on his
readers’ questions about  his economic forecast ; the Squam Lake
Group on  money market reforms ; Fredrik Erixon on  Europe’s coming
welfare cuts .  To contact the writer on this article:
 Ezra Klein  in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 