-- California Bill May Put Utilities on Verge of Green Goal
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-04-18T04:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/california-bill-may-put-utilities-on-verge-of-green-goal.html
California’s three investor-owned
utilities would immediately be on the verge of meeting a state
requirement to expand use of renewable energy if lawmakers
approve a bill crediting them for large hydroelectric sources.  PG&E Corp.’s  Pacific Gas & Electric (PCG) ,  Edison International (EIX) ’s
Southern California Edison unit and  Sempra Energy (SRE) ’s San Diego
Gas & Electric must get 33 percent of their power from wind,
solar and other so-called green sources by 2020 under state law.
The bill would permit them to count hydropower plants over 30
megawatts, which are now excluded.  The utilities collectively drew 17 percent of their power
from renewable sources in 2010, according to a legislative
 analysis  of the bill, which passed its first hurdle in an 8-1
Assembly committee vote April 16. Adding the output of large
hydroelectric projects would boost the total to 32.6 percent
immediately, just short of the target.  “Because of the high cost of eligible renewable energy,
the 33 percent renewable portfolio standard will result in
skyrocketing utility rates,” Assemblyman David Valadao, the
Hanford Republican who sponsored the bill, said yesterday in a
statement. “This bill allows utilities to meet that threshold,
which is a good thing for ratepayers throughout the state.”  The biggest U.S. state by population, which  consumed  8.5
percent of the nation’s energy in 2009,  generated  13.2 percent
of domestic hydroelectric power, second only to Washington
State, according to U.S. Energy Information Administration data.  Canadian Power  Assemblywoman Nancy Skinner, a Berkeley Democrat, cast the
lone “no” vote in the Committee on Utilities and Commerce.
Skinner, in a telephone interview yesterday, said the bill would
encourage  California  utilities to buy power from out-of-state
generators, chiefly  Vancouver , Canada-based British Columbia
Hydro & Power Authority, rather than develop renewable-resource
generation in California.  “We don’t need to give an incentive to any of our
utilities to purchase hydro,” she said. “There’s nothing
restricting PG&E or any utility from entering into hydro
contracts.”  California sued a subsidiary of BC Hydro, Powerex Corp., in
2005, accusing the company of inflating power costs to the state
during a 2001 energy crisis. Greg Alexis, a BC Hydro spokesman,
didn’t respond to a telephone call requesting comment.  Backers of the measure include the California Chamber of
Commerce and the Association of California Water Agencies,
according to the bill  analysis , while opponents include the
 Sierra Club  and other environmental groups.  Neutral on Bill  The utilities weren’t listed as proponents, and spokesmen
for the companies said they were neutral on the bill. Neither
Lynsey Paulo, a PG&E spokeswoman, nor Lauren Bartlett, a
spokeswoman for Southern California Edison and Art Larson, a
spokesman for San Diego Gas, could say whether passage would put
their companies in compliance with the 33 percent standard.  The bill undermines the intent of the law championed by
Governor  Jerry Brown  last year, said Jim Metropulos, a Sierra
Club legislative advocate, in a telephone interview yesterday.  “We’re concerned about exporting the impact to British
Columbia,” Metropulos said.  Valadao received campaign contributions of $14,800, or 1.4
percent of his total, from electric utilities in his 2010 run
for office, according to  data  compiled by the National Institute
for Money in State Politics.  Valadao’s chief of staff, Tal Eslick, said campaign
contributions played no role in the assemblyman’s advocacy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  