-- California Deficit May Widen by $1 Billion or More, Brown Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/california-deficit-may-widen-by-1-billion-or-more-brown-says.html
California’s $9.2 billion budget
deficit may widen by $1 billion or more because lawmakers
resisted early spending cuts and lawsuits blocked other
reductions, Governor  Jerry Brown  said.  Democrats who control the Legislature have balked at about
$1 billion of reductions to social services and higher education
that Brown proposed in January. He had wanted some of the
spending cuts made by last month. Lawmakers have said they want
to wait until revenue estimates are revised in May.  California, the most-indebted state, has fought deficits
every year since 2007 as tax collections suffered from the
longest recession since the 1930s. Brown has proposed more than
$4 billion in cuts and wants voters to boost sales and income
taxes that he said would raise about $7 billion a year. He’ll
revise his budget estimates next month, once April tax
collections are counted.  “It could be as much as a $1 billion, or more,”  Brown
told reporters who asked about the deficit following a speech to
the  California  Medical Association yesterday in  Sacramento . “It
will be bigger than it was before because we’ve been stopped in
the courts, by the federal government and by delays.”  “I laid out a proposal and it wasn’t accepted at the time,
so now the challenge will grow,” the 74-year-old Democrat said.
“Whether it’s one billion or a couple of billion, we will let
you know in a couple of weeks.”  Built Into Budget  Brown built  revenue  from the tax increases into his
spending plan for fiscal 2013 and inserted a provision that
triggers $4.8 billion in cuts to schools if voters reject the
higher levies. If the deficit does grow, lawmakers could agree
to increase the cuts triggered midway through the year or
approve additional reductions that would take effect July 1.  Taxes in the past nine months have lagged behind the
governor’s plan by about $1 billion. April is when about 15
percent of all state income tax revenue is collected. This month
through yesterday, the state has collected  $1.95 billion ;
Brown’s budget calls for $9 billion.  The prospect that the state’s fiscal health is weakening
hasn’t diminished the appetite for the state’s bonds.  When California sold $1.35 billion of debt April 12,
Treasurer Bill Lockyer was able to price bonds maturing in 10
years at 73 basis points higher than a Bloomberg Fair Value
 index  of top-rated municipal debt. The  spread , or difference
compared with AAA securities, hasn’t been that small since
December 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Third-Best Performer  California state and local bonds maturing in 10 years are
the third-best performer this year, including price gains and
interest, among 27 states tracked in a Standard & Poor’s index.  Brown reached a deal with California’s second-largest
teachers union in March to merge his tax increase proposal with
a version they offered, to eliminate competition on the ballot.  The agreement would ask voters to raise the  sales tax ,
already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent from 7.25
percent, and boost rates on income starting at $250,000. Those
making $1 million or more, now taxed at 10.3 percent, would pay
13.3 percent, the most of any state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  