-- California Analyst Says No to Funding High-Speed Rail
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/california-analyst-says-no-to-funding-high-speed-rail.html
California lawmakers should reject
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposal to spend $2.6 billion of bond
funds to jump-start construction of a high-speed rail system, a
state analyst recommended.  The independent Legislative Analyst’s Office said future
funding for the $68.4 billion bullet train is too uncertain for
lawmakers to pass spending measures now. Brown’s budget earmarks
$5.9 billion, including the bond money and $3.3 billion in
federal aid, for the High-Speed Rail Authority in fiscal 2012.  “We find that HSRA has not provided sufficient detail and
justification to the Legislature regarding its plan,” the
analyst’s office said yesterday in a report. “Funding for the
project remains highly speculative and important details have
not been sorted out.”  California is the only U.S. state working to lay tracks for
trains to run as fast as 220 miles (350 kilometers) an hour,
after Congress cut off 2012 funds for such projects. In January,
a state legislative review panel, questioning the long-term
funding, recommended against selling debt to start the project.  The analyst’s report said  California  has only secured
commitments for about 17 percent of the cost to build the
network and additional federal money is uncertain.  Plan Changed  The authority on April 2 revised its plan for the project,
shaving $30 billion off the estimated cost in part by improving
existing commuter and freight lines in some areas.  Under the redrawn plan, California would route the main
track down the backbone of the state from Merced, about 120
miles south of Sacramento, the capital, to the San Fernando
Valley, north of  Los Angeles . It would then connect to the
population centers of Los Angeles and  San Francisco  by modifying
existing commuter and freight lines to handle high-speed trains.  “It would be a mistake to delay this project and lose
billions of dollars in critical federal funds,” Dan Richard,
the authority chairman, said in a statement. The analyst’s
“recommendations overlook the significant environmental and
economic benefits of reducing freeway pollution, improving
transportation and creating jobs.”  The revised plan also counts on cash from a new state
program selling pollution credits as a backup to U.S. funding.  Under the law that created the program, money from the
sales must be used to mitigate greenhouse-gas emissions in the
state, according to the analyst’s report. It said the project
wouldn’t help achieve that goal by 2020 and instead would
increase greenhouse-gas emissions for at least 30 years as the
system is built out.  Case Too Weak  “In view of the above concerns regarding the certainty of
future funding and the recent significant changes proposed for
the project, we find that the HSRA has not made a strong enough
case for going forward,” the analyst said in the report.  The rail plan “meets both the letter and spirit of
California’s pioneering global climate-change laws,” Mary D. Nichols, the chairman of the  California Air Resources Board ,
said by e-mail.  “Not only does it take millions of tons of  greenhouse
gases  out of the air, it also goes to the heart of the law
itself, transforming California’s economy to clean energy and
clean technology and breaking our century-long dependence on
fossil fuels,” Nichols said.  Reports of possible conflicts of interest at the authority
have come under investigation by the Oversight and Government
Reform Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives, which
said April 10 that it plans to probe the situations that may
involve federal construction money. The panel has contacted
current and former leaders of the authority for information on
how U.S. funds have been spent on the project, Jeffrey Solsby, a
spokesman for the panel, has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  