-- Calpers Will Phase in Higher Employer Costs Over 2 Years
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-04-18T23:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/calpers-will-phase-in-higher-employer-costs-over-2-years.html
The California Public Employees’
Retirement System’s governing board voted to let the state and
local governments phase in a rate increase for employee pensions
over two years.  The 13-member governing board of the largest U.S. public
pension approved the  plan  at a meeting today, cutting the amount
of the raise by about half for the year that begins July 1 for
state agencies and school districts and in July 2013 for local
governments, the plan said today in a statement. The second half
of the increase would take effect in the following year.  “California’s public employers are continuing to face
difficult budgeting challenges during this economic downturn,”
 Rob Feckner , the president of the board, said in the  statement .
“Phasing in the rate increase will give employers a little more
breathing room in the first year as they struggle to make ends
meet in a difficult economic environment.”  The increase stems from a lower assumed rate of return on
investments adopted in March by the $235.7 billion fund’s board.
That lowered the presumed annual gain to 7.5 percent from 7.75
percent. The rate is used to calculate how much money the plan,
known as Calpers, will have, how much it will need to cover
promised benefits, and what employers must contribute.  Under the phase-in, the state and school districts next
year will pay 0.61 percentage point to 1.16 percentage points of
payroll more than currently. The rate for local governments will
increase by between 0.63 percentage point and 1 percentage point
starting in 2013. Calpers covers school employees such as bus
drivers, cafeteria workers and secretaries.  Had the board not agreed to spread the increase out, the
employer rate would have climbed by as much as 2.37 percentage
points next year for some state agencies, such as the Highway
Patrol. Some local governments would have faced an increase of
1.94 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  