-- Cambodia’s Growth May Lure Samsung Asset to Newest Stock
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-04-18T05:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/cambodia-s-growth-may-lure-samsung-asset-to-newest-stock.html
Cambodia  opened its stock market
today as the government seeks to lure foreign capital by selling
shares in state-owned companies to bolster the economy.  While only one stock -- Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority -
- started trading today,  Samsung Asset Management Co. ,  South
Korea ’s largest money manager, said it would consider buying
Cambodian stocks after about a year. Cambodia, along with Laos,
 Vietnam  and Myanmar, are poised to emerge as “new frontier
growth markets” that will start catching Southeast Asia’s
biggest economies, Samsung Asset’s Alan Richardson, who helps
oversee $89.5 billion, said by phone from Singapore yesterday.  “The Indochina markets are all interesting because there
is so much opportunity,” Richardson said. His  Samsung ASEAN
Securities Master Investment Trust (5670800)  has risen 12.1 percent this
year, beating 72 percent of its rivals, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Economic growth  in Cambodia, with a population of 14.3
million, may reach 6.5 percent this year, the Asian Development
Bank estimates. While that’s less than the average of 8 percent
between 2001 to 2010, it’s more than the ADB’s prediction of 6.4
percent growth for  Indonesia , Southeast Asia’s largest economy,
and 5.5 percent for  Thailand , the second biggest.  Cambodia’s stock market opened at 9:09 a.m. with Deputy
Prime Minister Keat Chhon presiding over the start, the Cambodia
Securities Exchange said in a statement on its website. From
tomorrow, stocks will trade between 8 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. in
 Phnom Penh  with prices being quoted twice a day, according to
the bourse.  More Share Sales  Phnom Penh Water jumped 48 percent to 9,300 riel ($2.33)
with volume of 879,426 shares on its debut, according to data on
the exchange’s  website . The utility, which has 86.97 million
shares being traded on the bourse, sold shares at 6,300 riel in
its initial public offering, according to the  exchange .  Cambodia may be able to lure five-to-10 IPOs a year, said
Kim Bong Soo, chairman of Korea Exchange Inc., the Cambodian
government’s partner in the bourse.  Telecom Cambodia  and
Sihanoukville Autonomous Port are preparing to sell shares, he
said in an April 9 interview.  The Cambodian government has said it wants to spur economic
development by privatizing its state-owned companies and
encouraging private enterprises to expand with new funding.
There are no restrictions on foreign investors, according to the
Securities & Exchange Commission of Cambodia’s  website .  Within five years, the market value of traded shares could
constitute a quarter of the country’s gross domestic product, or
more than $3 billion, Kao Thach, deputy director general of the
SECC, said in a February interview in Phnom Penh. Banks,
telecommunications companies, rice millers, garment firms and
mining companies could seek public listings, he said.  ‘Take Some Time’  Investors in Cambodia face risks in the stock market
because of ineffective financial and legal systems, Sam Rainsy,
62, a former finance minister and the head of the biggest
opposition party, said in a Feb. 8 interview. Cambodia was
ranked by  Transparency International  last year as 164th in the
world by perception of corruption, ahead of only  North Korea ,
Myanmar and  Afghanistan  in  Asia .  “It will take some time to educate the general public to
understand its importance and function,” Te Taingpor, the
president of the Federation of Association for Small & Medium
Enterprises of Cambodia, said by phone from Phnom Penh
yesterday.  Khmer Rouge  Prime Minister Hun Sen has ruled Cambodia in some capacity
for most of the past three decades, overseeing the country’s
transition to stability after battles with remnants of the Khmer
Rouge regime blamed for the deaths of least 1.7 million people
from 1975 to 1979. His Cambodian  People’s Party  has won the past
three national parliamentary elections.  Washington-based Freedom House, a group that advocates
democracy, last year ranked Cambodia among 48 countries that are
“not free,” meaning basic political rights are absent and
civil liberties are “widely and systemically denied.” Cambodia
ranked 164th out of 182 countries in Transparency
International’s 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index, below
Zimbabwe and  Kenya .  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange, Vietnam’s biggest,
started in July 2000 with two companies. It now has more than
300 publicly traded companies with a total market value of about
$26.6 billion. Laos,  Southeast Asia ’s smallest economy, opened
its stock exchange in January 2011. The two-stock Laos Composite
Index soared 86 percent in its first three weeks of trading and
has fallen more than 40 percent since then.  Closing the Gap  Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. and Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. said in an April 11 statement that they had negotiated a
“memorandum of understanding” to establish a stock exchange in
Myanmar and develop the country’s capital markets.  “I think we are now in the cycle for these four Asean
markets to emerge as the new frontier growth markets and close
the gap with the established Asean-5 markets of Singapore,
 Malaysia , Thailand, Indonesia and the  Philippines ,” Richardson
said, referring to the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations .  Cambodia had  gross domestic product  of $11.24 billion in
2010, World Bank data show. That’s compared with Indonesia’s
$706.6 billion and Thailand’s $318.5 billion, the data show.  “The GDP levels are very, very low,” Thomas Hugger,
managing partner at Leopard Capital Management Ltd., said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday from  Hong Kong . “We
are very optimistic. There will be sustained growth for the
future.” His firm bought Phnom Penh Water shares in the
company’s IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  