-- Canada Telecom Rule Changes Threaten National Security
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-04-18T18:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/canada-telecom-rule-changes-threaten-national-security.html
Canada’s plan to allow foreign
companies such as  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  to increase their stakes in the
country’s telecommunications providers poses a “considerable
risk” to national security, Public Safety Canada warned.  “The security and intelligence community is of the view
that lessening or removing restrictions from the
Telecommunications Act, without implementing mitigation
measures, would pose a considerable risk to public safety and
national security,” Daniel Lavoie, a senior official with
Public Safety, said in a letter to  Industry Canada .  The letter, which was marked “secret” and dated Feb. 25,
2011, was obtained by Bloomberg News under Canada’s freedom-of-
information law.  Industry Minister Christian Paradis announced plans last
month to  allow  foreigners to own as much as 100 percent of
telecom operators with less than 10 percent of market share by
revenue.  The new rules, designed to increase investment and
competition in the sector, pave the way for the likes of
Amsterdam-based VimpelCom, which operates in Russia and  Algeria ,
to increase its stake in Wind Mobile, a Toronto-based carrier
that began operating in 2009.  Spy Agency  Wind has sought a relaxation of the foreign ownership
restrictions and is one of four new carriers fighting to break
the dominance of Canada’s wireless sector, more than 90 percent
of which is controlled by  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  BCE Inc. (BCE) 
and  Telus Corp. (T)   While Wind is the only new entrant backed by a foreign
carrier, it isn’t the only one funded with foreign capital.
Public Mobile, a Toronto-based carrier that began service in
2010 in Ontario has received financing from U.S. investors,
including Columbia Capital, Charles River Ventures, M/C Venture
Partners and Rho Ventures LLC. Mobilicity, another new entrant
based in Toronto, has among its backers New York-based
Quadrangle Group LLC, a private-equity firm that invests in
media and telecommunications companies and has more than $3
billion in assets.  Public Safety works closely with Canada’s spy agency, the
Canadian Security Intelligence Service, known by its acronym
CSIS. CSIS and the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police , the country’s
national police force, report to Canada’s legislature through
Vic Toews, the public-safety minister.  ‘Safe and Secure’  “A thriving telecommunications industry must be a safe and
secure one,” Public Safety spokeswoman Josee Picard said in an
e-mail responding to questions about the letter. The department
is working with Industry Canada to “ensure that any risks to
Canada’s telecommunications sector are identified and
addressed,” she said.  All telecommunications carriers “will continue to be
subject to Canadian laws, including those enacted to protect
public safety and national security,” Industry Canada spokesman
Michel Cimpaye said in an e-mail.  Carriers are also subject to the Investment Canada Act, a
federal law under which the government reviews foreign takeovers
valued at more than C$330 million ($333 million) in assets, he
added. The government can review acquisitions on national-
security grounds under the act.  “Industry Canada and Public Safety Canada continuously
work together to ensure that Canada’s telecommunications sector
remains secure,” Cimpaye said.  ‘Intelligence Priorities’  Allowing more foreign ownership may hinder the ability of
authorities to follow “intelligence priorities” set by the
cabinet of Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , adds the letter.  Canada is the latest country to express concerns about the
involvement of foreign companies in the telecom sector. The U.S.
in October barred  China ’s Huawei Technologies Co. from bidding
for work on a national emergency network.  Australia  last month
banned Huawei, China’s biggest maker of telecom equipment, from
contracts to build a national broadband network being developed
by the government.  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) , the Canadian telecom-equipment maker
that filed for  bankruptcy protection  in 2009, approached the
RCMP over concerns it was the target of Chinese hackers in 2004,
the Wall Street Journal reported in February, citing a former
Nortel executive Brian Shields.  Security Review  Foreign investors can currently own as much as 46.7 percent
in combined direct and indirect stakes in Canadian carriers. The
industry ministry said in June 2010 it was considering three
options including increasing the direct ownership threshhold to
49 percent, allowing full ownership of telecom providers with
less than 10 percent market share, or removing the telecom
restrictions completely.  The proposals prompted the Clerk of the Privy Council, the
nation’s top public servant, to order a security review of the
implications, according to the letter.  It was written by Public Safety official  Lavoie  and
addressed to Industry  Canada  Assistant Deputy Minister Helen
McDonald. Parts of the letter have been withheld under security
provisions of Canada’s freedom-of-information law.  Lavoie was associate assistant deputy minister in the
department’s emergency management and national security branch,
and has since moved to the RCMP, Public Safety spokeswoman
Jessica Slack said.  Public Safety conducted the review in consultation with
CSIS and its other portfolio agencies, as well as the country’s
defense department.  While Public Safety recognizes the “economic advantages of
a prosperous Canadian telecommunications industry,” changes to
the country’s system could impact “the integrity of Canada’s
telecommunications sector and ultimately national security,”
Lavoie said.  “Telecommunications systems are the backbone of all
critical infrastructure systems in Canada” and are a key
component of the government’s national strategy to protect such
infrastructure, Lavoie added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  