-- Capital Group’s Gordon Crawford to Retire at Year’s End
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-04-18T18:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/capital-group-s-gordon-crawford-to-retire-at-year-s-end.html
Gordon Crawford , the  fund manager 
whose views helped shape media industry mergers and
acquisitions, will retire at year’s end after more than four
decades at Los Angeles-based Capital Group Cos.  Crawford, 65, told the company of his plans last year and
the assets he oversees will gradually be handed to other
managers at the firm,  Chuck Freadhoff , a spokesman for Capital
Group, said in a telephone interview.  “Mr. Crawford told me his plans include playing more golf
and spending time with his grandkids,” Freadhoff said. “This
is a retirement.”  Crawford is part of the teams that run three mutual funds
at Capital Group’s American Funds unit, including the $129
billion  Growth Fund of America . He focused on media holdings and
is known for seeking to influence key management decisions at
the companies whose shares he bought.  Under Crawford, Capital Group accumulated the third-largest
stake in Vancouver-based  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , and
supported the studio in fending off a hostile buyout bid by
billionaire  Carl Icahn . He also backed the company’s takeover of
 Summit Entertainment , owner of the “Twilight” vampire films,
and its efforts to buy Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.  In an interview last month, after Lions Gate shares had
almost doubled, he credited the studio with developing “a very
good creative team in film and television” and said the company
is “going to be a major some day.”  ‘He Was Anomalous’  At a firm whose fund managers rarely make their investment
views known publicly, Crawford stood out.  “He was anomalous with American Funds,” Kevin McDevitt,
an analyst at fund research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a
telephone interview. “The personalities they tend to attract
are people who don’t seek the limelight.”  Crawford broke publicly with then  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jerry Yang  in 2008 for rejecting a $47.5
billion takeover bid by Microsoft Corp., telling the Wall Street
Journal he was “extremely disappointed” with the decision.  He was instrumental in the January 2003 departure of
Stephen Case as chairman of AOL Time Warner Inc. after a decline
in the stock, and in 2001 he dumped all of his company’s 66
million Walt Disney Co. shares in displeasure over CEO Michael
Eisner’s performance.  Management Teams  Crawford, whose retirement plans were reported earlier by
Reuters, also helps manage the firm’s $20.1 billion Smallcap
World Fund and the $7.7 billion New Economy Fund, which focused
on information technology companies.  American Funds  typically uses five to 10 managers, each
working independently, to oversee assets in its funds. Managers
pick securities based on company-focused research and emphasize
long-term returns.  McDevitt estimated that Crawford managed 8 percent to 12
percent of Growth Fund of America.  “I don’t think his departure will have that big an impact
on the fund, which is just a reflection of how the portfolio is
dispersed,” he said.  Amid the growing popularity of index-based investing,
investors have withdrawn about $190 billion from American Funds
since the beginning of 2008, according to data compiled by
research firm Morningstar Inc.  Crawford, a native of Greenwich,  Connecticut , is chairman
of Southern California Public Radio and a major donor to Los
Angles station KPCC, Freadhoff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  