-- Carney’s Housing Debt Focus May Mean Higher Canada Rates
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/carney-s-housing-debt-focus-may-mean-higher-canada-rates.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney ’s patience with rising housing debt may be ending.  The Bank of Canada said yesterday it “may become
appropriate” to begin raising its policy  interest rate  again
after keeping it at 1 percent and extending the longest pause
since the 1950s, saying record high  household  debt levels remain
“the biggest domestic risk” to the economy.  Carney is signaling the potential for increases even as the
U.S. Federal Reserve says it expects to remain on hold for two
more years. Higher borrowing costs may cool off a housing market
that has seen real estate prices almost triple in some Canadian
cities over the past decade.  “Monetary policy should be considered as one of the tools
you should use to cure the problem” of rising  household debt ,
Paul-Andre Pinsonnault, senior fixed-income economist at
National Bank Financial Group, said by telephone. “Monetary
policy is what is causing the problem.”  Carney has frozen his main interest rate since September
2010 on signs that a strong currency and fragile global recovery
will restrain  exports , while at the same time warning that
rising household debts risk derailing the recovery if the
housing market corrects suddenly.  Real estate markets in cities like Toronto and Vancouver,
where prices have almost tripled over the past decade, have
created a dilemma for Carney and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty :
how to avert a bubble in overheated areas without triggering a
collapse elsewhere and undermining the recovery.  Monetary Policy Report  Carney may provide more guidance on how concerned he is
about the housing market in a quarterly  monetary policy  report
today, said  David Tulk  of Toronto-Dominion Bank.  “They recognize that as long as their policy rate is still
encouraging this kind of behavior, the longer it runs, the
harder it is to clean up,” said Tulk, chief macroeconomics
strategist at TD Securities.  The central bank’s report is due at 10:30 a.m. today in
Ottawa, with Carney holding a press conference at 11:15 a.m.  The Canadian  dollar  jumped as much as 1.3 percent yesterday
after the central bank’s announcement, while two-year government
bond yields rose 10 basis points to 1.33 percent, the highest
since August, as investors bet Carney may increase interest
rates this year. The difference  between  two-year Canadian and
U.S. government notes widened to 1.06 percentage points.  The average sale price of a home in  Canada  has risen 98
percent over the past decade, and 35 percent since January 2009,
according to data from the  Canadian Real Estate Association .
Canada’s household debt relative to disposable income was at
152.9 percent in the final quarter of last year, after touching
a record 154.2 percent in the previous three months.  Voiced Concerns  Carney has repeatedly voiced concerns about household debt
since a June  speech  in Vancouver and has said that monetary
policy could be used to address rising levels of household debt
that threaten financial stability. He’s also said that such
action is the last line of defense, as policy makers should look
first to proper regulation and supervision to safeguard
stability.  Flaherty has tightened mortgage rules three times since
2008, including by shortening the maximum amortization period
for government-insured mortgages to 30 years from 35 years, and
lowering the maximum amount homeowners can borrow against the
value of their homes. Still, he has resisted calls to act again,
citing his preference for the market to correct itself.  Vancouver , Canada’s third-largest city where condominiums
are being  sold  for as much as C$28.8 million ($29.1 million),
has seen average home sale prices fall by more than 8 percent
since touching a record high of C$831,555 in May 2011. Realtors
in Vancouver sold 30 percent fewer homes in March than a year
earlier.  No Spillover  That correction hasn’t spilled over into other markets.
 Home prices  in Toronto were up 11 percent in March from a year
earlier, while the number of multiple-unit construction starts
rose 50 percent in Ontario last month, according to data from
Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp.  Flaherty on April 13 said he was “encouraged” that
Vancouver real estate seems to be correcting, and the national
housing market is “softening.” Toronto-Dominion Chief
Executive Officer Edmund Clark said yesterday he predicts the
country’s housing market will slow down.  “It’s obviously been a source of tremendous growth in our
core Canadian banking business,” Clark said at an investor
conference.  Charles St-Arnaud, an economist with Nomura Securities
International Inc. in  New York , said monetary policy also may be
a less risky way to slow the housing market than regulatory
measures that may trigger an abrupt correction.  “When you look at other solutions, it’s probably the one
that has the less probability of causing the collapse of the
housing market,” St-Arnaud said, adding the  Bank of Canada  can
move ahead gradually with rate increases. “Interest rates are
probably the best approach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  