-- Cheapest Stocks Since 2009 Shunned: Russia Overnight
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-04-18T00:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/cheapest-stocks-since-2009-shunned-by-jpmorgan-russia-overnight.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan
Stanley are abandoning their bullish recommendations on Russian
 stocks , concerned that falling oil and investors shunning
riskier assets will overshadow the lowest  valuations  since 2009.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by assets, advised cutting
holdings to levels that match benchmark indexes in a report
yesterday that followed a similar downgrade four days earlier by
New York-based Morgan Stanley. The MSCI Russia Index sank to 5.1
times reported earnings yesterday, a 64 percent discount versus
the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD) , the widest gap since February
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN) , which tracks the
most-traded Russian shares in New York, has tumbled 6.6 percent
in the past month on concern that  China ’s economic slowdown and
 Europe ’s debt crisis will curb demand for Russian commodities.
 Urals crude , the nation’s chief oil blend, has dropped 8.3
percent from a March 1 high, paring this year’s gain to 8.7
percent. The index was little changed yesterday as  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) ’s
American depositary receipts sank 1.5 percent.  “If this emerging-market correction continues, we can’t
envisage Russia outperforming,” wrote  David Aserkoff , a London-
based strategist at JPMorgan. “If we were not so positive on
the medium-term re-rating potential in Russia, the high-beta,
high-volatility nature of the Russian market would dictate an
underweight.”  Russia ETF Gains  The Bloomberg Russia-US equity gauge ended yesterday at
103.23, after slipped 1.3 percent on April 16. Futures expiring
in June on Moscow’s dollar-denominated RTS Index added 0.8
percent to 155,360 in U.S. trading.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, climbed 0.8 percent to $29.89 yesterday.
The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the
index futures, slipped 2 percent to 31.22 points in New York.  The MSCI Russia gauge of equities listed in Moscow,  London 
and New York has lost about six percentage points more than the
MSCI All-Country World index during the past month. Stocks
around the world have retreated since the middle of March as
China posted the slowest economic growth in almost three years
and investors speculated that Spain may become the fourth euro-
area nation to need a bailout.  The 5.1 price-earnings ratio on the  MSCI Russia index (MXRU)  is 44
percent below its 9.1 average over the past decade, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge has the lowest multiple
among benchmark indexes in 21 emerging countries tracked by MSCI
and Bloomberg, the data show.  ‘Trough Valuations’  While Russian stocks are trading at “near trough
valuations,” the country’s share prices tend to swing more than
regional peers, exposing investors to potential losses should
global equities keep falling during the second quarter,
according to JPMorgan’s Aserkoff.  The MSCI Russia index’s  30-day volatility , a measure of
historical price swings, was 25 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s almost double the reading of 13
for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s biggest producer of steelmaking coal,
fell 2.3 percent to $8.93 in New York yesterday. The retreat
swelled the ADRs’ discount to the company’s Micex-listed shares
to 1.3 percent.  Mechel (MTLR)  has six months to fix violations by its eastern
Siberian unit after the country’s environmental regulator said
the breaches were significant enough to warrant canceling some
licenses.  Russia’s Subsoil Resources Agency may pull three licenses
from Mechel’s Yakutugol unit, the Kommersant newspaper reported
yesterday, citing an unidentified person at the country’s
environmental watchdog, Rosprirodnadzor.  Energy Demand  Mechel stock in Moscow fell 4.1 percent to 266.80 rubles,
or $9.05, the biggest one-day drop since April 4. One ADR is
equal to one ordinary share.  Urals crude has retreated from a 3 1/2-year peak reached on
March 1 amid concern that global demand for energy will weaken.
Contracts for  Brent crude  traded in London have declined 5.1
percent from a March 13 closing high, to $118.78 a barrel
yesterday.  Brent crude prices will probably retreat further this year
to an average $105 a barrel, according to Morgan Stanley’s
forecasts. Lower oil will expose Russian shares to “profit
taking,” wrote Marianna Kozintseva, the London-based strategist
at Morgan Stanley who cut her rating on  Russia  to equalweight
from overweight on April 13.  Kozintseva said a “transition paralysis” in the Russian
government after Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s victory in
presidential elections on March 4 may also weigh on Russian
stocks. Putin, who has said he plans to swap jobs with outgoing
President  Dmitry Medvedev , will take office on May 7.  ‘Tactical Calls’  Russia “remains our preferred market in the long term,”
she said. “However, recent shortening of the investment cycles
and rising market volatility point to increasing importance of
the tactical calls.”  Crude oil for May delivery, Russia’s biggest export earner,
climbed 1.2 percent to a two-week high of $104.20 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, while Brent oil for
June settlement was little changed at $118.78 on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Urals crude , Russia’s chief export blend, was
also steady, at $114.84.  ADRs of oil producer OAO Surgutneftegas slid 1.6 percent to
$6.59 in  New York , to trade at a 0.3 percent premium to the
company’s preferred shares in Moscow. Surgut’s Micex-listed
stock slipped 2.5 percent to 19.39 rubles, or 66 U.S. cents
yesterday. One ADR is equal to 10 ordinary shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  