-- Numbers Don’t Add Up as Chelsea Beats Barca in Champions League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-19T00:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/chelsea-beats-barcelona-in-champions-league-semifinal-1-.html
All the numbers pointed to a
Barcelona victory over Chelsea in their opening  Champions League 
soccer semifinal except the final score.  Chelsea beat the defending champion 1-0 at Stamford Bridge
in London last night with its only shot on target as Didier Drogba’s goal in first-half stoppage time sent Barcelona to its
only loss in 11 Champions League games this season.  “Against Barcelona you have to do a lot of defending and
be clinical when you get your chances,” Chelsea interim manager
Roberto Di Matteo said in a news conference. “My players have
shown the determination they have, with the courage to play
against the top team in the world.”  Barcelona, seeking its fourth title in Europe’s elite club
competition in seven seasons, failed to score after having 72
percent of possession and a 24-5 advantage in attempts on goal,
including two that struck the frame of the goal.  The return game is April 24 at the Camp Nou. The winner
over two matches advances to the May 19 final in Munich against
 Bayern Munich  or Real Madrid, which trails 2-1 in that matchup.  “We played well, created 24 chances and still lost,” said
Barcelona manager Pep Guardiola. “We need to create 24 more
chances at home in the return and hope that some go in.”  Chelsea thwarted a Barcelona team that, along with Real
Madrid, has scored a  competition-leading 33 goals . The Blues
allowed the Spanish champion six attempts on target, including
just one from  Lionel Messi , who’s scored 63 goals this season.  “We prepared for that,” Di Matteo said of Barcelona’s
attacking prowess. “We looked very organized. The boys were
determined not to let them through.”  Chip Hits Crossbar  Barcelona, seeking to become the first team to win the
Champions League two years in a row, dominated from the start as
 Andres Iniesta  lofted a ball over the defense for  Alexis Sanchez ,
whose chip over goalkeeper  Petr Cech  hit the crossbar.  Barcelona’s Cesc Fabregas shot wide of the far post and
Cech went down to grab Messi’s header. Fabregas then lifted a
ball over Cech late in the first half, which  Ashley Cole  cleared
off the goal line.  Chelsea took the lead in the final seconds of first-half
stoppage time as Ramires took a pass from  Frank Lampard  down the
left side and crossed to Drogba, who beat Victor Valdes from
close range.  “Chelsea took advantage of the chance that they had, while
we were lacking that killer instinct in front of goal,” Iniesta
said on UEFA’s website.  Cech Saves Chelsea  Barcelona’s pressure continued in the second half with
Adriano forcing Cech into a diving save before Sanchez shot wide
and  Dani Alves  sent a shot over. Xavi Hernandez then put a free
kick from just outside the area well over goal.  Cech rescued Chelsea in the 87th minute when he dived to
his right to knock away Carles Puyol’s flicked-on header. Pedro
Rodriguez then hit the post in injury time and  Sergio Busquets 
sent Barcelona’s final chance on the rebound well over the goal.  Historically in European club competition, a 1-0 home
victory in the opening match has given teams a 58 percent chance
of winning over the two matches against 42 for the away team,
according to Infostrada Sports.  “The away leg will be a very tough game,” Chelsea captain
 John Terry  said. “They will have lots of chances on their big
pitch. We respect them but we’re not in awe of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at Stamford Bridge through the  London  sports desk at
   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 