-- Chesapeake Falls After Reuters Reports CEO Loans: Dallas Mover
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-04-18T20:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/chesapeake-falls-after-reuters-reports-ceo-loans-dallas-mover.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the
second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer, fell after a news
report that Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  used his stakes in company wells as collateral to
finance his share of the well costs.  Chesapeake fell 5.5 percent to $18.06 at the close in New
York. Earlier, shares declined as much as 10 percent to $17.17,
the lowest intraday since March 31, 2009. Before today, shares
of Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake had fallen 14 percent this
year.  McClendon has borrowed as much as $1.1 billion during the
past three years to pay for his share of well costs, using his
well stakes as collateral, Reuters reported today, citing loan
documents. The arrangements may compromise his duty to
shareholders, Reuters said, citing interviews with academics,
analysts, and attorneys.  “We do not believe any conflicts of interest exist but if
any arise there are numerous mechanisms to counteract any such
conflict,” Chesapeake General Counsel Henry J. Hood said in a
statement e-mailed today by the company. The arrangement
“effectively aligns Mr. McClendon’s interests with the
interests of Chesapeake’s shareholders,” Hood wrote.  McClendon didn’t address, nor was he asked by analysts and
investors, about the loans today during a public appearance at
an Independent Petroleum Association of America conference in
 New York . He attributed the decline in Chesapeake’s share price
to the “gravitational pull” of U.S. natural-gas prices. The
heating and power plant fuel is trading near a 10-year low amid
a supply glut after Chesapeake and others increased output.  2009 Compensation Agreement  McClendon’s option to take a 2.5 percent stake in all wells
Chesapeake drills each year was included in a 2009 compensation
agreement executed with the company after he was forced to sell
substantially all his shares to cover losses in the 2008 stock
market crash. It disclosed the agreement in January 2009.  McClendon has been mortgaging his stake in West Virginia
oil & gas leases with lenders including EIG Global Energy
Partners, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported March 25.  “Chesapeake is not required to monitor, obtain or disclose
personal financial information with respect to its officers and
directors,” Hood wrote.  McClendon and Chesapeake settled a pension-fund lawsuit
over his compensation in November. McClendon pledged “more
transparent” pay arrangements June 10, after more than a third
of shareholders refused to endorse the company’s executive
compensation plan.  Exxon Mobil Corp. is the largest producer of U.S. natural
gas, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  