-- Chesapeake Says First Lien on CEO’s Oil Wells Shield Holders
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-04-18T20:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/chesapeake-says-first-liens-on-ceo-s-oil-wells-shield-holders.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  said
shareholders are protected if Chief Executive Officer Aubrey McClendon defaults on personal loans because the company holds
first liens on oil and natural-gas wells he used for collateral.  McClendon, the co-founder and chairman of the second-
largest U.S. gas producer, has been using his 2.5 percent stakes
in some Chesapeake wells as collateral for personal loans, the
Oklahoma City-based company said today. Chesapeake and its
investors aren’t at risk should the CEO default because the
company has an overriding claim to the oil and gas that flows
from those wells, General Counsel Henry J. Hood said today.  Chesapeake  tumbled  as much as 10 percent for its worst
intraday performance since August after news reports this week
that the structure of McClendon’s personal loans wasn’t fully
disclosed to shareholders and created potential conflicts of
interest.  “Since Chesapeake is not a party to the loan documents,
the liens and provisions do not reach Chesapeake’s intangible
assets,” Hood said in an e-mailed statement today.  Although Chesapeake and its investors are insulated from
any risks associated with McClendon’s personal financial
commitments, “this highlights ongoing poor corporate governance
issues related to the company,” Amir Arif, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said today in a note to clients.  359th-Richest American  McClendon didn’t address the loans when he met with
analysts and investors during an Independent Petroleum
Association of America conference in  New York  today.  The 52-year-old McClendon, who ranked 359th on Forbes
magazine’s list of wealthiest Americans last year, has had the
right to buy stakes in Chesapeake wells since 1993, Hood said.
The arrangement requires the CEO personally to pay a
proportionate share of drilling costs on those wells.  The company didn’t disclose the size of the loans McClendon
has obtained based on his well holdings. Reuters, citing
documents filed with county recorders in several states, said
they amounted to $1.1 billion during the past three years.  Chesapeake has been selling stakes in oilfields and plans
an initial share sale for its drilling business to cope with a
cash crunch precipitated by falling U.S. gas prices.  The value of the furnace and power-plant fuel declined 52
percent in the past year as intensive drilling techniques
enabled Chesapeake and rivals such as  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  to
extract gas from previously-impenetrable rock formations,
flooding  North America  with supply.  ‘Spooking Investors’  Chesapeake  fell 5.5 percent  to $18.06 at the close in New
York, after earlier dropping to $17.17. The shares have fallen
44 percent in the past year.  The company’s bonds were the most actively traded U.S.
corporate securities by dealers today, with 189 trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
Chesapeake’s $1.3 billion of 6.775 percent notes due March 2019
fell 1.875 cents to 97.125 cents on the dollar to yield 7.3
percent, Trace data show.  “In our view, today’s news is spooking investors because
of a similar situation in late 2008 when personal margin calls
for the CEO ended up resulting in the CEO selling off a majority
of his ownership in the company, which put additional downward
pressure on the stock,” wrote Arif, who has a“buy” rating on
Chesapeake shares.  Margin Calls  Chesapeake shed 39 percent of its value in October 2008,
touching a 4 1/2-year low of $11.99 that month, as McClendon
liquidated most of his Chesapeake shares to cover margin calls
triggered by the global financial collapse. The stock already
was under pressure from plunging demand and prices for the
company’s main product: natural gas.  At the time, McClendon also sold his collection of 19th-
century maps to the company to raise cash for margin calls. He
agreed last year to repurchase the maps for $12.1 million plus
interest to settle a 2009 lawsuit by the Louisiana Municipal
Police Employees’ Retirement System that challenged his
compensation package.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , based in Irving,  Texas , is the largest
U.S. gas producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  