-- Chile Keeps 5% Rate as Andean Banks Enter Wait-and-See Mode
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-04-18T13:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/chile-keeps-5-rate-as-andean-nations-enter-wait-and-see-mode.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged yesterday for a third
consecutive month with policy makers giving little indication of
future changes after they raised their inflation forecast.  The policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
held the overnight rate at 5 percent, as forecast by 19 of 20
economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . One analyst forecast a
quarter-point increase to 5.25 percent.  Chile is poised to join Andean peers Colombia and Peru in
boasting above-average economic growth this year and below-
average inflation compared with other South American nations,
according to International Monetary Fund forecasts. Chile’s
economic situation provides little motivation for the bank to
change rates anytime soon,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
economist Felipe Jaque said.  “Today’s statement maintained the neutral bias seen in
recent months,” Jaque said by telephone from Santiago after
yesterday’s decision. “For the rest of the year, we assume the
rate will remain at 5 percent.”  One-year interest-rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, fell to 5.21 percent at 9:25 a.m.
Santiago time from 5.23 percent yesterday.  Chile has the third-highest borrowing costs among major
rate-setting central banks in Latin America behind Brazil and
Colombia after the economy expanded 6 percent last year and 6.1
percent in 2010 -- the fastest pace in more than a decade. Chile
cut interest rates by a quarter-point in January.  ‘Distant Possibility’  Investors and traders surveyed this month by the  central
bank  expect Chile to tighten borrowing costs by October.  “We look for the Central Bank to stay on hold for the near
term, with rate hikes a distinct possibility in the second half
of the year,” Italo Lombardi, Latin America economist at
Standard Chartered Bank, wrote in a note e-mailed to investors
today. “The monetary authority may opt to distance itself from
the January cut, and thus prefer for more time to pass before
moving rates in the other direction.”  Chile’s gross domestic product will expand 4.3 percent this
year, surpassing the South American average of 3.8 percent, the
IMF said yesterday in its World Economic Outlook. The world’s
leading copper producer grew 6.1 percent in February from the
year-earlier period, up from 5.5 percent in January and down
from 6.9 percent in December.  Andean peers  Colombia  and Peru also will beat the region’s
average in 2012, climbing 4.7 percent and 5.5 percent
respectively, according to the Washington-based lender.  Inflation Expectations  Chile’s central bank raised its 2012 inflation forecasts to
3.5 percent this month from 2.7 percent after consumer prices
exceeded the upper limit of its 2 percent to 4 percent target
range for three straight months, before easing to 3.8 percent in
March.  “Inflation, with volatility, is in the upper level of the
tolerance range, while core inflation measures are around 3
percent,” the central bank said in a statement accompanying
yesterday’s decision. “Inflation expectations remain around the
target in the projection horizon.”  Consumer prices will rise 3.8 percent in Chile this year,
missing the South American average of 7.4 percent, according to
the IMF. Prices in Colombia and  Peru  will increase 3.5 percent
and 3.3 percent respectively, the fund said.  Colombia in February raised its key interest rate to 5.25
percent in a bid to stabilize the fastest economic growth since
2006 before keeping the rate unchanged in March, while Peru has
kept borrowing costs unchanged at 4.25 percent for 11 months.  ‘Demand’ Concern  The fund warned against monetary easing in a region where
growth will exceed the global average and inflation still
remains above the midpoint of target ranges.  “Policies must be alert to domestic overheating and must
build on a strong foundation of prudential measures developed
during the most recent periods of robust capital flows,” it
said in the report.  Chile’s next  interest rate  move needs to be an increase as
policy makers strive to contain growth and inflation, Alfredo Coutino,  Latin America  director at Moody’s Analytics, said in an
April 5 note to investors.  “If policy makers do not act quickly, the economy will be
fully immersed in the overheating territory,” Coutino wrote.
“If monetary conditions remain in the expansionary zone for a
more prolonged time, the excess demand will accommodate more in
consumer prices and imports, thus deteriorating inflation
prospects and the external balance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 