-- China Lowers Producer Subsidies on Ethanol From Grain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-18T04:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/china-lowers-producer-subsidies-on-ethanol-from-grain.html
China , the second-biggest corn
consumer, lowered subsidies for producers of grain-based ethanol
by more than half in the latest move to curb industrial use and
ensure livestock-feed supply.  Producers now get 500 yuan ($79) for a ton of ethanol made
with corn or other grain, down from 1,276 yuan last year, COFCO
Biochemical Co. said in a  statement  dated April 16 to the
Shenzhen Stock Exchange, citing a Ministry of Finance order.
Subsidies on ethanol from non-grain crops such as cassava will
be 750 yuan, it said, without giving a previous figure.  Corn prices in China surged to a record this year as rising
demand from producers of hogs, cattle and poultry outpaced
production. The nation may more than quadruple corn imports to 4
million tons in the 2011-2012 marketing year, according to the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture .  “It’s obvious the government is phasing out corn-based
ethanol, because we no longer have the luxury of a surplus,”
 Zhang Qi , an analyst at Yigu Information Consulting Ltd., said
from Heilongjiang. With rising gasoline prices, losses from
producing ethanol are shrinking, so “it doesn’t make sense to
continue subsidizing this industry,” he said.  China started its ethanol policy about 10 years ago when it
was a corn exporter, to absorb low-quality inventory caused by a
glut and lack of storage, Zhang said. The mandate created
ethanol production capacity of 1.35 million tons, using 4
million tons to 5 million tons of corn each year, he said.  In November, the government said it would discontinue
rebates on value-added taxes paid on grain-based ethanol by
2015.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: William Bi in
Beijing at   wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  