-- China Home Prices Fall in More Than Half Cities Tracked
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-18T08:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/china-home-prices-fall-in-more-than-half-cities-tracked.html
China ’s home prices fell in a
record 37 of 70 cities tracked by the government in March as
officials pledged to keep restrictions on property purchases
that have sapped buyer demand.  The eastern city of Wenzhou led declines with a 9 percent
slump in values from a year earlier, while Beijing and Shanghai
recorded drops of 0.8 percent, according to data released by the
statistics bureau today.  Today’s release underscores forecasts for China’s economic
growth to slow further this quarter after the rate reached the
lowest level in almost three years in the three months through
March. Momentum in the real-estate industry is “too strong to
reverse” for now, according to  Li Daokui , a former adviser to
the nation’s central bank.  “Alternative drivers of GDP growth will have to take some
time to come in, to fill in the vacuum,” Li said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television from Sydney, citing water,
rail and public-housing projects as future contributors to the
expansion. Policy makers are aiming to balance reining in
property speculation without hobbling growth, he said.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rose 2 percent, part
of a rally across  Asia  after the  International Monetary Fund 
boosted global economic estimates and  Spain  sold more debt than
targeted.  Acceleration Seen  China’s growth will slowly accelerate in the second half of
2012 after marking a “lower point” this quarter, according to
comments by Zhu Baoliang, chief economist at the State
Information Center’s forecast department at a Beijing seminar
today that were posted on a website controlled by the State
Council Information Office.  China’s State Council, or Cabinet, last week pledged to
stick with existing property controls. The government has
toughened requirements for down-payments and mortgages, and
imposed restrictions on the number of homes each family is
allowed to buy.  The drop in March  home prices  compares with 27 cities that
registered a decrease in February, according to data today from
the nation’s statistics bureau. The bureau switched from a
national average to individual figures for the 70 cities at the
start of last year.  “The falling trend in prices reflects government policies,
and these are unlikely to change this year, which is
discouraging buyers,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist with Credit Agricole CIB, said in an e-mail. “The
housing market is the main risk to China’s soft landing, one
that we think will be controlled by the government but also one
that needs to be closely watched.”  Wenzhou Squeeze  Wenzhou posted the biggest drop for the fifth month,
according to the data. A credit squeeze on smaller businesses in
the city prompted a visit and pledge of financial aid from
Premier  Wen Jiabao  in October.  Among the major cities, Shenzhen declined 0.6 percent,
while Guangzhou decreased by 0.3 percent from a year earlier.
Compared with the previous month, prices fell in 46 cities, the
statistics bureau said in the statement, after 45 declines
recorded in February.  New home prices in Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen and
Guangzhou, so-called first-tier or more affluent cities, dropped
for a sixth month. Private data have also shown a sustained
cooling in the housing market. Home prices fell for the seventh
month in March from February, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
the nation’s biggest real-estate website owner.  The country’s economy grew a less-than-forecast 8.1 percent
in the first three months of 2012 from a year earlier, the
slowest pace in 11 quarters, the government said last week.  Yuan Trading Band  Even so, China’s doubling of the yuan trading band
effective April 16 signaled official confidence in the strength
of the economy’s expansion and suggests policy making is
unimpeded by the ouster of Bo Xilai from the Communist Party
leadership.  Elsewhere in the world,  Sweden ’s central bank today left
its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 1.5 percent amid signs
the largest Nordic economy will avoid a recession after policy
makers across  Europe  stepped in to ease debt crisis concerns.
The move was predicted by 14 of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  U.K. jobless claims rose by 3,600 in March from February,
less than economists forecast, and a broader measure of
unemployment fell for the first time for almost a year. The  Bank
of England  released meeting minutes showing  Adam Posen  ended his
push for further stimulus as officials said inflation may turn
out faster than forecast.  South Africa ’s consumer price  index (SHCOMP)  increased 6 percent in
March from a year earlier, slower than the 6.1 percent recorded
in February and matching the median estimate of 18 economists.  In  North America , the Bank of  Canada  will release its
quarterly monetary policy report later today.  ‘Most Difficult’  China’s private housing market may see its “most difficult
period” in the first half with “some stabilization” after
that, JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists, led by Zhu Haibin in  Hong
Kong , said in a research note on April 13.  Existing home prices in Beijing fell 3.4 percent last month
from a year earlier, while those in Shanghai dropped 1 percent,
according to the bureau.  Ma Xiaoming, a senior statistician in the statistics
bureau’s Urban Department, said in a statement today that a
doubling, to eight, in cities reporting month-to-month price
gains shows that “upward pressure on home prices” remains.
Property curbs “shouldn’t be loosened,” Ma said.  Banks in the major cities of Beijing,  Shanghai  and
Guangzhou are offering as much as a 15 percent discount off the
benchmark interest rate on loans to first-home buyers, China
Securities Journal reported last week, citing property agents it
didn’t identify. The central bank said last month it will ensure
“loan demand from first-home families” is met.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  