-- China Rate Swaps Climb as Bets on Reserve-Ratio Cuts Reined In
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-04-18T08:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/china-rate-swaps-climb-as-bets-on-reserve-ratio-cuts-reined-in.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps rose
for the first time in four days on speculation a pickup in
lending will deter policy makers from easing banks’ reserve
requirements.  Banks extended 1.01 trillion yuan ($160 billion) of new
loans in March, the most in a year, the People’s Bank of China
said on April 12. That exceeded all 28 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. The central bank last reduced the
proportion of cash that lenders must set aside in February,
lowering the reserve-requirement ratio for major lenders by half
a percentage point to 20.5 percent.  “Investors are not betting on aggressive easing, so front-
end rates are a bit sticky,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist
at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “Given the rise in March
loans, investors have reduced bets on a reserve-requirement cut
this month,” she said.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, increased three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.24 percent in  Shanghai , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It reached a one-month high of 3.29
percent on April 13.  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the financial system, was steady at 3.76 percent in Shanghai,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t gauge demand for bill
sales today, suggesting there will be no auction tomorrow,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions. The central bank asked banks to submit orders for 91-
day repurchase agreements, the trader said. Bill sales were
suspended in December to free up cash for lending and support
the economy as  Europe ’s debt crisis hurts exports.  Bonds Fall  The government sold at least 30 billion yuan of 10-year
bonds today at an average yield of 3.499 percent, according to a
trader at a  finance company  that participates in government debt
auctions. That was lower than the median estimate of 3.515
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 finance companies.  The yield on 3.44 percent government bonds due June, 2016
rose three basis points to 3.14 percent, according to the
National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim
In Singapore at   kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  