-- China Sky Ex-Director Takes on Singapore Bourse on Rebuke
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-04-18T11:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/china-sky-ex-director-takes-on-singapore-bourse-on-rebuke.html
Yeap Wai Kong, one of  China Sky
Chemical Fibre Co. (CSCF) ’s former independent directors, is
challenging the  Singapore  Exchange in court, arguing the bourse
was wrong in publicly reprimanding him in December.  The exchange had been “tyrannous in the use of its
strength,” Yeap’s lawyer Tan Cheng Han told Singapore’s High
Court today at the start of a three-day hearing.  China Sky and its directors have clashed with Singapore
regulators following their refusal to heed a Nov. 16 directive
by the exchange to appoint a special auditor. The Commercial
Affairs Department is also probing the Chinese nylon-fiber maker
for possible breaches of securities laws after a “number of
irregularities” were discovered by the Singapore Exchange Ltd.,
also known as SGX.  “Stand-offs like the one in  China  Sky would only spook
investors,” said Eugene Tan, a law professor at the  Singapore
Management University . “Enforcement is the flavor of the day
and there may well be a perception that Singapore is upping the
ante here.”  China Sky had intended to comply with the exchange’s
directive, contrary to the bourse’s impression, and had sought
to understand the basis for appointing the auditor, Yeap, said
in a Feb. 26 e-mailed statement.  “My point was SGX could not simply base on its
‘impression’ to issue reprimands,” Yeap, 42, said at the time.  Non-Compliance  Yeap, who was appointed to China Sky’s board in May 2011,
quit in January and declined to comment today. China Sky’s two
other independent directors Er Kwong Wah and Lai Seng Kwoon quit
on the same day as Yeap, citing non-compliance with the bourse’s
order.  Yeap was “part of a collective and determined effort on
the part of the directors of the company to stymie the
exchange’s repeated efforts to get to the bottom of issues,”
 Singapore Exchange (SGX) ’s lawyer  Davinder Singh  said in his opening
statement today. He “now complains of unfairness.”  Singapore Exchange said Feb. 22 it’s prepared to review the
reprimand of Yeap, which is separate from the probe by the
white-collar crime agency.  ‘Permanent Blemish’  “SGX has clearly breached the rules of natural justice”
by not informing him of the rebuke ahead of time and giving him
an opportunity to respond, Yeap said in his February statement.
“If not dealt with, the public reprimand would constitute a
permanent blemish on my record,” he said.  The white-collar crime agency, which began the probe on
Feb. 16, is examining possible offenses that include false and
misleading statements as well as failure to disclose material
information, according to the filing.  Such offenses may be punishable with a criminal fine of as
much as S$250,000 ($200,000) and a jail term of as long as seven
years or a fine of as much as S$2 million as a civil penalty.  China Sky, based in Quanzhou City, Fujian, China, has
disputed that it breached any listing rules or securities laws.  The  Singapore Exchange  sued China Sky in a separate lawsuit
on Jan. 6 to compel it to appoint a special auditor to look into
deals between the firm and its Audit Committee Chairman Lai as
well as an aborted land acquisition in China. The exchange had
questioned the independence of Lai whose accounting firm
provided services to China Sky. The case was dropped on Jan. 16,
without a reason provided.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore , which oversees the
bourse, on March 28 sought a court order to freeze the assets of
former China Sky Chief Executive Officer Huang Zhong Xuan.  “We should not look at all the actions and think that the
regulators are somehow getting together to punish the company
and its directors because the company challenged SGX,” said Mak
Yuen Teen, a finance professor at the  National University  of
Singapore.  The case is Yeap Wai Kong v Singapore Exchange Securities
Trading Ltd. OS72/2012 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  