-- China Must Control Steel Output Amid Weak Demand, Grouping Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-18T09:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/china-must-control-steel-output-amid-weak-demand-grouping-says.html
China , the world’s biggest steel
producer and user, must regulate output as profit for mills
declines amid high input costs and low demand and product
prices, an industry grouping said.  “The winter for the steel industry has come -- we will
have to control output and watch for high inventory,” Zhang Changfu, general secretary of the China Iron and Steel
Association, told reporters today in Beijing. “There’s no sign
the weak demand for steel products will change. Major steel
users such as property, auto, shipbuilding and infrastructure
have all slowed their growth or even declined.”  China boosted steel output to a record last month as new
plants increased production. The country’s  gross domestic
product  growth slowed to 8.1 percent in the first quarter as
exports and domestic demand cooled, putting pressure on Premier
 Wen Jiabao  to loosen policy further and shore up expansion in
the world’s second-biggest economy.  Crude-steel output climbed 3.9 percent to 61.58 million
metric tons in March from a year earlier, according to the
National Bureau of Statistics. China’s steel capacity may exceed
900 million metric tons by the end of this year from 850 million
tons in 2011, researcher Custeel.com analyst Hu Zhengwu said
last week. Output may rise to about 720 million tons this year,
he said.  “The inventory of five major steel products at 26 steel
markets nationwide was 17.89 million tons, up 39 percent from
the beginning of this year,” Zhang said. The trend of rising
input costs is unlikely to reverse in the short term as “the
companies’ funding costs,  iron ore  price, labor, energy and
environmental protection investments are all rising,” he said.  Iron Ore Supply  The association’s latest survey of major Chinese  steel
mills  showed they collectively had a loss of more than 1 billion
yuan ($159 million) in the first quarter, compared with a profit
of 25.8 billion yuan a year earlier.  The current situation in the  steel industry  will affect the
upstream raw materials market, he said.  “The fundamentals of the iron ore market are changing,
with demand growth slowing but supply growth accelerating,”
Zhang said. China’s iron ore production is rising and was enough
to produce the additional steel last year.  China now has more than 100 million tons of iron ore at
ports, also signaling weak demand and rising supply, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  