-- Chinese Espionage Campaign Targets U.S. Space Technology
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-04-18T23:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/chinese-espionage-campaign-targets-u-s-space-technology.html
China  is stealing U.S. military and
civilian space technology in an effort to disrupt U.S. access to
intelligence, navigation and communications satellites,
according to a report from the State and Defense Departments.  “China’s continuing efforts to acquire U.S. military and
dual-use technologies are enabling China’s science and
technology base to diminish the U.S. technological edge in areas
critical to the development of weapons and communications
systems,” the report released yesterday found. “Additionally,
the technologies China has acquired could be used to develop
more advanced technologies by shortening Chinese R&D cycles.”  Two U.S. intelligence officials said that while the Chinese
military isn’t preparing to fight a major land war, its goal is
to deny the U.S. military access to the other four arenas in
which a war might be fought -- the seas around China, the
airspace surrounding the country, space, and cyberspace. The
officials spoke on condition of anonymity because intelligence
matters are classified.  Because China’s closed political system discourages the
independent thinking that spawns innovation, the Chinese rely
heavily on stealing and reverse-engineering new technologies
from  Europe  and America, both officials said.  “Economic espionage, supported by extensive open-source
research, computer network exploitation and targeted
intelligence operations also enables China to obtain
technologies to supplement indigenous military modernization
efforts,” the State and Defense departments said in an appendix
to yesterday’s report. The agencies said China should be
excluded from recommendations they made to ease restrictions on
exports of communications and remote-sensing satellites and
equipment.  Chinese Denial  Chinese officials have denied their government is behind
cyber espionage or hacker attacks on computer systems, calling
such assertions a “Cold War ghost.”  Citing the Pentagon’s  Defense Security Service , the U.S.
departments said yesterday that  “countries from the East Asia
and Pacific region” are focusing their efforts on information
systems technology used in military command, control,
communications, and computers, as well as in intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance applications.  In one episode cited, Chi Tong Kuok from Macau, China, was
convicted in September 2010 of conspiring to export U.S.
encryption technology used by U.S. and North Atlantic Treaty
Organization forces to China through  Hong Kong .  ‘Blind and Deafen’  The U.S. Departments of Commerce and Justice also have
identified at least 26 major cases since 2006 in which China has
tried to acquire power amplifiers with military applications,
space-launch technical data and services, Delta IV rockets,
information on cruise-missile design and military grade
accelerometers, which are used in designing and testing
aircraft, missiles, and other military equipment, according to
the report.  The Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s goals are clear,
according to the report, which cited PLA writings about the
necessity of “destroying, damaging, and interfering” with
reconnaissance and communications satellites in order to “blind
and deafen the enemy.”  The same PLA analysis of U.S. and allied military
operations says that “destroying or capturing satellites and
other sensors ... will deprive an opponent of initiative on the
battlefield and (make it difficult) for them to bring their
precision-guided weapons into full play,” according to the U.S.
report.  Navigation Satellites  In designing its constellation of navigation satellites,
the PLA is using the same downlink frequencies as Europe’s
 Galileo Global Navigation System , according to the report, which
said that doing so will enable China to jam the common satellite
communications channels and global-positioning system (GPS)
receivers.  Thanks in part to its successful espionage efforts, which
included obtaining the plans to America’s now-retired space
shuttle, China has made a great leap forward in space, the
report found. China had a national record of 15 space launches
in 2010, compared with 14 by the U.S., including nine new
remote-sensing satellites that can be used for both military and
civilian purposes.  This year, China is expected to complete work on the
Wenchang Satellite Launch Center on the southern Hainan Island,
the U.S. departments said.  Beyond space technology, China has been cited by the U.S.
as a center for computer hacking to steal information or
compromise corporate and government systems.  Two Chinese nationals were charged by the U.S. for
illegally exporting technology to their home country and
pirating software from U.S. companies including  Agilent
Technologies Inc. (A) , federal officials said yesterday.  Xiang Li, 35, and Chun Yan Li, 33, a married couple from
 Chengdu , China, were indicted by a federal grand jury in
Wilmington,  Delaware , according to a statement by the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  