-- Citigroup’s Pandit Lists Greenwich Home at $4.3 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-04-18T17:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/citigroup-s-pandit-lists-greenwich-home-at-4-3-million.html
Vikram Pandit, the chief executive
officer of  Citigroup Inc. (C) , put his home in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , on the market for $4.3 million, about 5 percent
more than he paid for it almost 11 years ago.  The six-bedroom, six-bathroom house on Pecksland Road was
put up for sale on April 4, according to property listing
records. The 5,623-square-foot (522-square-meter) colonial,
built in 1939, sits on 2.37 acres (0.96 hectares) that include
an in-ground pool, gardens and “rolling grounds.”  “Traditional elegance at its best,” reads  the listing  by
Debby Gardiner, a broker with  Sotheby’s International Realty  in
Greenwich. “This timeless residence includes a wood-paneled
library, updated eat-in kitchen with adjacent family room, lower
level playroom and two-car garage.”  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup,
didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message and e-mail.
Gardiner said by phone that she couldn’t immediately comment.
The listing was reported this week by the Real Estalker blog.  Pandit, 55, bought the home in June 2001 for $4.1 million,
according to the Greenwich assessor’s office, which estimated
its market value at $3.2 million in October 2010. The property’s
annual tax bill, on which Pandit is current, is $22,887,
according to the town’s tax collector’s office.  Falling Prices  The median sales price of a home in Greenwich, which lies
about 30 miles (48 kilometers) northeast of midtown  Manhattan ,
fell 32 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier to
$1.33 million, according to data compiled by agent  John Cooke  of
Prudential Connecticut Realty. Much of the sales activity was
for houses less than $2 million, the data show.  Two homes priced between between $4 million and $4.9
million changed hands in the quarter, compared with seven a year
ago.  Through the end of March, there were 38 homes listed for
sale between $4 million and $5 million, according to data
compiled by  Mark Pruner , a Greenwich-based agent with Prudential
Connecticut Realty and author of the real estate blog
 Greenwichstreets.com . That’s about a two-year supply of
inventory in that  price range , he said.  “It’s a good time to put it on because we do have a lot of
people who are looking to spend their bonus at this time of
year,” Pruner said. “However, most of the activity by the
people with the bonuses has been in the $1.5 to $3 million
range.”  Citigroup, the third-biggest  U.S. bank , gave Pandit $14.9
million in total compensation for 2011, including $1.67 million
in salary and a $5.33 million cash bonus, according to
regulatory filings. The lender’s shareholders yesterday rejected
an executive pay plan in a non-binding vote amid criticism it
let the CEO collect rewards too easily.  Pandit lists the Citigroup building at 399 Park Ave. in  New
York  as his primary mailing address for all Greenwich tax bills
and municipal correspondence, a sign that he doesn’t reside full
time at the Connecticut home, according to the assessor’s
office. Pandit also owns a co-operative apartment on Manhattan’s
Upper West Side, which he bought from the estate of late actor
Tony Randall in 2007 for $17.9 million, city property records
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  