-- Clean-Energy Advocates Urge Overhaul as Aid Shrinks 75% by 2014
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-04-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/clean-energy-advocates-urge-overhaul-as-aid-shrinks-75-by-2014.html
The U.S. needs new methods to
support clean-energy development as federal spending is set to
plummet in six years to $11 billion from $44.3 billion in 2009,
according to a report.  Analysts from three public-policy groups, including the
 Brookings Institution , recommend the U.S. develop a system that
rewards technological advances and stresses research and
development to maximize diminishing resources.  President  Barack Obama ’s 2009 stimulus program accounted
for one-third of the record $150 billion in tax breaks, grants
and loans or guarantees available to clean-energy companies in
the six years covered by the report. As Congress focuses on
deficit reduction, the report’s authors say policymakers need to
consider how the aid is disbursed within existing financial
constraints or risk a clean-energy industry crash.  “It’s a very difficult budget environment,” said Letha
Tawney, a senior associate at the World Resources Institute, a
Washington-based group that promotes environmental protection.
“You need to make a very strong argument for how you are using
taxpayer money well.”  Abandoning U.S. aid for clean energy means ceding a multi-
trillion-dollar market to other countries, she said.  Analysts from Washington-based Brookings, the World
Resources Institute and the Breakthrough Institute in Oakland,
 California , wrote the report. They plan to brief congressional
staff and Energy Department officials next week on their
recommendations.  Threefold Rise  The $150 billion projected to be spent on clean-energy
programs from 2009-2014 is more than triple the amount for the
previous six years, according to the report. While the report
doesn’t recommend a spending amount, the authors say the recent
financial support is unsustainable.  A 2.2-cent-per kilowatt hour production tax credit for wind
energy shows the importance of the aid. The credit brings the
“levelized” cost of electricity -- a combination of
construction and operating costs -- for wind to $35 to $65 per
megawatt-hour, depending on the region. That makes the resource
competitive with natural gas, with costs of as low as $52 a
megawatt-hour, according to the report.  Take away the credit, which is set to expire at the end of
this year, and wind costs rise to more than $90 a megawatt-hour
from $60.  Wind power increased 60 percent and solar power 120 percent
from 2008 to 2010, aided by subsidies, according to the report.  Extension Sought  The American  Wind Energy  Association, whose members include
Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co., is lobbying
to extend the break for four years. The report assumes the
credit expires at the end of 2012.  As stimulus projects end and other subsidies expire, the
U.S. clean-energy industry risks a collapse without some
overhaul of the federal system that backs it, the report said.  Jesse Jenkins, director of energy and climate policy for
the Breakthrough Institute, said in an interview the U.S. should
reward the most competitive technologies through programs such
as a reverse auction in California, where renewable-power
providers bid to win service contracts.  The U.S. should “harness competition and reward market
leaders,” he said.  The report recommends tripling the $4.7 billion spent a
year on energy research, development and demonstration, and
replacing the Energy Department’s loan guarantee program that
backed failed solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC with a Clean Energy
Deployment Administration independent of the department.  Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat and chairman
of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, has introduced
legislation to create a so-called green bank. Senators have been
unable to agree about how to pay for the organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  