-- Clemens Says Pettitte Testimony Shouldn’t Prove HGH Use
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-04-19T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/clemens-says-u-s-shouldn-t-use-pettitte-to-prove-hgh-use.html
Former New York Yankees pitcher
 Roger Clemens , standing trial for the second time on charges he
lied about drug use, opposed federal prosecutors’ efforts to
prove he used human growth hormone based on testimony from
former teammate  Andy Pettitte .  Clemens’s lawyers, in a filing yesterday with U.S. District
Judge  Reggie Walton  in Washington, decried what they called an
attempt to prove “guilt by association” by having Pettitte
testify he obtained HGH from Clemens’s trainer,  Brian McNamee ,
without having to show Clemens played any role in the decision
to do so.  “The government seeks to create an environment in which a
juror may conclude that Mr. McNamee’s injection of Mr. Pettitte
makes it more likely that Mr. McNamee also injected Mr.
Clemens,” according to the filing, which asks the judge to deny
a U.S. request to introduce such evidence. “This evidence is
irrelevant and prejudicial because the two issues, according to
Mr. Pettitte himself, are entirely unrelated.”  Clemens is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury in connection with a
congressional probe of ballplayers’ alleged use of performance-
enhancing drugs. If convicted on all counts, he may face as long
as 30 years in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  Relevant Testimony  Prosecutors in an April 16 filing said testimony that
Pettitte used human growth hormone injected by McNamee is
relevant to their case.  “You cannot strip out half of the narrative and have it
make any sense,” prosecutor Steven Durham told Walton during a
pause in jury selection.  Clemens, 49, made his Major League Baseball debut in 1984
and played for four different teams over 23 years. Clemens and
Pettitte were teammates with the Yankees and the  Houston Astros .  Walton last year declared a mistrial after prosecutors
introduced evidence he had previously barred. Jury selection in
the retrial began on April 16.  Walton spent most of yesterday on jury selection, which he
said will probably continue next week as the court narrows the
juror pool to 36 from an initial 90. The court will whittle that
to 12 jurors and four alternates. A total of 24 potential jurors
had been selected before the Pettitte testimony was discussed.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  