-- Coach Petrino Firing Leads to $1.25 Million Donation to Arkansas
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-04-18T14:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/coach-petrino-firing-leads-to-1-25-million-donation-to-arkansas.html
The  University of Arkansas  received
$1.25 million in donations from the Donald W. Reynolds
Foundation and its board chairman that cite the “courageous
leadership” of the athletic director in firing football coach
Bobby Petrino.  Petrino was dismissed on April 10, nine days after he was
injured in a motorcycle accident and then covered up the fact
that a female football staff member also was on the bike. The
former coach later acknowledged having an “inappropriate
relationship” with the woman, 25-year-old Jessica Dorrell, who
has since resigned from her job.  Athletic Director Jeff Long accused the 51-year-old
Petrino, who led the Razorbacks to a Cotton Bowl win and a No. 5
final ranking in the Associated Press college football poll last
season, of a “pattern of misleading and manipulative
behavior.”  The Las Vegas-based Reynolds Foundation gave $1 million,
the university said in a statement. Foundation Chairman Fred W. Smith donated $250,000 to support the school’s Student-Athlete
Success Center and what will now be called the Jeff Long
Student-Athlete Development Program.  “Mr. Long acted with integrity and with the best interests
of Razorback student-athletes and the University of  Arkansas  in
mind,” Smith said in a statement released by the university.  Petrino had a 34-17 record in four seasons at Arkansas,
with total pay last year of $3.6 million, according to
university records.  The Reynolds Foundation said on its  website  that it is
dedicated to helping communities in Arkansas, Nevada and
 Oklahoma ; speeding research on atherosclerosis and
atherosclerotic  heart disease ; aiding physician training in
treating the elderly; and improving quality and integrity in
journalism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  