-- Coca-Cola Teams Up With Spotify in Music-Sharing Deal
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-04-18T17:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/coca-cola-teams-up-with-spotify-in-music-sharing-deal.html
(Corrects name of investor in final paragraph.)  Spotify Ltd. will incorporate its
music streaming service with  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s Internet marketing,
to help raise awareness and draw users.  The music-streaming service will be “the key underlying
technology for Coca-Cola Music globally” and the soft-drink
maker will “integrate Spotify into its Facebook presence,”
Atlanta-based Coca-Cola said today in a joint  statement  with
London-based Spotify.  Spotify’s top priority is to attract more paying
subscribers and users to its advertising-supported service,
Daniel Ek, founder and chief executive officer, said in an April
13 interview in the Swedish newspaper Dagens Industri. The
company created a “play” button last week that allows legal
streams of songs and albums to be embedded on websites. EK also
added an artist radio feature that plays music by a particular
band and similar acts, to compete with  Pandora Media Inc. (P)   The deal with Coca-Cola will “will help bring Spotify to
more parts of the world,” Ek told reporters in New York today.  Paying Listeners  Spotify added 500,000 subscribers two months after the
service became available on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social network, the
company said in November, bringing the number of paying
listeners to 2.5 million. Listeners pay $4.99 for the service on
personal computers or $9.99 for PCs and mobile devices.  The service is also trying to win over artists. Adele, the
Black Keys, Coldplay and  Tom Waits  have withheld new releases
from Spotify, which began U.S. service in July. Last week, the
company announced exclusive access to songs and albums by the
Red Hot Chili Peppers.  The company is also facing competition from other
subscription music services including Rdio Inc., as well as
online ventures by  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s MTV, AOL Inc. and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   Spotify lost about $59 million on revenue of $250 million
last year, Ek said in the Dagens Industri interview. The service
paid about $150 million to rights holders in 2011, compared with
$55 million in 2010.  The company raised $100 million last year from venture
capital investors including DST Global, Accel Partners and
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, achieving a valuation of about
$1 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  