-- Cocoa Snaps Longest Rally in 5 Months; Sugar Falls
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-04-18T19:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/cocoa-snaps-longest-rally-in-5-months-sugar-falls.html
Raw sugar fell to a 10-month low on
renewed concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will crimp global
economic growth, eroding commodity demand. Cocoa dropped, while
coffee rose.  U.S. and European equities declined after Intel Corp. and
International Business Machines posted the slowest sales growth
in years and bad loans surged in Spain. India, the world’s
second-biggest sugar producer, will consider allowing mills to
export an additional 1 million metric tons next week to ease a
surplus, according to an official with direct knowledge of the
matter.  “Demand is an issue, and supplies are available,”  Jack Scoville , a vice president for Price Futures Group in Chicago,
said in an e-mail.  Raw sugar for July delivery sank 2.5 percent to settle at
22.01 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
Earlier, prices touched 21.95 cents, the lowest since May 25.  India ’s government had already authorized shipments of 3
million tons in the season that began Oct. 1 after output
outpaced domestic demand for a second year. A panel of ministers
may decide on more exports on April 25, Food Minister K.V.
Thomas told reporters in  New Delhi  today.  Price movements “will depend on what happens in India next
week, although the market seems to be anticipating the
approval,”  Michael McDougall , senior vice president at Newedge
Group in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Brazil’s real slid amid bets the central bank will cut
 interest rates  today. The slumping currency may boost the
prospects of exports from the country, the biggest shipper and
producer, McDougall said.  Cocoa futures for July delivery fell 1.1 percent to $2,257
a metric ton on ICE, snapping a five-session rally, the longest
since late October.  Arabica-coffee futures for July delivery rose 0.2 percent
to $1.75 a pound in  New York , the first gain in four sessions.  In London futures trading, refined sugar and cocoa dropped
on NYSE Liffe. Robusta coffee advanced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  