-- Colleges Could Be Banned From Using U.S. Tax Money for Ads
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-04-18T18:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/colleges-could-be-banned-from-using-u-s-tax-money-for-ads-1-.html
U.S. colleges would be barred from
spending federal taxpayer money on advertising, marketing and
recruiting under a Senate bill targeting for-profit
institutions.  The 15 largest for-profit colleges, including  Apollo Group
Inc. (APOL) ’s University of Phoenix, spent a combined $3.7 billion, or
23 percent of their fiscal 2009 budgets, on advertising,
marketing and recruiting, according to a summary of the bill
proposed today by Democratic Senators  Tom Harkin  of  Iowa  and  Kay Hagan  of  North Carolina . Nonprofit colleges spend an average of
half a percent of revenue on marketing, the lawmakers said.  Congress, the U.S. Justice Department and state attorneys
general are scrutinizing the marketing practices of for-profit
colleges, which have higher student-loan default rates than
traditional institutions and can rely on federal financial aid
for as much as 90 percent of their revenue. The institutions
enroll as many students as they can, skimping on instruction and
job placement counseling, Harkin and Hagan said.  “American taxpayers cannot afford, and should not be
asked, to subsidize massive advertising and marketing machines
aimed at recruiting more students who are supported by federal
financial aid programs,” Harkin, chairman of the Senate
education committee, and Hagan, a member, said in the bill
summary.  Phoenix-based Apollo, the largest for-profit college chain,
fell 0.4 percent to $35.98 at 2:33 p.m. in  New York . The
 Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit Education Index (USEDU) , which tracks 13
companies, dropped 0.7 percent.  Working Adults  For-profit colleges cater to working adults and other non-
traditional students who can’t be reached through a high school
guidance counselor, said Steve Gunderson, president of the
Washington-based Association of Private Sector Colleges and
Universities, which represents in the industry.  The bill “is clearly another attempt by some policy makers
to try and put private-sector colleges and universities out of
business,” Gunderson said in a statement. “It also reflects a
fundamental misunderstanding of the students we serve and the
public service we provide.”  The legislation has little chance of passing this year as
the presidential election approaches, said  Terry Hartle , senior
vice president at the Washington-based American Council on
Education, which primarily represents traditional colleges. It
would also be tough for the U.S. Education Department to define
marketing expenses through regulation, he said.  ‘Bad Actors’  “Like so many things that government does, this is an
important idea,” Hartle said in a telephone interview. “But it
would end up imposing a significant burden on all colleges and
universities because of a handful of bad actors.”  Richard Castellano, a spokesman for Apollo, while
criticizing the lawmakers’ “misleading rhetoric,” said he was
encouraged their legislation applied to all schools.  “Students choose University of Phoenix because our focus,
investments and resources are squarely in line with their
interests and success in our degree programs,” Castellano said
in an e-mail.  For-profit colleges advertise on the Internet, television,
radio and in print. They also operate  call centers  where
recruiters sign up students. Harkin and Hagan modeled today’s
bill on a 2008 statute that bars colleges from using federal
money for lobbying.  In February, lawmakers in the House and Senate, including
Harkin, introduced legislation aimed at curbing what sponsors
called aggressive marketing of subpar programs to veterans and
soldiers.  Paying Recruiters  In a civil-fraud lawsuit filed in August, the U.S. Justice
Department accused  Education Management Corp. (EDMC)  of securing more
than $11 billion in U.S. student aid by paying recruiters based
on the number of students signed up, a violation of rules for
colleges that receive federal grants and loans.  The company, the second-largest for-profit college company
and operator of a chain of art institutes, has denied the
allegations.  Jacquelyn Muller, an Education Management spokeswoman, said
the company had no comment because executives haven’t had an
opportunity to review the bill. Education Management, based in
Pittsburgh, gained 0.3 percent to $12.42.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  