-- Comeback Hopefuls MIA for 12 Years Key to Senate Control
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-04-18T13:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/comeback-hopefuls-mia-for-12-years-key-to-senate-control.html
Call them been-around-the-block
Senate hopefuls.  Four of the most contested U.S. Senate races in 2012
feature a former officeholder who hasn’t been on the ballot for
a dozen or more years. As majority control of the chamber might
come down to a seat or two, the question of whether voters again
embrace them -- and which ones -- may be decisive.  The comeback candidates are former  Nebraska  Senator and
Governor  Bob Kerrey , former Wisconsin Governor Tommy Thompson,
former North Dakota Attorney General Heidi Heitkamp and former
Maine Governor Angus King. Though they can tap the benefits of
name recognition, they haven’t been battle-tested in years.
Democrat Kerrey and Republican Thompson, in particular, have
reputations as pragmatic centrists and are re-emerging in a
polarized election year. Heitkamp is a Democrat and King is
independent.  “The world has changed enormously, and these candidates
have to show that they get that,” said  Jennifer Duffy , Senate
editor of the nonpartisan  Cook Political Report .  A quest to return after a hiatus is atypical, though not
unheard of, in Senate elections, said Don Ritchie, associate
Senate historian. Most recently, he said, Republican Senator  Dan Coats  of  Indiana  returned in 2011 after a decade away from the
chamber spent lobbying and serving as U.S. ambassador to
 Germany . Coats was previously in the Senate from 1989 to 1999.  ‘In the Blood’  “It gets in the blood politically,” Ritchie said.
“People think they’ve left it all behind, but then they hear
the siren call again.”  That doesn’t mean it will be easy. Kerrey last ran in 1994
and faces “carpetbagger” criticism in Nebraska after a decade
of living in New York City. Thompson, who left the Wisconsin
governor’s office in 2001, leads polls in the state’s Republican
primary, though he faces attack ads from conservative groups.  In North Dakota, former attorney general Heitkamp left
office in 2001 and is running in a Republican-leaning state.
King, an independent who hasn’t been on the ballot since 1998,
is the front-runner in polls in  Maine  and if elected could
choose which party leads the Senate if control comes down to one
vote.  Republicans currently hold 47 seats in the 100-member
Senate and have advantages in trying to gain the majority.
Democrats are encumbered by a sluggish economy and hold 23 of
the 33 seats on the ballot this year. Also, seven Democratic
incumbents are retiring, compared with three Republicans,
yielding open seats that pose opportunities for the rival party.  Shifting Politics  The electoral fate of the veteran candidates will rest on
factors including how their past positions play in 2012 and to
what degree state politics have shifted. All four states have
tilted more Republican and more conservative in recent years.  Kerrey, a former Navy SEAL who served in the Senate from
1989 to 2001, has the toughest battle of the four, said Stu Rothenberg, editor of the nonpartisan  Rothenberg Political
Report . Kerrey lived in  New York City  since leaving the Senate,
where he was president of the New School, a Greenwich Village
institution that touts its progressive and experimental
teaching.  After reversing a decision not to run in late February,
Kerrey used a friend’s guest house in Omaha as the address for
his voter registration, then survived a Republican Party
challenge to his residency that went to the Nebraska Supreme
Court. The matter is a central criticism of his candidacy.  ‘Dramatically Weaker’  “Kerrey is a dramatically weaker candidate than he was a
decade ago,” Rothenberg said. “Back then he was Bob Kerrey,
the guy who didn’t fit into the Democratic stereotype. He was
young and dashing. Now he’s the guy who’s lived in  New York  the
last decade that thinks he can just pick up and run back to
Nebraska.”  While Kerrey was known for bipartisanship in the Senate,
some of his past positions might be a tough sell in a state
where President  Barack Obama  received 42 percent of the vote in
2008. Moderate Democrat  Ben Nelson  decided to retire from the
Senate seat rather than face Nebraska voters again. Kerrey has
spoken in favor of Obama’s health-care overhaul and supports a
cap-and-trade system to limit greenhouse-gas emissions.  A Public Policy Polling  survey  conducted March 22-25 found
Kerrey trailing state Attorney General Jon Bruning, his most
likely Republican opponent, by 17 percentage points.  Reputation for Bipartisanship  Kerrey, who declined to be interviewed, is battling against
TV ads by Bruning, Americans for Prosperity and others
contending he’s an opportunistic outsider. He has done little
campaigning in the state though has been airing ads that tout
his ties to Nebraska and past reputation for bipartisanship.  “We need leaders willing to lead, willing to make the
tough decisions, willing to work with both parties,” Kerrey
said in an ad that aired in Omaha in March. “And I’m ready to
do that.”  Former Nebraska Senator Chuck Hagel, a Republican, said
Kerrey has longevity in Nebraska and a knack for retail
politics. Still, said Hagel, who won his seat in 1996 after he
had lived 20 years outside the state, it won’t be easy for
Kerrey.  “He doesn’t have the same liability I had,” Hagel said.
“But he’s going to have to work very, very hard to pull this
off.”  Thompson, who left the Wisconsin governorship in 2001 and
served four years as President  George W. Bush ’s Health and Human
Services secretary, has the broadest statewide name recognition
of the candidates in the race for the seat of retiring
Democratic Senator  Herb Kohl .  Governor Walker  His election bid is a test of whether Wisconsin voters will
support a centrist Republican two years after  Scott Walker  was
elected governor on pledges to slash taxes and spending, said
 Charles Franklin , a pollster and visiting professor of law and
public policy at Marquette University School of Law in
Milwaukee.  As governor, Thompson overhauled the welfare system and
established a school voucher program, which he promotes to
conservatives as accomplishments. Still, some of his past
positions -- including expanding Medicaid spending as part of a
state health-care overhaul and more school funding -- are
anathema to some conservative groups and Republican voters.  “The party has shifted in the time since he left office,”
Franklin said.  Leading the Field  Thompson led a field of Republican primary contenders in a
March 31-April 1 Public Policy Polling  survey , with 38 percent
supporting him. Former U.S. Representative Mark Neumann, his
closest opponent, had 25 percent. Neumann is backed by the Club
for Growth and a political action committee run by Republican
Senator  Jim DeMint  of  South Carolina , a Tea Party leader.  Thompson had a narrow lead over U.S. Representative Tammy Baldwin, the only Democrat running for the seat, in a March 26
Rasmussen survey. He had the support of 48 percent of 500 likely
voters surveyed, while she received 44 percent.  In  North Dakota , Heitkamp seeks to replace retiring
Democratic Senator  Kent Conrad  in a likely contest against
Republican U.S. Representative Rick Berg. As attorney general,
she represented North Dakota and 12 other states in a lawsuit
against  tobacco companies  that became part of a 1998 settlement.  Heitkamp has remained active in North Dakota politics in
her years out of office. She has worked on three ballot
initiatives, including one that required money from the national
tobacco settlement to be used for tobacco cessation programs.  Ticket-Splitting  Though she has a slight edge over her leading Republican
opponent, Rothenberg said, Heitkamp faces risks because Obama
won 42 percent of the 2008 vote in North Dakota. Heitkamp said
in an interview that she’s confident of her chances.  “North Dakota has always been a state that splits tickets
and votes its interests,” she said.  In Maine, former two-term governor King leads in polls in
the race to fill the Senate seat of retiring Republican Olympia Snowe. In a March 31-April 2 survey by the Maine People’s
Resource Center, 56 percent of 993 registered Maine voters said
they would vote for King over the next closest contender,
Republican Charles Summers, who had 21.8 percent.  King is stressing his independence and highlights an
abortion-rights, pro-environment agenda that helped keep Snowe
in the Senate for three terms. Republican Governor Paul LePage’s
election in 2010 on the strength of the Tea Party movement
doesn’t reflect a lasting shift in voter sentiment to the right,
King said in an interview.  He said he’s working to connect with a younger generation
of voters and adjusting to a changed world of campaigning that
has him hiring a full-time aide just to manage Facebook and
Twitter outreach for his election bid.  “I’m going to be asking people to vote for me who never
have before, that’s for sure,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  