-- Companies Flee Portugal’s Madeira Island to Escape Rising Taxes
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-18T14:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/companies-flee-portugal-s-madeira-island-to-escape-rising-taxes.html
About 1,000 companies left the
Portuguese island of Madeira between the start of 2011 and the
first quarter this year after the government said it would end
some tax incentives.  “Billions of euros are now being relocated to other low-
tax jurisdictions,” said Francisco Costa, president of
Madeira’s International Business Center, a program that seeks to
attract investors to the semi-autonomous Atlantic Ocean
archipelago.  Most left after the  Portuguese government  said it would
increase corporate and dividend taxes for IBC companies. More
recently, the government has announced that banks will start
paying taxes on interest earned from deposits, said Costa.  “These measures will continue to push companies to move
elsewhere,” he told reporters in Lisbon today.  Since the 1980s, banks and other companies have enjoyed
preferential tax treatment by registering through the Madeira
IBC.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (SID) ,  Brazil ’s third-largest
steelmaker by output, and Swatch Group AG were among the
companies to close their offices on the island, said Costa.  About 2,000 companies still operate from the IBC, compared
with about 6,000 in 2000, said Costa. The IBC is responsible for
about a fifth of the regional government’s tax take, he said.  The survival of the IBC is at stake if “the government
continues to make Madeira less attractive to foreign companies
by allowing certain tax incentives to be scrapped,” said Costa.  The Portuguese government is in talks with the European
Commission about a rule that establishes corporate tax discount
ceilings for IBC companies based on the number of jobs they
create, said Costa.  Madeira, known for its fortified wine and as the birthplace
for Real Madrid soccer star  Cristiano Ronaldo , runs an
independent budget and has its own government and parliament,
though the region cannot override the authority of the
government in Lisbon.  Portugal said last year that Madeira’s debt had risen to an
unsustainable 6.3 billion euros ($5.2 billion), prompting the
government to grant the region 1.5 billion euros in aid in
exchange for a pledge to increase taxes and cut spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  