-- Connect by Quickoffice Makes IPad, Android Work Together
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-04-18T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/connect-gets-ipad-android-to-work-together-tech.html
I’m writing this paragraph on an
Android phone. No, wait, a Mac. Now an iPad. And now a Windows
PC.  My digital flexibility is thanks to  Connect by Quickoffice ,
a new service and set of applications that let me keep all my
important documents constantly updated on whatever device I
happen to have with me.  Quickoffice is familiar to many mobile-device users for its
apps that create, open and edit files compatible with
Microsoft’s Office formats. Connect, which I’ve been using in
pre-release form for the last couple of weeks, provides an easy-
to-use conduit to make sure the various versions of those files
are always in sync, regardless of where they happen to
physically reside.  The proliferation of smartphones and tablets has made it
easier than ever to make changes on the go to a memo,
spreadsheet or presentation, and online-storage sites like
 Google (GOOG)  Docs and Dropbox let you upload a document from, say,
your desktop Windows PC, pull it down onto your iPad for a few
quick tweaks, then send it back to the Cloud.  But that means you now have two versions of your document
floating around: the latest one, on your iPad and the online
site, and the previous one, still residing on your PC’s hard
drive. Each additional device you use creates more opportunities
for confusion.  Completing the Circuit  Connect aims to solve that problem by completing the
circuit for you automatically. Any changes you make to a file
will be reflected on all your enrolled devices, assuring that
whatever version you summon, from wherever, will always be the
latest.  The concept is familiar to users of  Apple (AAPL) ’s iWork
applications -- Pages, Numbers and Keynote -- who already enjoy
similar functionality on their iPads and iPhones through Apple’s
 iCloud  service. But there’s not even an easy way yet to extend
that convenience to Mac computers. And Apple, of course, has
very little incentive to make it easier for you to use Android
phones and Windows PCs. That’s where Connect comes in.  The first step is to download the Connect software to each
of your various devices -- from the Apple App Store and Google
Play for iOS and Android devices, respectively, and from the
Quickoffice website for Windows PCs and Macs.  Automatic Upload  On each device, the software creates a folder called “My
Connect.” Any document you place in it is automatically
uploaded to the Quickoffice service, then pushed out to the My
Connect folders on all your other devices. In my tests, mostly
done before the service became publicly available, new or
changed documents were usually updated on other devices within
five minutes, though I sometimes experienced longer delays.  In addition to My Connect, you can also designate specific
folders on your computer to be available through Connect, and
you can allow other people access for collaborating purposes.
You can also tie in your existing cloud-storage accounts,
including Google Docs,  Microsoft (MSFT) ’s  SkyDrive ,  Dropbox ,  Evernote 
and  Box .  Besides passing this column around from device to device as
I was writing it, I designated a folder on my Windows PC whose
contents I wanted to make available on whatever gadget I
happened to be carrying. I also used Connect to import a
Powerpoint presentation from Google Docs onto an iPad, where I
used the Quickoffice editing tools to modify it, added it to the
My Connect folder and later summoned it on a Windows PC for some
further polishing.  Bumpy Process  The process was sometimes bumpy. For example, a Microsoft
Word document from my PC popped up normally on all my devices
except for my  Samsung (005930)  Droid Charge phone, where it appeared
grayed out and inaccessible, though other Word files showed up
fine. For a while, I could access Connect documents on my Mac,
but the ones I created there weren’t reaching my other devices.
A company engineer eventually helped me clear up that problem.  My issues may have stemmed from the fact that I was mostly
using early versions of the software, and when I encountered
problems I could still remotely search my devices for the file I
needed. Still, for Connect to live up to its promise, it will
need to deliver a more seamless experience than I encountered.  Connect has three levels of service. The free version is
limited to syncing two devices, and doesn’t include the tools
for making changes on your mobile devices. A premium edition --
$20 a year for now, eventually $45 -- is more useful, adding
editing capabilities and allowing you to enroll up to four
devices. A $70 tier allows six devices and additional features
that include being able to retrieve older versions of a
document.  If you’re already paying for cloud-based storage from
Dropbox or some other provider, you may decide that you can
manage to keep things straight on your own. But the more devices
you have, the more valuable you’ll find Connect.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include a review of  Tulsi 
restaurant and the  Pulitzer Prizes .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 