-- Copper Advances for Second Day on Demand Expectations
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-04-18T08:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/copper-advances-for-second-day-on-demand-expectation.html
Copper rose for a second day in
London on speculation demand will improve in  China , the biggest
global consumer of the metal.  Chinese growth will slowly accelerate in the year’s second
half after a “lower point” this quarter, said  Zhu Baoliang ,
chief economist at the State Information Center’s forecast
department. Chinese copper demand may gain more than 8 percent
annually in the next five years,  Andrew Harding , head of Rio
Tinto Group’s copper unit, said yesterday in an interview.  “Concerns over slowing growth for the world’s largest
copper user have probably been overdone,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , a
London-based analyst at VTB Capital, wrote in a report today.
“Beijing is simply seeking to sustain stable growth rates while
curbing the recent excess property speculation.”  Copper for three-month delivery advanced 0.4 percent to
$8,085 a metric ton by 9:27 a.m. on the  London  Metal Exchange.
Prices reached the lowest level since January last week. The
July-delivery contract rose 0.3 percent to $3.6645 a pound on
the Comex in  New York .  “Given the pull back in copper to levels not seen since
January, it is not surprising there has been some buying
interest around,”  William Adams , an analyst at Basemetals.com
in London, wrote in a report.  Copper for immediate delivery closed yesterday at a $114
premium to three-month metal on the LME, the widest so-called
backwardation since August 2008. A fee paid to borrow metal for
a day rose to an 11-year high of $40 a ton yesterday before
falling to $18 today. Today is the so-called prompt date by
which LME rules oblige holders of contracts to advise sellers
how they wish to settle the positions.  “Tightness in the spread ahead of the third Wednesday
(today) also suggests there has been some aggressive short-
covering and rolling forward of short positions,” Adams wrote.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the LME, down 30 percent
this year, were little changed today at 261,150 tons, daily
exchange figures showed.  Aluminum, nickel, lead and zinc gained in London. Tin
declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  