-- Couche-Tard Soars on Offer to Buy Statoil Fuel
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-04-18T20:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/couche-tard-offers-to-acquire-statoil-fuel-for-2-8-billion-1-.html
Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc. (ATD/B)  rose
the most in more than eight years after agreeing to buy  Statoil
Fuel & Retail ASA (SFR) , Scandinavia’s  biggest gas-station operator ,
for 15.9 billion kroner ($2.8 billion) to push into European
markets.  Couche-Tard, the largest independent convenience store
operator in  North America ,  rose  15 percent to close at C$39.60
in Toronto, the biggest increase since Oct. 6, 2003.  The cash offer of 53 kroner a share represents a 53 percent
premium for Statoil Fuel & Retail, the Laval, Quebec-based
company said today in a statement.  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s biggest
oil and gas producer, has agreed to sell its 54 percent stake in
the company.  “For us it’s great timing to enter this market, knowing
 Europe  eventually will solve their financial issues,” Chief
Executive Officer Alain Bouchard said at a press conference in
Oslo.  This would be Couche-Tard’s largest takeover since at least
1999, according data compiled by Bloomberg, surpassing its $830
million purchase of Circle K Stores Inc. in the U.S. in 2003.  Statoil Fuel, which has 2,300 convenience stations across
Scandinavia, the Baltics, Poland and  Russia , was taken public by
Statoil in 2010 through a $920 million offering. The company had
net income of 1.1 billion kroner last year, down from 1.6
billion kroner. Sales rose 12 percent to 74 billion kroner.  ‘Fair Price’  Statoil Fuel shares rose 17.75 kroner, or 51 percent, to
52.5 kroner in Oslo. Before the offer, the shares had declined
22 percent this year, adding to a 16 percent decline in 2011.  “It’s a fair price,” said Ivar Andreas Lemmechen Gjul, an
analyst with Fondsfinans ASA in Oslo. “Statoil Fuel & Retail
will provide them with a very strong footprint in Scandinavia
and Eastern Europe.”  Couche-Tard will gain access to consumers in regions where
growth is expanding faster than in the struggling 17-nation euro
area. The Nordic economies are estimated to grow 1 percent, on
average, this year the  International Monetary Fund  said
yesterday, and have emerged as a haven amid Europe’s debt
turmoil.  The company said the deal will be “immediately and
significantly accretive” to earnings per share and will give it
a presence in “profitable and resilient Scandinavian
countries,” according to the statement.  The company will keep the Statoil brand for more than nine
years.  New Credit Line  Couche-Tard has a network of 5,800  convenience stores  in 42
U.S. states and all 10 Canadian provinces. It unsuccessfully
tried to buy U.S. Convenience chain  Casey’s General Stores Inc. (CASY) 
in 2010 in an offer valued at about $1.42 billion, according to
Bloomberg data.  The offer will start no later than April 23, pending
approval from the Oslo exchange. The offer period will be 20
days.  Statoil “has accepted the 53 kroner to show commitment to
the other shareholders,” Lemmechen Gjul said. “It will focus
more on getting the deal through than pushing the deal
further.”  Couche-Tard expects to use its existing credit lines and a
new 3-year $3.2 billion acquisition credit line to finance the
offer, the company said.  Couche-Tard was advised by National Bank Financial, UBS AG,
Scotiabank, HSBC Holdings Plc, Rabobank International and Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi. Statoil Fuel was advised by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch and  ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA. (ASC)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  