-- Coyotes’ Torres Banned Indefinitely for Hit on Chicago’s Hossa
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-18T18:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/coyotes-torres-banned-indefinitely-for-hit-on-chicago-s-hossa.html
Phoenix Coyotes  forward Raffi Torres was suspended indefinitely by the  National Hockey League 
for a hit on  Marian Hossa  that left the Chicago Blackhawks’
forward on a stretcher.  Torres, 30, will meet with league officials on April 20 in
 New York  to discuss the play and his punishment, the NHL’s
Department of Player Safety announced today in a statement on
its website. The meeting, originally scheduled for today, was
pushed back at the request of Torres and the league’s  Players’
Association .  The hit came midway through the first period of the
Coyotes’ 3-2 overtime victory over the Blackhawks last night.
Torres left his feet and delivered a shoulder check to Hossa’s
head as the Blackhawks’ forward cut to the middle of the ice.
Torres wasn’t assessed a penalty on the play.  “I felt like it was a hockey play, I was just trying to
finish my hit out there,” Torres told reporters. “I hope he’s
all right.”  A five-time All-Star, Hossa stayed on the ice for over
three minutes before leaving on a stretcher and being taken to a
hospital.  The 33-year-old Hossa, who has a team-high 77 points this
season, suffered an “upper body blow” and is expected to make
a full recovery, team physician Michael Terry said today in a
statement on the Blackhawks’ website. Hossa is being monitored
at home following his release from the hospital and there’s no
timetable for his return, according to Terry.  The Coyotes lead the best-of-seven series 2-1. The teams
play Game 4 tomorrow in  Chicago .  Blackhawks defenseman Brent Seabrook suffered a concussion
during the 2011 playoffs following a hit from Torres, then a
forward with the  Vancouver Canucks . Torres wasn’t suspended for
that hit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  