-- Crocodile-Fighting Darwin Hits Gas-Fueled Economic Fast Lane
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-18T09:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/crocodile-fighting-darwin-hits-gas-fueled-economic-fast-lane-1-.html
Near the site where the first bomb
landed on  Australia  in World War II, Il Lido restaurant serves
watermelon cubes with aged balsamic vinegar at A$3 ($3.12) each
to diners overlooking a swimming lagoon and artificial wave pool.  This is the new face of Darwin, a transformation from the
capital of Australia’s hardest-drinking region, where a
crocodile is caught almost every day, into a boomtown enriched
by gas and bolstered by its location between the Pacific and
Indian Oceans, where Asia and Australia meet. The heart of the
change is a $34 billion liquefied natural gas project by  Inpex
Corp. (1605)  and  Total SA (FP)  that will help fuel  Japan  for four decades.  Darwin is in the express lane of Australia’s two-speed
economy -- a division the  Reserve Bank  of Australia used to
separate resource-rich regions in the north that are powering
growth and sucking in workers, from the tourism, manufacturing
and retailer industries of the southeast that are teetering
under a currency that has risen 65 percent in 3 1/2 years.  “This is Darwin’s century,” said Sean Kildare, Inpex
general manager in the city. “The economic development that got
Australia on its feet and got us going -- that happened in the
southern half of this country. That was last century. Above the
Tropic of Capricorn is what’s going on now and Darwin has the
central, iconic role to play.”  The Inpex-Total Ichthys project, worth double the size of
the surrounding Northern Territory economy, is spawning office
towers, waterside apartments, shopping malls, port facilities
and an expansion of the airport. Spending by households,
businesses and the government grew at a 26 percent annual pace
in the quarter ended Dec. 31, bureau of statistics data show.  U.S. Marines  Gas isn’t the only impetus to the region.  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA) ’s Silk Air unit began flights in March, bringing
gamblers to the city’s casino and Asian tourists to sample
Australia’s outback. U.S. marines arrived this month to a new
base near the city, which overlooks the strategic shipping lane
in the Timor Sea.  “We’ve not seen anything of the sheer scale and size of
this,” said Delia Lawrie, deputy chief minister of the
territory, which is almost twice the size of Texas. “The
Ichthys project really does put Darwin on the global LNG map.”  Asian demand for energy and metals has prompted the RBA to
maintain the highest benchmark  interest rate  among major
developed nations, at 4.25 percent. Investment in resources will
probably be equivalent to almost 10 percent of the nation’s
gross domestic product in 2012-13, up from an average 1.65
percent between 1960 and 2004, said James McIntyre of
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s biggest lender.  ‘Wall of Investment’  “One of the things significantly influencing the RBA is
the wall of foreign investment that’s hitting the economy, with
Ichthys the latest incarnation,” said McIntyre, a senior
economist in Sydney who worked at the Treasury for seven years.
While he expects the RBA to cut rates at its next meeting in May,
the major resources projects “could prove to be an obstacle to
further rate cuts,” he said.  The statistics bureau reported on April 12 that national
payrolls rose by 44,000 in March, almost seven times the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Australian
dollar traded at $1.0369 at 7 p.m. in Sydney, up 1.3 percent
this year.  The Northern Territory, of which Darwin is the capital,
contributed A$17.1 billion, or 1.2 percent, of the nation’s
A$1.4 trillion GDP in the fiscal year to June 2011.  Record Pipeline  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. (WPL)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  are among energy companies spending $180
billion to explore and develop gas fields in Australia. Ichthys
holds more than 12 trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to meet
Australia’s energy needs for 13 years, according to Inpex. Gas
will travel to Darwin via an 889-kilometer pipeline, the longest
in the Southern Hemisphere.  It marks the latest chapter for a city that has a history
of mineral booms and disasters. The one-time British garrison
was leveled by three cyclones and a Japanese attack that dropped
more bombs on the city than on Pearl Harbor.  Darwin was best known in Australia as a haven for runaway
husbands, fugitives and others looking for a fresh start. The
Northern Territory has drawn fortune hunters since the 1870s
gold rush lured Chinese migrants, whose knowledge of tropical
agriculture helped feed the growing settlement.  “We’ve always been the Asian city in Australia,” said
Lawrie, who is also minister for Asia relations. Asians make up
about 9 percent of Darwin’s population. The city’s newly elected
Mayor Katrina Fong Lim, a fifth-generation Australian-Chinese,
is following in the footsteps of her father, who ran the city
from 1984-1990.  New Prison  Another 11 percent of the population is  indigenous , the
highest proportion among Australia’s eight major cities.
Alcohol-fueled violence and crime in the territory’s aboriginal
communities prompted the federal government in 2007 to suspend
the Racial Discrimination Act and send in troops, a crackdown
that worsened the highest incarceration rate in Australia. As
the government begins the second phase of Darwin’s ritzy A$1
billion waterfront renovation, it’s also spending A$500 million
on a new prison.  At the same time, the region has a lower  unemployment rate 
than any of the nation’s six states. And Darwin, about the size
of Waco, Texas, has a younger population than the state capitals,
with an average age of 33.  Luxury Train  The speed of the city’s transformation has been dramatic --
Darwin didn’t have a rail connection to the rest of Australia
until 2004. Now tourists sip champagne and eat grilled kangaroo
fillet in the dining car of the 26-carriage luxury train,  The
Ghan , which takes more than two days to travel from Adelaide on
the southern coast.  The changes have created a clash of  old and new . Il Lido’s
glass, climate-controlled display of 1,200 bottles of Australian
and Italian wine contrasts with the beer-drinking culture that
gave the territory the highest per capita alcohol consumption in
Australia.  As swimmers jump in the wave pool’s man-made surf, the
local daily newspaper, the NT News, runs a tally of saltwater
crocodiles caught in the territory -- 71 by March 27.  Crocodiles Rising  The reptiles, stars of the 1986 Paul Hogan movie
“Crocodile Dundee,” have increased to as many as 100,000, from
a low of about 3,000 four decades ago, when hunting was banned.  Human numbers are also on the rise. The government
forecasts a 50 percent surge by 2030, a jump that is fueling a
construction boom after the median house price rose 197 percent
in 10 years, according to figures from RP Data and Rismark
International.  “There’s pressure on rents to go even higher because
vacancy rates are so low,” said David Loy, director of estate
agent LJ Hooker in Darwin and president of the Real Estate
Institute of the Northern Territory. The residential rental
vacancy rate was 0.7 percent in February, compared with 1.5
percent in Sydney and 3 percent in  Melbourne , according to SQM
Research Pty.  To help meet demand, the equivalent of an entire suburb has
been built in Darwin’s central business district in the past
five years. Another 3,000 units across Darwin have development
approval, and a new shopping and residential district is being
built at Coolalinga on the city fringe.  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) ,
Australia’s largest department store chain, is in talks about
opening a Darwin branch, said Jo Lynch, a spokeswoman for the
company in Melbourne.  Uranium Hope  Some long-term residents are skeptical about the latest
boom after seeing previous projects peter out, such as a
predicted uranium rush in the late 1970s, which dwindled in 1983
with a change of government and restrictions on mining the
nuclear fuel.  “The Territory for the past 40 years has had a mentality
of the next big project being ‘the one,’” said Chips Mackinolty,
a ministerial adviser to the NT government from 2001-2009. Inpex
“will only really change the structure of the economy if they
do the value added, like services for the energy industry.”  Construction starts this month on a A$104 million marine
supply base, built by  Macmahon Holdings Ltd. (MAH) , to service
offshore vessels. Shell said it will use Darwin as a supply base
for its Prelude Project, the world’s first floating LNG plant.
ConocoPhillips started production in 2006 at its Darwin LNG
plant, in which Inpex has an 11 percent stake.  U.S. Marines  Others are concerned about the arrival on April 3 of 200
U.S. marines, the first of as many as 2,500 who will be based at
Robertson Barracks on the city outskirts.  “The jury is still out on that,” said Rod Hocking, a
retired medic in the mining industry who has lived in Darwin
since 1970. “We don’t want the city to end up like the back
streets of  Manila .”  A planned A$60 million expansion of Darwin’s airport will
allow passenger numbers to rise 30 percent to almost 3 million
by 2016. Travelers from  Hong Kong  can reach Darwin in 5 1/2
hours, compared with a 9-hour flight to Sydney.  Tourism NT’s plans to attract Chinese travelers included a
trial charter flight in January that included sites like Uluru
in the outback, said Jennifer Simon, a spokeswoman for the
office. “They photographed everything in sight,” she said.  Brad Morgan, general manager in Darwin for  Sky City
Entertainment Group Ltd. , is hoping Asian high rollers will fill
a A$36 million expansion under way at his casino. The Chinese
enclave of Macau had more than $33 billion in gambling revenue
in 2011. “We see an opportunity to get some of that Asian
gaming market,” he said.  Chinese Connection  Silk Air now has four flights a week from Singapore to
Darwin, connecting with markets in the U.K., Germany and  China ,
Simon said. Jetstar, a unit of  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , operates
services from  Tokyo  to Darwin via Manila, and Virgin Australia
has begun daily flights from Sydney.  As residents and tourists mingle over tapas and cocktails
by the waterfront at the end of the day, Mackinolty said the
city has kept its unique identity through the changes.  “I think it’s still a place with a lot of people who just
walk out and start a completely new life,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  