-- CVC Said to Approach Lenders for HK$2.5 Billion Buyout Loan
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-04-18T02:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/cvc-said-to-approach-lenders-for-hk-2-5-billion-buyout-loan-1-.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. is
seeking to bring in more lenders for a HK$2.5 billion ($322
million) loan backing the acquisition of telecommunications
assets from  City Telecom (HK) Ltd. (1137)  by a company formed by CVC
Funds, according to five people familiar with the matter.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Standard Chartered  Plc, hired by
CVC to underwrite and arrange the five-year facility, have held
discussions with individual banks to discuss expanding the
lender group, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the details are private. Banks are being asked to commit
the equivalent of about $40 million to $50 million to the loan,
the people said.  James Olley, an external spokesman for CVC at public
relations firm Brunswick Group LLP in  London , declined to
comment when asked about the financing strategy by telephone
yesterday.  Metropolitan Light Co., owned by a partner of funds advised
by CVC Asia Pacific Ltd., will buy City Telecom’s businesses
including  Hong Kong  Broadband Network Ltd. for HK$5 billion,
according to an April 11 Hong Kong stock exchange filing. The
purchase allows CVC to enter a telecommunications market where
there is more than one fixed-line connection per household,
according to data from the Office of the Communications
Authority, the industry regulator.  To pay for the transaction, Metropolitan will receive
HK$2.65 billion from funds advised by CVC Asia Pacific, and has
access to HK$2.5 billion of debt from JPMorgan and Standard
Chartered, City Telecom said in its filing.  The proposed sale requires the approval of City Telecom
shareholders. Shares in City Telecom were trading 0.6 percent
higher at HK$4.88 as of 10:06 a.m. in Hong Kong. The stock
closed at HK$5.24 on April 11, the highest since June 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  