-- Czech Premier Seeks to Keep Majority as Ally Splinters
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-04-18T07:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/czech-premier-seeks-to-keep-majority-as-ally-splinters.html
Czech Premier Petr Necas will seek
to preserve his parliamentary majority after the smallest party
in the ruling coalition splintered amid government efforts to
cut the  budget deficit .  Necas will hold talks in Prague with Deputy Premier
Karolina Peake after she announced her exit yesterday from the
Public Affairs party over “its destructive political style.”
Seeking to form a new faction, Peake said she will remain in
parliament and support the Cabinet, according to an e-mailed
statement. Public Affairs deputy Viktor Paggio said he would
follow her.  Necas’s 20-month old administration needs to push through
measures including tax increases and a cut in spending on
pensions to trim the  deficit  to within the European Union limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product next year. The plan has
helped attract investors into Czech bonds, pushing the
government’s borrowing costs to a record low.  “My only question is, whether our government has majority
support in the Chamber of Deputies, and we need an answer to
this within hours or days,” Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek,
a member of the TOP09 party, told reporters today before a
regular government meeting. “We are waiting for positions of
individual deputies of public affairs as to whether the
government has, or doesn’t have a majority.”  Seats in Parliament  Necas’s Civic Democrats and TOP09 hold 93 seats in
parliament, while Public Affairs had 21 deputies before Peake’s
exit. State newswire CTK reported that at least two more Public
Affairs deputies were following Peake and Paggio. Necas will
hold talks with “all relevant” parties, CTK quoted him as
saying late yesterday.  The premier overcame a rebellion by Public Affairs’
leadership last week and united his government behind a plan to
cut spending and boost revenue. The government wants to reduce
the deficit to 2.9 percent of GDP next year, from a targeted 3.5
percent in 2012, before balancing public finances in 2016.  Measures to narrow the fiscal gap, including an overhaul of
the pension system, have helped curb funding costs. The yield on
the Czech Eurobond maturing in 2021 fell to an all-time low of
3.276 percent yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The koruna has strengthened 3.4 percent to the euro since
the start of the year, the eighth-biggest gain among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded
little changed at 24.757 per euro at 9:10 a.m. in  Prague .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  