-- Czechs Borrow at Record-Low Cost as Austerity Shields From Spain
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-04-18T14:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/czechs-borrow-at-record-low-cost-as-austerity-shields-from-spain.html
Czech borrowing costs dropped to a
record low in a government bond sale today as cash reserves and
budget-gap cuts insulate the country from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The government sold 3.05 billion koruna ($161 million) of
notes due in August 2018 at an average yield of 2.635 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That is the lowest auction
yield since the security was first issued in 2003 and compares
with 2.711 percent at the last offering on March 7. The country
also sold 3.35 billion koruna of 2023 floating-rate debt today.  The  Finance Ministry  raised less than the maximum target of
8 billion koruna today, the fourth consecutive reduced auction,
after it met 50 percent of its 2012 funding needs in the first
quarter, according to calculations by Marek Drimal, an economist
at  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB)  in Prague. The curbed issuance boosts
demand for Czech debt at a time when Spain is struggling to
contain its deficit, worsening the region’s funding crisis, he
said.  “We expect the ministry to continue to tap markets just
lightly,” Drimal wrote today in an e-mail to Bloomberg News.
“It is clear that the recent rise in  risk aversion , stemming
from reemerged fears concerning the euro-area periphery, has not
yet affected investors’ perception of the  Czech Republic .”  Premier Petr Necas today threatened to call early elections
if lawmakers that splintered from the smallest ruling-coalition
party don’t support the government. His plan to cut the fiscal
deficit to within the European Union limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product next year helped prompt a two-step rating
upgrade at  Standard & Poor’s  in August 2011, giving the country
the highest ratings in emerging Europe, on par with euro-region
Estonia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  