-- TD Bank Faces Sanctions Request After Losing $67 Million Verdict
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-04-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/td-bank-faces-sanctions-motion-after-losing-67-million-case-1-.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , after losing
a $67 million verdict over claims it aided a $1.2 billion Ponzi
scheme, should be sanctioned for “altering” a document used at
trial, an investor said in court papers.  Coquina Investments, which won the verdict on Jan. 18 in
federal court in Miami, seeks sanctions after a trial over
whether TD Bank should have detected  money laundering  that
supported a Ponzi scheme that disbarred attorney Scott Rothstein
ran out of his law firm.  The unaltered document shows TD Bank designated Rothstein,
Rosenfeldt & Adler as “HIGH RISK” in letters on a bright red
band at the top of the page, according to a March 26 filing by
Coquina. The document, which Coquina introduced into evidence
after getting it before trial from TD Bank, has a black bar that
obscures the words, according to the filing.  “TD Bank’s purposeful withholding of the true original RRA
Customer Due Diligence Form constitutes evidence of willful bad
faith,” according to the motion. Failure by the bank and its
lawyers to say anything about the document being admitted into
evidence “demonstrates both intentional malfeasance and a
flagrant lack of candor to the court.”  Coquina, based in  Corpus Christi ,  Texas , seeks “just and
appropriate” sanctions and a referral to federal prosecutors
for investigation of possible obstruction of justice charges.  TD Bank,  Canada ’s second-largest lender, doesn’t comment on
litigation, spokeswoman Rebecca Acevedo said yesterday in an e-
mail.  Copying Problems  In a court filing on April 12, the bank denied Coquina’s
claims of “altering a key document and working a fraud on the
court and the jury.” Rather, it blamed problems in the copying
process during the pretrial exchange of evidence known as
discovery. That process inadvertently blackened all colored
headers, including the words “high risk,” on the documents.  “We sincerely regret this copying error,” said TD Bank in
a motion filed by its  law firm  Greenberg Traurig LLP. “But it
was that (i.e., an error), and not an effort to hide the ‘high
risk’ designation.”  The filing also disputed Coquina’s claim that its case was
harmed by the document, noting that other sections of the
“customer due diligence” form showed that Rothstein’s firm was
designated as high risk.  “Plaintiff was not misled or prejudiced as to the CDD’s
‘high risk’ designation; to the contrary, Plaintiff’s counsel
saw that designation in two other places on that same CDD, and
pointed out to the jury at the trial that this document stated
‘high risk,’” according to the filing.  Jury Deliberations  Jurors deliberated about four hours before reaching its
verdict after a trial before U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke.  “It was clear-cut for us,” the jury forewoman, Shonda
Smith, said after the verdict. “We were all surprised at how
much stuff they allowed to go through, all the deposits and
transfers. At any point, someone could have stopped it.”  Coquina’s lawyer David Mandel on Jan. 17 urged the jury to
award $32 million in compensatory damages and $140 million in
punitive damages.  “They didn’t lift a finger,” Mandel said of the bank in
closing arguments. “Once fraud was evident, it was their
obligation to report it and stop it.”  The verdict was for $32 million in compensatory damages and
$35 million in punitive damages, the type designed to punish.  “This  Ponzi scheme  would have been impossible if it
weren’t for TD Bank’s actions,” Mandel said after the verdict,
referring to the Miami unit.  In closing arguments on behalf of the bank, Holly R. Skolnick said the Coquina investment firm must have known that
returns of 50 percent in a few months were too good to be
legitimate.  ‘It Had to Be Obvious’  “It was obvious to Coquina that these were fraudulent
investments,” Skolnick, of Greenberg Traurig LLP, told jurors.
“It had to be obvious. These deals make no sense.”  Skolnick couldn’t be reached yesterday for comment.  While running the fraud, Rothstein told victims that they
were buying stakes in settlements of cases in which his law firm
in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida , had amassed evidence and confronted
potential defendants in sexual and employment discrimination
cases. The settlements were fictional, as were the cases.  Rothstein pleaded guilty to racketeering, money laundering
and  wire fraud  and is serving a 50-year prison term. Eight
people have been accused of helping him run the fraud.  In February, TD Bank agreed to settle a lawsuit with
investors who claimed it aided in the Ponzi scheme. Barron’s and
the Miami Herald reported that TD Bank would pay $170 million.  The case is Coquina Investments v. Rothstein, 0:10-
cv-60786, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  