-- Default Swaps in U.S. Climb as European Economy Curbs Earnings
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-04-18T21:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/default-swaps-in-u-s-climb-as-european-economy-curbs-earnings.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk increased for the first time in three days as a weak
European economy constrained corporate earnings.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
rose 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 99.4 basis points at 4:49
p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. Contracts tied
to  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the life insurer and mortgage
guarantor, climbed the most in almost nine months.  Intel Corp . and International Business Machines Corp.
reported that a European slump weighed on sales growth,
increasing concern that a possible recession in Europe may weigh
on U.S. corporate balance sheets. Surging bad loans in  Spain  are
spurring investors’ doubts whether the government can clean up
the country’s banks without damaging public finances more.  “If earnings are weak and there are problems in Europe, it
is going to drive out the spreads,” Marc Gross, a  money manager 
at New York-based RS Investments, said in a telephone interview.
“The perceived market risk is higher because of the worsening
situation in  Europe .”  Non-performing loans in Spain as a proportion of total
lending jumped to 8.16 percent in February, the highest level
since 1994, from less than 1 percent in 2007, according to Bank
of Spain data published today.  Spain Bailout Concern  “Everyone knows Spain has problems,” Gross said. “It
just puts them one step closer to needing a financial bailout.
And that is a huge concern because Spain is a much larger
country than  Greece .”  The default-swaps gauge, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, fell to as low
as 84.7 basis points in March from a high of 120 basis points at
the start of the year.  “Underwhelming payroll numbers on April 6th followed by
renewed concerns about Spain have given investors ample reason
for pause,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at New
York-based Susquehanna International Group, wrote in an e-mail.  The 120,000 rise in U.S. nonfarm payrolls for March was the
smallest increase in five months, the Labor Department reported
on April 6.  The cost to protect Genworth debt from default for five
years surged to the highest level since Jan. 18, jumping 114
basis points to 629 basis points as of 4:30 p.m. in  New York ,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That’s the biggest single-day increase since
July 21, the data show.  Offering Postponed  The insurer postponed plans for a public offering of its
Australian unit backing home loans after “elevated” losses in
the nation. The insurer is selling assets to build capital that
it lost insuring soured mortgages in the U.S. and guaranteeing
retirement income in market slumps.  Genworth is rated Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and one
step higher at BBB by  Standard & Poor’s . Both ratings firms have
a negative outlook on the Richmond, Virginia-based company. That
reflects the “continuing uncertainty and downside risk” from
the U.S. mortgage operations over the next few years, Pinto
said.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  