-- Dewey & LeBoeuf Russia Office Said to Seek New Law Firm
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-25T16:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/dewey-leboeuf-russia-office-said-to-seek-new-law-firm.html
(Corrects spelling of name in seventh paragraph of story
published April 18.)  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s struggle to
survive a defection crisis that has seen it lose 20 percent of
its partners is intensifying as its 42-lawyer Moscow outpost
seeks to decamp to another U.S. law firm, according to a person
familiar with the negotiations.  More than 60 partners have departed New York-based Dewey
over the past several months during what the firm has called a
restructuring process. The largest contingent to leave was a
group of 12 insurance and regulatory lawyers who went to Willkie
Farr & Gallagher LLP last month.  The firms in talks with Dewey’s Russia-based lawyers
include Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, Winston & Strawn LLP
and King & Spalding LLP, said the person, who declined to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly on
the matter.  Dewey has had a Russian presence since 1990 and currently
houses 12 partners there, according to U.K.-based spokesman
Duncan Miller. With one of the larger Russian offices of the
international law firms in Moscow, its team focuses on corporate
and finance work in the energy sector.  Garry Pegg, co-managing partner of Atlanta-based King &
Spalding’s  London  office; David Schaefer, a spokesman for San
Francisco-based Orrick; and Thomas Benz, a partner in Chicago-
based Winston’s London office, didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment.  Yesterday, eight lawyers, including several members of
Dewey’s key utilities, power and pipelines industry group, left
for Hunton & Williams LLP and Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman
LLP. The drumbeat of departures, if it continues, may trigger
requirements to pay back loans, a law firm consultant said.  Firm Capital  “I think the departures are likely of concern internally
and to providers of capital to the firm,” said Kent Zimmermann,
a Zeughauser Group consultant. “This just fuels the perception
that is widely held in the market that the firm is in a
spiral.”  At issue are Dewey’s loan agreements tied to its lines of
credit, the consultant said. Typically, law firms are required
to maintain a certain number or percentage of partners, said
Zimmermann. Dewey is in renegotiation talks with lenders
including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  on restructuring its credit lines, the
firm said.  “We’re in ongoing discussions and they’re private,”
Angelo Kakolyris, a spokesman for the firm, said today. He
declined to comment on the Russia office.  New York-based Citigroup said yesterday the firm is still
in good standing. The New York Times reported earlier, citing
three unidentified sources, Dewey’s talks with its banks.  ‘Good Standing’  “Dewey LeBoeuf is a client in good standing with Citi
Private Bank,” Dan DiPietro, chairman of Citi’s Law Firm Group,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Citi has had a banking
relationship with the firm dating back to the early 1970s and
continues to provide banking services to a significant
percentage of the partners and associates.”  Dewey has maintained that the departures are consistent
with the reduced headcount contemplated by the firm’s
restructuring plan. Further departures are expected, the firm
said in a statement yesterday.  “Their best hope is loyalty,” Zimmermann said. “At this
point what Dewey needs to do is to retain their top talent and
attract strong talent and the hill keeps getting steeper.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at   jhodges17@bloomberg.net  and;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at
   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  and;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 