-- Dick Clark, ‘American Bandstand’ TV Show Host, Dies at 82
-- B y   M a r k   S c h o i f e t
-- 2012-04-18T20:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/dick-clark-bandstand-host-tv-producer-dies-at-82.html
Dick Clark, the television
impresario and host of the “American Bandstand” rock ‘n’ roll
dance show whose permanently boyish looks earned him the
nickname “the oldest living teenager,” has died. He was 82.  He died today of a heart attack, according to a statement
released by his agent, Paul Shefrin. Clark had entered St.
John’s Health Center in  Santa Monica ,  California , last night for
an outpatient procedure, the statement said. In 2004, he
suffered a stroke that impaired his speech and movement.  In the late 1950s and early 1960s,  “American Bandstand” 
had an impact on popular culture on par with today’s “American
Idol.” Local Philadelphia-area teens who danced on the program
became national celebrities; songs they said had “a good beat”
during the “Rate-a-Record” segment shot up the pop charts.  “He pretty much invented teenagers as a social unit, and
when he plugged a song on ‘Bandstand,’ the record was more than
likely to go gold,” People magazine wrote in 1989.  Clark’s clean-cut appearance and strict dress code for
“Bandstand” -- jackets and ties for boys, skirts and no tight
tops for girls -- helped make rock ‘n’ roll music acceptable to
middle America. He was also daring: His insistence on allowing
black couples to dance alongside whites gave U.S. viewers one of
the first mainstream images of ethnic diversity.  During the show’s 30-year run on ABC, Clark interviewed
more than 10,000 guests and showcased artists from Chuck Berry,
Jerry Lee Lewis and Chubby Checker to the Doors, Madonna and
Prince. He almost single-handedly made stars of Bobby Darin,
Connie Francis and Neil Sedaka.  Dick Clark Productions  Behind the scenes, Clark was one of the savviest
entrepreneurs in television history. Founded in 1957,  Dick Clark
Productions Inc.  created “The Golden Globes,” “The American
Music Awards,” “The Academy of Country Music Awards,” “‘Dick
Clark’s New Year’s Rockin’ Eve,” the “Bloopers” franchise and
“The $10,000 Pyramid” game show and its many spinoffs.  At one point in the 1980s, Clark was hosting shows on all
three major networks and in syndication.  He bristled when critics attacked the low-brow appeal of
his 1980s specials such as “Hollywood’s Private Home Movies”
and “Superstars and Their Moms.” He always maintained that his
job was to give viewers what they want.  Clark’s squeaky-clean image received a blemish in 1959 when
the U.S. government investigated a possible conflict of interest
between his broadcasting career and his investments in
publishing and recording companies. He was forced to testify
before Congress during its probe into payola, the then-
widespread practice of paying disc jockeys to play songs.  ‘Witch Hunt’  Clark admitted to accepting jewelry and a fur from a record
company. Though he wasn’t found to have done anything illegal,
ABC executives handed him an ultimatum: sell his outside
interests or leave “Bandstand.” Clark chose to divest his
publishing and recording holdings. He later referred to that
period as a “huge, trumped-up witch hunt.”  After watching Clark  ring in the New Year  for more than 30
years, viewers were stunned in December 2004 when a stroke
forced him to miss the annual telecast. A year later, Clark was
back on the air, counting down to 2006 as the ball dropped in
Times Square.  “This is just the happiest time of my life,” he said on
the air that night. “Last year I had a stroke. It left me in
bad shape. I had to teach myself how to walk and talk again.
It’s been a long fight. My speech is not perfect, but I’m
getting there.”  Inspiration to Others  Some viewers found it disconcerting to see the handsome
host in an impaired state. Others, especially stroke victims,
lauded his courage and called him an inspiration. Clark
continued co-hosting New Year’s telecasts along with  Ryan Seacrest , who did most of the talking.  “I do the best I can and have been encouraged to continue
because I hear it serves to inspire many others,” Clark told
 USA Today  just before the 2010 celebration.  Via e-mail, he told the New York Times before what would be
his final celebration at the dawn of 2012 that for many viewers,
it’s “comforting to see a familiar face who has been there for
the past 40 years.”  Among many awards during a half-century on the air, Clark
was inducted into the  Rock and Roll Hall of Fame  and the Academy
of Television Arts & Sciences Hall of Fame. He was given a
Daytime Emmy Lifetime Achievement Award in 1994 in addition to
four other Emmys.  A tribute at the 2010 Daytime Emmy Awards ceremony
featuring Checker, Tony Orlando and Marie Osmond brought Clark
to tears. In videotaped remarks, longtime “ American Idol ”
judge  Simon Cowell  said, “Without Bandstand, without Dick,
there would be no ‘American Idol.’”  Brother Killed  Richard Wagstaff Clark was born on Nov. 30, 1929, the
second son of Richard Augustus and Julia Barnard Clark, in
 Bronxville , a small village north of  New York City . His father
was a sales manager for a New York-based cosmetics firm. In
1933, the family moved to nearby  Mount Vernon .  Clark’s older brother, Brad, a pilot in the U.S. Army Air
Corps during World War II, was shot down and killed during the
Battle of the Bulge. He was 20.  Clark became interested in radio after his parents took him
to New York to watch a live broadcast of the Jimmy Durante-Garry
Moore show. Fascinated by the performers and the behind-the-
scenes activity in the control room, he decided to pursue a
career in radio.  Mailroom Start  He got his start in 1947 when his father hired him for a
mailroom job at  WRUN , an ABC-affiliated radio station in Utica,
 New York . Clark’s uncle, Bradley Barnard, owned the station and
had hired Clark’s father away from the cosmetics business to be
promotions manager.  Clark attended  Syracuse University , where he worked as a
disc jockey and newscaster at the campus radio station. He also
landed a job at WOLF, a Syracuse station, hosting a country
music show.  After graduating in 1951 with a degree in business
administration, Clark returned to Utica to take a summer job at
WRUN.  As Dick Clay -- he changed his name to distinguish himself
from his father -- he was hired by television station  WKTV  in
Utica, where he emceed a country music program called “Cactus
Dick and the Santa Fe Riders,” which became the training ground
for his later work on “Bandstand.”  With help from his father, Clark landed a job at radio
station WFIL in Philadelphia, where -- now back to using his
real name -- he hosted “Dick Clark’s Caravan of Music.” WFIL’s
sister television station carried an afternoon teen dance show
called “Bandstand” that was hosted by Bob Horn. After Horn was
arrested for drunken driving in 1956, Clark replaced him.  Clean-Cut Image  “Clark’s clean-cut boy-next-door image seemed to offset
any unsavory fallout from Horn’s arrest, because the show
increased in popularity,” according to a history of the show
provided by the  Museum  of Broadcast Communications in  Chicago .  Clark persuaded ABC network executives to include the show
in its national lineup. The newly renamed “American Bandstand”
made its debut on Aug. 5, 1957, becoming one of the first
locally originated shows to be broadcast nationally. Within
months, the show, which led into ABC’s “Mickey Mouse Club,”
was the top-rated daytime program in the U.S.  Performers on “Bandstand” would lip-synch the words to
their latest songs. Teens would rate the latest records -- “I
like the beat” became a catchphrase -- and local dancers like
Bob and Justine or Kenny and Arlene became national stars.  ‘Original Reality Show’  “It was the original reality show,” Clark told  CNN ’s
 Larry King  in 2004.  The show ran on weekdays through 1963, when ABC switched to
a weekly broadcast on Saturdays. The next year Clark moved the
program to  Los Angeles , which gave him closer access to the
recording industry and an opportunity to develop other shows.
Clark’s dress code eventually gave way to the fashion styles of
the 1970s.  In 1972, he hosted the first “Dick Clark’s New Year’s
Rockin’ Eve” special from Times Square, providing a youthful
contrast to the annual broadcasts of Guy Lombardo and His Royal
Canadians. The following year, he started his first game show,
“The $10,000 Pyramid,” which ran in various incarnations until
1989.  With the rise of cable channels MTV and VH-1 in the 1980s,
“American Bandstand” fell out of fashion. ABC canceled it in
1987, though Clark continued to produce it for syndication and
later the USA Network until 1989.  Clark’s production company was sold for $175 million in
June 2007 to Daniel Snyder, owner of the Washington Redskins
football team. The deal included Clark’s shows as well as his
vast library of musical performances.  Clark and Barbara Mallery married in 1952 and had a son,
Richard, before divorcing in 1962. Clark and his second wife,
Loretta Martin, had two children, Duane and Cindy. That marriage
also ended in divorce. He married his third wife, Kari Wigton,
in 1977.  Clark found a decidedly adult way to make sure there would
never be another “oldest living teenager.” He trademarked the
nickname.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Schoifet in New York at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  