-- Dividends ‘Best Defense’ Against Bullion ETF, Kirkland Gold Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 2012-04-18T09:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/dividends-best-defense-against-bullion-etf-kirkland-gold-says.html
Gold miners should pay more in
dividends if they are to compete with exchange-traded funds as
two years of record buyouts eroded  shareholder value ,  Kirkland
Lake Gold Inc. (KGI)  Chief Executive Officer Brian Hinchcliffe said.  Precious metal producers spent a record $53 billion on
deals in 2010 and a further $43 billion last year as all-time
high  gold prices  spurred deals. That led to writedowns that are
an admission of overpaying when cash could have been returned in
dividends to lure investors from increasingly popular ETFs.  “The generalist investor is not going to be attracted to
an industry that is not judiciously allocating capital, whether
it’s in the context of making acquisitions or in the context of
dedicating capex,” Hinchcliffe said. “ETFs are a major
competing alternative for investment. I’m talking about a 5
percent to an 8 percent dividend policy, that is the best
defense against the ETF.”  The 16 members of the benchmark Arca Gold BUGS Index will
pay an average dividend yield of 1.5 percent this year. That
compares with an average dividend yield of 4.2 percent by
companies in the STOXX Europe 600 index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ETF Holding Surge  Gold stocks  are trading at the cheapest levels in at least
nine years as profits reached record levels on near-record
bullion prices. The  NYSE Arca Gold BUGS Index (HUI)  that includes
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , Newmont Mining Corp. and  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG)  ended last week at 14.7 times profit, the lowest since at
least November 2002 and below a five-year average of 36 times as
gold stocks fell 5.2 percent in the first quarter.  Holdings of the metal through ETFs have more than tripled
in the last five years and reached a record 2,410.2 metric tons
on March 13, valued at about $140.3 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The first quarter was a seminal time in the gold industry
because of the number of write-offs and the number of admissions
from companies that they had overpaid,” said Hinchcliffe.
“There will be a bit of reticence about going out and buying
stuff in the wake of the major write-offs that the gold industry
has seen.”  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the largest U.S. gold producer, took
a $1.61 billion writedown on its Hope Bay mine in Canada in
February after putting the project on hold. The company gained
control of the mine as part of its C$1.5 billion acquisition of
Miramar Mining Corp. in 2007.  Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  recorded a $2.49 billion goodwill
writedown on its Tasiast mine in  Mauritania .  Agnico-Eagle Mines
Ltd. (AEM)  posted a fourth-quarter loss on Feb. 15 after taking a
writedown on its Meadowbank project in northern Canada.  Hinchcliffe said Kirkland Lake Gold plans to introduce a
dividend policy in 12 to 15 months’ time after deciding on the
level. The company mines for the precious metal in Ontario,
 Canada . It forecast output of 100,000 ounces to 105,000 ounces
for this fiscal year and is targeting annual production of
250,000 ounces to 300,000 ounces in 2014, according to a March
13 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Barwell in London at 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  