-- Do Emissions Cause Tornadoes? Climate Service Would Know
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-18T23:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/do-emissions-cause-tornadoes-climate-service-would-know.html
Last weekend, more than  100
tornadoes  tore across the Plains states, smashing homes, tossing
cars and killing six people.  This might have counted as a rousing start to the spring
tornado season, except for the dozen or more twisters that
struck  Dallas  and  Fort Worth  earlier this month and the 223 that
hit the U.S. in March -- almost three times the average for that
month since 1990. Tornadoes have been blamed for  63 deaths  this
year in the Midwest and South.  Already 2012 is looking as if it could keep up with last
year’s lethal record of  550 tornado-related deaths  nationwide --
more than in the previous 10 years combined.  What’s up? Might this destructive weather have something to
do with global warming?  Wouldn’t we like to know. And who better to tell us than
the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , the federal
agency that monitors the atmosphere, predicts the weather and
collects and analyzes climate data?  The agency has for years wanted to create a  National
Climate Service  that would track and assess climate change,
figuring out whether it is to blame for specific extreme weather
events such as tornadoes, floods, droughts, heat waves and
hurricanes. In this and other ways, it would help people --
farmers, insurance companies, policy makers -- plan for changes
in the growing season, coastal erosion, water supply, human
health and so on.  Climate Plan Killed  In November, however, Republican members of the  House of
Representatives   killed  that plan, even though it would have
required no new funding at all. The agency already collects and
 analyzes   climate data , and publishes outlooks for events such as
floods, wildfires and droughts, but the information is spread
across various offices and is therefore not centrally
coordinated.  The House members worry that a dedicated office might
reinforce a reality they don’t recognize: that greenhouse-gas
emissions are changing Earth’s climate.  But the need to focus directly on how climate change
affects all our lives is growing and, along with it,
fortunately, scientists’ ability to discern what’s happening. In
the past, when asked whether a flood or drought or a rash of
hurricanes could be attributed to  climate change , they would
merely note that such extreme weather is what we might expect
warming to cause.  Lately, though, scientists have been able to work out more
specific odds. For example, after careful study of the European
heat wave of 2003, researchers at the  U.K. Met Office  (the
British weather service) and the University of Oxford were able
to  conclude  with confidence that human influence on climate had
more than doubled the probability of such extreme temperatures
that year.  Scientists would like to be able to assess attribution in
this way more quickly. At the  University of Cape Town , in  South
Africa , researchers are at work on a pilot project that
basically compares models of today’s actual climate with models
of a pretend world that might have been had humans not
interfered. In these, atmospheric concentrations of  greenhouse
gases  are set as low as they were in 1900, and ocean
temperatures are cooled by the amount they seem to have warmed
because of increased greenhouse gases in the air.  Looking at the U.S. in this way, the researchers can say
with confidence that human-induced climate change has at least
doubled the chance the month we’re in now will be unusually
warm. And their best estimate -- in other words, a prediction
they can make with less than full confidence -- is that the
chance of a warm April is about eight times higher than it would
have been without the level of greenhouse gases now in the air.  Scientific Challenges Ahead  Calculating the probability of hot and cold temperatures is
easier than determining the influence of climate change on
rainfall, let alone on tornadoes and hurricanes, but all of this
will become possible in time.  Most scientists no longer doubt that greenhouse gases have
made the planet warmer, and that it stands to become warmer
still. But we don’t know how much hotter it will get or how
quickly the seas will rise. And we’d like to know exactly how
floods, droughts and other side effects of climate change will
play out in specific regions.  It’s also important to learn, of course, which bits of
seemingly strange weather are not connected to emissions.  In 2011 alone, the U.S. experienced  14 extreme weather
events  -- from the Groundhog Day blizzard to the summer drought
and wildfires in  Texas , from  Hurricane Irene  in late August to
the big October snowstorm in the Northeast. Each one did more
than $1 billion worth of damage.  At least some state policy makers are paying attention.
 California ,  New York  and  Washington  are now requiring large
insurance companies to  disclose  how they intend to assess the
risks posed by climate change and encourage policyholders to
prepare for them.  These insurers, and many others, should be able to get the
best possible information about what to expect from NOAA.
Congress must allow the agency to make a direct effort to assess
how a changing climate will change our lives.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  fixing U.S.-Pakistan
relations ;  Ezra Klein  on post-election  tax reform ;  Caroline Baum 
on the myopia of  short-term economic statistics ; A. Gary
Shilling on his readers’ questions about  his economic forecast ;
the Squam Lake Group on  money market reforms ; Fredrik Erixon on
 Europe’s coming welfare cuts .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 