-- Doctors Redefine Breast Cancer Into 10 Subtypes in Study
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-04-18T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/doctors-redefine-breast-cancer-into-10-subtypes-in-study.html
Breast cancer  stems from 10 genetic
subtypes, not four as previously thought, according to a study
published today in the journal  Nature .  The findings by researchers in the U.K. and  Canada  will
eventually enable doctors to better predict survival times in
women with the disease and tailor the most appropriate treatment
to their type of tumor, said  Carlos Caldas , one of the authors
and the chairman of cancer medicine at the University of
Cambridge in  England .  Tests to diagnose the new subtypes will probably be
developed and in routine use in three to five years, which may
not immediately affect how doctors work with patients, “but
it’s surely going to change the way we do clinical trials,”
Caldas said at a press conference in London yesterday. “It will
lead to better treatments and more targeted treatments.”  Breast malignancies are diagnosed in 1.4 million women a
year worldwide and are the most common cancers in women,
according to  Cancer Research UK . Survival rates after five years
have increased to more than 80 percent from 50 percent in the
late 1970s, according to the London-based charity.  The study by Cancer Research UK’s Cambridge Research
Institute and the  BC Cancer Agency  in  Vancouver  looked at 2,000
frozen tumor samples from patients diagnosed with the disease at
five hospitals. Scientists analyzed genetic material in the
cancer cells for mutations and other changes and grouped them
into 10 subtypes with common genetic features that correlated
with long-term survival times.  ‘Landmark’ Finding  The project was the largest global gene study of breast
cancer, according to Cancer Research UK, which partly funded it.
The charity’s chief executive, Harpal Kumar, said it represents
a “landmark” in work on the disease.  The current practice of diagnosing and treating women with
breast cancer involves testing tumor samples for the presence of
genetic markers for two hormone receptors, known as ER and HER-
2, Caldas said.  The outcome of that test determines which of four existing
subtypes of breast cancer a woman has, and influences the
treatment she receives and her prognosis, he said. The most
common form is ER-positive and HER-2 negative breast cancer,
which affects 70 percent of women with the disease, Caldas said.
Another 15 percent have HER-2 positive tumors and can receive
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s targeted medicine Herceptin, which costs
30,000 pounds ($48,000) a year and carries a risk of heart
damage.  Personalized Medicines  Identifying the 10 subtypes means patients in the future
will know more exactly which type of breast cancer they have
and, as more targeted drugs are developed, they should receive
more effective or personalized medicines, said Julia Wilson,
head of research information at  Breakthrough Breast Cancer .  “This is a massive step in the right direction for our
understanding of what breast cancer is,” said Wilson, whose
organization helped in the study by providing samples, data and
analysis as well as one of the report’s authors. “It’s really
helping us to make sure each patient gets the right treatment at
the right time. And it’s really sparing them from grueling
treatment if it’s not going to work.”  The new subtypes of breast cancer include seven that were
defined as ER-positive and HER-2 negative, Caldas said. Survival
times for each of the seven subtypes range from 80 percent after
15 years from diagnosis to less than 40 percent after 15 years,
considered a wide variation, he said.  ‘Quest’ for Detection  “We’ve been in a quest for finding better markers in that
particular subgroup for the last 15 or 20 years,” he said.
“This is much more discriminatory and informative.”  The study results should spur drugmakers to develop more
drugs targeting tyrosine kinases, phosphatases and chromatin
modifiers as possible treatments for the newly identified
subtypes of breast cancer, Caldas said.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Tykerb is a kinase inhibitor already
approved for treating HER-2 positive breast cancer.  The findings may prompt drugmakers to take another look at
existing compounds they had previously overlooked for the
disease, said Karol Sikora, an oncologist at Hammersmith
Hospital in London.  “It’s likely that a lot of drugs have been thrown out by
pharmaceutical companies that would benefit small groups of
patients,” Sikora said. “We call them ‘trash-can drugs’ in the
business. Almost certainly in the junkyards of pharmaceutical
companies are drugs that are active” against breast cancer.  Newly Discovered Genes  The study also identified several new genes that contribute
to the disease, Caldas said. One of the subtypes has genetic
markers that are associated with poor outcomes for patients, yet
some patients with the subtype do well and defy predictions of
their long-term survival. The immune system would appear to be
“enriched” in women with this subtype and further
understanding why might lead to new treatments, he said.  “It looks in this subset the immune system is playing a
very active role in improving the prognoses of these women,” he
said.  The breast-cancer study may also influence research on
solid tumors affecting other organs, such as prostate, lung and
colorectal cancers, Caldas said.  Cancer Research UK is funding a study that tests
experimental treatments in 3,000 colorectal cancer patients with
seven biomarkers, said Kate Law, director of clinical and
population research at the charity. That study will begin in a
few months, she said.  “Similar studies are begging to be done in other common
human tumors,” Caldas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in  London  at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  