-- Dong Energy Plans More Offshore Wind Farm Stake Sales
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-04-18T11:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/dong-energy-plans-more-offshore-wind-farm-stake-sales.html
Dong Energy  A/S,  Denmark ’s state-
controlled utility, plans to sell more stakes in its offshore
wind farms after completing five sales already, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Morten Buchgreitz said.  As Dong Energy seeks to invest in new wind parks at sea, it
also is planning to sell stakes in existing developments to help
fund them, Buchgreitz said in an interview at the European Wind
Energy Association conference in Copenhagen.  Dong Energy intends to spend 10 billion kroner ($1.8
billion) a year on offshore wind power, and expects new projects
in Denmark as the nation moves to de-carbonize the power sector,
the deputy chief said. The utility has sold five offshore wind
farm stakes, most recently to Kirkbi A/S, parent company of Lego
Group, and the Oticon Foundation.  “You haven’t seen the last sale from Dong Energy of stakes
in a wind farm,” Buchgreitz said. “We have an ongoing dialogue
with a number of investors, both current and new investors in
the offshore wind industry.”  Kirkbi and Oticon in February agreed to pay 4.7 billion
kroner for 50 percent of an unbuilt German offshore wind farm,
with Dong Energy retaining the construction risk.  Marubeni Corp. (8002) 
in September became the first Japanese company to invest in an
offshore wind project, agreeing to pay 200 million pounds ($324
million) for 49.9 percent of a U.K. park owned by Dong.  “There’s quite a large interest to invest in offshore wind
farms in general, but also from the Japanese,” Buchgreitz said.
“When the next one is going to happen, I cannot say.”  Dong Energy prefers to share the risk rather than owning
its offshore wind farms fully, Buchgreitz said. Sizeable
offshore wind farms it still owns entirely include the 209-
megawatt Horns Rev 2 off the Danish coast and the 90-megawatt
Burbo Bank project off the U.K.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in Copenhagen via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 