-- Dow, Monsanto Herbicide-Tolerant Crops Need U.S. Study
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-04-18T17:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/dow-monsanto-herbicide-tolerant-crops-need-u-s-study.html
A coalition of vegetable growers
wants U.S. regulators to study the potential damage facing their
fields from a new generation of herbicide-tolerant crops
developed by  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and  Monsanto Co. (MON)   The new crops will increase use of older herbicides that
can drift onto neighboring fields, according to petitions filed
by the  Save Our Crops Coalition  today with the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  and Environmental Protection Agency. The group
wants USDA to conduct an environmental review before approving
Dow’s modified corn and EPA to convene an advisory panel to
examine impacts from increased application of the chemicals.  The new crops are an alternative to seeds that tolerate
Monsanto’s Roundup herbicide, to which some weeds are now
resistant. Dow would be first to market if its corn, which is
tolerant to the older herbicide 2,4-D, gets USDA approval before
planting next year.  Herbicides like 2,4-D and dicamba can drift and “have
proven to be America’s most dangerous herbicides for non-target
plant damage,” said the crop coalition, which was formed this
month to fight the increased use of the chemicals. The group
includes can and jar-maker  Ball Corp. (BLL)  and  Seneca Foods Corp. (SENEB) ,
the maker of Libby’s foods.  Save Our Crops has more than 2,000 members including those
at member groups such as the Indiana Vegetable Growers
Association and the Ohio Produce Growers and Marketers
Association,  Steve Smith , the coalition’s chairman, said in a
telephone interview. Smith is agriculture director at Red Gold,
the world’s largest closely held canned tomato processor.  Dow and Monsanto are developing new formulations of 2,4-D
and dicamba intended to address growers’ concerns.  Reducing Drift  Dow’s new 2,4-D reduces by at least 90 percent the
chemical’s tendency to be absorbed into the air and drift, Kenda
Resler Friend, a spokeswoman for the Midland, Michigan-based
company said today in an e-mail. The herbicide is already
approved by EPA for corn, and an additional USDA evaluation of
the crop by the USDA is “unnecessary,” she said.  Dow expects its Enlist system, including 2,4-D and related
crops, will generate more than $1 billion in earnings as farmers
look for ways to control weeds that are no longer killed by
glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup. The number of
weed-resistant acres in the U.S. rose by 25 percent in the past
year, the company said.  Monsanto is seeking USDA approval for dicamba-tolerant
soybeans for planting in 2014. It is developing a reformulated
herbicide with  BASF SE. (BAS)   Monsanto is working with an advisory council, including
growers of vegetables and other specialty crops, to identify
issues associated with dicamba-tolerant beans, Kelli Powers, a
spokeswoman for the St. Louis-based company, said today in an e-
mail. Monsanto will take steps to ensure dicamba is used
responsibly, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  