-- E-Book Publishers Seek to Settle State Antitrust Claims
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-19T00:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/e-books-case-judge-to-consider-fairness-of-settlement-on-july-27.html
Three publishers that settled U.S.
 Justice Department  claims they conspired with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to fix
the prices of electronic books are working to resolve related
state claims, their lawyers told a judge in New York.  Attorneys for  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book Group and  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins told U.S. District Judge Denise Cote that
they have signed a memorandum of understanding with 15 states
and Puerto Rico to settle claims they conspired to fix prices
for digital books. They hope to have a settlement with all 50
states completed by June 11, Shepard Goldfein, a HarperCollins
lawyer, told Cote in a hearing today.  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster unit is also negotiating with
the states and hopes to reach an agreement, said Helene Jaffe, a
lawyer for the publisher.  The states, led by  Connecticut  and Texas, claim damages on
behalf of people who were forced to pay too much for e-books
because of the conspiracy, according to their suit, filed in
federal court in Austin, Texas, April 11, the same day the U.S.
sued Apple and five publishers for allegedly fixing prices in an
attempt to undermine Amazon.com Inc.’s dominance of the e-book
market.  Before the pricing agreements the Justice Department
claimed are illegal, Seattle-based Amazon dominated the digital
books market by offering titles at $9.99 each. Under the pricing
agreements, the publishers set prices for best-selling books at
$12.99 and $14.99, giving Cupertino, California-based Apple a 30
percent cut.  E-Book Settlement  Hachette, HarperCollins and Simon & Schuster settled with
the Justice Department, agreeing to cancel contracts with
 Amazon (AMZN) , Google Inc. and other electronic booksellers that
allowed publishers to set their own prices for the books. Apple,
 Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit and Macmillan, a unit of
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, continue to fight the
lawsuit.  Further settlement talks involving defendants in the
federal case probably wouldn’t be productive, said  Joseph Wayland , a Justice Department lawyer. Cote said she will
consider public comments on the proposed settlement with
HarperCollins, Hachette and Simon & Schuster to determine
whether it’s in the public interest.  U.S. antitrust officials have stepped up enforcement
against anticompetitive price-fixing agreements in industries
including health care and auto parts. Regulators have also
increased scrutiny of Apple’s digital publishing, mobile
computing and music retail businesses to make sure the iPad
maker hasn’t thwarted competition on its way to becoming the
world’s most valuable company.  Consumer Cost  Apple’s digital book-pricing practice may have cost
consumers more than $100 million, Connecticut Attorney General
George Jepsen said at a Washington news conference after the
state suit was filed. A settlement with all the states would
resolve most of the claims in a private class action, or group
suit, filed on behalf of consumers, Michael Cole, the chief of
Connecticut’s antitrust department, told Cote today.  The case is U.S. v. Apple, 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  