-- EBay Rises After Sales Beat Estimates, Fueled by PayPal
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-04-19T13:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/ebay-sales-beat-estimates-as-paypal-lures-more-mobile-shoppers.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  shares rose the most in
eight months after sales and profit at the world’s largest
Internet marketplace topped analysts’ estimates, spurred by
growth in its PayPal online-payments business.  The stock climbed 11 percent to $39.78 at 9:42 a.m. in New
York, for the biggest gain since Aug. 9. Shares of the  San Jose ,
California-based company advanced 18 percent this year before
today.  Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe  is expanding beyond
EBay’s online auction roots with more offerings for mobile
devices, aimed at consumers shopping on phones instead of
traditional computers. Mobile-payment volume will surge 75
percent to $7 billion this year, EBay has projected, helping
solidify PayPal’s role as the company’s fastest-growing unit.  “PayPal continues to be a star,”  Colin Gillis , an analyst
at BGC Partners LP in New York, said in an interview. “The
traction in the marketplace has been slow and steady.”  First-quarter revenue climbed 29 percent to $3.28 billion,
EBay said yesterday in a statement. That beat the $3.2 billion
average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Profit excluding
some items was 55 cents a share, compared with the average 52-
cent prediction.  Second-quarter  revenue  will be $3.25 billion to $3.35
billion, the company said, compared with an average analyst
projection of $3.36 billion. EBay forecast profit excluding some
items of 53 cents to 55 cents a share, versus a 54-cent estimate
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fixed Prices  Sales of fixed-price merchandise grew 18 percent in the
first quarter, an acceleration from the preceding period,
spotlighting EBay’s success in decreasing its reliance on
auctions, said Michael Graham, an analyst at Canaccord Financial
Inc. in  New York .  “The auction format has not been growing, but it was still
pretty large in the mix,” Graham said in an interview. “Now
we’re starting to see that fixed-price general merchandise
volume is growing very nicely. It’s starting to impact the
overall growth.”  PayPal revenue surged 32 percent to $1.31 billion in the
first quarter, while volume climbed 24 percent to $33.9 billion.
PayPal had 109.8 million active accounts at the end of the first
quarter, up 12 percent from a year earlier.  EBay promoted David Marcus to lead PayPal last month after
 Scott Thompson , the former head, left to become the CEO at
Yahoo! Inc. earlier this year. PayPal accounted for 43 percent
of sales last year, up from 24 percent five years ago.  ‘Startup Energy’  Marcus joined EBay in August after its $240 million
purchase of Zong Inc., a company he founded. The appointment
will bring “startup energy” to PayPal, which was acquired for
about $1.18 billion in October 2002, Donahoe said last month.  PayPal Here, a card reader for smartphones, is the first
product spearheaded by Marcus as he works to expand mobile
business. The device enables phones to accept payments from  Visa
Inc. (V) , MasterCard Inc., Discover Financial Services and American
Express Co. and encrypts account information so credit-card data
doesn’t pass through to the phone.  Downloads of EBay’s mobile apps surpassed 12 million in the
first quarter, and have reached 78 million since their
introduction in 2008, the company said.  In another effort to expand beyond traditional e-commerce,
PayPal now has checkout terminals inside  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ’s U.S.
stores. EBay is under contract with several other retailers and
partnerships will follow in the second half of 2012, Donahoe
said yesterday.  Brick and Mortar  Moving offline will give EBay a chance to expand beyond e-
commerce sales, which accounted for just  4.8 percent  of total
U.S. retail sales in the fourth quarter, according to the U.S.
Department of Commerce.  “Offline is an enormous market,” Donahoe said in an
interview. “All we have to do is capture a very small
percentage of it and it has a big impact on our company. If we
capture 2 percent of offline payments, that’s another PayPal.”  The company is also pushing other financial products,
including Bill Me Later, which lets customers pay in
installments. Because PayPal is able to borrow at near-record-
low  interest rates  and make money on the premium it charges to
customers, the business is turning into a profit hub, Gillis
said.  ‘Incremental Dollars’  While it will take time for traditional PayPal customers to
adapt to newer offerings, the unit will still benefit as EBay’s
total merchandise sales grow, said  Herman Leung , an analyst at
Susquehanna International Group in San Francisco who has a
neutral rating on EBay.  “Even though it’s lower-margin, the view is that it’s all
incremental dollars to the business,” he said, referring to
online payments.  Still, new offerings in mobile payments and retail checkout
lines may not catch on as quickly as expected if too many
consumers limit shopping to essentials amid a sluggish  U.S.
economy , said  Peter Sorrentino , a portfolio manager at
Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati.  “We’re still forecasting growth, but at a rapidly
decelerating rate,” said Sorrentino, who helps oversee $14.5
billion in assets, including EBay shares. “We think the
consumer has been spending out of savings again, so we’re
forecasting a slowdown in consumer activity, especially with
higher fuel prices. When you prioritize, it’s grocery store, gas
pump. EBay is purely a discretionary spending item.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  