-- ECB Says Bulgarian Silver Fund Bill May Be Discriminatory
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-04-18T13:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/ecb-says-bulgarian-silver-fund-bill-may-be-discriminatory-1-.html
Bulgaria’s plans to invest 30
percent of a so-called Silver Fund in government securities may
skew their yields and raise “an issue of indirect
discrimination,” the  European Central Bank  said.  A draft law passed by the Cabinet on April 11 lifts the
prohibition to invest the fund’s resources in securities issued
by the Bulgarian government, municipalities and other issuers
without requiring an investment-grade  credit rating , while
investment in debt securities issued by other countries requires
such a rating, the ECB said on its website.  “This leads to unequal treatment of the different
investment instruments, which could create competition and
market distortions,” the ECB said in a comment, requested by
the Bulgarian government. “It puts the government in a
privileged position compared to other issuers” and “an issue
of indirect discrimination arises that may lead to unjustified
restrictions on the free movement of capital.”  The government decided to change the law regulating the
fund where proceeds from state-asset sales are transfered to pay
pensions after 2020, so it can be invested in financial
instruments yielding higher returns, which can be used for state
payments.  The Bulgarian central bank, where the fund is kept on
deposits, opposes the move, saying it will threaten the
country’s financial stability and urged the Cabinet to withdraw
the draft before Parliamentary approval.  ‘True State’  “The prices and yields of Bulgarian  government securities 
will not reflect the true state of the Bulgarian economy and the
position of the country’s public finances,” the ECB said. “In
addition, some investors might stop participating in a debt
securities market dominated by a public-sector fund, which is
under the control of the issuer. This would reduce the depth and
liquidity of this market.”  The current law allows for the fund’s assets, which total
about 2 billion lev ($1.34 billion), to be invested in foreign
bonds, while the government wants to diversify investment
options with Bulgarian bonds.  It plans to increase the amount of assets invested in
riskier securities by 10 percent each year, until it reaches 70
percent of the fund’s assets in 2016.  Fiscal Reserves  The Silver Fund is part of  Bulgaria ’s fiscal reserves and
investing a part of it would erode the reserves and turn that
part from an asset into a liability, the central bank said on
April 11.  Bulgaria’s fiscal reserve fell to 3.8 billion lev at the
end of February from 8 billion lev in July 2009, when Prime
Minister’s Boiko Borissov’s administration took office.  Bulgaria, the European Union’s poorest country in terms of
economic output per capita, weathered the global crisis without
borrowing from international lenders. The government seeks to
cut the budget gap to 1.35 percent of gross domestic product
this year from 2.1 percent in 2011 to help contain fallout from
the euro debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  