-- Education Startup Coursera Raises $16 Million From Kleiner, NEA
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-04-18T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/education-startup-coursera-raises-16-million-from-kleiner-nea.html
Coursera Inc ., a startup that
specializes in bringing free university classes to the Web,
raised $16 million from venture capital firms Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers and  New Enterprise Associates .  Founded by two  Stanford University  computer science
professors, Coursera is partnering with that school, as well as
Princeton University, the University of Michigan and the
 University of Pennsylvania  to offer classes in disciplines
including computer science, medicine, literature and history.
Kleiner Perkins partner  John Doerr  and NEA General Partner Scott Sandell are joining Coursera’s board of directors.  Started at Stanford last year by  Daphne Koller  and Andrew
Ng, Coursera joins other new companies focused on free online
education. Sebastian Thrun, a former Stanford professor, co-
founded Udacity Inc. to bring university-level courses online,
while Codeacademy offers classes on computer programming. Koller
and Ng are on a leave of absence from Stanford to turn Coursera
from a project into a company, aimed at educating tens of
millions of people globally in five years.  “Top universities today offer an amazing education to a
tiny sliver of the population,” said  Ng , whose research is
focused on artificial intelligence and machine learning. Raising
capital “allows us to focus for a while on building an
exceptional platform without having to worry about revenue.”  Coursera’s first seven classes have had total enrollment of
over 1 million people worldwide. Doerr said he knew about the
program because he registered for Ng’s Machine Learning class,
which was part of the first batch.  History Since 1300  About 30 classes are scheduled to start through early 2013.
They include a 12-week class titled, A History of the World
Since 1300, offered by a  Princeton  professor, a six-week
Computer Science 101 class from Stanford and a 4-5 week
Fundamentals of Pharmacology class from Penn.  Coursera built the software using  Amazon.com Inc.’s (AMZN)  cloud-
computing services. The technology includes video lectures in
10- to 15-minute clips, in-video quizzes, auto-grading software
for instant feedback and a question-and-answer community that
lets students help each other.  Company representatives aren’t discussing how Coursera
plans to make money, though they said it intends to eventually
share revenue with the professors and universities. Doerr, who
previously invested in  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Amazon.com, expects
business opportunities to emerge based on the number of people
flocking to the classes and the quality of instructors involved.  “The best faculty and the best professors want to do it,”
said Doerr, whose venture firm is based in Menlo Park,
 California . “They can reach audiences of hundreds of thousands
of people, which they will otherwise never get to in their
lifetimes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 