-- Legislative Group Ends Panel Backing ‘Stand Your Ground’ Laws
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/legislative-group-ends-panel-backing-stand-your-ground-laws.html
The American Legislative Exchange
Council said it will disband a task force that shaped “Stand
Your Ground” laws such as one now under scrutiny in Florida,
after the departure of corporate members including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)   The Washington-based policy group will instead use the
money now spent on its public safety and elections task force to
focus on economic issues, according to its chairman, David Frizzell, a Republican state representative from  Indiana .  “While we recognize there are other critical, non-economic
issues that are vitally important to millions of Americans, we
believe we must concentrate on initiatives that spur
competitiveness and innovation and put more Americans back to
work,” Frizzell said yesterday in a  news release .  ALEC lets corporate representatives work with state
lawmakers to draft bills that legislators then try to enact in
their states. Corporate membership costs up to $25,000 a year.  One such measure, championed by the  National Rifle
Association , permits the use of deadly force by individuals who
say they feel threatened and choose not to back down from a
confrontation. In Florida, which enacted a Stand Your Ground
law, George Zimmerman said he acted out of self-defense in the
fatal shooting of Trayvon Martin, an unarmed black teenager.  Following the Martin shooting in Sanford, a coalition of
civil rights and other organizations have urged companies to
withdraw their financial support of ALEC.  Business Issues  Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft and Atlanta-based Coca-
Cola both said in statements announcing their decisions to end
their ALEC memberships that their only involvement with the
group was on issues affecting their businesses.  The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association announced
yesterday that it won’t renew its ALEC membership. The Chicago-
based association said in a statement that the decision was made
“as part of our budgeting process.”  Other ALEC members, including Atlanta-based  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  and Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , said
they won’t leave the organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
1832 or  jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this
story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 