-- Heineken Sales Beat Estimates on Emerging Markets
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-04-18T07:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/heineken-quarterly-beer-sales-beat-estimates-on-emerging-markets.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
biggest brewer, reported first-quarter sales that beat estimates
as consumers drank more beer in central and eastern Europe,
Africa and the Middle East.  So-called organic consolidated beer volume rose 4.7 percent
from a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based company  said today  in a
statement. The median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 2 percent increase. Revenue on that basis,
which excludes acquisitions and disposals, rose 6.8 percent
compared with a 2.8 percent estimate.  Stripping out acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts,
Heineken said earnings before interest and taxation declined
“slightly” as it increased investment in some countries and
the cost of beer rose. Heineken also said it booked a 23
million-euro ($30 million) impairment charge related to the
disposal of a Chinese brewery.  Sales were “much better than expected in eastern  Europe 
and Africa,”  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG in  London ,
said today, saying profitability was “broadly in line” with
her estimates and she had expected Ebit to decline after the 20
percent gain in the year-earlier period. “Consensus might nudge
up slightly today.”  The stock rose as much as 4 percent and traded 3.3 percent
higher at 43.73 euros as of 9:06 a.m. in Amsterdam.  Emerging Markets  Heineken is among brewers that are expanding in  emerging
markets  as weak economies restrain growth in Europe. The brewer,
which bought Fomento Economic Mexicano SAB’s beer unit in 2010,
reported volumes that increased in every region except western
Europe, where sales slid 1.3 percent on an organic basis. The
company got about 43 percent of its revenue from the region last
year. Sales soared 9.7 percent in  Africa  and the Middle East,
and 7.5 percent in Asia Pacific.  The company reported total revenue of 3.83 billion euros in
the quarter. The average estimate of nine  analysts  was for
revenue of 3.74 billion euros.  Volume of its Heineken brand rose 8.7 percent, the company
said, boosted by sales in the U.S., Vietnam,  China ,  Brazil  and
Nigeria. The brewer is seeking to sell more-expensive beers,
including Heineken and Desperados, in “key” markets. It
announced in February that it extended a 15-year partnership
with the James Bond movie franchise, and will advertise the beer
to support the premiere of the new “Skyfall” Bond film in
September.  Western Europe  The volume of beer sold rose in the U.K., France, Spain and
Italy “moderately,” Heineken said. Western European sales were
stinted by the “voluntary withdrawal” of a discount product in
Finland, the company said. Sales fell in  Portugal , Ireland and
the Netherlands.  Heineken said earlier this week it will book a one-time
gain of about 130 million euros from selling a 9.3 percent stake
in Dominican brewer Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana to competitor
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV. (ABI)  Heineken had also sought to buy CND,
Reuters reported March 27, before AB InBev gained control of the
brewer in a $1.24 billion deal.  Heineken said today it “remains confident” in continued
volume increases in  Latin America , Africa and Asia. “Consumers
remain cautious with their spending behavior” in some European
countries and the U.S., particularly in bars and pubs, it said.  The company said in February that it plans to save about
500 million euros by 2014 by cutting costs. It forecast that the
cost of making beer will rise about 6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  