-- Greek Election Makes Saving Banks Swansong for Papademos
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-04-18T08:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/election-makes-saving-banks-swansong-for-papademos-euro-credit.html
As Greeks prepare for an election
that’s unlikely to produce a clear winner, interim Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos  is struggling to complete his final
major task: stopping banks from falling into state hands.  The government approved a law last week setting the
framework for the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund, the state’s
recapitalization fund. It included the authorization to give
banks capital upfront and a possible plan to enable them to book
smaller losses on the bonds issued in last month’s debt swap.  “The state will do what they can to keep the banks
operating as living entities and avoid nationalizations where
possible,” said Alex Tsirigotis, an analyst at  Mediobanca SpA (MB) 
in London. “Functioning banks will be important to support any
domestic economic revival.”  Greece’s 2 percent bond due in February 2023, among the new
securities offered March 12, trades at 25 cents on the euro,
while the yield has risen 243 basis points to 20.37 percent.
Elections scheduled for May 6 promise a hung parliament based on
opinion polls, raising questions about the nation’s ability to
push through the austerity measures needed to keep bailout money
flowing from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  Private creditors had to take a 53.5 percent loss on the
nominal value of sovereign securities in the debt swap. The
country’s financial institutions, including  National Bank of
Greece SA , were among the biggest casualties of the 206 billion-
euro debt restructuring, the largest in history.  Rescue Package  “Many issues can’t wait until after the elections to be
addressed,” Papademos told his cabinet on April 11 when he
announced the date of the vote. “We have to specify the
conditions for the bank recapitalization, which is essential for
enhancing the economy’s liquidity.”  The IMF, which is helping finance Greece’s second rescue
package, estimates the debt restructuring will mean impairments
of about 22 billion euros for the country’s banks. That compares
with the industry’s tier 1 capital, a key measure of a bank’s
strength, of 23.8 billion euros as of September. In addition,
banks had non-performing loans equal to 14.7 percent of total
lending at the end of September, the IMF said.  “Bank solvency has become an acute problem” in  Greece ,
the IMF said in a  report  released March 16. “Regulatory capital
will be wiped out for four banks representing 44 percent of
system assets, while the remaining banks would end up
significantly undercapitalized.”  Tier 1  The IMF, EU and  European Central Bank , the troika of
agencies overseeing the Greek financing, plan to help capitalize
banks with incentives for private investors. The goal is to
bring core tier 1 capital to 9 percent of assets by the end of
September.  National Bank shares  advanced  13 percent since the start of
the year in Athens trading on optimism about a recapitalization.
 Alpha Bank SA (ALPHA) , the nation’s third-largest lender, more than
doubled after scrapping a plan to team up with bigger rival  EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  because the additional capital required for
a combined entity would outweigh the benefits. Eurobank shares
have added 80 percent.  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed its CCC long-term ratings on
March 2 for the country’s four biggest banks, which includes
 Piraeus Bank SA. (TPEIR)   Earnings Reports  Capital-raising plans are due this month. Banks are set to
report full-year earnings on April 20, when they reveal the
scale of their losses from the debt swap.  Inspectors from the so-called troika have to sign off on
the recapitalization plans before they can be implemented.
Greece is due to receive a 25 billion-euro first tranche of
funds from the European Financial Stability Facility for the
recapitalization, half of the total public funds earmarked.  It will take more than that to get the Greek economy going,
said Lefteris Farmakis, a rates strategist at Nomura
International Plc in  London . Bank deposits by businesses and
households fell for a second month in February, down 19 percent
from a year earlier, the Bank of Greece said on March 29.  “Obviously recapitalized banks are a necessary condition
for revival, but not a sufficient one,” Farmakis said.
“Assuming they are this does not mean that credit will flow
into the economy immediately. For this to happen, deposit trends
need to stabilize and the government needs to show that they are
somehow on track in executing the program.”  Investor Safeguards  The plan includes incentives for private investment in the
banks such as rights for  shareholders  to purchase the
government’s stake and safeguards for buyers of convertible
bonds, according to the IMF report. The Greek stability fund
will continue to have  voting rights  in the event of strategic
decisions related to the banks to avert the risk of asset
stripping by investment funds, it said.  Outstanding issues include the price at which the state and
private investors will buy the shares and the mix of equity and
contingent convertible bonds, known as CoCos, according to a
note this week from HSBC Pantelakis Securities SA.  Failure to persuade private investors to shore up the banks
will mean they will be controlled by the Greek state, which
sparked the sovereign debt crisis when the government of then-
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  revealed that the country’s
deficit was twice what was previously disclosed.  Voter Pain  Pumping funds into the banks may become a campaign issue as
parties vie to win votes from an electorate that partly blames
banks for tax increases and also for spending cuts the nation is
having to endure to keep Greece in the euro.  Before he was ousted in November and replaced with
Papademos, Papandreou was adamant that the state control the
banks in the event of any recapitalization. The Pasok party,
formerly led by Papandreou, has 12.5 percent support among
voters, while  New Democracy , headed by Antonis Samaras, is on 17
percent, according to the survey of 1,206 eligible voters by
Pulse RC for Tipos tis Kiriakis newspaper published on April 14.  “Should the banks be deemed defeasance structures, their
assets would then need to be brought onto the nation’s balance
sheet, escalating the public debt further,” said Tsirigotis at
Mediobanca. That is “something all stakeholders will want to
avoid,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net 
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  