-- Elpida Bondholders Form Group to Demand Reorganization Details
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-04-18T08:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/elpida-bondholders-form-group-to-demand-reorganization-details.html
Elpida Memory Inc. bondholders
formed a group to demand more information from the bankrupt
company’s trustees on its reorganization, according to a  law
firm  advising the investors.  The bondholders are concerned about whether the sale would
be conducted “in a robust and transparent manner in
consultation with creditors,” Bingham McCutchen LLP said in a
statement. The investors have combined holdings of about 40
billion yen ($492 million) of  debt , Mark Fucci, a Hong Kong-
based lawyer at the firm, said today by phone. That’s equivalent
to about 29 percent of Elpida’s outstanding bonds, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Elpida, whose clients include Apple Inc., filed for
bankruptcy in February with liabilities of 448 billion yen after
losing money for five  quarters  because of falling chip prices
and a stronger yen. Company President Yukio Sakamoto is heading
the restructuring after getting court approval last month to
serve as a trustee alongside Nobuaki Kobayashi, a lawyer who
aided Elpida in its filing.  A spokesman at Elpida trustees’ office, who declined to be
identified, citing the firm’s policy, declined to comment.  The group plans to negotiate with Elpida’s trustees to
reach agreement on a reorganization plan, according to the
statement. The group includes 13 investors and the number is
increasing, Fucci said. He declined to provide information on
the group’s next course of action.  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest memory-chip
maker, said March 30 that it submitted a proposal to bid for
Elpida. Private-equity firm TPG Capital also plans to bid, a
person familiar with the matter said this month.  Toshiba Corp. (6502) 
may join Hynix, and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  may try to buy
Elpida’s assets, Japanese media including the Nikkei newspaper
have reported.  Elpida has six bonds whose redemption dates range from
March 2012 to August 2016, with a total face value of about 139
billion yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  