-- Telstra Puts Off Broadband Cash Return Until 2014
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-04-19T10:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/telstra-to-delay-nbn-broadband-cash-return-until-at-least-2014.html
Telstra Corp. (TLS)  will hold off on
returning extra cash to shareholders until at least 2014 as it
starts receiving A$11 billion ($11.4 billion) from the state-
owned company building Australia’s broadband network.  The nation’s largest phone company will refrain from
immediately giving back as much as A$3 billion in excess cash to
keep its options open, Chief Executive Officer  David Thodey  told
a meeting of investors in Sydney today.  Telstra will get payments and benefits for handing over
most of its copper telephone wires to make way for a mainly
fiber-optic broadband network being built by NBN Co. at a  cost 
of about A$36 billion. The Melbourne-based company will move
from being  Australia ’s biggest seller of wholesale  phone and
data services  to its biggest buyer as a result of the switch.  “We need to find new sources of profits as we get paid to
decommission the copper,” said Thodey. “We must look at growth
opportunities, we just must.”  That may include making acquisitions overseas, Sachin Gupta, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a note to
clients after the announcement.  “Domestically, opportunities are likely to be limited,”
Gupta wrote. “Telstra may look offshore for select
opportunities in adjacent industries like media.”  Telstra, formerly state-owned,  accounts  for about 70
percent of Australia’s fixed-line broadband market, more than
half its wireless broadband business, and 40 percent of its
voice-based mobile-phone revenues.  Shares  The  shares  rose 0.9 percent to A$3.39 at the close in
Sydney, its highest level since Feb. 17. The benchmark S&P/ASX
200 index gained 0.3 percent.  Telstra’s board had promised to consider  capital management 
after completing the agreement on March 7 to spin off its copper
network.  A buyback of shares wouldn’t be an efficient way of giving
cash to shareholders and the company won’t have enough tax
credits to increase its 28 Australian cents per share  dividend 
before 2014, Chief Financial Officer Andrew Penn said.  It will continue paying 28 Australian cents per share in
dividends through 2013, he said. The company has not raised the
payout since 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australian companies often attach so-called franking
credits to their dividends to maximize returns to local
shareholders, who own about 22 percent of Telstra according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Facing Changes’  “This is a company that’s facing significant changes in
the next eight to 10 years in terms of industry structure,”
Laurent Horrut, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney,
said by telephone.  Credit rating company Moody’s Investors Service said the
company’s A2 rating was now stable after the announcement.
Moody’s had started a review into a possible downgrade of the
company’s debt last June. Both  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard &
Poor’s  rate the company’s  debt  A, with S&P having a negative
outlook.  “The NBN deal will bring substantial cash flow into
Telstra which will assist to offset the loss of monopoly-like
revenue streams as a result of the transaction,” Moody’s
analyst  Ian Lewis  wrote in a note outlining the decision.  Australia’s opposition, which leads the government in
opinion polls before elections due in 2013, has called for a
cheaper version of the broadband network to be built that would
only extend glass fibers to neighborhood connection boxes.  This so-called fiber-to-the-node model differs from the
government’s preferred fiber-to-the-home plan, which will extend
the highest-speed network to individual homes.  ‘Fiber-to-the-Home’  “Definitely fiber-to-the-node is faster and cheaper” to
roll out, Thodey said. “If you’ve got a purist view about an
ideal world, fiber-to-the-home is definitely the ultimate
solution.”  Telstra is expected to spend an average of A$3.8 billion a
year on capital projects in the three years through June 2014,
according to the consensus of eight analysts’  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. It will average the same level of free  cash flow 
over the period, according to the average of five analysts’
estimates.  While Telstra’s net income has fallen 0.7 percent since
2007, it has  paid out  an average of 97 percent of earnings in
dividends over the period and its shares are currently yielding
a  dividend  worth more than 8 percent of the stock price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  