-- Embassy Group Will Build $390 Million-Euro IT Park in Serbia
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-04-18T14:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/embassy-group-will-build-300-million-euro-it-park-in-serbia.html
Embassy Group, an Indian property
developer, will start work on a 300 million-euro ($390 million)
IT  business park  in Serbia, an investment that may be matched by
its clients and that could ultimately create 25,000 jobs.  The Bangalore-based company will start the IT park in
Indjija, 42 kilometers north of Belgrade, with a $40 million
investment, its Chairman Jitendra Virwani said in Belgrade
today. The investment will take at least five years to complete
and half of the funds will come from the group’s “equity in
India and the rest from banks,” he said.  “Serbia seems to be a better place to risk our investment
than any other country in the neighborhood,” Virwani said in an
interview. “It is much cheaper than neighboring countries in
terms of construction cost, salaries and the cost of living.”  Serbia  has 1,600 IT companies with 14,000 people working
there. The industry grew 5 percent last year, generating exports
worth 230 million euros compared with the country’s total sales
abroad worth 11.7 billion euros at the end of 2011, said Bozidar
Laganin, the head of the  Serbian Investment and Export Promotion
Agency , or SIEPA.  “A lot of business from eastern European countries can
come here,” Virwani said.  Embassy has chosen Serbia for its first investment in
 Europe  to get closer to its customers, many of whom may choose
the new location in Europe for software development, ICT-shared
services and cloud computing.  “We have already been engaged in intensive talks with our
clients to come to the new business park in Serbia,” Goran
Gencic of Embassy’s Serbian arm Embassy Techzones, said.  Its client list in Bangalore includes  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) ,
Computer Science Corp.,  Fidelity National Financial Inc. (FNF) ,
 Geometric Ltd. (GEO) ,  International Business Machines Crop. (IBM) , LG Soft
India, McAfee Inc.,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  NetApp Inc. (NTAP) , Nokia Siemens
Networks Oy,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Yahoo!Inc. (YHOO)   Doing business from Indjija, a town of almost 26,000
people, will attract companies by offering significant cost
savings, including tax breaks, customs-free exports of goods and
services and other benefits, Embassy said.  “With 170 hectares of available land and 250,000 square
meters of business premises” in the project’s final stage, the
IT Park will turn into the biggest such center in Europe,
“putting Serbia on a map of preferred locations to do business
in the European Union,” Embassy said.  Real-estate developers do not qualify for state aid while
the government will continue to subsidize investment in car
industry, electronics and IT, Laganin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  