-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise on Global Growth Outlook
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r ,   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-04-18T22:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/emerging-stocks-fall-for-first-day-in-four-honam-slides.html
Emerging-market stocks rallied for
a second day after the  International Monetary Fund  raised its
global growth forecast and on speculation  China  and  Brazil  will
act to boost growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.4 percent to
1,023.75 at the close in  New York .  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
climbed 3.5 percent in Seoul, as technology companies led gains.
JBS SA, the world’s largest beef producer, gained the most in
more than a month and the  Bovespa (IBOV)  advanced for a second day.
Turkish stocks fell the most in a week.  The IMF raised its 2012 estimate for global economic growth
to 3.5 percent from a January projection of 3.3 percent, the
first increase in more than a year.  China’s economy  faces no
risks of a hard landing this year, though the government should
be vigilant against the chance of growth decelerating too
quickly, an economic researcher said today. China’s home prices
fell in a record 37 of 70 cities tracked by the government in
March. Brazil will cut its benchmark lending rate by 0.75
percentage point, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Speculation of easing measures in China and a positive
outlook in the latest IMF report have boosted buying interest in
equities, brushing aside the accelerated downside housing data
in China,”  Benoit Anne , chief emerging-markets strategist at
Societe Generale SA in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has risen 12 percent this
year, compared with an 8.6 percent gain in the MSCI World Index
of developed nations. Shares in the developing nation gauge are
trading at 10.4 times estimated earnings, cheaper than the 12.5
multiple of the developed-nation counterpart.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
fell 0.5 percent to $42.23 in New York. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge
of options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rose 0.6 percent to 27.39.  Brazil, South Africa  Brazil’s Bovespa gained 0.5 percent, as 45 stocks advanced
and 22 retreated. JBS gained 6.3 percent.  Brazil’s central bank will lower the benchmark Selic rate
today to 9 percent from 9.75 percent, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 69 economists. Every economist
is predicting a rate cut of at least 50 basis points, or 0.5
percentage points.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  advanced for a second
day, gaining 0.8 percent in Johannesburg.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s biggest resources company, climbed 1.8 percent and  Anglo
American Plc (AGL) , the diversified miner, jumped 1.7 percent.  Economic Growth  The IMF is predicting growth for China of 8.2 percent even
after the country unveiled a target of 7.5 percent last month.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped 2 percent, the most in
more than two months. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) 
gained 0.9 percent, ending a two-day drop.  The Chinese central bank should lower the reserve-
requirement ratio and adjust the loan-to-deposit ratio to
increase banks’ lending capacity and meet credit demand in the
economy, Wang Jun, a researcher with the China Center for
International Economic Exchanges, said at a Beijing seminar in
comments that were posted on www.china.com.cn, a website
controlled by the State Council Information Office.  Samsung Electronics, the world’s largest seller of
smartphones last year, climbed the most in more than a month on
speculation the company’s patent dispute with rival Apple Inc.
will reach a settlement.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  increased 1 percent while the  BSE
India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  advanced 0.2 percent. The  WIG20 Index (WIG20) 
slipped 1.1 percent in Poland, falling for the first time this
week.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage points, to 360, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 