-- Environmental Groups Back Obama as Campaign Donations Trail
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-04-18T19:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/environmental-groups-back-obama-as-campaign-donations-trail.html
President  Barack Obama  won
endorsements today from environmental advocacy groups including
the  Sierra Club  and the League of Conservation Voters even as
some of their members are holding back financial support.  The organizations saw progress in the Obama
administration’s efforts to address environmental issues, from
increasing fuel efficiency for automobiles to cutting down on
mercury pollution from coal-fired power plants to supporting
solar and wind energy,  Michael Brune , executive director of the
San Francisco-based Sierra Club, said in a conference call.  “We found very, very high enthusiasm for the president”
among local activists, Brune said.  So far that hasn’t translated into the same level of
financial backing for Obama’s re-election bid, in which he’s
likely to face Republican  Mitt Romney  in the November contest,
that he had four years ago.  Through Feb. 29 employees of environmental groups or their
spouses gave Obama’s re-election campaign  $132,791 , according to
the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks campaign contributions. Through the same time
period in 2008 they gave his campaign $300,353, the center’s
data show.  Environmental activists have been critical of the
administration on several issues, including the president’s
September decision to quash stricter ozone standards by the
Environmental Protection Agency, abandoning cap- and-trade
legislation, and renewing offshore drilling in the  Gulf of
Mexico  after last year’s oil spill.  Today’s announcement is the earliest that the Sierra Club
has ever endorsed a presidential candidate, according to Sierra
Club spokeswoman Maggie Kao. In 2004, the more than 1.4 million
member club endorsed Democratic presidential candidate  John Kerry  in May, and in 2008 it endorsed Obama in June, after the
Democratic primary race was settled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  