-- Obama Issues Pollution Rules for Gas Wells, Offers Phase-In
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-04-18T19:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/epa-will-delay-start-of-u-s-fracking-rules-until-2015-api-says.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency issued the first rules to combat air pollution from
natural-gas drilling, while giving companies until 2015 to meet
the most stringent requirements opposed by the  energy industry .  The regulations will primarily affect the estimated 13,000
wells a year drilled using hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to
free underground gas in shale formations. The EPA rejected a bid
by the American Petroleum Institute to exempt a number of wells
from the requirements altogether.  “The president has been clear that he wants to continue to
expand production of important domestic resources like natural
gas, and today’s standard supports that goal while making sure
these fuels are produced without threatening the health of the
American people,” EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson , appointed by
President  Barack Obama , said today in a statement.  An EPA draft of the rule would have put the requirements
into effect in about 60 days. The final regulation delays until
Jan. 1, 2015, a requirement that drillers capture gases when
first tapping a well. Operators must burn off that gas during
the phase-in period, the EPA said.  The EPA proposed the rule last year to focus on fracking,
in which millions of gallons of chemically treated water are
forced underground to break up rock and free gas. The method
opened vast new shale gas deposits and helped push gas prices to
the lowest level in a decade. Gas for May delivery touched $1.94
per million British thermal units today, the lowest intraday
price since January 2002.  Capturing Smog Compounds  The rules force drillers of new wells to capture smog-
forming compounds and other substances that are now often
released into the air or flared off when a well is tapped. The
process also results in methane, the primary component of
natural gas, being captured. Half the new wells already use this
technology, according to the EPA.  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  has said 90 percent its wells capture
the gas and  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN)  says almost all wells in the
Marcellus and Fayetteville shale formations collect the gas
already.  “Every molecule of gas you let escape out into the air is
a molecule of gas you can’t sell,” Tim Hartley, a spokesman for
Oklahoma City-based Devon, said in an interview.  Reselling Captured Gas  The EPA analysis says that drillers may make $11 million to
$19 million a year after paying for the equipment to comply with
the rule, because they can sell the gas that otherwise would
escape into the air.  Lobbyists for companies including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) 
sought to delay and scale back the rule while rebutting
environmentalists’ claims that fracking causes air pollution.  “Overall, EPA has made some important adjustment in the
rules that allow” the industry to comply, Howard Feldman,
research director for the  American Petroleum Institute  in
 Washington , said in an interview. “Most of the changes were
constructive.”  The group had argued to the Obama administration that the
equipment required to capture the gas as required by the EPA
rules wasn’t available in sufficient quantities. In delaying the
requirement, EPA echoed that assessment.  The EPA added incentives to prod drillers to use a
technology called green completions in which gas is trapped. For
example, companies that refracture a well and use green
completions won’t be subject to state permitting requirements,
according to EPA documents.  ‘Managable, Positive’  “Given sufficient ramp-up time, the cost of green
completions is expected to be manageable or even positive net of
revenue from selling captured methane,” Benjamin Salisbury, a
senior energy policy analyst at FBR Capital Markets Corp. in
Arlington,  Virginia , said in a research note. “We view the
final rules as a strong indication of the Obama Administration’s
increasing focus on the economic and environmental benefits of
shale gas.”  Environmentalists said the incentives are crafted to
encourage action by companies.  “I wish there was no phase-in period,”  David Doniger ,
policy director for the climate and clean air program at the
 Natural Resources Defense Council  in Washington, said in an
interview. “But the standards contain incentives for companies
to do the right thing before the 2015 deadline.”  Carbon Emissions  At the smokestack, power generated from gas emits about
half the carbon dioxide as coal, earning it favor with some
environmental groups worried about  climate change . Research on
emissions from fracking itself has prompted questions about
whether gas is friendlier to the climate because of methane
releases at the well.  Stray emissions from the drilling process can change the
calculation that natural gas is cleaner. Some of the largest air
emissions occur during the initial three to 10-day period called
“flow back,” when fracturing fluids, water and reservoir gas
come to the surface at a high velocity and volume, according to
the EPA. Systems required by the EPA rule would separate water
from the gas, and feed it into a pipeline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  