-- Eritrean Government Denies Abduction of Gold Miners in Ethiopia
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-04-18T11:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/eritrean-government-denies-abduction-of-gold-miners-in-ethiopia.html
Eritrea ’s government denied
accusations by Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi that it was
responsible for abducting more than 100 gold miners in
northwestern  Ethiopia .  The incident, which took place “recently,” was one of a
series that prompted a counter-offensive by Ethiopian forces on
March 15, when they attacked three military bases inside Eritrea
used by rebels to attack Ethiopia, Meles told lawmakers
yesterday in the capital,  Addis Ababa . He didn’t provide a more
specific timeframe on when the abductions took place.  “It has become the modus operandi of Ethiopia to blame
everything on Eritrea,” Girma Asmerom, Eritrea’s ambassador to
the  African Union , said in an interview today. “They think by
lying and lying the lies may be perceived to be true.”  Ethiopia and Eritrea fought a war from 1998 to 2000 that
killed 70,000 people, according to the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group . Last month’s attack in southeastern
Eritrea followed the January killing of five European tourists
by Eritrea-backed insurgents, according to Ethiopia. Eritrean
President Isaias Afwerki’s government denied any involvement in
the incident.  Cross-border abductions such as those carried out in
Ethiopia’s northwestern Tigray region occur regularly, Ethiopian
Communications Bereket Simon said in a phone interview today
from Addis Ababa, without providing further details.  “The proportional measure was taken in account of all the
misdeeds,” he said. A return to all-out war is unlikely, Meles
said yesterday.  UN Sanctions  Eritrea has been under United Nations sanctions since 2009
for allegedly supporting rebels in the Horn of Africa region,
including al-Qaeda-backed militants in  Somalia . Ethiopia accuses
Eritrea of backing groups including the rebel Ethiopian Unity
and Freedom Force, which yesterday claimed responsibility for an
attack on Metema town in Ethiopia’s Amhara region on April 11.  About 20 buildings, including the Khartoum Hotel, were
burned down, the group said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. Many of the properties were owned by members of the
Tigray People’s Liberation Front, which is a member of
Ethiopia’s five-party ruling coalition and led by Meles, the
EUFF said.  The rebel organization, which was established in June, also
said it attacked a convoy in which the governor of  Sudan ’s
Gadarif state was travelling on April 9.  While the claims are the “usual fabrications”, all such
groups are supported or “directly manipulated” by Eritrea,
according to Bereket.  Eritrea does not want to destabilize its neighbors by
backing rebel groups, according to Girma.  “It has selfish interests in a stable, united and developed
Ethiopia and Sudan,” he said. “They are big markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 