-- Tesco Reluctance to Commit to U.S. Dims Investor Outlook
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-04-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/tesco-reluctance-to-commit-to-u-s-dims-investor-outlook.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , investing 1 billion
pounds ($1.6 billion) to regain share lost in the U.K. grocery
market, disappointed investors by failing to give the same
commitment to its U.S. business.  The U.K.’s largest retailer yesterday pushed back its
profitability target for the Fresh & Easy chain and scaled back
store openings. Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  told
reporters that Tesco won’t set a “timeline” for the business.  “Before too long we’re going to have to get a decision”
on the U.S., said Richard Marwood, a senior  fund manager  at Axa
Investment Management in London, which holds Tesco stock. The
lack of progress at Fresh & Easy took the shine off the
company’s announcement of an investment plan to revive sales in
its domestic market, he said.  Tesco conceded that the four-year-old chain in California,
Arizona and  Nevada  is making “slower progress” than planned.
Only 30 out of 186 stores are profitable, while 118 are “very
close,” Chief Financial Officer Laurie McIlwee said.  “We’ve laid out precisely what we see the measures of
success are, and that is more stores getting to shop-floor
profitability,” CEO Clarke said at a press conference. “When
we get there, we will say some more about it.”  Tesco, based in Cheshunt,  England , doesn’t now expect Fresh
& Easy to break even until during the financial year ending
February 2014. That expectation “is testing investors’ resolve
as well as our own, there is no doubt about that,” Clive Black,
an analyst at Shore Capital in  London , said in a note.  U.S. Losses  The delay to U.S. profitability and slowdown in store
openings were the “clouds” in yesterday’s earnings statement,
said JP Morgan Cazenove analyst Matthew Truman.  Tesco, which in January cut profit guidance for the first
time in two decades, reported a 1.3 percent increase in so-
called trading  profit  to 3.76 billion pounds, matching analysts’
reduced estimates. U.S. losses narrowed to 153 million pounds,
which was 27 percent weaker than Truman’s estimate.  Tesco said last year it would need 300 stores in the U.S.
to break even, less than the 400 it had originally anticipated.
The revised expansion plan means Fresh & Easy will have just 230
stores by February 2013.  According to Axa’s Marwood, Tesco needs to increase its
scale in the U.S. to absorb the cost of running its own
manufacturing and distribution center in  California . Having
fewer outlets than planned may make it harder to break even.  Customer Service  “It’s a lot of money spent to date, so I suppose part of
the problem is they need to decide are you going to stick with
this and really do it, or are you going to pull stumps and
not,” he said. “They are still rather between the two.”  Tesco’s Clarke remains adamant he can make the business
work, citing economic turmoil on the West Coast for delays to
profitability. The retailer entered the U.S. in 2007, a year
before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “We entered America at a time when the economy was
growing, consumers were confident, everyone in the world had a
tailwind that was pushing them along and then bang came the
headwinds,” the CEO said.  Since then,  Fresh & Easy  has focused more on customer
service, building in-store bakeries and amending its offer to
have more own-brand, freshly prepared ready-meals.  “Because it’s such a unique business, because it’s got
such extraordinary capabilities, because the market opportunity
is real, I feel we need to persuade our investors we can get
there,” Clarke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  