-- Tesco Will Spend $1.6 Billion to Boost Ailing U.K. Stores
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-04-18T16:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/tesco-profit-rises-1-3-as-grocer-invests-1-6-billion-in-u-k-.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
retailer, said it will invest 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to
revive sales at home, while slowing expansion in other parts of
the world as it makes a domestic turnaround its first priority.  U.K. stores will be given a “warmer look and feel,” while
the company will also add 8,000 supermarket workers, and pump
150 million pounds into expanding its online offer, Cheshunt,
England-based Tesco said today as it reported a 1.3 percent gain
in full-year earnings that matched analysts’ estimates.  Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  unveiled the plan
three months after Tesco cut profit guidance for the first time
in 20 years. The retailer’s shares are the second-worst
 performer  this year in the U.K. benchmark  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)  Tesco
also said today it will add about 38 percent less selling space
in the U.K. this year and scale back expansion in  Asia , the U.S.
and  Europe .  “It’s quite clear that they need to spend money on the
stores, they need to make them look more attractive,” Richard Perks, a retail analyst at Mintel International, told Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.” “They’re looking old and dowdy and
tired, and consumers don’t like that. This amount of money
really ought to be enough.”  Tesco  fell  2.2 percent to 321.05 pence in London trading,
extending this year’s decline to 20 percent.  Online Offer  The retailer said 430 supermarkets, representing more than
a quarter of its U.K. selling space, will be revamped this year.
Grocery ranges will be overhauled, with the 1 billion-pound
Value line due to be relabeled as Everyday Value and more than
2,000 new standard products being introduced by April 2013.  Tesco plans to double its online offering of non-food goods
to 80,000 lines by Christmas and will extend its Click & Collect
business, where shoppers pick up purchases in store, to 1,600
outlets including Express convenience stores.  “The plan isn’t radical, but it’s a radical change of
pace,” Clarke said on a call. Trials have demonstrated improved
same-store sales, he said, without being more specific.  “We remain confident of making modest progress this year
despite the substantial planned revenue investment,” the CEO
said. He wouldn’t be drawn on a timescale for a U.K. turnaround,
though Bryan Roberts, an analyst at Kantar Retail in London,
estimated it would take “18 months minimum.”  Big Price Drop  Tesco’s plan is aimed at regaining lost market share after
its Big Price Drop discounting campaign failed to win back
shoppers drawn away by price-matching programs at competitors
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda and  J Sainsbury Plc. (SBRY)  The
grocer’s share of U.K. grocery spending slipped to 30.2 percent
in the 12 weeks ended March 18, according to Kantar Worldpanel
data, as sales growth of 2.7 percent trailed behind that of
Asda, Sainsbury and  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc. (MRW)   “It does not know in marketing terms how to combat the
Asda strategy,” Mintel’s Perks said.  A decline in Tesco’s same-store  revenue  worsened in the
final quarter, today’s figures showed. Sales at U.K. stores open
at least a year fell 1.6 percent, excluding fuel and value-added
tax, worse the previous quarter’s 0.9 percent drop. The median
estimate of four analysts was for a 1.7 percent decline.  Tesco pushed back the break-even forecast for its U.S.
Fresh & Easy chain by one year to fiscal 2013, and said it will
focus on making the existing 185 stores in the country
profitable before expanding the business further.  Declining Sales  “I was quite prepared to think it wouldn’t work, but I’m
not in that place now,” Clarke said of U.S. unit, which posted
a loss of 153 million pounds in the last fiscal year. “We’ll be
able to push it over the line.”  Tesco also said it would take a “more cautious approach”
in  China , opening 16 stores this year, instead of stepping up
the pace of expansion as intended, due to slowing economic
growth, high inflation and wage cost pressures.  Capital spending  will be reduced by 500 million pounds to
3.3 billion pounds this year, the grocer said.  So-called trading profit increased 1.3 percent to 3.76
billion pounds in the 52 weeks ended Feb. 25, Tesco said. That’s
in line with the 3.77 billion-pound median estimate of seven
analysts compiled by Bloomberg and follows Tesco’s January
forecast that profit would be at the low end of the range.  Clarke dismissed suggestions that large-format hypermarkets
are a dead format.  “The future of the hypermarket is going to be a little bit
more food, with general merchandise and clothing,” he said.
“This is about responding to the internet and customers rather
than saying the hypermarket is over, which it isn’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  