-- Euro 2012 to Cut Polish Jobless Rate, Labor Minister Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-04-18T14:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/euro-2012-to-cut-polish-jobless-rate-labor-minister-says.html
The European soccer championships
will help cut Poland’s  unemployment rate  toward the government’s
12.3 percent target at the end of the year, Labor Minister
Wladyslaw Kosiniak-Kamysz said.  “The labor-market situation in Poland looks undoubtedly
better than expected only a few months ago,” Kosiniak-Kamysz
said in a phone interview yesterday. “Euro 2012 has already
given an impulse and will help the labor market during the
tournament. I also count on the effect lasting to some extent,
keeping some tourism-related jobs.”  The economy will grow at the second fastest pace in  Europe 
this year after  Russia , even as the euro-area debt crisis slows
the expansion to 2.6 percent from 4.3 percent in 2011, the
 International Monetary Fund  said yesterday.  The central bank warned this month that the pace of growth
and inflation exceeding the tolerance range of monetary policy
will prompt higher  interest rates  unless the economy slows and
helps curb consumer prices.  Wages, jobs and production data due this month will help
rate setters decide whether to increase borrowing costs next
month, central banker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka said in an April
14 interview.  Today’s Data  Corporate employment rose 0.5 percent from a year earlier,
the same rate as in February, the  Central Statistical Office  in
Warsaw said today, matching the median estimate of 27 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. Average gross wages rose 3.8 percent from
a year earlier in March after a 4.3 percent surge the previous
month, which also matched the median forecast of 28 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The zloty traded at 4.1854 per euro at 3 p.m. in Warsaw,
unchanged on the wages and employment reports and down from
4.1691 late yesterday.  “The data today confirms that the Polish labor market is
weak, though fortunately it doesn’t show any sudden worsening,”
said Monika Kurtek, chief economist at Bank Pocztowy in Warsaw.
“Employment this year is at much lower levels than last and we
will see no significant change in coming months, except for June
and July on Euro 2012.”  The Monetary Policy Council may raise rates next month on
expectations of a “relatively modest economic slowdown,”
Kurtek said. Before its next rate meeting,  Poland  reports
industrial output for March tomorrow and retail sales and final
March jobless figures on April 25.  Falling Rate  The unemployment rate fell to 13.3 percent in March from a
five-year high of 13.5 percent the previous month, according to
a Labor Ministry estimate on April 5. Economists expect a rate
of 13.4 percent when the statistics office reports March data,
according to the median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Unemployment usually falls in the March-September period,
“but this year, the seasonal drop will be strengthened by the
 soccer tournament ,” Kosiniak-Kamysz said, listing tourism,
logistics, transportation, promotion and construction among the
industries set for jobs gains.  Unemployment will keep slowing in the “coming months,”
Kosiniak-Kamysz said, adding that the government is sticking to
its target for the rate to drop to 12.3 percent by the end of
the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  