-- Ex-Dodgers Owner Peter O’Malley Says He’s Considering Padres Bid
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/ex-dodgers-owner-peter-o-malley-says-he-s-considering-padres-bid.html
Peter O’Malley , whose family owned
the Dodgers for 48 years and moved them from Brooklyn to  Los
Angeles , said he’s considering a bid for the San Diego Padres.  Padres owner John Moores said last week that he had hired
investment bankers Allen & Co. and Moag & Co. to help sell the
Major League Baseball team.  O’Malley, 74, was president of the Dodgers from 1970-98.
His father, Walter O’Malley, ran the team from 1950-70 and moved
the franchise to the West Coast in 1958.  “The interest is early, the ballclub has only been for
sale for a few days,” O’Malley said yesterday in a phone
interview. “I have not talked to John Moores. There is interest.
We are considering it and it’s primarily the younger
generation.”  O’Malley’s son, Kevin O’Malley, and a nephew, Tom Seidler,
lead Top of the Third, Inc., a family partnership that has owned
the minor-league Visalia Rawhide for the past 11 years.  Seidler is president and general manager of the club, which
is located in central  California  and is a farm team of the
Arizona Diamondbacks.  The O’Malley family’s interest in bidding for the Padres
was first reported by the Los Angeles Times.  O’Malley sold the Dodgers in 1998 to  News Corp. (NWSA) , which sold
the team six years later to Frank McCourt. Last month, McCourt
accepted a $2.3 billion bid to sell the team out of bankruptcy
to a group led by National Basketball Association Hall of Famer
Magic Johnson and Guggenheim Partners Chief Executive  Mark Walter .  The O’Malley family expressed interest in buying back the
Dodgers when McCourt put the team up for sale last year.
O’Malley put together a group that included South Korean apparel
retailer E-Land to bid on the Dodgers, then withdrew the bid in
February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  