-- Galleon Insider Figure Gets Probation After Leniency Bid
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-04-19T19:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/ex-goldman-employee-seeks-leniency-for-insider-scheme.html
A former Schottenfeld Group LLC
employee was sentenced to probation after telling a judge he
gave  New York ’s homeless thousands of dollars earned from an
insider-trading scheme tied to the Galleon Group LLC scandal.  Gautham Shankar, 38, who worked for  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  before joining Schottenfeld as a trader, was ordered
yesterday by U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in New York to
serve three years of probation, including the first six months
in home confinement. In addition to his plea for leniency,
former Goldman Sachs colleagues, clients and his parents’ 
housekeepers sought mercy for Shankar, convicted in 2009 of 
fraud in the biggest hedge fund insider crackdown in U.S. 
history.  Shankar, who faced as long as 37 months in prison,
collected less than $450,000 from his crimes, which took place
while he was working at Schottenfeld, his lawyer said. The judge
also fined him $25,000 and directed his forfeiture of $448,437.  Shankar, of  New Canaan ,  Connecticut , was one of more than
20 people charged by the U.S. in overlapping insider cases
involving Galleon founder  Raj Rajaratnam . Rajaratnam is serving
an 11-year prison term after being convicted of 14 counts of
conspiracy and securities fraud.  Pleaded Guilty  Shankar, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud, admitted that he passed and profited from illegal tips he
obtained from Zvi Goffer, a former Galleon employee, and  Thomas Hardin , a former analyst at Lanexa Global Management LP.  Sullivan said it was important to reward Shankar for
cooperating early in the government’s investigation. Shankar
assisted prosecutors for more than a year before the charges
were filed, Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish told Sullivan
yesterday.  “The key variable for me is not only that you’re a good
person, but it’s that you cooperated early,” the judge said.
“You did it substantially and you did it in a timely way that
allowed the government to pursue investigations.”  Shankar’s lawyer, Frederick Sosinsky, said yesterday that
his client didn’t keep a $5,000 payment he received from a co-
conspirator as a result of an  insider-trading  tip and instead
gave the money to the homeless.  Large Sums  “As the government learned during its meetings with Mr.
Shankar, he has always, quite literally, given large sums of
money away to the homeless on the streets of New York, including
cash given to him by his co-conspirators for passing tips from
Hardin,” Sosinsky wrote in a court filing.  “From bringing the homeless a cup of coffee in the morning
and sharing time with them to handing them hundreds of dollars
at a time, Mr. Shankar has always been unable to simply walk
past those in the most distress,” Sosinsky said.  “I’m sorry for the pain that I’ve caused everybody,”
Shankar told Sullivan before he was sentenced. “I’m truly sorry
for my actions and involvement for the past four years have been
difficult.”  Sullivan said he was troubled by anecdotes about Shankar’s
largesse and questioned Shankar’s motives for engaging in the
scheme.  “‘You don’t make a charitable donation with insider-
trading proceeds,” he said. “What he did with his illegal
proceeds is less important to me.”  Goldman Colleagues, Clients  Shankar’s wife, Maureen, asked Sullivan to impose a term of
probation, citing her husband’s good works. She said Shankar
always stopped to speak to the homeless outside Grand Central
Terminal during their daily commute into the city and gave
shirts and money for a homeless man’s surgery.  “One thing I want you to understand about Gautham is that
he is not a materialistic, greedy person,” Maureen Shankar
wrote. “In fact, quite the opposite is true!”  Sosinsky submitted more than 50 letters to the court
written on Shankar’s behalf, including two from former Goldman
Sachs colleagues, three from former Goldman Sachs clients and
two by housekeepers who worked for his parents.  During his time at New York-based Goldman Sachs, Shankar
contacted “buy side” clients and provided research to
analysts, his lawyer said in court papers. He worked on the
sales desk at Goldman Sachs from July 2000 until February 2003.  “I ask that you show mercy when sentencing Gautham,” said
Rudy Glocker, a former colleague. “I realize we all must pay
for our mistakes, and I know Gautham’s atonement is real.”  “Gautham and I were in the training program together at
Goldman Sachs,” said Chris Haroun, a former co-worker. “If I
could summarize his character in five words, it would be as
follows: ethical, kind, minimalist, selfless and generous.”  ‘Substantial’ Assistance  Fish said yesterday Shankar provided “substantial”
assistance to the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation’s probe of
insider trading at  hedge funds , resulting in criminal charges
being filed against numerous individuals.  When Shankar was approached by the FBI, he “immediately”
agreed to cooperate, Fish said. He told investigators about
receiving cash from Goffer and  David Plate , a former
Schottenfeld trader, as well as payments he made to Hardin, the
prosecutor said.  “He agreed to cooperate in May 2008, when we were in a
covert investigation, for more than a year he had to keep this
all secret,” Fish said. “Shankar really opened us to a chain
of insider-trading prosecutions, so I think he should get some
credit for that.”  Shankar recorded telephone calls for the FBI with Goffer
and his brother, Emanuel Goffer, Plate, trader Michael Kimelman,
former Galleon trader Franz Tudor and Hardin, Fish said.  Roomy Khan  Based on Shankar’s recordings, Hardin began to cooperate,
Fish said, and told the U.S. about tips he obtained from  Roomy Khan , a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive. Khan later pleaded guilty
and became a key cooperator for the government against
Rajaratnam.  Hardin also told the U.S. about a separate insider-trading
scheme involving Karl Motey, an independent consultant who also
pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate with the U.S., Fish said.  Motey later agreed to work secretly for the FBI, posing as
a hedge fund manager and wearing a body wire as part of the
federal crackdown of so-called expert networking firms.  Shankar declined to comment after court.  “We’re relieved that this chapter of Mr. Shankar’s life is
over,” Sosinsky said.  The case is U.S. v. Shankar, 09-cr-996, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 