-- Exxon Inferior to Pipelines in Energy Investing
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-04-18T20:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/exxon-inferior-to-pipelines-in-energy-investing.html
Pipeline companies offer the best
returns in energy for investors seeking to cash in on the U.S.
shale boom while avoiding the volatility of a commodity market
that’s seen natural-gas prices reach a 10-year-low and crude
bounce above $100 a barrel.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows pipeline
companies in the past five years have provided triple the risk-
adjusted return of companies that produce and refine oil and
gas, such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the next best group.  Enbridge
Inc. (ENB)  of  Canada  leads companies on the Bloomberg World Pipelines
Index, which returned 2.9 percent when adjusted for price
swings. Producers focused on finding and extracting oil and gas
gained 0.5 percent.  Pipelines are the toll roads of the energy industry,
inoculated against price swings thanks to long-term contracts
that lock in fees based on the volume of products they ship.
Demand for shipping is expected to grow as oil and gas drilling
accelerates in U.S. shale fields. With energy’s best returns and
lowest risk, pipelines have attracted investors such as  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which owns 19.1 percent of  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI) ,
the parent of the second-biggest U.S. pipeline company.  “These are companies that have multiyear contracts
involving products that are essential to the functioning of
society,” said Randle Smith, a portfolio manager with Duff &
Phelps Investment Management Co. who helps manage $4.9 billion
of global utilities and infrastructure investments, including
more than 2 million Enbridge shares. “They’re not taking on
commodity price risks, so it’s a very secure business model.”  Enbridge’s Lowest Risk  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price-swing variation, giving a measure of income per
unit of risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset
can swing dramatically in a short period of time, increasing the
potential for unexpected losses compared with a security whose
price moves at a steady rate.  Enbridge provided a 6.8 percent risk-adjusted return in the
past five years, the highest among the 89 companies on the
Standard & Poor’s Global 1200 Energy  Index (SGES) , as well as among the
20 biggest pipeline companies in the world as measured by market
value. The return was more than triple the 2.1 percent average
on the Cushing 30 MLP index, which includes many competitors
that operate as partnerships.  Better Than Exxon  The Calgary-based operator’s risk-adjusted return was
almost 10 times that of Exxon, which has the top credit rating
from three rating companies and is a mainstay of energy
portfolios around the world due to its stable returns and
dividends. Enbridge had higher returns than 94 percent of energy
stocks on the S&P Global index.  Chief Executive Officer Pat Daniel sees no reason for the
company to take on riskier investments.  “That’s Enbridge,” he said in an interview. “We’re not a
‘Hail Mary’ kind of company. We’re a grind it out, win it every
day, consistent performer.”  Enbridge returned 150 percent to shareholders in the past
five years through price appreciation and dividends, the highest
among pipeline companies. Enbridge has earned $5.53 billion for
shareholders since 2007, slightly higher than the $5.45 billion
of  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) , which had the second-
highest risk-adjusted return of pipeline operators after
Enbridge.  Enbridge fell 0.3 percent to C$38.83 at the close in
Toronto.  Stability Hallmark  Enbridge had the second-lowest volatility of the pipeline
companies after  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , another Calgary-based company
that is seeking to build a pipeline from Canada’s oil sands to
the Texas coast.  Stability has been a hallmark of pipeline companies, whose
shipping agreements with refiners and oil and gas producers
often last for decades and include regular price increases.
Though rising prices can chip away at demand, during the
recession of 2007 to 2009, gasoline  demand  dropped just 3
percent, said Chris Eades, who helps manage more than $2 billion
in a pair of pipeline-oriented funds at  Legg Mason (LM) ’s ClearBridge
Advisors in  New York .  “A 3 percent swing in volumes is not going to make or
break one of these pipeline companies’ ability to pay their
distribution,” he said.  Soaring Demand for Pipes  The need for pipelines soared in the past five years as
improved technology allowed companies to expand production in
U.S. shale-rock formations and Canada’s oil sands. North
American output may grow 70 percent by 2020, possibly surpassing
that of the Middle East, according to Citigroup Inc.  Oil production in  North Dakota  reached 535,000 barrels a
day in January and could grow to 1 million by 2020, said Dan Spears, a  fund manager  at Swank Capital LLC. Production in the
Eagle Ford Shale, almost non-existent in 2007, may grow to
850,000 barrels a day by the middle of this year.  “All these guys have got to build more storage and more
pipelines to get their oil to market,” Spears said.  Pipelines have cost advantages over other sectors of the
industry. Drilling for oil and gas has become more expensive as
exploration moves farther offshore or into more drilling-
intensive formations like shale, said Bob Brackett, an analyst
with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. The cost of finding
and developing a barrel of oil has risen 14 percent annually for
the past 10 years.  Tougher Rocks  Some of the inflation is cyclical, based on the price of
labor; the rest is a result of “the rocks getting tougher” and
requiring more expensive production techniques, Brackett said in
an interview. Reducing those costs “would take a technical
breakthrough that we haven’t seen yet.”  While the cost of drilling was rising, market volatility
pushed oil to $145.29 a barrel in 2008, then down to $33.87 the
same year before rising again to about $102 this month. Natural
gas reached $13.577 per million British thermal units in 2008
then fell this month to less than $1.975, the lowest since 2002.  Those price swings have cut into profits for both explorers
and refiners such as  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  and  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)  Rising prices for Brent crude, the international
benchmark, has increased costs and hurt profitability for U.S.
refiners on the East Coast, which rely on imports to process
fuel, said Zach Parham, an analyst with Bloomberg Industries.  International Oil Spikes  Brent spiked to a high of $126.65 in 2011 as political
turmoil spread in the Middle East. It rose again to a high of
$126.22 this year, driven by demand from  China  and Iran’s threat
to close the Strait of Hormuz, the sea lane that carries a fifth
of the world’s oil, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Oil service and equipment companies also have seen more
volatility as fluctuating prices drove demand for drilling. The
15-company  Philadelphia Oil Service Sector Index (OSX)  returned 0.1
percent, after adjusting for volatility, during a five-year
period that saw offshore demand evaporate in the  Gulf of Mexico 
following the 2010 BP Plc oil spill and onshore demand explode
from new shale fields.  Many of the pipeline networks operated by Enbridge and its
rivals were already in place when the North American drilling
boom began. The U.S. already had 278,000 miles (447,000
kilometers) of gas transmission lines and 160,000 miles of oil
and products lines, according to the U.S. Transportation
Department.  Well-Placed Networks  Many of Enbridge’s existing pipelines were already in or
near the new sources of oil and gas, ClearBridge’s Eades said.
Its Canadian mainline system was built in the 1950s, for
instance, and was well-positioned when Canada’s tar sands region
began producing oil.  It’s not all clear sailing for pipelines. Many new projects
are facing increasing environmental scrutiny and greater
oversight by regulators concerned about leaks and safety.
Environmental groups were able to block TransCanada’s proposed
Keystone XL line from Canada to Texas, at least temporarily,
because of concerns it might pollute water in Nebraska.  At the same time, new gas fields such as the Marcellus
Shale in Pennsylvania have been developed closer to major East
Coast cities, reducing the need for long-haul pipelines to those
areas, said Greg Reid, managing director of Salient Partners LP,
which has about $600 million invested in energy infrastructure.  Companies are finding ways to adapt, often by expanding or
repurposing existing pipelines.  Reconfiguring Existing Pipes  Kinder Morgan  plans to boost its oil shipments in Canada by
expanding its decades-old Trans Mountain pipeline, which runs
from Alberta to Vancouver. Kinder also is considering a
conversion of its Pony Express gas line to carry oil from
expanding production in North Dakota’s Bakken shale.  Spectra Energy Corp. (SE) , whose Texas Eastern system has
shipped gas northward since the 1940s, said April 12 it may
reverse part of the system to carry gas from the Marcellus to
new power plants in the U.S. Southeast.  After the Keystone project was blocked,  Enterprise Products
Partners LP (EPD)  has worked with Enbridge to reverse the Seaway
pipeline between Cushing, Oklahoma, and Houston. Coupled with
other expansions, the project will enable Enbridge to ship an
additional 500,000 barrels a day of crude from Canada to Texas.  Daniel, the Enbridge CEO, sees no reason to change the
business model any time soon.  “Our society is kind of aimed at rewarding risk-takers,
but if you can get to the end result without taking risk, why do
it?” he said. “Why risk your investors’ money if you can get
there with a low-risk investment?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  