-- MF Global Trustee Seeks to Get $700 Million in U.K. Suit
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-04-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/mf-global-creditors-say-brokerage-trustee-isn-t-helping.html
A trustee for failed brokerage MF
Global Inc. plans to pursue a lawsuit in the U.K. to recover
$700 million in customer funds, according to a statement.  The trustee, James Giddens, has been working since November
to return the $700 million in funds and has already filed a
claim with the administrators overseeing the company’s MF Global
UK Ltd. unit, according to the e-mailed statement. Giddens cited
a current dispute over whether the money should have been
segregated under  English law , and seeks to have a British court
decide the issue.  “We believe that the U.K. courts should act on this issue
and that this process is the most efficient way to return
customer assets to the former customers of MF Global,” said
 Kent Jarrell , a spokesman for Giddens. He said the lawsuit will
need to be brought by MF Global’s U.K. administrator, not the
U.S. Trustee.  Giddens, appointed under the Securities Investor Protection
Act to return funds to former customers of the failed brokerage,
has estimated a $1.6 billion shortfall to what they are owed.  “The trustee will press to have this litigation concluded
as expeditiously as possible,” Giddens said in the statement
yesterday. He said it would take “robust” disclosure of
evidence and hearings under the procedures of English law.  Giddens has also said he may sue individuals over breach of
fiduciary duty and other issues related to the loss of customer
funds in an effort to recoup the money. Giddens is in
discussions with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  about the bank’s
activities in connection with MF Global, and sees claims against
it and other parties to recover funds for customers.  Parent Bankruptcy  MF Global was the operating unit of  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MFGLQ) , which filed for bankruptcy in October.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  