-- Fannie Mae Fix Said to Retain Some U.S. Mortgage Role
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n ,   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/fannie-mae-fix-said-to-retain-some-u-s-mortgage-role.html
U.S. Treasury officials are leaning
toward recommending that Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  be replaced
with a government safety net for the mortgage finance system and
continued federal backing for loans to lower-income homebuyers,
according to three people briefed on the discussions.  Treasury Secretary   Timothy F. Geithner  has said in recent
public appearances that an agency recommendation for winding
down the two taxpayer-owned mortgage companies could be released
in coming weeks. It hasn’t yet been determined whether the plan,
likely to be a broad outline rather than a detailed prescription
for legislation, will be released that soon, the people said.  In timing its proposal, Treasury must balance political and
economic realities. Presidential campaign politics and deep
divisions between Democrats and Republicans in Congress make it
unlikely that mortgage-finance reform will be enacted this year.
At the same time, the lack of a clear blueprint is contributing
to continued weakness in the housing market, said Karen Dynan, a
former economist with the Federal Reserve Board of Governors.  “The uncertainty surrounding the future of the mortgage
finance system has impeded the rebound of the housing market and
the private housing-finance market,” said Dynan, who now serves
as a vice president at the  Brookings Institution . “It’s just
really hard for the players to make decisions when you don’t
know what the rules are going to be in the future.”  The two companies, which veered toward bankruptcy when the
housing market collapsed in 2008, were seized by regulators and
have drawn almost $190 billion in taxpayer aid.  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac became targets of at least 18 Republican bills
seeking to reduce or eliminate the government role in mortgages.  Dominating the Market  The debate over the companies’ future has been complicated
by their growing prominence in the housing market. As private
investors have pulled back in the recession, Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac have come to own or guarantee 60 percent of
outstanding U.S. residential mortgages. That has prompted the
real estate industry to lobby Congress to move slowly on
reducing the government’s role.  “There’s a lot of ideological chest-pounding about getting
the government out of housing, but I think most people recognize
that if it’s done in any precipitous fashion, it will have
negative consequences for the American homeowner, consumer and
economy,” said Jim Millstein, Treasury’s former chief
restructuring officer, who is now chairman and chief executive
officer of Washington financial advisory firm Millstein & Co.  Mitt Romney , the leading contender for the Republican
presidential nomination, has criticized Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac and has called for more private capital in the mortgage
market, but has not released specific plans.  ‘Dysfunctional’ Politics  While some Republicans who initially called for immediate
abolition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac now say they would
accept a gradual wind-down, split party control of Congress
stands in the way of resolving the matter in 2012.  “The political environment is dysfunctional,”  Michael Barr , a  University of Michigan  law professor and former
assistant Treasury secretary for financial institutions, said in
an interview. “The presidential campaign is taking up all the
oxygen. There’s almost no appetite for compromise on anything
substantive.”  Geithner more than a year ago unveiled three options for
weaning the mortgage market from its government dependence. He
said in February that he expected to “lay out more detail”
about the approach “in the spring.”  While a Treasury official said all options remain under
review, the people familiar with the talks said the third option
  -- the one with the largest government role -- most closely
 resembles what the Obama administration is likely to propose.  Bipartisan Bills  Under that system, the government would supply “assistance
for low- and moderate-income borrowers and catastrophic
reinsurance behind significant private capital,” according to
the Treasury  report  released in February 2011. Private companies
could insure mortgage bonds, with the government paying out to
bondholders only after shareholders were “entirely wiped out.”  In formulating their plan, Treasury staff members are also
examining bipartisan legislation introduced in Congress, said
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions are private. One bill, co-sponsored by California
Republican  Gary Miller  and New York Democrat Carolyn McCarthy,
would create a government-run “secondary market facility” for
residential mortgages to replace Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  A second measure drawing Treasury interest was introduced
by  John Campbell , a California Republican, and  Gary Peters , a
Michigan Democrat. It would replace the government-sponsored
enterprises with privately-capitalized entities that would
purchase government backing for the mortgage bonds they issued.  Geithner Speech  Geithner has stressed that any Treasury plan will aim to
shrink the government footprint in housing finance.  “Our plan will wind down the GSEs and bring private
capital back into the market, reducing the government’s direct
role in the housing market and better targeting our support
towards first-time homebuyers and low- and moderate-income
Americans,” he said during a Feb. 2 press conference.  Treasury officials also are focused on the government’s
role in making mortgages affordable for lower-income borrowers,
the people said. Michael A. Stegman, who joined Treasury this
year as a counselor on housing finance policy, once headed a
research project on affordable homeownership at the University
of  North Carolina  that made the case that loans to low-income
borrowers performed well as long as the terms were similar to
those given to borrowers qualifying for prime rates.  “We’ve got fairly good evidence here that carefully
structured financing for lower-income households to buy a home
can be very successful,” said Janneke Ratcliffe, who now
directs the Center for Community Capital, which Stegman founded.  Sharing Risk  Meanwhile, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the
regulator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, is proceeding with its
own plans for shrinking their footprint.  In a strategic plan released in February, FHFA director
Edward J. DeMarco said the enterprises should begin entering
into arrangements that would allow them to share the risk on
some of their portfolio with private capital, expanding reliance
on  mortgage insurance , and raising the fees they charge to
guarantee mortgage-backed securities.  Fannie Mae said in a recent financial  disclosure  that part
of its executives’ pay was dependent on how well they managed to
“contract the Enterprises’ dominant presence in the marketplace
while simplifying and shrinking certain operations.”  Opinion among housing experts is mixed on whether it makes
sense for the Treasury to release a plan before the election.  Filling a Vacuum  “At this point in time, I don’t see the value, political
or otherwise, in Treasury announcing their own discrete plan for
GSE reform unless it’s done in close collaboration with FHFA,”
said Tim Rood, managing director of the Collingwood Group, a
Washington-based consulting firm. “FHFA appears to be filling
the housing policy vacuum and has recently published a very
cogent and thoughtful strategic plan for the GSEs.”  In Dynan’s view, it makes sense to move forward as quickly
as possible. Uncertainty over the future role of the government
in housing finance may be impeding the market for private-label
mortgage-backed securities because investors and issuers don’t
know what the rules and regulations will be, Dynan said. Also,
she said, lenders aren’t able to develop long-term policies.  “The sooner we can come up with a plan to either reform or
replace these entities, the better it is for restoring the
health of the housing market,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  