-- Trayvon Martin Shooter Has Bail Set by Judge at $150,000
-- B y   D e r e k   K i n n e r   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-04-20T19:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/florida-judge-in-youth-shooting-case-disqualifies-herself-1-.html
George Zimmerman, accused of murder
in the shooting of Trayvon Martin, had his bail set at $150,000,
with the requirement that he submit to electronic monitoring, a
judge ruled at a hearing in Florida state court in Sanford.  Zimmerman, 28, fatally shot Martin Feb. 26 in the central-
Florida town north of  Orlando . He claimed self-defense, police
said, before being charged with second-degree murder. He is to
be arraigned next month and will plead not guilty, his lawyer
said.  Appearing today at the bail proceeding in a dark suit and
silver tie, with his hands restrained by a waist-chain and his
ankles shackled, Zimmerman addressed Martin’s parents.  “I am sorry for the loss of your son,” he said to the
couple, who sat behind the prosecution table. “I did not know
how old he was. I thought he was a little bit younger than I 
am.'' Zimmerman added that he thought he may have been armed.  In a press conference afterwards, defense lawyer Mark
O’Mara said that while it’s unusual for a defendant to testify
at a bond hearing, Zimmerman had heard that Sybrina Fulton,
Martin’s mother, only wanted him to answer two questions: if he
was sorry and why he killed her unarmed 17-year-old son.  Police alleged that Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch
volunteer, had become suspicious of Martin and chased the
unarmed teen against the warning of an emergency dispatcher. He
told investigators that he struggled with Martin before shooting
him once in the chest. Today, however, a detective testified
that he didn’t know who initiated the confrontation.  Investigator Questioned  In an affidavit he filed with T.C. O’Steen, another
investigator, Dale Gilbreath claimed Zimmerman referred to
Martin and alleged burglars in his community by several
expletives, calling them “punks” while on a 911 call the day
of the confrontation. At the bail hearing, Zimmerman’s lawyer
repeatedly asked Gilbreath whether he chose to include that
language in the filing.  Judge Kenneth R. Lester Jr. rejected a request by
prosecutors that he deny bail because Zimmerman faces a possible
life sentence if convicted. The defense asked for bail of
$15,000. Lester ruled that Zimmerman will be subject to a
curfew, may not consume alcohol and must not contact the Martin
family or any witnesses.  Zimmerman won’t be released today as the attorneys
negotiate whether he can reside out of state as he awaits trial.
His family testified they had received several threats.  Threats to Family  O’Mara asked that Zimmerman be allowed to stay outside
 Florida  at an undisclosed location due to the threats. Lester
said O’Mara would have to reach an agreement with the government
on whether his client could leave the state before his release.  O’Mara said later in an interview that Zimmerman will make
bail “within a few days.”  Lester also said that he would allow the release of the
case file, with portions redacted. O’Mara had previously
requested that it remain sealed. He scheduled the next hearing
in the case for April 27.  Gilbreath, the investigator with the state attorney’s
office, testified at the hearing that Zimmerman’s statements to
police were inconsistent with the evidence in the case.  “We have a witness statement. She observed shadows or
figures running by her residence,” he said. Gilbreath also
testified the powder burns caused by gunfire on Martin’s
sweatshirt show he was shot at very close range.  Started the Fight  When questioned by O’Mara, he said he didn’t know who
started the fight that led to Martin’s death.  “Do you know who started the fight?” O’Mara asked
Gilbreath.  “Do I know? No,” he responded.  Special prosecutor Angela Corey, who was appointed to
oversee the investigation, sat in the gallery during the
testimony, in the row behind Assistant State’s Attorney Bernie
de la Rionda. He questioned witnesses for the government during
the two-hour hearing.  O’Mara had his client’s family members testify during the
hearing. The judge allowed testimony by telephone because the
family said they feared for their safety.  Zimmerman’s father, Robert Zimmerman, said via telephone at
the proceeding he would be willing to put his home up as
collateral for bail.  “I’ve never known him to be violent at all unless he was
provoked, and then he would turn the other cheek,” he said
about his son in response to questions from lawyers.  Prior Arrest  Zimmerman’s wife and his mother testified the defendant’s
only prior arrest was because he was protecting a friend.  Shelly Zimmerman, the defendant’s wife of five years, said
her husband wasn’t violent and that a 2005 arrest for assault on
a law enforcement officer resulted from her husband defending a
friend who was thrown against the wall.  Zimmerman didn’t know the man who assaulted his friend was
an officer in plain clothes, she said. Prosecutors said the
officer identified himself. The case eventually was settled with
pretrial intervention and Zimmerman agreed to participate in
anger management counseling.  In another case, Zimmerman and another woman filed
injunctions against each other after a fight, witnesses
testified.  Lester said before granting bail that the incidents had no
effect on his decision.  Bail Conditions  Shelly Zimmerman agreed to make sure her husband followed
all conditions of bail and report to authorities if he violated
any.  “Absolutely I will,” she responded to both questions.  “Do you believe George is a threat to society?” O’Mara
asked her. “No, I do not. No concern whatsoever,” she said.  His mother, Gladys Zimmerman, said her son always had been
a good Samaritan, including organizing several meetings in
Sanford to help find a man who beat a homeless man.  She said he also mentored two boys, ages 8 and 14, in a
dangerous part of Orlando for several years. She had begged him
to stop going to see the boys, she told the court.  “He said, ‘Mom, if I don’t go, they have nobody,’” his
mother testified.  The case is  State of Florida  v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Circuit Court of the 18th Judicial Circuit (Seminole County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Derek Kinner in Circuit Court of the 18th Judicial
Circuit in Sanford, Florida, at  dkinner59@yahoo.com ;
Susannah Nesmith in Miami
at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 