-- Franklin & Marshall Fires Women’s Lacrosse Coach in Hazing Case
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-18T17:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/franklin-marshall-fires-women-s-lacrosse-coach-in-hazing-case.html
Lauren Paul, who won a national
championship as the  women’s lacrosse  coach at Franklin &
Marshall College, was fired by the Lancaster,  Pennsylvania ,
school after an investigation into a hazing complaint.  Paul was dismissed yesterday, and a group of junior and
senior players was suspended for the rest of the season for
planning and carrying out the hazing, which occurred last year,
Kent Trachte, the school’s dean, wrote in a letter sent to
members of the college community.  The hazing wasn’t described and the students involved
weren’t identified.  “F&M takes any allegation of hazing very seriously and has
strong and clear policies against any form of hazing as part of
our deep commitment to safeguarding student health, safety and
well-being,” Trachte wrote.  The school’s formal investigation began April 10, after
information about the hazing at an unsanctioned student-
organized event was provided anonymously to the Lancaster Police
Department, Trachte said.  “We make student athletes aware that there is a zero-
tolerance policy against any form of hazing, and our coaches are
responsible both for conveying and stewarding this policy,”
Cass Cliatt, F&M’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “Not only is
hazing a violation of our rules of conduct, it is against state
law, and we cannot allow any activity in which students endanger
themselves or others.”  Paul, a three-time All-American lacrosse player at Franklin
& Marshall, took over as coach before the 2008-09 season and led
the Diplomats to the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s
Division III national championship in her first year. It was the
program’s second title in three seasons.  Play Tonight  Paul has been replaced by Melissa Mariano, who also coaches
women’s field hockey. The lacrosse team is scheduled to play at
Gettysburg College tonight.  The school cited the federal Family and Educational Rights
and Policy Act in refusing to identify the suspended players.
The current roster and past statistics sheets showed 11 players
no longer listed, including seven of the team’s 10  top scorers .
The players remain enrolled at the school, Cliatt said.  A three-year study into college hazing released by the
University of  Maine  in 2008 found that  74 percent  of those who
were members of a varsity sports team experienced at least one
incident of hazing.  Franklin & Marshall was established in 1787 with a gift of
200 British pounds from  Benjamin Franklin  and merged in 1853
with Marshall College, which was named after U.S. Chief Justice
 John Marshall . The school has an enrollment of 2,200.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  