-- Geithner Calls China’s Changes on Yuan Very Significant
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-04-18T19:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/geithner-calls-china-s-yuan-band-widening-very-significant-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said  China ’s decision to widen the yuan’s trading band
against the dollar reflects changes that are “very significant
and very promising.”  China is showing a commitment “to this broad change in
growth strategy, towards a growth strategy less dependent on
external demand,” Geithner said yesterday during an appearance
at the Brookings Institution in Washington. “Obviously, they’ve
got a long way to go in that process, including on the exchange
rate.”  China said April 14 it will increase the yuan’s band to 1
percent from 0.5 percent, the first widening since 2007.
Regulators had raised the quotas for foreigners to buy stocks
and bonds to $80 billion from $30 billion on April 3.  The yuan declined 0.02 percent yesterday to close at 6.3028
per dollar in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. It fell as much as 0.12 percent earlier. The yuan
is almost unchanged since the People’s Bank of China widened the
band.  “I think the cumulative effect of what China has done on
the exchange rate side, on the external side, is very
significant and very promising,” Geithner said.  On  Europe , he said the region’s governments have “put in
place a stronger set of tools for managing this crisis.”  Europe needs to avoid the risk of “a prolonged period of
economic disappointment and weakness on the growth side,” he
said.  Group of 20  Geithner was speaking before meetings of Group of 20
finance ministers and central bank governors, the  International
Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  starting today in Washington.  “Since economic weakness produces in the short term larger
deficits than you’d hope for, you don’t want to have to offset
that increase in the deficits with immediate, difficult cuts in
spending or taxes right away,” he said. “The best way to do it
is to respond to those with some gradually phased-in, medium-
term plans for reform.  ‘‘If you try to do it all up front, then the risk is,
again, you’re undermining the prospects for some stability and
growth,’’ he said.  Europe’s two-year debt crisis reignited this month as
Italian borrowing costs rose and Spain’s 10-year bond yield
approached the level at which Greece, Ireland and Portugal
required bailouts. The IMF, which is seeking to boost its
lending capacity from around $380 billion to shield the global
economy from the European crisis, garnered fresh pledges of cash
from  Japan  to Denmark.  Geithner called for ‘‘a clean and unequivocal commitment by
the central bank and the broader fiscal authorities in Europe
that they’re going to provide the financial commitments
necessary for those governments to be able to borrow at
sustainable  interest rates .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  