-- Germany’s KfW to Make New Loans to Crisis-Hit Shipping Industry
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-04-18T08:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/germany-s-kfw-to-make-new-loans-to-crisis-hit-shipping-industry.html
KfW Group,  Germany ’s state-owned
development lender, may make 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) of
new shipping loans this year, even as rivals scale back
operations in the crisis-hit industry.  While that is less than new lending of 2 billion euros in
2011, KfW IPEX-Bank plans to keep the size of its 13.5 billion-
euro shipping portfolio “stable,” Christian K. Murach, head of
transportation finance and a member of the lender’s management
board, said in an interview in  Frankfurt .  “There is plenty of room for new business because we
didn’t grow as aggressively as many others in the past few
years,” Murach, 57, said in his 13th floor office, decorated
with models of Hapag-Lloyd AG ships and Airbus SAS planes.
“Some other banks don’t have the manpower or capital for new
lending, so there is less competition in the market and the
pricing you can demand is fairly attractive.”  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest lender, and
Hamburg-based HSH Nordbank AG are scaling back their shipping
portfolios amid new capital rules and to get approval for
bailouts they received during the global financial crisis. That
comes as slumping freight  rates  and soaring fuel prices push
smaller shipping lines into insolvency and led to losses for
major container operators last year.  “The picture for the shipping industry is not great at all
and there won’t be much relief in 2012,” Murach said. Growth in
new container shipping tonnage is likely to outstrip demand
“until at least 2013 and probably even beyond,” he said.  Important Business  KfW is the world’s  seventh-largest  shipping lender with a
market share of some 4 percent among the world’s top 40 shipping
banks, according to Athens-based vessel-finance consultant
Petrofin SA. The ranking is topped by HSH Nordbank, followed by
Norway’s  DNB ASA (DNB) , Commerzbank and Sweden’s  Nordea AB (NDA) ,  Transportation financing is “an important part” of IPEX’s
business and will remain a major part of its 60 billion-euro
lending portfolio despite the shipping crisis, Murach said.  Banks that continue to lend to the industry are likely to
benefit from rivals pulling back, according to Fitch Ratings.  “Well-capitalized banks that are in a position to continue
providing ship lending will benefit from much lower competitive
pressure within the market,” Fitch said in a report on March
29. Ship finance lending margins “have typically doubled since
2008 and are the highest they have been for several decades,
although this is offset by the heightened risk involved.”  New Offshore Business  Most of IPEX’s new loans this year are likely to be to the
offshore shipping industry, including for vessels needed for
wind farms and oil drilling rigs, and for ferries and roll-on
roll-off ships, Murach said. IPEX also expects “a major role”
for companies that supply goods to shipyards, he said.  IPEX is helping to finance  two new cruise ships , the
largest ever built in Germany, for Norwegian Cruise Line Holding
Ltd.  A lot of banks have stopped new lending to the shipping
industry, making it “a problem” for IPEX to find partners for
bigger projects such as  cruise ships , which often cost more than
500 million euros, Murach said.  Shipping loan losses and provisions among banks will
probably increase this year, said Murach, who has worked for KfW
for 28 years. We don’t “foresee any positive development for
the industry in general in 2012,” he said.  Last year, three ships that IPEX helped finance were
auctioned after the owners filed for insolvency, Murach said.
While he doesn’t foresee “any major pipeline” of seizures this
year, if needed, IPEX may take ownership of some ships in 2012,
Murach said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  