-- Gol Drops as Brazil Denies Payroll Tax Cut Plan: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-04-18T20:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/gol-drops-as-brazil-denies-payroll-tax-cut-plan-sao-paulo-mover.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ,
 Brazil ’s second-biggest airline by market share, plunged the
most in four months after the government denied a report saying
it may cut payroll taxes to help the industry.  Shares fell 7.6 percent to 10.51 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo , the most since Dec. 19. It was the worst performer on the
benchmark Bovespa index, which gained 0.5 percent.  Gol soared 11 percent yesterday after Valor Economico
reported that the government may cut payroll and aircraft fuel
taxes to boost competitiveness. The newspaper didn’t say where
it got the information.  The  Finance Ministry , in an e-mailed statement after the
close of trading, denied it is studying a payroll tax cut and
didn’t comment on whether it might cut taxes on aircraft fuel.
Fuel and payroll expenses accounted for 60.1 percent of Gol’s
fourth-quarter costs, according to a March 27 regulatory filing.  “There’s no driver that supports gains in the airline
sector,”  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  analyst Leonardo Nitta said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “The only thing that could benefit Gol
would be a cost reduction as the one speculated yesterday, that
would reduce the company’s two biggest costs, payroll and
fuel.”  In July, Brazil will eliminate the payroll tax for 15
industries, including textiles, auto parts and aircraft
manufacturing, Finance Minister Guido Mantega said on April 3.
The following day, Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel said the
country planned to extend the elimination to all industries by
2014.  In the March 27 filing, Gol said payroll expenses increased
30 percent to 447.6 million reais ($237.9 million) in the fourth
quarter. On April 2, the company said it dismissed 131 flight
crew and the cut of 80 of its 900 daily flights to reduce costs.  Gol shares fell 16 percent this year, trailing the
 Bovespa (IBOV) ’s 11 percent gain in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  