-- Goldman Sachs, Banks Dismissed From GE Securities Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/goldman-sachs-banks-dismissed-from-ge-securities-lawsuit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other
banks involved in  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s October 2008, $12
billion secondary offering won dismissal from a securities
lawsuit brought by investors who claim they were misled.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in  Manhattan  yesterday
threw out the claims the investors had brought under the 1933
U.S. Securities Act, saying that her previous decision in
January, denying the defendants’ request to dismiss the claims,
had improperly relied on statements that weren’t incorporated in
the offering documents for the shares.  The relevant statements, “demand remains strong for GE
Capital’s commercial paper debt” and “GE’s funding position is
strong and GE has performed well during the recent market
volatility,” were made in a Sept. 25, 2008, press release and
weren’t incorporated in the  prospectus  supplement for the
secondary offering, the judge said.  “This ruling disposes of all remaining claims against 42
defendants,” Cote said.  The judge denied a request by Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE and Chief Financial Officer Keith Sherin to dismiss the
investors’ claims under the 1934 U.S. Securities Exchange Act,
saying the plaintiffs had made plausible allegations based on
Sherin’s statements about the quality of GE’s loan portfolio.  Sufficient Support  The investors, led by State Universities Retirement System
of  Illinois , provided sufficient support for their claims that
Sherin knew his statements weren’t true, she said.  “The second amended complaint has described a plethora of
reports which tracked on a regular and detailed basis the
quality of the assets to which Sherin’s remarks were directed,”
Cote said. “It is highly implausible that GE’s CFO would be
ignorant of basic facts contained in these reports about the
quality of roughly one-third of GE Capital’s assets.”  GE spokesman  Andrew Williams  and Joseph Tabacco Jr., a
lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t immediately return calls to
their offices for comment on the ruling after regular business
hours.  The case is In re General Electric Co. Securities
Litigation, 09-1951, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  