-- Larry Page Tells Java Jury Google ‘Did Nothing Wrong’
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-04-18T20:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/google-did-nothing-wrong-ceo-page-tells-jury-in-java-case-1-.html
Google Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Page , disputing claims that the leading search engine
operator stole Java software technology from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , told
a jury his company “did nothing wrong.”  Page, the first witness today to be called by Oracle
attorney  David Boies  at a trial in federal court in  San
Francisco , said Google negotiated hard over a partnership with
Sun Microsystems Inc., the creator of the Java programming
language acquired by Oracle in 2010.  “We really wanted to be able to use Sun’s technology,”
Page testified. “When we weren’t able to come to terms on a
business partnership, we went down our own path.”  Oracle, based in  Redwood City ,  California , claims in a
lawsuit filed in 2010 that Google infringed copyrights and
patents for Java in creating the Android operating system, now
running on more than 300 million mobile devices.  Google acknowledges using Java to develop Android and Page
today confirmed that Google didn’t take a Java license. Google
says its use was fair and legal and Google engineers wrote
original code for Android. Google rejected a proposal by Sun in
2006 that the search engine company pay $100 million for a
three-year technology partnership to build Android jointly,
Google’s lawyers said in the case last year.  Android was important to Google “but I would not say it
was critical,” according to Page, a co-founder of  Mountain
View , California-based Google.  ‘Respect Intellectual Property’  Google was careful with the technology to ensure that
Android and the company “respect  intellectual property ,” Page
testified, smiling frequently at jurors.  He said he didn’t recall or couldn’t speculate about some
matters Boies questioned him about, including who Google
engineer Tim Lindholm is.  Lindholm wrote a 2010 e-mail saying that he was asked by
Page and Google co-founder Sergey Brin to find an alternative to
Java and that he determined Google should take a license for the
language. Shown the e-mail, and other documents featuring
Lindholm, Page said he couldn’t recall the man or giving him any
directions concerning Java or whether Lindholm had recommended
that Google take a license for Java.  ‘Handset APIs’  Oracle, the largest maker of  database software , alleges
Google infringed copyrights for 37 application programming
interfaces, or APIs, tools programmers use to write
applications. Page said the subject of APIs never came up in
Google’s discussions about using Java. Boies showed him Google
documents sent to the executive management team that Page was a
member of about Java from 2005 that referred to “handset APIs
and applications” and “application delivery.”  “We talked a lot about Java, not about Java APIs,” said
Page.  “That’s clearly Sun APIs,” said Boies.  “Some?” said Page.  “Sun, Sun APIs,” Boies said.  “It’s not obvious to me what this is about,” Page said
after looking at the documents. “I’m not suggesting that we
didn’t negotiate with Sun over a myriad of things.”  Lindholm may be called to testify tomorrow.  Oracle is seeking $1 billion in damages and a court order
blocking distribution of Android unless Google pays for a
license.  The case is  Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  