-- Google Rolls Out Features to Gauge Effects of Advertising
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-18T21:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/google-rolls-out-features-to-help-gauge-impact-of-advertising.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  rolled out a new
advertising feature that will make it easier for companies to
know when Web surfers see their ads, an improvement aimed at
getting businesses to do more marketing online.  The effort, called Brand Activate, will signal when an ad
impression has been viewed, the  Mountain View , California-based
company said. That means at least 50 percent of an ad has been
viewable on a screen for at least one second. Google also will
let customers make speedier adjustments to brand campaigns,
depending on the responses of online users.  Google is trying to get companies to spend more of their ad
dollars on the Web, rather than on traditional media such as
television and print. The effort will attempt to measure whether
an ad for a new summer movie is driving more traffic to theaters
or if a marketing effort is encouraging consumers to go to a
store to buy toothpaste or shampoo.  “It’s kind of taking this really scattered alphabet of
metrics and measurement that are out there, and turning it into
a usable language for brands,” said Neal Mohan, vice president
for display advertising at Google. Advertising dollars that now
go to television “will move online much more easily if we can
give them the tools by which they can measure their campaigns
and act on them.”  As part of the rollout, Google will use a measurement tool
called GRP, or gross rating point, which is common in  television
advertising . The new service will be available to companies that
use its DoubleClick tool, which enables advertising to be placed
on websites, including non-Google properties.  Google shares  fell less than 1 percent to $607.45 at the
close in  New York . The stock has declined 6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  