-- Guillen Returns After Five-Game Ban as Marlins Defeat Cubs 5-2
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/guillen-says-he-has-learned-tough-lesson-in-return-to-marlins.html
Ozzie Guillen  returned from a five-
game ban for making comments supporting Fidel Castro and guided
the  Miami Marlins  to a 5-2 win against the  Chicago Cubs .  Guillen, a Venezuelan native who has lived in the Miami
area for a decade, was quoted as saying “I love Fidel Castro”
in an April 5 Time article. He then clarified his comments about
the former Cuban president, according to the magazine. Guillen
was banned by the Marlins, with Major League Baseball
Commissioner  Bud Selig  publicly supporting the action.  “I learned a very tough lesson,” Guillen told reporters
before last night’s game at Marlins Park, where he apologized on
April 10. “You learn from mistakes. I hope this mistake makes
me a better person.”  Guillen returned to the dugout on the anniversary of the
1961 Bay of Pigs invasion, an unsuccessful attempt by a force of
Cuban exiles to overthrow Castro.  While there were no demonstrations against Guillen during
last night’s game, attendance was 25,544, the lowest of the
season and 7,621 below the average of 33,165 for the Marlins’
prior four home games.  After three scoreless innings last night, Alfonso Soriano
drove in Darwin Barney on a groundout to give Chicago the lead.  Miami responded in the fifth as Gaby Sanchez scored on a
throwing error by pitcher Ryan Dempster and Emilio Bonifacio had
a run-scoring single.  The Cubs tied it at 2-2 in the seventh on a run-scoring
single by Bryan LaHair.  Ramirez Homer  It stayed tied until the bottom of the eighth, when Hanley Ramirez hit a three-run homer to put Miami ahead 5-2. Marlins
reliever Heath Bell got three outs for his first save of the
season.  The Marlins (5-6) are last in the National League’s five-
team East division. They went 2-3 during Guillen’s absence.  In suspending Guillen, the Marlins said “the pain and
suffering caused by  Fidel Castro  cannot be minimized, especially
in a community filled with victims of the dictatorship.”  The population of Miami-Dade County, which helped fund the
Marlins’ new ballpark after a decade of negotiations, is 34
percent Cuban, according to the 2010  U.S. Census . In the city of
Miami, where Marlins Park is located, there are 137,301 people
of Cuban origin out of a total population of 399,457, also 34
percent. Miami-Dade Mayor Carlos Gimenez was among those who
condemned Guillen’s remarks.  “I respect Fidel Castro,” Guillen told Time. “You know
why? A lot of people have wanted to kill Fidel Castro for the
last 60 years, but that mother-----r is still here.”  Castro, 85, stepped down as president of Cuba in 2008. He
had been the country’s leader since 1959.  Communication Gap  Guillen, speaking mostly in Spanish during his April 10
news conference, said that a communication gap during the
interview led to his comments being taken out of context.  “What I wanted to say was that I was surprised that Fidel
Castro was in power for so long,” Guillen said, while
apologizing for betraying his Latin community. “A lot was
missing in the translation.”  Guillen was hired in September by the Marlins, who this
season opened the $515 million stadium in Miami’s Little Havana
section.  Guillen, 48, was manager of the  Chicago White Sox  for eight
years before joining the Marlins, who sent Chicago two minor-
league prospects as compensation for releasing him from his
contract. He led the White Sox to a 678-617 record, winning the
 World Series  in 2005.  Guillen has gotten in trouble for previous comments. In
2006, he used profanity and a homosexual slur in describing
Chicago Sun-Times columnist Jay Mariotti before apologizing the
following day. Guillen also said on April 5 that his routine
during road trips is to get drunk at the hotel bar after games,
according to CBSSports.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  