-- Miami Heat Teams With SBE to Open Hyde Nightclub at Arena
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-04-18T16:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/miami-heat-teams-with-sbe-to-open-hyde-nightclub-at-arena.html
Sam Nazarian, the  Los Angeles 
restaurant and hotel owner, plans to open a Hyde nightclub at
the Miami Heat’s AmericanAirlines Arena as sports venues expand
their entertainment offerings.  Nazarian’s SBE Entertainment Group LLC, owner of Katsuya
restaurants and the luxury-lodging chain SLS, expects to open
the club in partnership with the Heat Group in time for the next
National Basketball Association season. The club will feature
multiple bars, lounge areas, flat-screen televisions and a
private dining room.  SBE, which received a $35 million infusion from billionaire
Thomas J. Barrack Jr.’s  Colony Capital LLC  last year, is in
talks with other arenas as more sports venues seek to increase
revenue by broadening their appeal. The new $634 million Marlins
Park baseball stadium, also in Miami, has a nightclub called the
Clevelander and two 450-gallon aquariums embedded in the walls
behind home plate.  “Arenas want to bring in the next level of experience,
such as a nightlife component,” Nazarian, founder and chief
executive officer of SBE, said in an interview. “Old arenas
like Madison Square Garden or Dodger Stadium are trying to
reinvent themselves. People are looking for more than just hot
dogs and pizzas.”  Danny Elmaleh, executive chef at the Los Angeles-area
restaurants Cleo and Mercato di Vetro, will help develop the
menu at Hyde AmericanAirlines Arena, and a mixology team will
create cocktails with ingredients such as red pepper, some
prepared with liquid nitrogen.  ‘Hip Quotient’  The 5,000-square-foot (465-square-meter) club will have its
own entrance and accommodate 200 people, Nazarian said.
Admission would be free for game- and concert-goers, and patrons
without event tickets would be charged a fee, he said. The venue
may be rented for special occasions when the arena is dark.  “In one respect, Hyde will be a new amenity for our best
customers,” said  Eric Woolworth , president of business
operations for the  Miami Heat . “It adds a hip quotient and
panache, and it’s also another space we can market for parties
and private events.”  Nazarian, whose company operates four Hyde lounges in the
U.S., expects to have deals to provide nightclubs or food and
beverage services at as many as 15 sports venues by 2016 and has
created a new unit, called SBELive, to lead the effort, he said.
The company is in talks with  New York ’s Madison Square Garden,
Cowboys Stadium in  Dallas  and  Angel Stadium  in Anaheim,
 California , among other sports facilities, he said.  Maximizing Business  “Not every arena is like Staples Center, with 270 events a
year,” said Nazarian, who opened the Hyde club at that Los
Angeles arena in 2008. “Some only have 30 to 50 true events a
year. They want to maximize their business.”  SBE is also negotiating with the  Los Angeles Dodgers  as the
Major League Baseball team’s new owners -- a group led by
Guggenheim Partners LLC Chief Executive Officer  Mark Walter  and
former Los Angeles Laker Earvin “Magic” Johnson Jr. --consider
transforming the stadium’s surrounding property to generate
additional revenue, Nazarian said.  The company’s ambitions may be hampered because many new
venues incorporated upgraded food and entertainment options into
their design, using such vendors as  Stamford , Connecticut-based
Centerplate Inc. and Aramark Corp. of Philadelphia, said Richard
Krezwick, general manager of the  Prudential Center  in  Newark ,
 New Jersey . Offerings at the arena, home to the  National Hockey
League ’s Devils and NBA’s Nets, include a fine-dining restaurant
and private-membership club, he said.  Space Limits  “For independent club and food and beverage operators, the
issue may be what already exists,” Krezwick said.  Space limitations, such as at the AmericanAirlines Arena,
may also cramp SBE’s expansion plans, said Woolworth, the Miami
Heat executive.  “I don’t know if we can ever have any of their restaurants
at the arena,” he said.  SBE, which has a 50 percent investment and revenue stake in
the Miami Heat venture, expects an increase in demand from game-
goers to aid future growth.  “People want to connect when they go to a game or a
concert but there’s no place for them to intermingle,” Nazarian
said. “With Hyde,” he said, “it gives people a chance to
stay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  