-- Micex 40% Volume Slump to London Spurs Call for Investment Shift
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-04-18T00:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/micex-40-volume-slump-to-london-spurs-call-for-investment-shift.html
Russia  needs a “paradigm” shift
in local investment trends to bolster its main stock exchange as
volumes sink 40 percent below the level of trading in Russian
shares in London, the head of the Micex-RTS Exchange said.  “The biggest lag for the Russian market is the absence of
local long-term money, and that is something that we need to fix
for sure,” Ruben Aganbegyan, president of the Moscow-based
Micex-RTS, said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York . There needs to be a “change of
paradigm” when it comes to the nation’s pension system, which
is mandated to focus on annual returns and doesn’t generally
invest locally, he said.  The 30-day average value traded in shares of 10 of Russia’s
biggest companies in  London  was $1.2 billion on April 16,
compared with $760 million on the Micex-RTS, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. London volumes exceeded Moscow’s by 74 percent
on March 19, the most since November 2008, and the only initial
public offering by a Russia-based company this year was
undertaken in the British capital.  Aganbegyan, formerly head of investment bank Renaissance
Capital’s Russia unit, is trying to implement reforms needed to
boost investment and liquidity on his trading platforms. The
Micex-RTS was formed out of a merger between Moscow’s ruble-
denominated Micex and the derivatives-focused RTS in December.  The exchange plans to debut a central securities depositary
in July, and replace immediate settlement of trades with a
protocol in line with developed markets by November, allowing
traders either two or three days to finalize transactions,
Aganbegyan said yesterday. While these reforms will help make
conservative investors more comfortable trading on the Micex-RTS
“I don’t think any of this is enough on a stand-alone basis to
boost trading,” he said.  ‘Less Than 1%’  “A portion of Russia’s pension system should be invested
into the equity market,” he said. “Less than 1 percent of
state pension assets are currently invested in the equity market
in Russia today, compared with about 60 percent in the U.S. and
about 40 percent in the U.K.”  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who will take up a third
term as president on May 7, told the Duma -- Russia’s lower
house of parliament -- on April 11 that the government has to
widen the range of securities that the nation’s pension funds
can invest in, the Prime-TASS  news agency  reported. “The talk
is about so-called long pension money,” he said, according to
the report.  Only IPO  The government restricted the assets pension funds
contributed to by employers and managed by state development
bank Vnesheconombank can invest in in a Jan. 27 resolution,
government newspaper  Rossiyskaya Gazeta  reported in February.
The funds can only buy ruble-denominated state securities, after
previously being allowed to invest in state assets denominated
in other currencies, Rossiyskaya Gazeta said, citing the
 resolution .  Oil and gas producer  RusPetro Plc (RPO)  raised $250 million in
London on Jan. 20, the only Russia-based company to do an IPO
this year. Of the five initial share offerings undertaken in
2011, three were done in London, one in Moscow and one on both
exchanges. There were 13 Russian IPOs in 2007, the most since at
least 1999, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  OAO Transneft, operator of Russia’s oil pipelines, and
shipping company OAO Sovcomflot are among companies which may
seek to list outside of Russia this year, according to Azat Nougumanov, a Moscow-based vice president for new business
development at Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  ‘Bounce Back Home’  Iron ore explorer OAO Metalloinvest, petrochemical producer
ZAO Sibur Holding, and diamond miner OAO Alrosa may also list
depositary receipts abroad in 2012, Nougumanov said in an April
9 interview. OAO Promsvyazbank is considering a $1 billion IPO
later this year in London and Moscow, President Artem Konstandian, said last month.  The Micex-RTS has dissuaded “a couple” of issuers from
placing shares offshore, Aganbegyan said, declining to provide
more details.  “We’re in quite a unique situation because we didn’t
reform our market over the last 10 years,” he said yesterday.
“Trading equity for such a huge market as Russia outside of
this economy is actually an exception, it’s not a rule, that’s
why the market will naturally bounce back home if that home can
offer a good way of trading for investors.”  Nordgold NV, the Russian gold miner spun off from
steelmaker OAO Severstal in 2012, may consider redomiciling for
a primary listing in London and inclusion in the benchmark
FTSE-100 index, Chief Executive Officer Nikolai Zelenski said in
March.  Volumes Migration  Polyus Gold International Ltd. may apply again to
redomicile in London after Russia’s largest gold company
withdrew its application last month to a government foreign
investment commission, Alexey Chernushkin, Polyus’ director for
 capital markets  and  investor relations , said in an interview on
March 20.  Polymetal International Plc, a silver and gold miner, and
 Evraz Plc (EVR) , a steelmaker, were the first Russian companies to
join the FTSE-100 in December after moving their main listings
to London.  It will “take time” for trading volumes to migrate from
London to Moscow, Arjun Jayaraman, who manages $400 million in
emerging-market equities at Causeway Capital Management LLC in
 Los Angeles , said by e-mail yesterday.  “Buying shares on the Micex-RTS will be much more
attractive with the improved settlement and central
depositary,” he said. “We stopped trading due to the
settlement problems a number of years ago. We will most
certainly come back to the Micex-RTS once volumes pick up,
because there are many stocks that don’t have general depositary
receipts.”  30% Boost  The exchange could boost volumes by 30 percent in the 12
months after the central depositary and settlement time reforms
are implemented, according to Luis Saenz, chief executive
officer of the U.S. unit of Moscow-based brokerage Otkritie
Financial Corp.  A central depositary is an independent body that makes sure
money is paid or debited and securities ownership is transferred
after a trade occurs. The Micex-RTS is in talks with bourses in
Ukraine and  Kazakhstan  to link their markets with Moscow’s
depositary as a way of broadening investors’ access to assets in
the former  Soviet Union , Aganbegyan said.  The Micex-RTS owns 51 percent of Ukraine’s  PFTS Stock
Exchange (PFTS)  and around 50 percent of the Ukrainian Stock Exchange,
he said.  The 30-stock Micex Index trades shares of Russian companies
including state-run OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural gas
producer, Russia’s biggest lender  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY)  and  OAO Lukoil (LKOD) ,
the nation’s largest independent oil producer. All three
companies have depositary receipts listed in London and New
York.  The Micex-RTS will seek more than $1 billion in its own IPO
next year “when a market window is there,” Aganbegyan said in
yesterday’s interview. The exchange is allowed to issue a
minimum of $300 million of shares, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  