-- Michelin-Starred Tulsi Serves Top Indian at Bargain Price
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/michelin-starred-tulsi-serves-top-indian-at-bargain-price.html
Tulsi, one of  New York ’s best
Indian restaurants, serves a bargain tasting menu at $65.  Along with being affordable, Tulsi is a stark counterpoint
to Sparks across the street. Hindus generally abstain from beef,
so there’s no steak. But there is spinach.  Popeye would be proud of the nutra nugget tikki, a tiny
green cake that looks like an edible science experiment. It
concentrates the leafy greens instead of diluting them,
steakhouse-style, with cream.  Guests find peaceful restraint in  Tulsi ’s cushioned chairs,
white tablecloths, soybean sprout hors d’oeuvres and palate
cleansing apple-chili granita intermezzos.  We’re accustomed to paying more for American, European and
Japanese fare, less for African, Latin American and South Asian
cuisines.  We hit up Per Se with our expense accounts then swing by
Curry in a Hurry for a late night snack after. Maybe Tulsi isn’t
expensive enough?  This is no small matter.  Tabla  once tried the prix-fixe-
only approach to Indian, with meals easily exceeding $100 per
person. It’s the only Danny Meyer restaurant ever to have
closed.  And then there was  Devi , whose priciest wine-paired menu
topped out at $130 per person. It shuttered in early April.  Tandoor Master  Chef Hemant Mathur earned Devi the first ever Michelin star
for an Indian restaurant in the U.S.  Now at his year-old Tulsi, Mathur has won his Michelin star
back.  And although the chef considers himself a master of the
tandoor, the superhot clay oven that makes medium-rare anything
unlikely, Mathur’s magic lies in his fluency with vegetables.  Seven-course tastings ($65 for regular or vegetarian) begin
with rasam, a sharp tomato and lentil soup spiced with curry
leaves, mustard seeds and whole red chilis. The vegetarian menu
follows up with soft slices of pumpkin bathed in coconut-curry
sauce.  If you’re ordering a la carte, begin with khasta kachori
($8), a dish so light its rich ingredients -- fried lentil
dumplings are topped with chickpeas, rice crisps and the triple
punch of tamarind, yogurt and mint chutneys -- seem to defy
gravity.  Okra Fries  Okra is sliced thin and tossed with onions like shoestring
potatoes. And Tulsi’s “plain” rice is a sublime study in
cardamom and cumin.  This spicy, fragrant food should be consumed with Ommegang
Witte beer ($7), Piper-Heidsieck Champagne ($22) or aromatic
whites.  Tuli’s cellar boasts a number of affordable off-the-beaten
track selections, including a lean, mean Vitatge Vielh De
Lapeyre Jurancon Sec ($52); its austere dryness is the right
foil for the sweet heat of Balchao shrimp ($12), though a
puckery glass of Brauneberger Juffer German riesling ($13) is a
fine choice as well.  Surf-and-turfers will find slightly overcooked boar chops
($32) or lamb chops ($36) to pair with a lobster tail ($36).  But the better call is one of Mathur’s infinite takes on
fowl. Chicken thighs perfumed with onions and fennel are
supremely flavorful, while achari tikka smells gratifyingly of
cilantro and garlic.  Long before goat became the hip plaid-shirt of meats, the
Mughals were cooking up rogan josh.  Tulsi simmers the cabrito in cinnamon, cardamom and
Kashmiri chili powder ($26). The incendiary results are to be
scooped up with bread. Prepare to sweat.  You will not have room for dessert. Order it anyway. Kulfi
($8), ice cream made with condensed milk, is so thick you have
to cut it with a knife.  Rating: ** 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Tasting menus at $65; most starters under $15, many
entrees under $25.  Sound Level: Never terribly loud; 70 decibels or so.  Date Place: Make sure your date likes spice.  Inside Tip: The lentils have “a touch of cream,” says the
chef. I’d argue the dish is pure cream. Delicious.  Special Feature: Stellar spinach-stuffed bread.  Back on My Own Dime: Especially for vegetarian fare.  Tulsi is at 211 East 46th St. Information: +1-212-888-0820;
 http://tulsinyc.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  HBO ’s  “Veep”  and a  Titian 
exhibition.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 