-- Thiel Says Market Returns May Sour Young Investors on Stocks
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-04-18T17:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/thiel-says-market-results-may-sour-younger-generation-on-stocks.html
Poor market returns over the past
decade may sour younger clients on equities, said  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s  John Thiel .  “We’re at risk of losing an entire generation as
investors,” said Thiel, who heads U.S. wealth management and
the private banking and investment group at  Bank of America’s 
Merrill Lynch unit. “They’ve been through 10 years of not-so-
sterling results.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined about 5 percent
from the beginning of 2001 through the end of 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “No wonder they don’t have a lot of confidence that
equities are the place to be,” Thiel said at a conference in
 Boston  held by the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association . Sifma is a Washington and New York-based lobbying
group for banks and brokerages.  Wealth managers need to recognize that younger investors
have a different perspective and investing experience when
working with them, said Thiel. To better serve investors of all
ages, firms should increase the use of technology such as video
conferencing for meetings and offer online statements. Advisers
also should talk to clients more about their goals than
performance benchmarks.  Hammer and Nail  “Sometimes I think we act like a hammer, and to a hammer
everything looks like a nail,” said Thiel. “The client is
going to define to us -- especially around the use of technology
-- how they want to interact with us.”  Thiel also addressed the issue of a fiduciary standard
which would require brokers to put clients’ best interests ahead
of their own. Broker-dealers currently are held to a suitability
standard that calls for advice that meets their clients’ needs
when a product is sold, rather than the fiduciary duty followed
by registered investment advisers.  “There’s a new standard of care that’s coming that we
have to prepare for,” said Thiel.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission recommended in
a staff report to Congress Jan. 21, 2011, called for by the
Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, that brokers and registered
investment advisers who give personalized investment advice
follow a uniform fiduciary standard.  Too Conservative  The global wealth management division of  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America had $2.1 trillion in total client
balances at year-end.  About 21 percent of investors surveyed by  Fidelity
Investments  are too conservative with limited exposure to stocks
based on their current age and planned retirement date,
according to a study released by the Boston-based firm today.  Investor trust in financial services firms is eroding,
Kathleen Murphy, president of personal investing for Fidelity,
said at the conference. “We need to invest in our clients so
they will invest with us,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 