-- Mieno, Governor Who Pricked Japan’s Bubble Economy, Dies
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-04-18T10:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/mieno-governor-who-pricked-japan-s-bubble-economy-dies-at-88.html
Yasushi Mieno, the  Bank of Japan 
governor who stuck a pin in the nation’s real-estate and stock
market  bubble  and presided over the start of a so-called lost
decade of stagnation, has died. He was 88.  He died from heart failure in a  Tokyo  hospital on April 15,
the central bank said in a statement today.  Mieno took the BOJ’s helm in December 1989 in the midst of
a boom driven by speculative investment in land and stocks.
Within a week, he’d begun raising  interest rates . Then, as the
economy cooled and headed into the doldrums, he dismissed calls
from businesses and politicians for cuts.  Speaking at a farewell press conference in Tokyo in
December, 1994, Mieno said he had “no regrets” and had always
taken a mid- to long-term view of the economy and aimed to
achieve “growth without inflation.”  “When I set monetary policy, I didn’t see the economy in a
short-term span, or say, ‘We are in recession, so let’s take
measures to spur the economy now,” Mieno said. “I have always
tried to rectify the damage caused by the bubble and achieve
economic growth without causing inflation.”  Under his leadership, the central bank raised the key rate
from 3.75 percent to 6 percent within a year, before switching
to reductions from mid-1991. The benchmark rate is currently
between zero and 0.1 percent.  Bursting Bubbles  From a high of 38,915.87 on Dec. 29, 1989, the  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average slid more than 48 percent over his five-year
tenure. The benchmark gauged closed at 9667.26 today, down 75
percent from the peak. It took Mieno longer to stop the bubble
in property prices which continued to rise through 1991, until
starting a 15-year slide in 1992.  A “double-whammy of interest-rate increases and limits on
banks’ lending to real-estate industries caused the bubble to
burst,” said  Hideo Kumano , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life
Research Institute in Tokyo and a former BOJ official. “Rates
were too high” after Mieno raised them to 6 percent, he said.  Current Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said that Mieno brought
“calm decision-making” and “deep insight” to his management
of policy. He had “deep feelings of mourning,” Shirakawa said
in the statement.  Mieno was born in Oita Prefecture on the southern island of
Kyushu, the local government said on its web site. His father
worked for a think-tank attached to the South Manchurian Railway
and Mieno lived as child in Dalian and other parts of Manchuria,
then a Japanese colony, it said. After graduating from law
school in Tokyo he joined the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
in 1947, staying there for the rest of his career, it said.  ‘Difficult Period’  Mieno was governor during “a difficult period for the
Japanese economy, with the peak of the bubble and then soon the
 recession  caused by its collapse,” Shirakawa said. “At the
same time, there was the huge problem of large amounts of non-
performing loans threatening the stable maintenance of the
financial system.”  In 1993, Mieno commented that monetary policy alone
wouldn’t kickstart the economy. Mieno said later that he was
“under various forms of pressure” from politicians when he was
governor, with some threatening to fire him in an attempt to
force him to lower rates.  There are parallels with Shirakawa’s situation now. He,
too, faces pressure from lawmakers who want his policy board to
do more to support growth and says there are limits to what
monetary tools can achieve.  “It’s the fate of a central banker to face pressure and
criticism from politicians in any country and in any era,” said
 Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset
Management in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  