-- IHS Sees ‘Work of a Moment’ Solution Unlikely in Resin Shortage
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-04-18T19:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/ihs-sees-work-of-a-moment-solution-unlikely-in-resin-shortage.html
Automakers and suppliers are
unlikely to find immediate alternatives to a shortage of resin
used to make brake- and fuel-system components because of their
pre-production vetting processes, according to IHS Automotive.  “Given the component testing and approval processes
employed by” automakers and suppliers, “it is unlikely to be
the work of a moment to find or develop a substitutable
alternative material,” the Englewood, Colorado-based researcher
said today in a post on its website.  More than 200 executives from companies including  General
Motors Co. (GM) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
met yesterday at a summit near  Detroit  to find other options for
resin after a March 31 explosion at chemical maker Evonik
Industries AG. The blast at Evonik’s Marl, Germany, factory that
made Cyclododecatriene, also called CDT, halved the global
source of the resin called PA-12.  Officials formed six technical committees aimed at
mitigating the effect that the PA-12 shortage may have on
production of parts and finished vehicles, Randi Berris, a
spokeswoman for the Automotive Industry Action Group, wrote
today in an e-mail. The group is hosting “multiple technical
follow-up meetings” during the next few weeks on the issue, she
said.  “It is understood that the mood at the AIGP meeting on
Tuesday was extremely serious and there was significant concern
over the potential for production disruptions in the component
industry, with obvious knock-on effects” for automakers, IHS
Automotive said in its report, which doesn’t list an author.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  