-- Milk Powder Slumps to Lowest Since 2009 on China Concern
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-04-18T04:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/milk-powder-slumps-to-lowest-since-2009-on-china-concern.html
Whole-milk powder prices tumbled to
their lowest level since 2009 on concern purchases from  China ,
the world’s biggest buyer, may decline as favorable weather
boosts global supply.  Powder for June delivery slumped 14 percent to $2,766 a
metric ton, the lowest level since Aug. 4, 2009, according to
the weighted-average price from Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.,
the world’s largest dairy exporter. The drop, the ninth
consecutive decline, was the most since August 2010, it said.  “There’s still ample supply out of New Zealand and there’s
talk that Chinese buyers are out of the market,” said Michael Harvey, an analyst at Rabobank International. “They’ve filled
the quota from New Zealand quite quickly and have built up a
short-term stockpile. There’s an expectation that they’ll be out
of the market for a couple of months.”  Whole-milk  powder  plunged 22 percent this year as record
prices in 2011 and good weather in most regions spurred
production. The New Zealand-China Free Trade Agreement allows
the export of some  New Zealand  dairy products under preferential
 tariff  rates to a certain level. Prices may continue to soften
this quarter on surging global supplies, Fonterra Chief
Executive Officer Theo Spierings said March 29.  China’s whole-milk powder imports climbed 45 percent in
February and purchases of skim-milk powder were more than double
the same level a year earlier, according to  NZX Agrifax .  Higher Production  Milk output in the U.S., the largest producer, will rise
1.8 percent to a record 199.7 billion pounds (90.6 million tons)
in 2012, the Department of Agriculture estimates. Fonterra’s
milk collections this season are up 10 percent from the same
period in 2011, the company said last month.  “There’s a lot of milk around short-term and it will have
to flush through the system but at the end of the year, we think
the market should have stabilized and possibly even see some
kind of recovery,” Harvey said from Melbourne today. “Demand
is pretty healthy in markets like the  Middle East  and Southeast
 Asia , so that’s going to support prices.”  Auckland-based Fonterra  said  yesterday it will invest in a
blending and packing plant in  Indonesia  to meet a forecast 50
percent surge in dairy demand in the next eight years. The
company will spend NZ$100 million ($82 million) on two more
dairy farms in China to meet rising demand, it said April 12.  Whole-milk powder reached a record $4,958 a ton in March
last year, buoyed by demand from Asia and supply concerns in New
Zealand. Milk futures traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
have slumped 14 percent this year after climbing 31 percent in
2011. That compares with a 5.4 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index this year.  Fonterra sells whole and skim-milk powder, dried-milk fat,
cheese, and casein at its  GlobalDairyTrade  auctions. The company
offers one-month contracts with delivery from two months after
the sale, and two three-month contracts with delivery three and
six months later.  To contact the reporters for this story: Phoebe Sedgman in
 Melbourne  at   psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  