-- IMF Says European Banks May Have to Sell $3.8 Trillion in Assets
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-04-18T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/imf-says-european-banks-may-have-to-shed-up-to-3-8-trillion.html
European  banks  could be forced to
sell as much as $3.8 trillion in assets through 2013 and curb
lending if governments fall short of their pledges to stem the
sovereign debt crisis or face a shock their firewall can’t
contain, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  In a study of 58 banks including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the IMF forecast that under such
circumstances, gross domestic product in the 17-country euro
region would be 1.4 percent lower than now expected after two
years. Even under its baseline scenario, the  IMF  sees banks’
combined balance sheets possibly shrinking by as much as $2.6
trillion.  “So far, deleveraging has occurred predominantly through
buttressing capital positions and reducing non-core activities,
leaving the impact on the rest of the world manageable,” the
IMF said in its Global Financial Stability Report released
today. “It is essential to continue to avoid a synchronized,
large-scale, and aggressive trimming of balance sheets that
could do serious damage to asset prices, credit supply, and
economic activity in Europe and beyond.”  The Washington-based IMF sees a resurgence of Europe’s debt
turmoil as the biggest threat to global growth even after steps
taken by governments and the  European Central Bank  helped ease
tensions in financial markets. The challenge for policy makers
is to make sure banks keep lending to companies and individuals
even as they boost capital to comply with regulators’ requests.  Banks Studied  Banks in the sample studied by the IMF reduced assets by
almost $580 billion in the last quarter of 2011, it said.  Governments should complete and extend the measures already
agreed upon to reassure investors if they want to limit the
impact of banks’ deleveraging, the IMF recommended. That
includes continuing to reduce budget deficits while supporting
demand as much as possible, restructuring banks and having the
region’s rescue funds inject capital directly into them, it
said.  “For an effective monetary union, deeper integration is
required,” the IMF said. “Fiscal arrangements will need to be
redesigned to accomplish ex ante fiscal risk-sharing,” without
which “countries will continue to face very different financing
conditions and remain prone to having liquidity crises turn into
solvency concerns.”  ‘Euro Bills’  While it may be too early for a Eurobond, “euro bills”
with maturity of less than a year would be a good first step,
IMF Chief Economist  Olivier Blanchard  said during a press
conference yesterday.  The IMF’s recommendations come as Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  seeks to boost the fund’s lending capacity
from around $380 billion to shield the global economy against a
deepening of Europe’s debt turmoil. She won pledges of fresh
cash from  Japan  to  Denmark  over the past two days, adding to
promises by euro nations to total about $286 billion.  “Many countries, notably in the euro area, have embarked
on the process of fiscal consolidation to reach safer positions,
but this effort will take many years,” the IMF said.  “In the meanwhile, sovereigns remain exposed to sudden
shifts in investor perceptions that can tilt the balance from a
good equilibrium -- which features low funding costs and
affordable debt -- to a bad equilibrium -- where funding becomes
very costly or even unavailable, reviving  default risk .”  Spain Yields  Spain ’s 10-year yields have jumped more than one percentage
point since Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said on March 2 that
the nation won’t meet a budget deficit target for this year.  Analyzing funding costs, the IMF found that Italy and Spain
face challenging situations. The average interest rate on
Italy’s debt would rise to 5.3 percent by 2016 if current yields
are maintained, the IMF said.  Outside Europe, Japan and the U.S. “continue to benefit
from very low  interest rates  despite rapidly growing debt stocks
which, even under the baseline, are making them more
vulnerable,” according to the report. “Fiscal challenges are
by no means confined to the euro area.”  While the impact of European bank’s deleveraging on
 emerging markets  has been manageable so far, the IMF saw a risk
that cross-border lending could further decrease, with emerging
 Europe  as the most vulnerable region.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  