-- India Stock Futures Gain as Growth Concerns Ease on IMF
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-04-18T10:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/india-stock-futures-gain-as-growth-concerns-ease-on-imf.html
Most Indian stocks rose after the
 International Monetary Fund  boosted its forecast for the global
economy and a Spanish bond sale eased concerns the debt crisis
may be worsening in  Europe ,  India ’s biggest trading partner.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , which owns Jaguar Land Rover, extended
gains from a record.  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  climbed to its highest-ever
price after fourth-quarter earnings jumped 30 percent.  Wipro
Ltd. (WPRO) , the third-biggest software maker, rose for the third day.
The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, added 0.1 percent to
17,378.94, according to preliminary closing prices.  The IMF increased its outlook for global growth in 2012 to
3.5 percent from 3.3 percent, while  Spain  sold 12-month and 18-
month bills a day after yields on its 10-year bonds reached the
highest level this year. The  Reserve Bank  of India cut its
benchmark rate for the first time in three years yesterday to
revive growth. The Sensex pared intraday gains of as much as 1
percent after Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  reiterated that he sees
limited scope for further reductions.  “The markets need follow-up action from the government in
terms of policy initiatives,” PVK Mohan, head of equities at
Principal PNB Asset Management Co. in Mumbai, said yesterday in
an interview.  The RBI cut the  repurchase  rate by 0.5 percentage points to
8 percent, more than the 25 basis-point median estimate of 25
economists in a Bloomberg survey. India’s economy expanded at
the slowest pace in three years in the fourth quarter after the
RBI raised rates a record 13 times between March 2010 and
October last year and a political gridlock deterred investment.  Foreign  funds  purchased a net  3.91 billion rupees  ($76
million) of local stocks yesterday, according to the nation’s
market regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  