-- Indian Bonds Decline as Subbarao Sees Limited Scope to Cut Rates
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-04-18T13:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/india-bond-yields-fall-to-one-month-low-after-surprise-rate-cut.html
India ’s benchmark bonds fell,
snapping a two-day gain, as central bank Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao said he sees limited scope for cutting  interest rates 
after yesterday’s first reduction since 2009.  Yields on most-traded debt due 2021 rebounded from a one-
month low. The  Reserve Bank  of India reduced the  repurchase  rate
by a greater-than-forecast half a percentage point to 8 percent
in Mumbai yesterday. The monetary authority forecast  inflation 
at 6.5 percent in March 2013, little changed from last month’s
6.89 percent that was almost twice the pace of price increases
in  China .  “Bonds will find it difficult to rally from here given
that the RBI will be restricted in reducing rates,” said Vivek Rajpal, a Mumbai-based fixed-income strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. “Hurdles to rate cuts are on the higher side
because inflation is likely to remain sticky during the course
of the year.”  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.36 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. The rate
touched 8.30 percent earlier, the lowest since March 12.  “The probability of a rate hike and the probability of a
further rate cut are non-zero but small,” Subbarao told
Bloomberg UTV in an interview in Mumbai today.  The government plans to sell a record 5.7 trillion rupees
($110 billion) of bonds in the year through March 2013, 12
percent more than in the last fiscal year.  “The heavy debt sale program will also keep an upward
pressure on yields,” said N.S. Venkatesh, head of treasury at
state-owned  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  in Mumbai.  One-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose three basis
points to 7.89 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  -With assistance from Manish Modi in  New Delhi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  