-- India Said to Consider Additional Sugar Exports Next Week
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-04-18T10:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/india-said-to-consider-additional-sugar-exports-next-week.html
India , the world’s second-biggest
sugar producer, will consider allowing mills to export an
additional 1 million metric tons next week to ease a surplus,
according to an official with direct knowledge of the matter.  Fresh exports are being considered because of a domestic
surplus and to allow mills to raise cash to pay cane growers,
said the official, who declined to be identified. A panel of
ministers headed by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  will
discuss the proposal on April 25, Food Minister K.V. Thomas told
reporters in  New Delhi  today, without specifying the quantity.  More Indian cargoes may deepen the first global glut in
four years, extending a 37 percent decline in futures in  New
York  since a three-decade high in February last year. World
supplies are set to exceed usage by 7.7 million tons in
2011-2012, Czarnikow Group Ltd. said March 5.  “Whenever India tries to export it pressurizes prices,”
 Kishore Narne , head of research at AnandRathi Commodities Ltd.,
said by phone from Mumbai today. “There is a lot of inventory
with the mills, and the cost of inventory is high. Whether
global prices are attractive or not, we have to export.”  Raw sugar for July delivery climbed 1.2 percent to 22.83
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York by 2:51 p.m. in
Mumbai today, while white sugar for August delivery rose 0.7
percent to $601 a ton on NYSE Liffe.  Excess Supplies  The government has already authorized shipments of 3
million tons in the crop season that began Oct. 1 after
production exceeded domestic demand for a second year.  The country may have a further 1.5 million tons available
for  export  in addition to the quantity approved already, the
Indian Sugar Mills Association said April 3, urging the
government to allow fresh shipments “immediately.”  Mills are seeking approval for additional sales as they
need money to pay farmers for cane, according to Abinash Verma,
director general of the association. Sugar makers owed growers
84 billion rupees ($1.6 billion) in arrears as of Feb. 29,
Thomas told parliament on March 26.  “Exports will offload some inventory and help mills
address some short-term cash flow issues,” Narne said.  Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) , the nation’s biggest shipper,
climbed 2.1 percent to 33.7 rupees in Mumbai trading and  Dhampur
Sugar Mills Ltd. (DSM)  jumped 9.9 percent to 46.75 rupees.  Production in India climbed 13 percent to 24.6 million tons
in the Oct. 1-April 15 period, the Indian Sugar Mills
Association said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  