-- Indonesia Readies Ban on Unprocessed Metal-Ore Shipments
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-04-18T07:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/indonesia-readies-ban-on-unprocessed-ore-exports-ministry-says.html
Indonesia ,  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy, will proceed with a plan to ban exports of unprocessed
metal ores including bauxite from next month, while confirming
an exemption for producers that intend to treat output locally.  “If miners don’t have the business plan they will be
prohibited from exporting ores,” Thamrin Sihite, director
general of minerals and coal at the Energy and Mineral Resources
Ministry, told reporters in Jakarta. The ministry has received
proposals from 17 companies to build processing plants, allowing
them to continue ore shipments subject to a new tax, he said.  The largest nickel-ore and bauxite supplier to  China 
announced the prohibition in February, two years ahead of
schedule, to increase the value of shipments. The new rules
apply to holders of so-called Mining Business Licenses issued
after 2009, and companies with a so-called Contract of Work,
including Phoenix-based  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and
 Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , will be allowed to ship ores until 2014.  The new tax put forward by the energy ministry would be 15
percent, and that proposal is being discussed by the  finance
ministry , Sihite said late yesterday. “We will allow exports
for some companies, but they will have to sign a letter of
commitment that they will stop all shipments by 2014,” he said.  The Indonesia Mining Association estimated last month that
the ban will cut nickel-ore and bauxite exports as much as by 75
percent this year. Indonesia shipped 33 million metric tons of
nickel ore and 40 million tons of bauxite last year, according
to Syahrir Abubakar, the group’s executive director.  ‘Consider the Implications’  “The government must consider the implications of the
policy, including how to manage ore stockpiles if miners are
banned from exporting,” Syahrir said by phone today. The actual
extent of the declines in shipments of bauxite and nickel ore
would depend on how many producers were exempted, he said.  The new trade curbs apply to exports of  14 metals  including
 iron ore , manganese, gold, silver and copper, and bring them in
line with the rules that have applied to tin since 2002, with
only refined exports permitted. Indonesia is the world’s biggest
shipper of tin, used in packaging and as solder.  As long ago as 2007,  Mari Pangestu , Indonesia’s then-
minister of trade, said that the government intended to promote
local refining to increase the value of commodity shipments such
as metal ores and  palm oil . Changes would be gradual and not
disrupt output, Pangestu told Bloomberg at that time. Indonesia
is the world’s largest producer of palm oil, ahead of  Malaysia .  Smelter Capacity  “The government wants to encourage miners to team up with,
or invest in local smelter capacity,” Nick Trevethan,
Singapore-based senior commodities strategist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said by e-mail yesterday.  Nickel-ore production and exports from the  Philippines  are
set to increase this year as the nation benefits from
Indonesia’s planned trade curbs, according to the Mines and
Geosciences Bureau. Stock in Manila-listed  Nickel Asia Corp. (NIKL) ,
the biggest Philippine nickel-ore producer, has rallied 50
percent this year, touching an all-time high.  The new rules in Indonesia may not be implemented in full,
according to an April 12 report from Standard & Poor’s Rating
Services. The ban on shipments of unprocessed ores “will likely
be delayed or toned down,” it said, predicting higher taxes.  Freeport-McMoRan runs the Grasberg mine in Papua Province,
and Newmont Mining operates the Batu Hijau copper mine on
Sumbawa Island. Grasberg contains the world’s largest
recoverable copper reserves, according to Freeport.  The ban on shipments for Mining Business License holders
will be effective three months after the ministerial decree was
issued on Feb. 6, Dede Suhendra, director of minerals management
at the energy ministry, said in a text message today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  