-- ING Said to Approach Invesco, AMP on Asset Management Sale
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-04-19T04:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/ing-said-to-approach-sumitomo-mitsui-on-asset-management-sale.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , seeking to sell its
asset-management division in Asia, has approached potential
buyers including  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and
 Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , four people with knowledge of the matter said.  The largest Dutch financial-services company has sent
information on the unit to potential bidders that may also
include  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ,  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK)  and  Schroders Plc (SDR) , said the people, who declined to be
identified as the process is confidential. ING is asking for
non-binding offers by around late May, one person said.  ING’s Asian asset-management business is worth about 500
million euros ($655 million), according to an estimate by Hans Pluijgers, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux. The company is under European Union orders to sell
its insurance and investment management businesses before the
end of 2013, after receiving state aid in 2008 and 2009.  ING may sell the asset management unit in Asia separately
or together with its insurance operations in the region. Selling
the divisions together may be easier for ING because the asset-
management unit oversees money on behalf of the insurance
business, said Pluijgers.  “While selling the Asian business in parts will probably
drive up the proceeds for ING, it is also more difficult to
execute,” he said.  Other companies that have shown interest in the asset-
management unit are  Blackrock Inc. (BLK) , State Street Corp.,  AMP Ltd. (AMP) 
and Nikko Asset Management Co., two people with knowledge of the
proess said. Spokesmen for ING and the potential bidders
declined to comment or weren’t immediately available.  Greater Allure  In January, ING scrapped a plan to create an Asian-European
insurer next to a U.S. unit and said it may sell the Asian
business separately, given its greater allure for buyers after
European markets worsened. Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen in
February told reporters it was too early to tell whether the
asset management business would be sold separately.  The Asian part of ING’s investment management business had
a book value of about 300 million euros at the end of last year,
according to a company presentation dated Feb. 9. The Asian unit
oversaw 41.7 billion euros as of Dec. 31.  ING investment management oversees assets for ING insurance
as well as third-party retail and institutional clients. The
Asian unit has operations in China,  Hong Kong , Taiwan, Japan,
Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and India according to its
website. ING Insurance is active in seven Asian countries:
Japan, Malaysia, South Korea, Thailand, China, Hong Kong and
India.  About 60 percent of the unit’s assets under management are
on behalf of ING’s insurance business, one of the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  