-- Intel, IBM See Sales Stall as Europe Crisis Crimps Orders
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-04-18T20:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/intel-ibm-see-sales-stall-as-europe-crisis-crimps-orders.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , computer-industry bellwethers, posted
the slowest sales growth in more than two years last quarter as
the European slump weighed on orders.  IBM’s revenue climbed 0.3 percent to $24.7 billion in the
period, while Intel sales rose 0.5 percent to $12.9 billion.
That was the smallest increase for either company since the
third quarter of 2009, when the  U.S. economy  was just emerging
from recession. Even so, Intel predicted a pickup in sales for
the current quarter.  The two technology giants are seeking growth in  emerging
markets  while coping with a slowdown triggered by the European
debt crisis. The personal-computer market, which contracted in
the U.S. last year for the first time since 2001, also is
hurting demand for Intel’s processors. IBM, meanwhile, is more
focused on expanding earnings per share, rather than pursuing
less-profitable orders.  “All else being equal, you’d rather see top-line growth,”
said  Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in  New York . Still, he said, most investors are looking more
closely at profit than sales. “IBM has conditioned investors to
focus on EPS growth. That’s how it provides guidance.”  Gross Margin  Intel also forecast narrower profit margins than analysts
had anticipated, sending shares down the most in three months.  IBM’s shares fell 3.5 percent to $200.13 at the close in
New York, its biggest one-day decline since Oct. 18. Intel
declined 1.8 percent to $27.95.  Intel’s  gross margin , or the percentage of sales remaining
after deducting costs of production, will be about 62 percent in
the second quarter, Intel said yesterday in its earnings report.
Analysts had projected gross margin of 63.5 percent on average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Intel’s costs are rising as it overhauls older plants and
builds new ones. The company expects to recoup that investment
when the factories reach full output, and Intel is sticking to
its gross margin forecast of 64 percent for the year.  “The whole story of Intel in the past two years has
basically been margins,” said  Daniel Amir , an analyst at Lazard
Capital Markets LLC in San Francisco. “For the first time,
they’re kind of missing the margin target by more than a
percent.”  ‘Relatively Expensive’  Intel Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith said demand from
corporations and emerging markets remains relatively strong. The
company’s costs are rising because it’s preparing three
factories to run on the new 22-nanometer production process.  “As we start the ramp of those products, the first units
that come out are relatively expensive,” Smith said. “Then
they come rapidly down the cost curve over the course of this
year.”  Still, the sluggishness in Europe -- triggered by concerns
that countries such as Greece and  Spain  may default -- has taken
a toll on sales. And the PC industry is still recovering from a
disk-drive shortage.  “Consumer markets in mature markets, and the U.K. is part
of that, is tough,” Graham Palmer, Intel’s director of the U.K.
and Ireland, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Sales in the current period will be $13.6 billion, plus or
minus $500 million, the  Santa Clara , California-based company
said. Analysts had estimated revenue of $13.43 billion, the
average projection according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .
Sales were $13.03 billion a year earlier.  Recovery Coming?  “The revenue guidance is actually not bad -- it reflects a
PC market recovery,” Amir said. “I think people expected it to
be a little bit better.”  At IBM, the plan is to make up for slow growth by selling
more-profitable software. Operating earnings will increase to at
least $15 a share this year, IBM said yesterday, boosting its
January forecast of at least $14.85.  The company’s net income advanced to $3.07 billion, or
$2.61 a share, last quarter, from $2.86 billion, or $2.31, a
year earlier. Excluding some items, earnings rose to $2.78 a
share, topping the $2.65 projected by analysts.  Revenue from  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  declined 2
percent to $7.6 billion, while sales in the Americas and Asia-
Pacific region increased.  The effect on IBM’s revenue growth from Europe’s debt
crisis may worry some investors, said Joseph Foresi, an analyst
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in  Boston .  The euro averaged $1.31 in the first quarter, down 4.2
percent from the year-earlier period as Europe’s financial woes
continued. The drop means revenue from Europe, which combined
with Middle East and Africa accounts for about a third of IBM’s
sales, is worth less when converted to dollars.  Developing Economies  Chief Executive Officer Virginia “Ginni” Rometty, who
took over in January, is seeking to expand in faster-growing
economies. Revenue from growth markets, such as Brazil, India
and  China , increased 9 percent in the first quarter. Sales from
the regions will make up at least 30 percent of revenue by 2015,
the company has said, up from 22 percent in 2011.  Sales at IBM’s software unit rose 5.5 percent to $5.6
billion. Services revenue growth slowed to 0.7 percent from the
fourth quarter’s 3 percent, while hardware sales declined 6.7
percent. IBM has set a goal of adding $20 billion in new
revenue, in part by spending about $20 billion on acquisitions,
from 2010 to 2015.  Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge reiterated that
acquisition goal on a conference call yesterday. IBM spent $1.3
billion in the first quarter closing  purchases  of five
companies, including DemandTec Inc., he said.  IBM also relies on cost cuts and stock buybacks to expand
earnings per share, Bernstein’s Sacconaghi said. The question
for shareholders: How long will that strategy will work?  “Investors sometimes question can you continue to grow EPS
when your revenue growth is so much lower,” he said. “At some
point, you’re going to run out of cost improvements.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  