-- Investor Distrust of Chinese Listings Hits IPOs, Prices
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2012-04-18T22:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/investor-distrust-of-chinese-listings-hits-ipos-prices.html
Profit warnings, auditor disputes
and delistings involving Chinese companies trading on foreign
exchanges are fueling investor distrust, wiping out valuations
and poisoning the market for new listings.  The 180 Chinese firms that went public in  New York ,  Hong
Kong  and on other global exchanges since the start of 2010 are
trading on average 21 percent below their offer prices,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
has gained 10 percent in the same period, while the 407 initial
public offerings in the U.S. since the beginning of that year
have advanced on average 4.4 percent.  At least six disputes have broken out this year between
auditors and Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong. More than a
quarter of Chinese firms that went public on the city’s main
board in 2010, a record year for volume, have lowered forecasts
since they started trading, compared with less than 10 percent
of non-Chinese companies that had IPOs there that year.  “Investors have been concerned: Are these companies
accurately portraying themselves?” said Kevin Pollack, a  fund
manager  at Paragon Capital LP in New York who invests in U.S.-
listed Chinese stocks. “There has absolutely been collateral
damage. Unfortunately, having big-name auditors and bankers
behind a company doesn’t guarantee it’s free of issues.”  Deloitte Resigns  Investor enthusiasm that allowed a record number of Chinese
companies to go public abroad in 2010 has evaporated as the
accuracy of financial reporting and the quality of due diligence
by IPO underwriters has been called into question. That
contributed to making the first quarter for global first-time
offerings the weakest since the depths of the financial crisis.  Confidence in overseas-listed Chinese stocks had already
been undermined by scandals involving companies that went public
in the U.S. through so-called reverse mergers. Now, investors
are shunning firms based in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy: Of the 57 IPOs in the U.S. this year, only one came
from  China , compared with seven in the first quarter of 2011.  Four Hong Kong-listed Chinese firms, including  Boshiwa
International Holding Ltd. (1698) , a Shanghai-based Harry Potter
apparel licensee, said their auditors resigned this year because
of disputes over financial data or other key information. That’s
four times the number in the same period last year and in the
first quarter of 2010. Two other companies reported that their
auditors needed more time to verify earnings.  Boshiwa, whose shares fell 66 percent from their September
2010 listing price, was suspended from trading March 15 after
accounting firm Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu resigned.  Hong Kong Warnings  The disclosures caused Hong Kong’s  Financial Reporting
Council  to announce April 11 that it had identified 13 Chinese
companies in need of close monitoring. The agency, which
investigates auditing and reporting irregularities of publicly
traded companies, declined to name them.  Chinese companies listing on global exchanges in 2010 set a
record: 110 IPOs, up from 67 in 2009 and almost twice the number
last year. That prompted Hong Kong regulators to warn at least
eight times since early 2011 about inadequate due diligence on
the part of investment bankers who underwrote the IPOs of
companies that applied for listings in 2010.  Overseas IPOs by Chinese firms in 2010 accounted for 16
percent of the $199 billion in global IPO proceeds, excluding
mainland China deals, the data show. In the first quarter of
this year, foreign Chinese offerings fell to 5.7 percent of the
$11 billion raised worldwide.  China Slowdown  Equity markets in China’s mainland are closed to foreign
investors, except as part of investment quotas granted to
qualified institutional investors. Chinese domestic stocks also
have fared poorly since the beginning of 2010, with the
 benchmark CSI 300 Index  down 27 percent. In December, the index
fell to its lowest level since February 2009 on concern that the
country’s economy was slowing. The index has rebounded 14
percent since then on speculation that the government will
further ease monetary policy.  With China’s economic growth target revised down by the
government to 7.5 percent this year, the lowest goal in eight
years, investors may be less willing to tolerate risk.  “Chinese companies in the private sector are bearing the
brunt of the country’s economic slowdown, leaving investors
nervous about their growth prospects,” said Ronald Wan, a Hong
Kong-based managing director at China Merchants Securities Co.,
which oversees about $1.5 billion.  Revenue Declines  More than a quarter of the 56 Chinese firms that raised a
combined $32 billion in Hong Kong in 2010, including cellulose
producer  Sateri Holdings Ltd. (1768)  and manganese-mining company  Citic
Dameng Holdings Ltd. (1091) , have lowered forecasts, saying they
expected “significant” or “substantial” declines in revenue.  Sateri has fallen 66 percent since its December 2010 debut,
and Citic Dameng has dropped 61 percent since listing in
November that year. Both companies, headquartered in Hong Kong,
get more than 70 percent of their revenue from China, according
to Bloomberg data.  The 56 companies have declined an average of 27 percent
from their IPO prices, the data show, while the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  is down 3 percent from its 2010 average.  “There’s a lack of confidence in some of the issuers,”
Renato de Guzman, chief executive officer of the Bank of
 Singapore , the wealth-management unit of Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. said in an interview on March 30. “That fear creates a
lot of undervalued shares.”  Singapore Slump  Chinese stocks listed in New York have fared worse. The 40
companies that completed IPOs there in 2010 are down on average
39 percent from their offer prices compared with a 22 percent
gain for the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  from its 2010 average, the data show.
These don’t include the two Chinese businesses that went public
by reverse merger, in which a closely held firm buys a publicly
traded shell company and obtains a listing without the scrutiny
of the IPO process.  In Singapore, the third-biggest market for such listings
after Hong Kong and New York, eight Chinese companies that went
public in 2010 have declined an average of 47 percent from their
offer prices, the data show. That compares with a drop of 15
percent for the 23 non-Chinese firms that had IPOs in 2010.  In March,  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , the first Chinese company
to have an IPO in New York since August, raised 39 percent less
than targeted. Shares of the Guangzhou-based online discount
store are trading 9.2 percent lower than its offering price. The
number of Chinese firms completing IPOs in the U.S. last year
fell to 15 from 41 in 2010.  Of the 10 Chinese firms listing outside mainland China this
year, the lowest number since the first quarter of 2009, eight
were in Hong Kong, one was in New York and one in  Malaysia .  A second Chinese firm, China Auto Rental Inc., the nation’s
largest car-rental company, is scheduled to list in the U.S.
next week, seeking to raise as much as $137.5 million in an
April 24 IPO on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Reverse Mergers  Chinese enterprises that completed foreign IPOs in the
early 2000s have done better. The 91 companies that sold shares
overseas from 2001 through 2004 and are still trading have
gained on average 289 percent from their offer prices, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the MSCI World
Index’s 32 percent gain from its average in those four years.  The 61 Chinese firms that listed overseas in 2011 are down
6 percent on average from their offer prices, the data show. The
MSCI World Index is up 2 percent from its 2011 average.  The disclosures of financial irregularities or auditor
resignations last year by Chinese businesses that went public in
the U.S. through reverse mergers resulted in “significant
negative sentiment” toward companies based in China, Paragon
Capital’s Pollack said.  Sino-Forest, Longtop  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission cautioned
investors in June about buying stakes in such firms, saying they
may be prone to “fraud and other abuses.” The Bloomberg
 Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks 82 companies, has
lost 62 percent since the beginning of 2010.  Sino-Forest Corp. lost C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion) of its
market value after Carson Block, founder of research firm Muddy
Waters LLC, accused the company of overstating its timber
holdings last June. The Toronto Stock Exchange will delist Sino-
Forest shares in May, the firm said in an April 5 statement.  Also recently delisted was Longtop Financial Technologies
Ltd., a Hong Kong-based maker of financial software whose lead
underwriters for its 2007 IPO were Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG. The SEC in December revoked Longtop’s
registration, saying the company was in default for failing to
respond to an agency order. D&T  Shanghai  resigned as Longtop’s
auditor after discovering improprieties, according to the SEC.  Underwriters Liable  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission may make
banks arranging IPOs liable for statements in their clients’
prospectuses to prevent fraud by locally listed Chinese
companies, Martin Wheatley, head of the agency at the time, said
last year. The commission has inspected 17 listing sponsors
since late 2009 and found deficiencies in some of their work,
according to a  report  published by the regulator in March 2011.  “The gatekeepers have to be vigilant and that includes all
the actors that surround an IPO,” Ashley Alder, Wheatley’s
successor, said at a press conference in September.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority, which regulated five
financial institutions that sponsor initial share sales before
supervision was transferred to the SFC, also has urged bankers
to increase due-diligence standards and improve their internal
supervision of the IPO process.  The city’s central bank conducted onsite examinations
between the fourth quarter of 2010 and the second quarter of
2011 and found cases where guidance on how to deal with
“suspicious scenarios” was deficient and where senior
investment bankers didn’t review their employees’ due diligence,
according to a Nov. 25 report.  Asset Freeze  Singapore’s stock exchange went to court to enforce its
listing rules for the first time after a Chinese company ignored
a deadline to appoint a special auditor. The exchange sued  China
Sky Chemical Fibre Co. (CSCF)  and four of its Chinese directors on Jan.
6 to compel the Quanzhou City-based company to have a special
auditor investigate “interested party transactions,” a failed
land acquisition and certain costs. The Monetary Authority of
Singapore is seeking a court order to freeze the assets of
former China Sky Chemical CEO Huang Zhong Xuan, according to
papers filed March 28 with the city’s  High Court .  In Hong Kong, Deloitte resigned as Boshiwa’s auditor after
the company failed to provide information it requested,
according to a March 15 filing to Hong Kong’s stock exchange.  Daqing Dairy  Deloitte also resigned as auditor for  Daqing Dairy Holdings
Ltd. (1007) , according to a March 30 filing. The Heilongjiang, China-
based milk producer, which raised $200 million from an October
2010 Hong Kong IPO, said it had a disagreement with the auditor
about the accuracy of its financial statements. Daqing Dairy has
fallen 62 percent from its offer price.  Wilfred Lee, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Deloitte, said
he couldn’t comment on the cases because of client
confidentiality.  In February, Crowe Horwath LLP resigned as auditor for
 Mayer Holdings Ltd. (1116)  after the Hong Kong-based producer of steel
pipes failed to provide information related to a court case,
according to a filing with the exchange. China Forestry Holdings
Co., based in Chaoyang, China, and suspended from trading since
last year because of accounting irregularities, said Jan. 6 that
its auditor, KPMG LLC, had resigned citing valuation concerns.  ‘Red Flags’  Other Hong Kong-listed Chinese companies, including
Shenzhen-based Shirble Department Stores Ltd. and Ausnutria
Dairy Corp. of Changsha, have delayed releasing full-year 2011
earnings because auditors need more time to complete work,
according to filings by the firms.  Spokesmen for Ausnutria, Boshiwa, China Forestry and
Shirble declined to comment beyond the exchange filings. Bunny
Lee, a Hong Kong-based investor relations officer for Daqing
Dairy, said the company is trying to complete its 2011 earnings
report. Mayer officials didn’t immediately respond to a phone
call and an e-mail seeking comment.  Doing due diligence is beyond the capabilities of many
investors who remain positive about China’s future growth, said
Paragon Capital’s Pollack.  “We’re still very bullish on the China story as a whole,
but I think all investors are exercising a lot of caution,” he
said. “There are certain red flags an investor needs to look
for, and there are certain positive indicators too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  