-- Lira Falls First Time in 3 Days as Bank Resumes Cheaper Lending
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-04-18T07:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/lira-falls-first-time-in-3-days-as-bank-resumes-cheaper-lending.html
The lira weakened for the first
time in three days after the central bank offered funding at its
lowest rate for the first time this week.  The Turkish currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 1.7943 per
dollar at 10:06 a.m. in Istanbul, heading for the biggest
decline in more than a week. The  yield  on two-year benchmark
debt dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
9.39 percent.  The Ankara-based bank offered to lend at the lowest 5.75
percent rate in its daily one-week repo auctions after having
withheld funding at this rate for the past five days, which
resulted in a 1.1 percent appreciation of the lira. The bank
offered 4 billion liras ($2.2 billion) in one-week  repurchase
agreements  in today’s auction.  “It’s the return of the ‘normal day’ ahead of the rate
decision but I do not think it should be interpreted as a signal
of a change in monetary policy,”  Murat Toprak , head of currency
strategy for  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa at HSBC Bank Plc,
said in  London . “The global market sentiment improved slightly
and after several ‘exceptional days’ the central bank eases
marginally its tight lending conditions.”  Turkey’s central bank varies its funding rate on a daily
basis, maintaining borrowing costs within a 5.75 percent to 11.5
percent interest-rate corridor introduced last year. Days when
the bank does not lend at the 5.75 percent rate are considered
“exceptional days” and the rest are called “normal days.”
The most recent round of policy tightening began on April 11
after the lira weakened to a three-week low at 1.8177 per dollar
during intraday trade.  The country’s Monetary Policy Committee will meet today and
is forecast to leave its benchmark one-week repo rate unchanged
at 5.75 percent, according to all 11 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Emerging-market stocks rallied the most in almost a week
after the  International Monetary Fund  raised its global growth
forecast and speculation grew  China  will ease monetary policy.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  