-- Iranian Central Bank, Oil Exporters Can Keep Swiss Ties
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-04-18T16:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/iranian-central-bank-oil-exporters-can-keep-swiss-ties.html
Iran’s  central bank , under siege
from the U.S and European Union, which froze its assets in
January, can keep doing business in Switzerland because of its
systemic importance to the Persian Gulf nation’s economy, said a
spokesman for the Swiss Federal Department of  Foreign Affairs .  Switzerland will also leave the door open to Iranian oil
imports, the spokesman, Rudolf Christen, said today after the
government expanded sanctions and froze accounts of eight
additional Iranian companies and three people.  “The Swiss decision now to allow transactions by the
Iranian Central Bank undermines the U.S.-driven financial
sanctions,” Hague-based Heinrich Matthee, who advises
governments and companies on risks in the Strait of Hormuz, said
by telephone. “Swiss-based actors will benefit from the
decision.”  World powers ended a 15-month stalemate last week with  Iran 
when they met over the country’s atomic program in Istanbul.
 China ,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. are
scheduled to meet Iran again on May 23 in Baghdad. European
nations are set to boycott Iranian oil starting July 1 to
pressure the country over its alleged nuclear-weapons program.
Iran says its nuclear work is peaceful.  Tighter restrictions will “depend on further developments
and how things unfold,” Christen said by telephone from the
Swiss capital Bern. “We do not exclude that the Federal Council
will strengthen the sanctions against Iran.”  Service Halted  The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunication, the dominant messaging service for
international financial transactions, halted service on March 15
for more than 20 Iranian lenders including the central bank.  Switzerland ’s decision is important for Iran because it
“allows space in the financial system for the payment of
transactions,” Matthee said. Switzerland-based companies
including Glencore International AG, Gunvor International BV,
Vitol SA, Trafigura AG and Mercuria Energy Trading SA, which
together broker about one-third of the world’s oil deals, may
eschew Iranian business to avoid U.S. condemnation, he said.  “Considerable U.S. pressure on Switzerland on this issue
is likely,” Matthee said. “Such pressure, perhaps combined
with some incentives, is likely to change the Swiss decision at
some stage.”  Sanctions aimed at Iran’s central bank have forced Tehran’s
government to barter oil for food and consumer products. The
value of Iran’s rial has fallen and deprived the country of hard
currencies that help fund imports needed for its nuclear and
missile programs.  “On the day that the nations of the world will be able to
say that through common effort, they have overcome the severe
crisis of  Iran’s nuclear program , Switzerland will not be among
them,” Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said in
a telephone interview from Jerusalem.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  