-- Israel-Cyprus Deal on Gas as Lebanon Won’t Negotiate
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-04-19T12:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/israel-cyprus-deal-on-gas-as-lebanon-refuses-negotiation-energy.html
Israel’s biggest gas discovery,
potentially turning the fuel importer into an exporter, is
prompting a race by nations from Lebanon to  Turkey  to tap
similar deposits in disputed waters of the East Mediterranean.  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  is developing the Leviathan and Tamar
fields off Israel that hold about 30 trillion cubic feet of gas,
more than triple the U.K.’s remaining reserves and worth about
$670 billion at today’s prices. The Houston-based company also
is behind the Aphrodite discovery off Cyprus.  With the  U.S.  estimating the region holds about 122
trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to supply the world for one
year, Lebanon and Turkey stepped up prospecting. Territorial
disputes will have to be resolved first or the potential will
remain untapped.  “All sides are looking at the eastern Mediterranean in a
new light, but at the same time border disputes remain very
important,” said Charles Gurdon, managing director of London-
based risk assessor  Menas  Associates. “In the end, most of
these cases will have to go to international arbitration.”  Countries in the region will have to temper disputes over
maritime borders and sovereignty before companies such as  BP
Plc (BP/) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  can realize its
potential as an export hub, according to the Observatoire
Mediterraneen de l’Energie, an industry group.  “Joint exploitation of resources may change the whole
political situation for the benefit of the region,” said Sohbet
Karbuz, an oil and gas director at  OME . “Energy can also become
an extension of politics by other means.”  ‘Implacably Opposed’  Lebanon and Israel have no defined maritime border, while
Turkey doesn’t recognize the Greek Cypriot-led government of the
Republic of Cyprus and relations with Israel have soured since
Turkish activists died on a Gaza-bound flotilla two years ago.
Tensions boiled over when Turkey sent an exploration vessel
accompanied by warships and jets to stop Cyprus drilling for oil
and gas last year.  “The sides are implacably opposed, whether it’s northern
and southern Cyprus, whether it’s Turkey and Cyprus, whether
it’s Israel and Lebanon,” said Gurdon at Menas, which advises
 Exxon Mobil  Corp., BP and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  among  others . “In the
end, people want to determine where the territory starts and
stops.”  Cyprus will award permits covering 12 offshore blocks south
of the island in its second licensing round, open for bids until
May, according to Solon Kassinis, director of the energy service
at the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism. Turkey also
plans to start drilling for oil off northern Cyprus later this
month, Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said in Istanbul today.  Egypt  is planning to hold a licensing round in the
Mediterranean after the Leviathan and Aphrodite discoveries,
Gurdon said in a presentation in  London  today.  ‘Second North Sea’  The East Mediterranean could become the “second  North
Sea ” following Cyprus’s first offshore gas discovery last year,
Kassinis said.  “The Lebanese have systematically refused to talk to us
about border issues, whether territorial or maritime, and have
unilaterally submitted their claims to the UN,” said Yigal Palmor, an Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman. “We therefore
have no choice but to submit our own claims to the UN as well,
but the preferred solution is obviously direct negotiations.”  The North Sea, where Britain and  Norway  pump most of the
oil and gas, is the world’s sixth-largest supplier of crude.
While it still holds more than 26 billion barrels of oil
equivalent resources, extraction peaked at the beginning of the
last decade, U.K. government  data  show.  Cyprus-Israel Pipeline  As North Sea production declines, energy producers are
looking to other regions, including the Mediterranean, to meet
rising gas demand as countries seek alternatives to Russian
supplies.  Cyprus is working with Israel, 300 miles (480 kilometers)
south across the Mediterranean Sea, on the potential
construction of a pipeline to connect their gas fields. The link
would allow the countries to meet domestic demand before
liquefying the fuel for export, Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said Feb. 16.  Israel is examining plans to ship liquefied natural gas, or
LNG, as far as  Asia  after 2018, said Gerry Peereboom, a director
at  Noble Energy . Israel may also pump gas to Egyptian LNG
plants, said Raafat El-Beltagy, deputy chairman of Egyptian
Natural Gas Holding Co.  LNG Exports  “Israel is now in the position to decide whether they’ll
allow the companies that hold these gas resources for export to
the international market,” said Richard Quin, an analyst on the
 Middle East  and North Africa at Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd.
“The challenges of exporting LNG from Israel are quite
substantial. It could easily be a decade for exports actually to
happen.”  The Aphrodite field spans waters between Cyprus and Israel.
Noble and other international  oil companies  have stayed away
from northern Cypriot waters as tensions with Turkey persist,
maintaining divisions that have split the island since Turkey
invaded the north in 1974. Turkey has said development projects
should await resolution of Cyprus’s political status.  “The issue of Turkey remains absolutely critical, because
Turkey doesn’t recognize Cyprus’s rights” to award  licenses ,
Menas’s Gurdon said. “Turkey may adopt gunboat diplomacy and it
may be difficult for Cyprus to search for and develop fields
which are close to northern Cyprus.”  The European Union, which only recognizes the Republic of
Cyprus, has withheld elements of Turkey’s EU membership talks as
it calls on the country to acknowledge the island nation and
help resolve its ethnic divisions. Turkey has said it’s open to
collaboration to exploit the region’s resources and market the
fuel abroad.  ‘Affordable Gateway’  “Potential cooperation may at last bring peace and
stability to the region,” said  Ayse Berris Ekinci , acting
deputy director for energy at Turkey’s Ministry of  Foreign
Affairs . “Turkey represents the safest, most feasible and
affordable gateway for the eastern Mediterranean natural gas
resources to the European markets.”  Turkey’s state oil producer Turkiye Petrolleri AO struck an
agreement with Shell in November to explore off the city of
Antalya, away from Cypriot waters. Turkey has also received
interest from companies including Exxon Mobil, BP, Chevron,
Total and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  to explore in its east Mediterranean
waters, according to the Energy Ministry.  EU Presidency  Cyprus is due to take over the EU’s rotating presidency on
July 1, potentially boosting its clout in negotiations. The
island’s Aphrodite discovery is only 65 kilometers from Israel’s
Leviathan field, the world’s biggest offshore gas find of 2010.
The Tamar field off Israel, discovered a year earlier, is due to
start output next year.  “The latest discoveries will certainly be a source of
dialogue between the countries,” said Rob West, a London-based
oil analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “It’s just not clear
whether the dialogue will involve disputes over resource
entitlement or rather cooperation.”  Claims over gas fields in the region’s Levant Basin extend
to Lebanon,  Israel ’s northern neighbor and 100 miles across the
sea from Cyprus.  Lebanon has said some Israeli fields may stretch into its
waters and has asked the  United Nations  to intervene to prevent
a conflict over exploration areas as the country gears up for
its first offshore oil and gas bidding round this year. Lebanese
militant group Hezbollah, which fought a war with Israel in
2006, has repeatedly pledged to protect the nation’s offshore
resources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  