-- Italy Follows Spain in Delaying Deficit Goal Amid Slump
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-04-18T13:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/italy-follows-spain-in-delaying-deficit-goal-amid-slump.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
pushed back his balanced-budget goal amid a deepening recession,
six weeks after Spain helped reignite  Europe ’s debt crisis by
abandoning its own deficit target.  The Italian government, which had vowed to balance the
budget in 2013, now expects a  shortfall  of 0.5 percent of gross
domestic product next year, the Cabinet said in an e-mailed
 statement  after meeting in Rome today to revise its three-year
economic plan. The deficit of 0.1 percent previously estimated
for 2013 won’t be reached until 2014.  “While much progress has been achieved, there’s still a
long way to go” to reorder public finances, according to the
statement. The new plan forecasts the economy will shrink 1.2
percent this year, more than double the 0.5 percent  contraction 
predicted in December, before returning to growth of 0.5 percent
in 2013, the Cabinet said.  “The financial crisis is exacting a huge price on Italian
families and young people,” Monti said at a press conference
after the Cabinet meeting.  Italy ’s backpedalling on its fiscal objectives raises fresh
concerns over Europe’s recipe of enacting austerity measures in
the face of a recession. Monti pushed through a 20 billion-euro
($26 billion) austerity plan in December to shield the economy
from the debt crisis, though the effort helped tip Italy into
its fourth slump since 2001. Spain, which has passed about 40
billion euros of spending cuts and tax rises since December, is
mired in a deepening contraction amid the highest jobless rate
in Europe.  Yields Rise  Bond yields for both countries, which had fallen after an
injection of 1 trillion euros into the banking system by the
 European Central Bank , have surged since Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  announced on March 2 that Spain wouldn’t meet its deficit
goal this year. The yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond
erased gains after Italy announced its economic plan, rising 10
basis points to 5.53 percent at 3:08 p.m. Rome time, compared
with 4.9 percent on March 2.  Italy’s economy probably shrank for a third straight
quarter in the three months through March, the  Bank of Italy 
said yesterday, complicating efforts to reduce debt. The
government’s economic plan today forecasts the euro-region’s
second biggest  debt burden  will rise to 120.3 percent of GDP
this year from 119 percent in 2011, figures that don’t include
contributions to  Greece ’s bailout and Europe’s rescue funds.  Italy’s debt including those contributions will increase to
123.4 percent this year before falling to 121.5 percent in 2013,
Deputy Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said at the press
conference today.  ‘Worrying’ Debt  Italy’s “postponement of the deficit-target goal, coupled
with the projected increase of debt in the next few years, which
is even more worrying, are likely to undermine markets’
confidence in the government’s ability to keep public finances
under control,” Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-rate strategist at
UBS in  London , said by phone.  Rajoy fueled speculation that Spain would follow Greece,
Ireland Portugal into a bailout when he told European Union
allies on March 2 that his government couldn’t meet its deficit
goal for this year. Spain settled on a new target of 5.3 percent
of GDP, up from the 4.4 previously pledged.  The move eroded investor confidence in the bonds of so-
called peripheral nations.  Spain ’s bonds have fared worse than
Italian debt, with its 10-year yields rising about 1 percentage
point since March 2 to 5.88 percent at 3:10 p.m. Madrid time.  IMF Forecasts  The International Monetary Fund yesterday signaled that
even Italy’s new forecasts are overly optimistic. The IMF
predicted the economy will shrink 1.9 percent this year and 0.3
percent in 2013. Italy’s deficit will narrow to 1.5 percent in
2013, three times the government’s forecast. The IMF’s GDP
forecast compares with a drop of 1.3 percent this year estimated
by the European Commission on Feb. 23. The commission releases
new deficit forecasts next week.  “We are a short-term government called on to make enduring
changes,” Monti said today, calling for an overhaul of Italy’s
political system to match his economic reforms. “What we are
doing is only the beginning of an operation that will last for
many years, but that doesn’t mean there will be many years
without growth.”  Monti is facing rising  discontent  as Italians chaff under
the effects of the austerity package, with brought higher taxes
and record gasoline prices that have reached almost 2 euros a
liter, or $10.50 a gallon.  Popularity Dip  The premier’s popularity fell further after his Cabinet
approved last month a key bill to overhaul the  labor  market,
prompting a call for a general strike by Italy’s biggest union
and strong criticism from the  Democratic Party . The protests
forced Monti’s unelected government to water down some measures
easing firing rules to secure support of his political allies in
Parliament. Employers have also complained that measures don’t
go far enough to increase flexibility.  “The fact that budget targets are now a touch more
realistic should be viewed in a positive light, given the risk
of a recessionary spiral caused by continuing fiscal tightening
and a deepening recession,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European
economist at Mizuho International Plc in London, said in a note
today. “However, there’s no doubt in our mind that the dilution
of critical reforms has dented optimism about Italy’s turnaround
potential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  