-- Ivy League Postseason Basketball Tournaments Proposed by Coaches
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-04-18T15:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/ivy-league-postseason-basketball-tournaments-proposed-by-coaches.html
Ivy League basketball  coaches are
proposing a two-round tournament involving the four highest
regular-season finishers to fill the conference’s automatic bids
in the national men’s and women’s championships, a league
spokesman said.  Under the proposal, the league would reduce non-conference
schedules by one game to make room for the postseason. The 14-
game league schedules, with every school playing conference
opponents twice, would be unchanged, according to Scottie Rodgers, the spokesman.  The Ivy League is the only conference in the top level of
the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  that doesn’t have
postseason basketball tournaments.  Harvard University  won the Ivy men’s title last season and
was eliminated in the round of 64 by Vanderbilt University in
the Crimson’s first NCAA appearance since 1946. Princeton
University won its third consecutive Ivy women’s title and lost
in the opening round to Kansas State.  The proposal, which will be presented to the league’s
athletic directors May 8, comes three years after presidents of
the eight member schools approved a similar postseason
tournament for men’s and women’s lacrosse.  Approval for the lacrosse tournament took about two years
from start to finish, Rodgers said in a telephone interview.  If the athletic directors approve the proposal, it will be
sent to an  Ivy League  Policy Committee on May 30. If it passes
the committee of vice presidents and administrators, it would
then go the presidents for their approval on June 12.  Coaches’ History  Rodgers refused to speculate on the chances of the plan
being adopted.  “Any proposal that a coaches group puts together to
forward to the athletic directors is to be taken seriously,” he
said.  Ivy coaches have suggested a postseason tournament before,
the spokesman said. What makes this time different is that the
lacrosse tournament proposal was adopted.  The Ivy League sponsors 33 varsity sports, with lacrosse,
baseball and softball the only team competitions that have
postseason tournaments to determine champions, Rodgers said.  The league has been in talks with television networks about
developing an expanded regular-season broadcast package mostly
for football and basketball. A postseason basketball tournament
may be seen as an added benefit to the networks.  The Ivy League is an association of eight elite, Northeast
U.S. schools that have high academic standards and don’t provide
athletic scholarships. They are Harvard in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts ; Princeton in Princeton,  New Jersey ; Brown
University in Providence, Rhode Island; Columbia University in
 New York  City; Cornell University in Ithaca, New York; Dartmouth
College in Hanover, New Hampshire; the University of
Pennsylvania in Philadelphia; and  Yale University  in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  