-- JetBlue Pilot Osbon Tells Court He’ll Mount Insanity Defense
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s ,   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-04-18T19:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/jetblue-pilot-osbon-tells-court-he-will-mount-insanity-defense.html
Clayton Osbon, the  JetBlue Airways
Corp. (JBLU)  pilot arrested after his erratic behavior led to the
diversion of a flight, told a federal court he will rely on an
insanity defense.  The pilot, 49, notified U.S. District Judge Mary Lou Robinson today in a filing by his lawyer, E. Dean Roper, at the
federal court in Amarillo,  Texas .  Osbon’s behavior while captaining a March 27 flight from
New York to  Las Vegas  caused his co-pilot to bar him from the
cockpit, according to an FBI agent’s affidavit filed with a
criminal complaint the next day. After Osbon began shouting and
pounding on the flight deck door, he was restrained by some of
the plane’s passengers.  The plane diverted to Amarillo where he was taken into
custody and charged the next day with interfering with the
duties of a flight crew. He was indicted on April 11.  If the case follows the typical pattern of defense by
insanity, prosecutors must still prove their case beyond a
reasonable doubt and Osbon will formulate an argument that
“negates that conduct in some legal way,” said McGregor Scott,
a former federal prosecutor and partner at Orrick Herrington &
Sutcliffe in  Sacramento ,  California .  Passenger Testimony  Osbon may agree to admit that he committed the acts
prosecutors describe so he can focus exclusively on his insanity
defense, Scott said. The strategy “avoids the risk of inflaming
the jury” through passenger testimony of how Osbon threatened
their safety, he said.  If the prosecution goes forward with its case, Osbon’s
lawyers will argue he was “legally insane and therefore not
legally culpable for his acts,” both sides will present
psychiatric experts and a jury will make its determination,
Scott said.  John Whitworth, the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agent
whose affidavit supported the criminal complaint, recounted
Osbon’s behavior on that flight, as it was told to him by the
co-pilot, by an off-duty pilot also aboard the plane and by
three flight attendants.  While Osbon arrived late at  New York ’s John F. Kennedy
International Airport, he didn’t initially display any
“bizarre” behavior, Whitworth wrote.  In flight, Osbon told his co-pilot, “things just don’t
matter,” Whitworth said, used the plane’s radio to yell at air
traffic controllers, later switched off the radio, and told the
co-pilot “we need to take a leap of faith” and “we are not
going to Vegas.”  Robinson on April 4 ordered Osbon take a competency exam
evaluating his fitness to stand trial and whether he was sane at
the time of his alleged offense.  The case is U.S. v. Osbon, 12-cr-00017, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Amarillo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net 
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  