-- Jordan Named SNB Head, Takes Up Fight to Defend Franc
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-07-05T11:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/jordan-named-snb-president-takes-up-fight-to-defend-the-franc.html
(Corrects second paragraph to say franc breached limit
only on April 5.)  The Swiss government appointed
Thomas Jordan as president of the central bank. He fills the
post left vacant by Philipp Hildebrand and assumes his role as
the franc’s defender-in-chief.  Since he became interim Swiss National Bank chairman on
Jan. 9, Jordan has faced off with investors probing how far
he’ll go to defend a cap of 1.20 francs per euro, imposed by the
bank on Sept. 6. The franc breached the cap on April 5 and
options show investors are predicting even more appreciation.  The ceiling was introduced to force a “substantial and
sustained weakening” of the currency, according to the SNB. On
March 15, Jordan described the franc as still “very, very
strong” and reiterated that policy makers are ready to take
further measures “if there’s a worsening of the situation.”  “Thomas Jordan stands for continuity,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “He was
instrumental in all of the governing board’s decisions in recent
years and he clearly advocates the exchange-rate ceiling. He is
an experienced and highly qualified economist. The government
made the right decision.”  At its weekly meeting in Bern today, the government also
made Jean-Pierre Danthine vice president of the central bank and
named Fritz Zurbruegg, head of the Federal Finance
Administration, to the governing board.  Spanish Borrowing Costs  The franc weakened 0.1 percent against the euro after the
Swiss government’s decision, trading at 1.20296 per euro at
12:57 p.m. London time.  Demand for Swiss assets is so strong that investors
accepted negative yields at an auction of six-month government
bills last week as  Spain ’s borrowing costs rose toward levels
that prompted bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  Jordan, 49, became interim SNB chief when Hildebrand
stepped down under a cloud created by his wife’s purchase of
$504,000 in August, weeks before the cap was introduced.  A KPMG probe into all transactions of the enlarged SNB
board, including Jordan, Danthine and three deputies, concluded
that they all acted in line with the bank’s rules in the three
years through 2011.  The central bank today announced the creation of an
independent compliance unit that will report directly to the
chairman of the Bank Council’s audit committee. A unit will also
be set up to field reports of “irregularities and
infringements” from employees, the SNB said in a  statement .  Stricter Rules  The bank also implemented stricter rules on employees’
private finances, including a requirement to seek approval for
foreign-exchange transactions in excess of 20,000 francs.  Jordan was born in 1963 in Biel,  Switzerland , and studied
economics and business at the University of Bern. The father of
two joined the SNB in 1997 and became head of its research unit
in 2002. In 2004, he was appointed a deputy member of the SNB’s
six-person enlarged governing board before joining the three-
member directorate in 2007. When Hildebrand became president in
2010, Jordan was elected vice chairman.  Zurbruegg earned a doctorate from the University of Bern
before joining the Federal Finance Administration. He worked as
an economist at the  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington 
for two years in the early 1990s and served as senior advisor
and executive director of the Swiss office at the IMF from 1998
to 2006, when he was put in charge of the finance
administration’s division for planning and budgets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  