-- Jordan Exits Hildebrand’s Shadow to Nurse Credibility
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-04-19T09:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/jordan-emerges-from-hildebrand-shadow-to-nurse-franc-credibility.html
(Corrects to say the franc didn’t breach the SNB ceiling
more than once in second, eighth paragraphs.)  Thomas Jordan’s elevation to lead
the  Swiss central bank  has yet to benefit its franc policy.  The currency was little changed today after touching the
lowest level in a week against the euro yesterday after
Switzerland’s government promoted Jordan, 49, to replace former
Swiss National Bank president Philipp Hildebrand. With the franc
close to breaching the 1.20 per euro ceiling, the new chief’s
resolve is being tested.  Jordan insists he will maintain the currency policy
instituted under his former boss with the same determination,
even as his appointment augurs a different style. The incoming
president’s pedigree as an academic economist who spent most of
his career in his home country is more in tune with other SNB
chiefs than Hildebrand, who previously worked for a hedge fund.  “Jordan is the meticulous academic and Hildebrand is more
a man of the world,” said Jan Amrit Poser, chief economist at
Bank Sarasin in Zurich. “Jordan might come across as a bit more
wooden, but this might be exactly what the top job requires in
these turbulent times. With the euro crisis worsening,  risk
aversion  rising and the  exchange rate  approaching the limit, the
SNB president’s job has become tougher.”  The new central bank president describes himself as having
a typical Swiss approach to balancing views for decisions.  ‘Show Resolve’  “The sense of stability and sustainability as well as the
many checks and balances when making decisions are important
assets of Swiss politics,” Jordan said in February, interviewed
after delivering a speech at a conference in Geneva. “These
typical traits also shaped my personality. On the other hand,
rather than hesitating in times of crisis, you must show resolve
and act quickly when making important decisions.”  Jordan told reporters yesterday that he stands for “the
continuity of the SNB monetary policy” and said the currency
limit instituted on Sept. 6 is “absolutely necessary” and
backed by all officials on the central bank’s governing board.  The franc ended trading nearly unchanged versus the euro
yesterday in Zurich, erasing earlier losses when it weakened as
much as 0.2 percent. The currency was trading at 1.2018 per euro
at 11:20 a.m. in Zurich today, little changed from yesterday’s
close. It breached the ceiling on April 5 in what Jordan
described last week as “market anomalies.”  ‘More Reserved’  Jordan was left to steer the SNB as interim chairman
through the past three months after Hildebrand quit on Jan. 9
over a currency purchase of $504,000 by his wife Kashya, who
runs an art gallery in Zurich. A former employee of Moore
Capital Management in  New York  and  London , Hildebrand’s two-year
term at the Zurich-based central bank was the shortest in the
central bank’s history.  “With his international experience and an American gallery
owner wife, Hildebrand didn’t fit the Swiss stereotype in the
same way as Jordan,” said Martin Gueth, an economist at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany . “Jordan is
more reserved in his demeanor than Hildebrand and comes across
as less urbane.”  Jordan is a native of the Swiss town of Biel, where he
excelled at water polo, playing with the local “Swim Boys”
team, before joining the national league. As a teenager, he met
his eventual wife Jacqueline, who now works as an English
teacher and with whom he has two sons.  ‘Thirst for Knowledge’  Max Stuecker, who taught Jordan in business and law at high
school, said the SNB president is the best student he ever had.  “He always had a thirst for knowledge and wanted to get to
the bottom of things,” Stuecker, who is now retired, said in an
interview. “He asked the right questions and didn’t give up
until he understood everything. And he grasped things very
quickly.”  Unlike Hildebrand, whose career took him from hedge fund
roles to Swiss private banks, Jordan has a largely academic
background with three years spent at  Harvard University  in the
1990s. He studied economics and business studies in the Swiss
capital, Bern, achieved a doctorate in 1993, and did post-
doctoral research at the Department of Economics at Harvard.  Jordan, whose 1994 thesis focused on advantages and
disadvantages of the European currency union, says he knew he
wanted to become an economist at an early age.  “From the age on where you seriously ponder what to do in
life, I always wanted to become an economist,” Jordan said in
February. “That’s a genuine interest. In addition, my father
was a jurist and my grandfathers were engineers. Being an
economist meant doing something new, something different.”  SNB Career  Jordan joined the SNB in 1997, working his way up from head
of the economic studies unit to deputy of the central bank’s
governing board in 2004 and board member in 2007. He became vice
chairman three years later.  While at the SNB, he helped design a government-led bailout
of UBS AG in 2008, with the central bank setting up a fund for
the lender’s toxic assets in a move that sparked tougher
financial regulation and stricter capital rules. He was also
part of the governing board’s decision to lower borrowing costs
to zero in August and flood the system with cash.  Taking charge at the SNB after a disruption in its
leadership, and under pressure from currency investors, Jordan’s
job may not become any easier in coming months.  Switzerland 
still faces the danger posed by the euro region’s fiscal crisis
as Swiss companies threaten to move production sites abroad and
labor unions call on the SNB to raise the currency ceiling.  While Jordan represents a very different personality to
Hildebrand, “that does no harm to the SNB leadership,” said
Pirmin Bischof, a lawmaker who has worked with both men in
parliament commission meetings. “A calm person is a make-or-
break in turbulent times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  