-- JPMorgan Sells Commercial-Mortgage Bonds After Boosting Spreads
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-04-18T22:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/jpmorgan-said-to-increase-spreads-on-commercial-mortgage-deal.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sold about $1
billion of commercial-mortgage bonds after widening the relative
yields on some classes, according to people familiar with the
transaction.  A top-ranked slice maturing in 9.91 years, initially
marketed to yield 110 basis points more than the benchmark swap
rate, paid 115 basis over the benchmark, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the terms aren’t public. The
spread on debt rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service yields 425
basis points, after being marketed to pay 400 basis points, the
people said.  Landlords are borrowing more against their properties in
commercial-mortgage bond deals planned through June, according
to Moody’s. Transactions slated to be marketed during the second
quarter include pools with average loan sizes approaching or
exceeding the value of the buildings as calculated by Moody’s,
the New York-based ratings company said in a report this week.
Banks may have to boost investor protections if underwriting
standards keep sliding, it said.  Commercial-mortgage bond sales have been reviving, with
banks arranging about $28 billion of the securities last year,
up from $11.5 billion in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About $5 billion has been sold this year, compared
with a record $232.5 billion in 2007.  Relative yields on commercial-mortgage bonds surged earlier
this month when the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  said it was
considering selling portions of its portfolio assumed in the
2008 rescue of American International Group Inc., fueling
concerns that a flood of bonds would depress values. The spread
has since narrowed to 186 basis points, or 1.86 percentage
points, more than Treasuries after reaching a six-week high of
206 basis points on April 10, according to a Barclays index.  The Fed invited eight dealers to bid on the $7.5 billion
portion of the portfolio linked to commercial real estate CDOs,
the district bank said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  