-- Kenyan Shilling Strengthens as IMF Approves $110.9 Million Loan
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-04-18T12:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/kenyan-shilling-strengthens-against-dollar-as-imf-approves-loan.html
Kenya ’s shilling appreciated
against the dollar as the  International Monetary Fund  approved
disbursement of $110.9 million and said economic reforms
undertaken by the East African nation are yielding results.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy advanced 0.1
percent to 83.10 per dollar by 2:38 p.m. in Nairobi, the
capital.  “It will ease dependence on local borrowing by the
government and if it goes toward import cover it also has a
positive impact,” Bernard Matimu, chief dealer at Nairobi-based
 NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB) , said in a phone interview today.  The IMF approval brings the amount the fund the amount the
fund has disbursed to Kenya under the three-year Extended Credit
Facility to $420.7 million, it said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “The authorities have taken decisive measures to address
inflationary and external balance pressures,” the Washington-
based lender said. “As a result, inflation is abating, the
shilling has strengthened, international reserves are on the
rise, the debt-to-GDP ratio is declining and the government
securities market is functioning more smoothly.”  Kenya will continue its “tightening monetary policy”
stance to curb inflation and stabilize its currency, Finance
Minister Njeru Githae said April 11. The inflation rate fell for
a fourth month to 15.61 percent in March from 16.69 percent in
February, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said last
month.  Tanzania’s shilling was unchanged at 1,590 per dollar,
while  Uganda ’s currency gained 0.1 percent to 2,510.50 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  