-- Kingdom Holding Said to Seek Loan to Fund World’s Tallest Tower
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-04-18T08:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/kingdom-holding-said-to-seek-loan-to-fund-world-s-tallest-tower.html
Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , Saudi Prince
Alwaleed bin Talal’s investment company, is seeking a loan to
help pay for the construction of the world’s tallest tower, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The company initiated talks with Saudi lenders and hasn’t
hired bankers to advise on the financing, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the plans aren’t public.
Kingdom Holding, 95 percent owned by Prince Alwaleed, is seeking
to borrow as much as 2 billion riyals ($533 million) by the
second half of the year, one of the people said.  Kingdom Holding has said it will use bank financing, cash
and revenue from the project to build the skyscraper in Jeddah,
which will surpass the Burj Khalifa in Dubai as the world’s
tallest tower. Kingdom Tower, with a height of more than 1,000
meters (3,281 feet), is expected to cost $1.2 billion to build.
Construction is expected to be concluded in about five-and-a-
half years.  A spokeswoman for  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia-based Kingdom
Holding didn’t respond to calls or an e-mail seeking comment.  The company’s shareholders last month approved a plan to
sell as much as 3.75 billion riyals of bonds in  Saudi Arabia  or
outside the country. Saudi Binladen Group, hired to build the
tower, has invested 1.5 billion riyals for a 16.6 percent stake
in Jeddah Economic Co., the project’s owner. The building
received final municipal approvals in February.  The tower will include a Four Seasons hotel, apartments,
offices, three lobbies on the upper floors and the world’s
highest observation deck on the 157th level. The building was
designed by Adrian Smith, the Chicago architect responsible for
the 828-meter Burj Khalifa, which opened in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 