-- King’s Elephant Hunt is Disgrace to Humanity: Commentary
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2012-04-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/king-s-elephant-hunt-is-disgrace-to-humanity-commentary.html
It’s been a terrible week for King Juan Carlos of  Spain  and, more importantly, for elephants.  The 74-year-old potentate broke his hip trying to slaughter
elephants on a hunt in Botswana.  News of his accident didn’t play well back home, where high
unemployment and bad loans darken Spain’s economic future.  Unsurprisingly, the king soon apologized for not hanging
around to render comfort to his anxious citizens and lament the
rising deficit.  Astonishingly, the King is the honorary president of  World
Wildlife Fund Spain , a conservation group that takes a dim view
of shooting animals.  The group’s secretary general, Juan Carlos del Olmo,
quickly  wrote  to the palace to “convey WWF’s profound
discomfort and concern at recent developments in Spain and the
world, which has caused outrage from our partners and the
general public against hunting elephants, even when it takes
place in a legal and regulated environment.”  (The Botswana hunt was technically legal, if morally
repulsive).  According to del Olmo, tens of thousands of people have
registered their dismay on numerous platforms.  The Spanish  WWF  has been flooded with calls demanding that
the king resign his presidency.  Abdication Choice  Some Spaniards want more than that. Tomas Gomez, the leader
of Madrid Socialist Party, said the time had come for the king
“to choose between his obligations of public duties, and
abdication, which would allow him to enjoy a different life.”  Meanwhile the American twisted version of a royal family,
the Trumps, made headlines in March when grisly photos of the
sons of  Donald Trump  surfaced, showing the lads posing with
various animals they’d extinguished on a Zimbabwe safari,
including an elephant whose tail had been removed after the
kill.  “I have no shame,” the Donald, Jr. said on Twitter in the
aftermath (referring to the photographs).  His father told  TMZ , a celebrity-gossip website, “I am not
a believer in hunting, and I’m surprised they like it.”  It’s a strange day when Donald Trump is the voice of
compassion.  Alec Baldwin  Hunting large mammals for photo ops and souvenirs seems so
atavistic today, an episode of “ 30 Rock ” poked fun at the  Alec
Baldwin  character by showing him next to a dead manatee, a
blubbery sea creature that nobody with a beating heart would 
think to spear.  So should it be with elephants.  The argument is sometimes made that culling an elephant
herd might be necessary because of overpopulation, or that the
lucrative fee charged by safari owners is the kind of incentive
that discourages poaching.  Not so, says Adam Roberts, executive vice president of
conservation group  Born Free USA .  “There’s no proof, none whatsoever, that the money goes
into conservation or to local communities, or that the hunt
reduces poaching. When people in power or in the spotlight
glorify the hunt, poaching will continue,” he said on the
telephone.  Few details of the king’s hunt are available, apart from
that he was on a private visit in the country’s northern
Okavango area.  Hunting Cost  Local officials offer concessions and quotas on wild
savannah land where professional hunters take clients to hunt.
It costs as much as  $65,000  to shoot a wild elephant in
Botswana.  The animals often die in great pain after being terrorized
by the hunters, wildlife preservationists say.  Killing an  elephant , particularly the dominant male in a
herd, can play havoc with a population. Young males left bereft
of an authority figure can run wild, hurting females or even
other species, such as rhinos.  The elephant hunt brings to mind a 2006 story when a
Russian official alleged the Spanish king had shot a tame bear
that had been plied with honey and vodka. A palace spokesman
called the allegation “ridiculous.”  Last week, just days before the Botswana debacle, the
king’s grandson Felipe Juan Froilan blasted his own foot while
target practicing with a shotgun.  It’s time for the king to find a different hobby and resign
from the WWF.  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include:  Jason Harper  on  Lexus
Sport ;  Rich Jaroslovsky  on Connect  technology ; Zinta Lundborg
interviews  Maya Lin .  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 