-- Knology Agrees to $750 Million Takeover by WideOpenWest
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-04-18T21:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/knology-agrees-to-750-million-sale-to-closely-held-wideopenwest.html
Knology Inc. (KNOL) , the cable company
with customers mainly in the southeastern U.S., agreed to be
bought by closely held cable operator WideOpenWest LLC for about
$750 million.  Knology investors will receive $19.75 a share in cash,
according to a statement from the companies today. That’s
9.4 percent more than Knology’s closing share price yesterday.
The total transaction value is $1.5 billion, including debt.  The acquisition increases WideOpenWest’s customer base and
will help give the operator more leverage in programming
contract discussions with content providers. Englewood,
Colorado-based WideOpenWest, or WOW!, was acquired by New York-
based private equity firm Avista Capital Partners in 2006. The
company provides cable, broadband and landline phone service to
customers in Indiana, Illinois, Ohio and Michigan.  Knology  jumped  7.5 percent to $19.40 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 38 percent in the past 12 months.  Knology, based in  West Point , Georgia, and WOW will
together have more than 800,000 customers. Knology has users in
nine states including Tennessee, Alabama and Kansas. The company
had sales of $518.6 million last year, up 13 percent from a year
earlier.  Throwing Off Cash  WOW is paying about $1,875 per customer relationship,
or so-called primary service unit, which accounts for any
Internet, phone or TV subscription.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  agreed to pay about $2,000 per primary
service unit for Insight Communications Co. and Bresnan
Communications LLC, the two most recent deals for cable
providers over $1 billion, according to data from ISI Group.  Still, the price is a premium to how the largest U.S. cable
companies trade, said Judah Rifkin, an analyst at ISI Group in
New York. Comcast Corp. trades at about $1,790 per customer
relationship and Time Warner Cable at $1,618, he said.  “Private equity continues to love the free  cash flow  that
cable throws off,” said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries. “An interesting disconnect remains -- private
market values generally remain above public multiples.”  Knology’s  stock  jumped as much as 22 percent on Feb. 28
when the Wall Street Journal reported the company was shopping
itself to buyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  