-- N.Z. Consumer Prices Rise 0.5%, Lagging Bollard Forecast
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-04-19T05:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/n-z-consumer-prices-rise-0-5-lagging-bollard-forecast.html
New Zealand  consumer prices rose in
the first quarter by less than the central bank forecast, giving
policy makers scope to hold  interest rates  at a record-low 2.5
percent until next year.  Consumer  prices  climbed 0.5 percent from the fourth
quarter, when they declined 0.3 percent,  Statistics New Zealand 
said in Wellington today. The result matched the  median estimate 
in a Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists. Prices increased
1.6 percent in the year ended March 31, the slowest annual pace
since September 2010.  Investors are betting policy makers won’t raise interest
rates until next year as annual inflation is less than the
midpoint of the 1 percent to 3 percent range the central bank is
required to target. Last month, Governor Alan Bollard forecast
quarterly inflation of 0.7 percent and signaled the cash rate
would be unchanged for much of 2012 as a surging currency and
modest economic recovery curbed pressure on prices.  Bollard “will need to see evidence of a sustained lift in
 core inflation  from a number of price, activity and capacity
sources to trigger cash rate hikes,” said  Mark Smith , senior
economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “This looks
a way off with the labor market treading water, currency
elevated and commodity prices doing nothing.”  New Zealand’s dollar bought 81.67 U.S. cents as of 5:30
p.m. in Wellington, little changed from immediately before the
report.  Rate Pause  Just one of 14 economists surveyed last month by Bloomberg
News forecast Bollard will raise the cash rate before the end of
September. Ten expect the rate will be higher by the end of the
year.  Bollard in January said he won’t seek reappointment when
his current term ends Sept. 25, meaning a rate review on Sept.
13 will be his last.  The chance of a quarter-point rate rise by December fell to
8 percent from 20 percent yesterday, according to swaps prices
from  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  at late yesterday.  Bollard on March 8 said the New Zealand dollar’s strength
was likely to reduce the prices of imported goods. The currency
gained about 7.5 percent in the year ended March 31, the best
performer of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank forecast annual inflation would slow to
1.4 percent in the year through September 2012, the weakest
annual pace in 12 years, and wouldn’t exceed 2 percent until the
second half of 2014.  In the first quarter, consumer prices were led higher by a
14 percent increase in cigarettes and tobacco after taxes rose
on Jan. 1, the statistics agency said. Excluding the change,
consumer prices climbed 0.2 percent, the report showed.  Bollard’s primary focus is on non-tradable inflation, a
core measure of prices not influenced by currency fluctuations
and fuel.  Insurance Costs  Non-tradable prices increased 1.2 percent from the fourth
quarter, today’s report showed. The measure gained 2.5 percent
from a year earlier.  About half of the quarterly increase in non-tradable prices
was caused by cigarettes and tobacco, officials said. House
rentals, property maintenance services and the cost of
purchasing a new home, which reflects construction expenses,
also rose. Dwelling insurance surged 19 percent as an earthquake
levy increased, the agency said. Telecommunication services and
electricity prices were little changed.  Tradable prices declined 0.4 percent from the fourth
quarter, led by seasonal declines in international airfares and
package holiday prices. The cost of books, appliances and audio-
visual equipment also dropped. Gasoline prices rose 2.3 percent.
Food prices increased 0.2 percent.  From a year earlier, tradable prices gained 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  