-- Nestle Water Suffers for Sixth Year as Consumers Try Tap
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-04-18T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/nestle-water-suffers-for-sixth-year-as-consumers-try-tap.html
Nestle SA (NESN) ’s bottled-water business
is struggling to regain momentum as twin concerns about the
economy and the environment weigh on growth.  The world’s biggest food company has been losing ground
since 2006 as consumers switch to tap and filtered water and as
concerns over the  environmental  impact of plastic packaging and
energy used in transportation deter some shoppers, said Hope
Lee, an analyst at Euromonitor International in  London .  Nestle owns more than 60 water brands including Perrier,
Vittel and Pure Life, the world’s best-selling label, and relies
heavily on western Europe and North America. Its market share by
retail sales value fell to about 10 percent last year from more
than 12 percent in 2006, according to Euromonitor. Danone’s
share dropped 0.6 percentage point to 10.4 percent over the same
period as greater exposure to  developing countries  such as  China 
and  Indonesia  offset weakness in more mature markets.  “Nestle is really facing a challenge in developed markets
because of the economy,” Lee said. “Even when the economy
improves, some customers may not come back if they get used to
tap water.”  Nestle will report first-quarter sales tomorrow that may
show water underperforming the rest of the business. So-called
organic revenue probably grew by an average 6.7 percent,
according to 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Water may have
gained 4 percent, estimated  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at  Liberum
Capital  in  New York .  Shrinking Revenue  Water has shrunk as a percentage of Nestle’s revenue every
year for four years and made up about 8 percent, or 6.5 billion
Swiss francs ($7 billion), of the Vevey, Switzerland-based
 company ’s total revenue of 83.6 billion Swiss francs last year.
Water is about a third the size of its beverage business,
comprised of coffee labels Nescafe and Nespresso and products
including Nesquik powdered drink.  Sales of bottled  water  at Nestle increased 5.2 percent on a
like-for-like basis in 2011, lagging 16 percent growth at
 Danone. (BN)  The Paris-based company gets about 60 percent of its
revenue from  emerging markets , where it’s not always feasible
for consumers to switch to tap water, compared to less than 30
percent at Nestle, according to Deborah Aitken, an analyst at
Bloomberg Industries in London.  Trailing Danone  “Nestle is focusing more on value bottled water in
developed markets, but the alternative for cash-strapped
consumers across parts of western and southern Europe is tap
water and there’s no getting away from this,” she said.  Nestle has also been trailing Danone on the stock market
this year, gaining 4.9 percent compared with 10.9 percent at the
French company and 8.4 percent in the Stoxx 600 Food and
Beverage Index.  While the bottled-water market in Asia Pacific is expected
to grow to about $34 billion in 2016 from $24 billion in 2011,
the market in western  Europe  may remain flat and North America
may grow 17 percent over the same period, according to
 Euromonitor .  Nestle may also be losing share in some developing markets
such as China, where new entrants including Tingyi ( Cayman
Islands ) Holding Corp. are making inroads, Lee said. Tingyi’s
share of the bottled water market tripled to 0.9 percent in 2011
from 0.3 percent in 2006.  Higher Prices  Price increases contributed 3.8 percent to Nestle’s sales
growth during the quarter, while exchange rate movements reduced
growth by 3.3 percentage points, according to the analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Nestle doesn’t disclose profit on a
quarterly basis.  Danone, the world’s biggest yogurt maker, said April 17
that like-for-like sales increased 6.9 percent during the first
quarter. Revenue from its water business climbed 16 percent,
helped by emerging markets, especially Indonesia and China, as
well as increased consumption of flavored water, or so-called
aqua drinks.  The growing popularity of alternative drinks including
flavored water and energy drinks also threatens sales of
standard bottled water, Liberum’s Zuanic said. Companies such as
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  have expanded into such beverages, which offer
greater profitability, after entering the bottled water market
just over a decade ago, he said.  “This may for now be more applicable to the U.S., but we
are starting to see it also in Europe,” Zuanic said.  Aqua Drinks  By contrast, Nestle is less visible in the aqua drinks
market. Revenue growth at its bottled water business may slow to
3 percent next year from 5.2 percent in 2011 and an expected 3.2
percent increase in 2013, according to Zuanic. Still, Nestle’s
higher growth in 2010 and 2011 was partly due to a low
comparison base and growth of between 3 percent and 4 percent
may be a “more normal” range for the company, he said.  There are signs Nestle’s increased focus on lower-priced
bottled water may be yielding results. The Swiss company said in
February that its  Pure Life  brand is helping to drive growth in
its bottled-water business, even amid “periodic deep
discounting in different areas.”  Nestle said it grew at a “double-digit” pace in emerging
markets last year, while its European business increased market
share and revenue in  North America  also rose. Still, greater
exposure to emerging markets may be needed, Aitken said.  “Nestle has been criticized over the last two or three
years for water being an underperformer and they are fixing that
by offering more value-priced brands, but they also need to
focus more on expansion in developing markets, either by joint
ventures or acquisitions,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  