-- New Jersey Voters Approve 90% of School Districts’ Budgets
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-04-18T19:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/new-jersey-voters-pass-90-of-school-districts-budget-proposals.html
New Jersey voters approved 90
percent of school budgets in districts that held elections
yesterday as just three systems sought approval to exceed
Governor  Chris Christie ’s 2 percent cap on local levy increases.  Voters passed 63 of the 70 budgets before them, according
to results compiled by the  New Jersey School Boards Association .  Most districts took advantage of a new state law that let
them shift their elections to November to cut costs. Last year,
voters approved 80 percent of the 538 school budgets on the
April ballot.  “In this current economy, people think that allowing for 2
percent growth is fair, and that allowing for more than that is
unfair and you have to prove the fairness of it,” Christie told
reporters today in Ewing. “When you go beyond 2 percent people
are going to start questioning it.”  Christie, 49, a first-term Republican, cut aid to districts
in his first 18 months in office. He proposed a $213 million
increase in funding in his budget for the fiscal year that
begins July 1.  New Jersey ’s property taxes, the main source of funding for
schools and towns, have climbed 70 percent in the past decade
and are the highest in the nation. Christie enacted a 2 percent
cap on the levies that took effect at the start of 2011.  November Switch  The school districts that didn’t move their elections to
November had to place their budgets on the ballot. Those holding
November elections must present their spending plans to voters
only if they exceed the limit. Towns also need approval of their
budgets only if they are seeking cap waivers.  In 2011, 14 of 566 towns asked voters to exceed the cap,
and two passed. This year, Medford in Burlington County and
Lawrence in Mercer County held referendums. Medford was
approved, Mayor Randy Pace said in a telephone interview, while
Lawrence was rejected by a vote of 66 percent to 34 percent,
according to  results  on the county’s website.  “Good for them -- higher property taxes for Medford,”
Christie said. “If the people of Medford want to pay higher
property taxes, that’s fine. It’s their call.”  In 2010, voters overturned a record 59 percent of school-
spending plans after Christie urged them to do so in communities
where teachers declined to accept wage freezes to deal with aid
reductions. It was the first time New Jersey voters rejected a
majority of school budgets since 1976.  Second Questions  Among the 70 school districts that held elections
yesterday, three put an additional measure on the ballot seeking
to exceed Christie’s cap. Voters approved the so-called second
questions in Haddon Heights and Hawthorne and rejected Greenwich
Township’s proposal.  The seven districts that failed to win approval for their
base budgets were the Delsea Regional, Franklin and Monroe
systems in Gloucester County; Readington in Hunterdon County,
Lawrence Township in Mercer County, Lakewood in Ocean County,
and the North Bergen district in Hudson County, according to the
school-board association.  “The boards balanced the priorities of voters,” Frank Belluscio, a spokesman for the Trenton-based group, said in a
telephone interview. “They provided adequate funding for
education, but they also recognized what these communities could
afford.”  School Projects  The April school election is one of five dates during the
year when districts may also seek approval for construction
projects. Only one such referendum was held yesterday. Voters in
 East Rutherford  approved selling as much as $2.5 million in
bonds for school renovations.  The Lawrence referendum would have allowed the town to
exceed the cap by $2.3 million, increasing municipal tax bills
by an average of $145 a year, according to budget  documents  on
the municipality’s website. Richard Krawczun, the township
manager, said the council will consider charging a $28 monthly
fee for trash collection.  In Medford, a suburb of Philadelphia, a proposal to raise
the levy 25 percent above the cap was supported by about 57
percent of voters, a year after a waiver request was rejected by
84 percent. Without this year’s increase, which will raise tax
bills by an average of $325 a year, Medford was considering
possibly ending municipal trash pickup and cutting non-mandated
programs, Pace said.  “It was pretty tough to go to referendum: I live here and
I don’t want to raise my own taxes,” Pace said.
“Unfortunately, we had to do this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  