-- New Zealand Stock Market Seeks Boost From Top 20 Futures
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-04-18T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/new-zealand-stock-market-seeks-boost-from-top-20-futures.html
NZX Ltd. (NZX) , operator of New Zealand’s
stock exchange, will offer trading in index futures later this
year based on a new gauge of the nation’s most-traded equities -
- eight years after a similar venture failed due to lack of
investor interest.  The NZX 20 Index will debut on April 23 with a design that
should make it attractive to futures traders and fund managers,
Rachael Newsome, head of direct products at NZX, said in an
interview. Trading in futures on the index is planned to start
before June 30, she said.  NZX is betting the contract will bolster trading in
underlying shares, attracting foreign funds and improving its
fee income, as the government starts its biggest round of state
initial public offerings in more than 20 years. Rising market
turnover and listings suggest investors may be more supportive
of the derivative than in 2004 when a contract based on the NZX
15 index failed to trade in sufficient volume to be a useful
hedging tool.  “This is probably as good a time as any to be having
another crack” at index futures, said Bernard Doyle, strategist
at Goldman Sachs  New Zealand  Ltd. in Auckland. “You can point
to a couple of trends and things on the horizon that suggest it
probably makes some sense to put some effort in. They don’t want
to die wondering.”  The government plans to raise at least NZ$5 billion ($4.1
billion) by selling shares in four major state-owned energy
companies over the next five years, starting later this year.
Share trading on the New Zealand bourse rose 21 percent in March
from a year earlier, according to NZX figures. Still, New
Zealand’s daily market turnover is just 0.2 percent of its value,
compared to about 0.3 percent in  Australia  and more than 0.8
percent in the U.S., according to Goldman Sachs figures.  New CEO  A new chief executive officer, Tim Bennett, takes charge of
the NZX on May 7.  “Equity derivatives is the thing that is obviously missing
from the New Zealand market that is present in pretty much any
other developed market,” said Newsome. “It ensures that we
have a broad offering across all our markets.”  To achieve sufficient volume in the proposed futures
contract, the NZX must ensure international investors and market
makers can access the market, and that clearing processes are
straightforward, said Greg Boland, director of financial markets
at OMF Financial Ltd. in Auckland. He was regional manager at
SFE Corp. in 2004 when it developed the failed NZX 15 futures
contract in collaboration with the NZX.  “Who’s going to access and how is a big issue,” he said.
“It’s not a matter of switching a button and saying here we go,
we’ve got futures and hoping everyone comes and plays in the
sandpit. It might not happen.”  Free Float  Boland welcomed the design of the NZX 20 index, which will
rank stocks based on a so-called free float of shares that
excludes blocks held by strategic investors, caps constituents
at a 15 percent weight and will be calculated without assuming
reinvestment of dividends.  “We like the way the index is,” he said. “It’s a capital
index. Having 20 stocks is good. The index make-up is as good as
you’re going to get.”  Liquidity will be a core concern for investors, Newsome
said. NZX will require an NZX 20 stock to have a trading value
of at least 3.5 percent of the issuer’s average market
capitalization over a six-month period.  Infratil Ltd. (IFT) , the
nation’s 10th biggest company doesn’t meet this requirement and
Nuplex Industries Ltd. will take its place, Newsome said.  Weighting Cap  The 15 percent weighting cap eliminates the risk of a few
large companies dominating the index “which isn’t necessarily
good for the health of the index future,” she said. Fletcher
Building Ltd. and Telecom Corp. of New Zealand Ltd. will be
capped when the index begins, she said.  NZX is applying new liquidity rules and the free-float
methodology to most of its indexes, including the benchmark  NZX
50 (NZSE50FG)  index from June 18, bringing New Zealand into line with the
world’s leading stock exchanges.  “Our rules were unique globally,” said Newsome. “That’s
not that great. Having things familiar to overseas investors is
helpful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at   cbourke4@bloomberg.net  