-- Fed Seeks Bids for $7.49 Billion in CDOs from AIG Bailout
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-04-18T16:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/new-york-fed-seeks-bids-for-max-cdo-holdings-in-maiden-lane-iii.html
The Federal  Reserve Bank  of New
York is seeking bids for $7.49 billion of collateralized debt
obligations linked to commercial mortgages it took on in the
2008 bailout of American International Group Inc.  The New York Fed invited eight broker-dealers to compete
for the so-called MAX CDOs after receiving “several”
unsolicited bids for the holdings in its Maiden Lane III LLC
portfolio, it said in a  statement  today on its website. Bids
will be due on April 26.  The district bank is considering selling securities that
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts estimate may be worth as much as
25 percentage points more than where the Fed values them if the
buyers were to break them into individual bonds. The two CDOs,
which were issued by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in 2007 and 2008 and
bundle securities culled from 103 commercial mortgage bond
deals, are estimated by the Fed to be worth $4.8 billion as of
December, according to the district bank’s website.  “The value of the CMBS securities is locked in the CDO
structure,” Ed Reardon, an analyst at JPMorgan in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s not that straightforward
to understand a 300-page CDO prospectus.”  The CDOs could be sold intact or broken into pieces, though
an interest-rate swap contract with  Barclays Plc (BARC)  would need to
be paid out to access the underlying bonds, eating into profits,
Reardon said.  ‘Right Price’  “While this could work at the right price, the Fed may not
be willing to sell the CDO bonds cheap enough to maintain the
economics of collapsing the deal,” Reardon wrote in a report
last week.  The Fed “will sell an asset only if the best available bid
represents good value for the public, while taking appropriate
care to avoid market disruption,” the district bank said in the
statement today.  Relative yields on commercial-mortgage bonds surged when
the Fed said it was considering selling portions of Maiden Lane
III earlier this month on concern that a flood of bonds would
depress values. The spread has since narrowed to 186 basis
points, or 1.86 percentage points, more than Treasuries after
reaching a six-week high of 206 basis points on April 10,
according to a Barclays index.  Biggest Trade  “This would be the biggest individual trade in CMBS
history,” said Tom Digan, head trader at Sorin Capital
Management, an investment firm specializing in commercial real
estate securities. “It is particularly noteworthy because it is
something other than generic AAA CMBS. Having an opportunity of
this size in credit-sensitive paper is likely to generate a lot
of interest from both dealers and end users.”  The  New York  Fed halted regular and more public auctions of
mortgage securities held by Maiden Lane II LLC, a separate
vehicle, last year after traders blamed the sales for damaging
prices in credit markets with the cost of protecting against
losses on subprime housing debt and commercial mortgages
soaring.  The district bank ultimately sold the entire portfolio this
year after opting to hold auctions with a more limited number of
dealers in response to unsolicited bids for assets.  After selling the last group of bonds in the Maiden Lane II
pool in February, the New York Fed said that taxpayers earned
$2.8 billion on their $19.5 billion loan to that vehicle.  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won those auctions,
comprising securities backed by residential mortgages.  Banks Bidding  The banks invited to bid in this round are Barclays,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,
the Fed said in its statement.  Maiden Lane III, with a face value of $47.7 billion, was
estimated to be worth $17.8 billion as of December last year,
according to the Fed’s website. In addition to commercial-
mortgage CDOs, the holdings include $12.7 billion in CDOs backed
by other assets.  The vehicle unwound credit-default swaps that AIG had sold
to protect counterparties against losses on mortgage-backed
securities. The facility bought the underlying assets that AIG
insured for banks, sparing the Wall Street firms from any
losses. Lawmakers criticized the payments as a “backdoor
bailout” of the companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net 
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  