-- North Korea Breaks Off Nuclear Accord as Food Aid Halted
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-18T20:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/north-korea-breaks-off-nuclear-accord-as-food-aid-halted.html
North Korea  broke off an agreement
to halt testing of nuclear devices and long-range missiles after
the U.S. canceled food assistance to the totalitarian regime in
response to its botched rocket launch last week.  North Korea is now “free” to take “necessary retaliatory
measures” after the U.S. withdrew its offer of 240,000 tons of
food, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement today carried by
the official Korean Central News Agency. U.S. lawmakers
responded to the statements and the launch, denouncing what they
called the “wicked” regime as well as “insane” diplomatic
engagement efforts by successive U.S. presidents.  There now will be a “period where the U.S. and North Korea
exchange criticisms and shift blame on the other,” said Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of North Korean Studies
in  Seoul . “Depending on  China ’s role in that process, this
could turn to dialogue or additional provocation by North
Korea.”  The North said it’s prepared to wage a “holy war” against
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government and would take
“special action” against targets that could include central
Seoul, an unidentified spokesman of the supreme command of the
Korean People’s Army said in a separate statement carried by
KCNA. The regime often issues statements threatening war.  In  Washington , a congressional hearing elicited
denunciations from lawmakers, who said the regime abused food
aid it was given in the past. Communist North Korea has chronic
food shortages, with millions of children suffering stunted
growth while limited supplies go to the nation’s military and
political elite.  Nuclear Test  Regional specialists testifying before the House Foreign
Affairs Committee said further North Korean provocation is
likely, either another missile test or the first underground
nuclear test since May 2009. A South Korean intelligence report
warned a week ago that recent activity at the North’s Punggye-ri
nuclear testing site is consistent with preparations for
previous atomic device detonations.  “Historical patterns would suggest they will do a nuclear
test,” said  Michael Green , a senior adviser at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies and a former National
Security Council official. He said the North Koreans may test a
uranium-fueled device for the first time, after past plutonium-
fueled blasts in 2006 and 2009.  Food Aid  Frederick Fleitz, managing editor of the Langley
Intelligence Group Network and a former CIA analyst, said he
thought chances of a nuclear test soon are “50-50.”  “I think there will be a nuclear test when North Korea is
technically ready and prepared to endure the enormous amount of
isolation,” Fleitz said.  Lawmakers criticized both the regime and the policies of
U.S. administrations, particularly in sending food aid. The
Obama administration, attempting to avoid a repeat of past
difficulties with aid diverted by the regime, had insisted on
measures to ensure that food reached ordinary Koreans.  The U.S. pressed unsuccessfully for North Korea to cancel
the launch of a rocket -- which disintegrated minutes after
liftoff April 13 -- saying it would nullify the Feb. 29 accord
to provide food following the suspension of nuclear and missile
tests.  “It just seems like our government, not just Democrats,
but Republicans as well, we reached out trying to negotiate with
these guys,” said Representative Dan Burton, an Indiana
Republican. “I don’t see where we’ve gained a thing.”  ‘Serious Violation’  North Korea’s foreign ministry said the U.S. was abusing
the United Nations  Security Council  by “imposing its brigandish
demand,” a reference to the 15-member body’s censure issued
this week. U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice is the council president
this month.  The Security Council’s April 16 statement called the launch
a “serious violation” of existing resolutions that ban North
Korea from using its ballistic missile technology. The council
also said it would update its list of sanctioned goods.  The UN body moved more quickly than in the past to censure
North Korea, and China’s approval signals that the North’s only
ally “might be taking a firmer stance against the North,” Yang
said. China is a permanent veto-wielding member of Security
Council.  Kim Jong Un, who took power in December following the death
of his father  Kim Jong Il , used his first public speech on April
15 to say the world can’t threaten or blackmail North Korea’s
“undefeated” 1.2 million-strong military.  Two UN resolutions are already in place after North Korea
detonated atomic devices in 2006 and 2009. The measures call for
stepped-up inspection of suspect air and sea cargo and seek to
block funding for nuclear, missile and proliferation work.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  