-- Nortel Bankruptcy Judge Sends Pension Dispute to Mediation
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-04-18T17:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/nortel-bankruptcy-judge-sends-pension-dispute-to-mediation-1-.html
Nortel Networks Inc. (NRTLQ) , the
telecommunications company being liquidated in bankruptcy, won
court permission to hire a mediator to try to resolve a dispute
over how to wind down its  pension plan .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington, Delaware,
approved a 60-day mediation period, during which Nortel, once
the largest telephone equipment maker in North America, must
negotiate with two committees representing retirees and workers
who receive disability payments.  Last month, Gross ordered Nortel into mediation with its
European units in a larger battle over how to split more than
$7 billion the U.S. and Canadian units have collected by selling
assets, including 6,000 patents to a group led by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   The dispute over pension and disability payments will
probably be much easier to resolve and shouldn’t interfere with
the mediation between the European and U.S. units, said Albert Togut, the lawyer for the committee of Nortel retirees.  “The likelihood is that this is going to be done before
the ‘Queen Mother’ of all mediations,” Togut said in court.  Nortel has spent about $20 million on retiree benefits in
the past two years, company bankruptcy attorney James Bromley
told Gross.  Plan Terminations  The company will eventually need to cancel the pension plan
and the program under which disability payments are made to
former employees, Lisa G. Beckerman, an attorney for a committee
of unsecured creditors, told Gross.  “We are going to have the termination of these plans
because at some point there won’t be a company,” she said.  Since filing for bankruptcy in 2009, Nortel, based in
Mississauga, Ontario, has sold all of its major businesses and
is preparing a plan to divide the proceeds among creditors.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  