-- Norway Killer Breivik Obstinate Amid Probe of Militant Links
-- B y   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2012-04-18T11:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/norway-s-breivik-obstinate-as-prosecution-probes-militant-links.html
Anders Behring Breivik, charged
with killing 77 people in twin attacks in  Norway , rebuffed
questioning over his militant links as prosecutors tried to
prove his anti-Muslim Knights Templar group doesn’t exist.  “Your intention is to try and sow doubt about whether the
network exists,” the 33-year-old Norwegian said in court in
Oslo today. “That is the purpose right? I hope that you will
try to ridicule me less.”  Breivik in July killed 69 people at a Labor Party youth
camp on the island of Utoeya and detonated a car bomb by the
prime minister’s office, taking eight lives. While he confesses
to the murders, he is seeking to prove his sanity to the court
in order to further his political arguments.  “I don’t wish to discuss that,” Breivik repeated as the
prosecution questioned him on the validity of claims that he
made his militant connections online, before travelling to
Liberia to meet a Serbian national for information and training,
and then to  London  to join the Knights Templar, on behalf of
whom he says he carried out the attacks.  “The police do not trust my statement,” said Breivik, an
Oslo native. “They do not think that there is a Serb. They do
not think there is a person who was my English contact.”  Breivik, who says his code name was “Sigurd the Crusader”
after the Norse king, told prosecutors the Knights Templar
meeting in London “was basically a long-term plan on how to
seize power in Western Europe. Nothing has been invented.”  ‘Violent Revolution’  Norwegians have been “deceived and betrayed by liberals
and multiculturalists” and “communist doctrines” have taken
over in many nations, Breivik said yesterday in a statement to
the court. “Violent revolution is the only way to solve this.”  Breivik, who believes his actions were “necessary to
prevent war in  Europe ” according to attorney Geir Lippestad,
has been indicted on two terror charges as well as murder and if
deemed sane by the court may be sentenced to detention for a
maximum of 21 years along with the possibility of extensions.  An initial psychiatric evaluation last year found Breivik
to be suffering from paranoid schizophrenia, meaning he would
face compulsory treatment rather than prison. The decision was
criticized by victims and caused the Oslo court to order a new
assessment in January.  A second evaluation found him not to be clinically
psychotic and therefore accountable for his actions. Neither
evaluation is binding for the court.  ‘Psychotic Fantasy’  If found sane by the judges, Breivik faces a maximum
sentence of 21 years and the possibility of five-year extensions
as long as he’s deemed a danger to society.  While Breivik says he can’t remember the dates or details
about his trips, he has Liberian stamps in his passport and a
visa for the West African country, prosecutor Inga Bejer Engh
told the Oslo court. A police investigation also found him to
have withdrawn money from an ATM in neighboring  Ivory Coast , the
prosecution said.  “Isn’t it interesting that you know I was there, when you
felt it was a psychotic fantasy,” Breivik said. He refused to
name any of the individuals involved in his trips, saying he
wouldn’t “convey information that will lead to anyone’s
arrest.”  At the opening of the 10-week trial on April 16, Breivik
refused to admit guilt for the July 22 attacks and declined to
accept the authority of the court even as he confessed to the
murders, arguing they were in self defense.  The trial is being broadcast to 17 court houses nationwide
to allow about 2,000 aggrieved relatives and friends of the
victims to follow the proceedings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Myers in Oslo on  at
 kmyers16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  