-- Novel Nanomedicine Therapy Treats Cerebral Palsy in Study
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-04-18T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/novel-nanomedicine-therapy-treats-cerebral-palsy-in-study.html
Nanoparticles laced with a medicine
for Tylenol poisoning and sent into the brains of baby rabbits
eased symptoms of cerebral palsy, according a study that points
to a potential approach for treating humans with the disorder.  Using nanoparticles called dendrimers, researchers were
able to penetrate the brain’s natural barriers to deliver a
medicine into the animals, quelling the inflammation that can
lead to cerebral palsy, according to research published today in
the  journal  Science Translational Medicine.  Cerebral palsy , a lifelong neurological disorder that
affects movement, is caused by an abnormality to an infant’s
brain that occurs in the womb or early in life. In the study,
newborn rabbits with the condition were injected with the
therapy, and within five days showed “significant” improvement
in their ability to move, as well as reduced inflammation in the
brain.  “Reaching the inflamed cells in the brain has been a long-
standing major challenge,” said Rangaramanujam Kannan, the
study author, in a telephone interview. “Dendrimers not only go
into brain, they go specifically into the cells called activated
mycrogia that are the source of the problem. So then we attached
a drug to it, and shut them down in a targeted manner.”  The scientists attached the anti-inflammatory drug called
N-acetylcysteine to the nanoparticles, which are the tiniest
engineered materials. The medicine, long used as an antidote for
Tylenol poisoning, helped suppress immune cells called mycrogia
and astrocytes. The cells, which respond to the site of injury,
can cause damage to normal brain tissue as they spur an
overheated inflammatory response.  Activated Mycrogia  The activated mycrogia cells are also linked to other
neurological diseases such as Alzheimer’s, stroke, Parkinson’s,
and multiple sclerosis, said Kannan.  There is no cure for  cerebral palsy , a disorder that is
diagnosed in as many as four infants of 1,000 worldwide,
according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. People with the cerebral palsy often need special
equipment to walk, and can suffer from stiff muscles,
uncontrollable movements and poor balance and coordination.  Researchers focused on rabbits because like humans, they
start developing motor skills before birth and complete it
after, while most other mammals finish before being born.  Since humans aren’t typically diagnosed with cerebral palsy
until they are at least 18 months old, researchers will test to
see if the therapy has the same effect on rabbits when injected
later in life, said  Kannan , an ophthalmologist with John Hopkins
University in Baltimore. Another hurdle is that dendrimers
haven’t been approved for use in humans, he said.  “I do not know if it will work in humans, however, we have
made a big paradigm shift in the way people think about this
disease, because people think this cannot be reversed,” he
said. “We are very bullish about the prospect of this
approach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  