-- To Thrive, Euro Countries Must Cut Welfare State
-- B y   F r e d r i k   E r i x o n
-- 2012-04-18T23:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/to-thrive-euro-countries-must-cut-welfare-state.html
Most criticism of government
profligacy in  Europe  lately has focused on the obvious sinners,
such as  Greece , which already had massive public debts and
deficits when the global financial crisis struck almost four
years ago.  When it comes to overspending on social welfare, though,
Europe has no angels.  Even the “good” Scandinavians, and governments that
appeared to be in sound fiscal shape in 2008, but were then
undone by unsustainable private-sector debts, were spending too
much and will have to restructure. The only question is whether
this will be done gradually, or via shock therapy.  Take the four countries at the epicenter of the euro-area
crisis: Greece, Ireland,  Portugal  and Spain. They are in many
ways different, but they have three important characteristics in
common.  First, total debt in these countries expanded rapidly
throughout the past decade -- either because of increased
 government borrowing  (Greece and Portugal) or through a rapid
buildup of private debt (Ireland and Spain). Second, they all
ran substantial current-account deficits in the years before the
crisis. Third, government spending in those nations grew at
remarkably high rates. In Greece and Spain, nominal spending by
the state increased 50 percent to 55 percent in the five years
before the crisis started, according to my calculations based on
government data. In Portugal, public expenditure rose 35
percent; in Ireland, almost 75 percent. No other country in
Western Europe came close to these rates.  Bubble Trouble  Clearly, the welfare-state expansion in Greece and Portugal
was part of the reason these two countries ended up as clients
of Europe’s bailout mechanisms.     But Ireland and  Spain  had
problems with the rapid expansion of the state, too. A big part
of rising affluence during the boom years was generated by
escalating real-estate bubbles, which caused private debt to
soar. They boosted the construction sectors and, more generally,
pushed domestic consumption to the point where Spain had to
borrow as much as 8 percent of gross domestic product every year
to finance its current account deficit. Like other bubbles, they
spearheaded economic growth, which allowed governments to expand
the state rapidly.  That growth vanished and gold turned to sand. Simply put,
the bubble-fueled prosperity wasn’t sustainable. A record of
solid fiscal surpluses was quickly turned into high structural
deficits. Spain, for instance, entered 2008 with a budget
surplus of slightly more than 2 percent, and ended 2009 with a
structural deficit of 9 percent.  This has been a familiar story during the crisis. Yet
surprisingly few people in Europe have bothered to understand
the role that the welfare state played in creating it. The
European debate zoomed in on two extreme positions, both
bordering on caricatures as “Keynesian” versus “German.” The
Keynesian school has a penchant for cradle-to-grave welfare
states and sees Europe’s main problem to be a grossly
insufficient fiscal expansion once disaster struck. The German
school blames the entire euro-area crisis on bloated budget
deficits and a lack of fiscal discipline. One side thinks thrift
is a vice, the other sees deficits as immoral. Each has its own
fix at the ready: Keynesians call for a  government-spending 
spree, Germans for purification by austerity.  Yet both fail to understand how a rapid expansion of state
spending is part of the story in most economic crises, and that
the composition of expenditure growth causes particular problems
for post-bubble economies. Again, look at Spain. Its social-
security systems expanded -- in terms of overall size and
benefit levels -- at the same speed as general economic growth.
That pushed up government expenditure, even as rising revenue
kept deficits narrow.  Rising Pension Bill  Take as an illustration the average Spanish pensioner.
Until recently, he or she received a state pension that was more
than 80 percent of the average salary of current earners. So
when the economy was growing strongly, salaries and therefore
pensions did, too. That might not be a problem if wages (and
pensions) were to fall again when the economy shrank -- but that
doesn’t usually happen. Instead, the pension bill tends to
remain at the same elevated levels even as economic growth and
government revenue fall, creating an unaffordable ratchet
effect.  Europe’s crisis economies will now have to radically reduce
their welfare states. State spending in Spain will have to
shrink by at least a quarter; Greece should count itself lucky
if the cut is less than a half of the pre-crisis expenditure
level.  The worse news is that this is likely to be only the first
round of welfare-state corrections. The next decade will usher
Europe into the age of aging, when inevitably the cost of
pensions will rise and providing health care for the elderly
will be an even bigger cost driver. This demographic shift will
be felt everywhere, including in the Nordic group of countries
that has been saved from the worst effects of the sovereign-debt
crisis.  Germany , for example, still has an underfunded pension
system.  One study  has projected that on current population- and
spending-growth trends, health-care expenditure would account
for 15 percent of Germany’s GDP by 2025 and almost 26 percent by
2050 (that last figure would be 33 percent for the U.S.).  Many Danes had to pinch themselves a month ago when their
new prime minister, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, who heads a
coalition of leftist parties, launched a strategy document
called  Denmark  2032. This addressed frankly the need for Denmark
to define some tough spending priorities. Its underlying
presumption was that the universal welfare state with its
generous entitlements would not be able to survive in its
current form.  Europe’s social systems will look very different 20 years
from now. They will still be around, but benefit programs will
be far less generous, and a greater part of social security will
be organised privately. Welfare services, like health care, will
be exposed to competition and, to a much greater degree, paid
for out of pocket or by private insurance.  The big divide in Europe won’t be between North and South
or left and right. It will be between countries that diligently
manage the transition away from the universal welfare state that
has come to define the European social model, and countries that
will be forced by events to change the hard way.  (Fredrik Erixon is director of the European Centre for
International Political Economy, a research group in Brussels.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  fixing U.S.-Pakistan
relations  and creating a  bureau to study climate change ;  Ezra
Klein  on post-election  tax reform ;  Caroline Baum  on the myopia
of  short-term economic statistics ; A. Gary Shilling on his
readers’ questions about  his economic forecast ; the Squam Lake
Group on  money market reforms .  To read other op-ed articles in this series about Europe’s
social contract:  Iain Begg  on the Danish flexicurity model;
 Josef Joffe  on all of Europe should learn from Germany’s
reforms;  Ana Palacio  on the difficulty of shedding Franco’s
labor laws.  To contact the writer of this article:
Fredrik Erixon at  fredrik.erixon@ecipe.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  