-- Romney Visits Factory Closed Under Bush, Blames Obama
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-04-20T14:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/obama-says-election-offers-clear-choice-on-nation-s-priorities.html
Mitt Romney  visited an Ohio
factory, closed when President  George W. Bush  was in office, to
make the case that President Barack Obama’s economic policies
prevented the facility and others like it from reopening.  Standing in the middle of an empty warehouse floor
yesterday, Romney blamed Obama for promoting measures that have
slowed the economic recovery.  “It would have reopened by now, but it’s still empty,”
the presumptive Republican presidential nominee said. “It
underscores the failure of this president’s policies with
regards to getting the economy working again.”  Obama used the facility in Lorain, Ohio, that is owned by
dry wall company  National Gypsum (NGCO)  Co. as a setting for his own
campaign stop in February 2008.  “What I refuse to accept is that we have to stand idly by
while workers watch their jobs get shipped overseas,” Obama
said then. “We need a president who’s working as hard for you
as you’re working for your families. And that’s the kind of
president I intend to be.”  The Obama campaign shot back at Romney yesterday, charging
him with misrepresenting the circumstances of the factory’s
closing.  ‘Deceptive Rhetoric’  “If Mitt Romney wants to convince the American people that
he will ‘tell the truth,’ he might want to start by ending his
deceptive rhetoric on the campaign trail,” spokeswoman Lis
Smith said in a statement.  With new surveys showing a tightening general election
contest since Romney emerged as the all-but-certain Republican
nominee last week, he and the president are honing their
messages. The dry-wall-inspired dust-up highlighted a central
question voters will hear debated through the campaign: Is Obama
to blame for the slow economic recovery?  The  Ohio  factory closed in June 2008, seven months before
Obama took office and during an 18-month recession that didn’t
officially end until June 2009.  Ohio’s  economy  has been
improving for more than a year, adding 91,100 jobs from December
2010 through February 2012, the fourth highest in the U.S.
during that time, data show.  Since Obama took office in January 2009, unemployment has
fallen in Ohio from 8.6 percent to 7.6 percent February.  Ohio ranked seventh among all states in its economic
recovery in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with the
previous year, according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States.  U.S. Figures  Nationwide, the economy strengthened late in 2011 as growth
accelerated from a 1.3 percent annual pace in the second quarter
to 3 percent in the year’s final three months. Unemployment has
dropped in six of the past seven months, to 8.2 percent in March
from 9.1 percent last August. The benchmark Standard & Poor’s
500 stock index is up 7.6 percent this year.  Romney aides argued that the dry-wall factory effectively
illustrates what the campaign views as the failure of the Obama
administration.  “The fact that it struggled through the last three years
is not the fault of Barack Obama’s predecessor,” said spokesman
 Eric Fehrnstrom . “It’s the fault of this administration and the
failure of their policies to really get this economy moving
again.”  Registered voters split evenly between Obama and Romney,
with each candidate getting 46 percent support nationally, in a
New York Times/CBS News poll conducted April 13-17. The margin
of error was plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Liberty University  Even as Romney focuses on Obama, he is working to unite
Republicans after a divisive primary campaign. Today he will
address Republican Party state chairmen from across the country
at their national meeting in Phoenix,  Arizona .  Next month, he will deliver the commencement address at
Liberty University in Lynchburg,  Virginia , a college founded by
the late televangelist  Jerry Falwell . The May 12 appearance
offers an opportunity for Romney, a Mormon, to reach out to
evangelical Christians, an important part of the Republican base
that has been skeptical of his candidacy.  His campaign reported today that it collected close to
$12.6 million in contributions in March, its best fundraising
month yet. The campaign has raised a total of $87 million in
Romney’s second bid for the presidency and has almost $10.1
million on hand, it said in a statement.  Key Wins  Romney’s fundraising last month occurred as he won several
contests that cleared his path for his party’s nomination,
including closely watched primaries in Ohio and  Illinois . Romney
emerged as the presumptive nominee after his main challenger,
former Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania , announced on April
10 he was ending his candidacy.  With the general-election campaign engaged, Obama is
framing his re-election argument on “fairness” and who would
better look out for the interests of middle-income Americans.  Campaigning April 18 in Elyria, Ohio, the president told a
group of unemployed workers being trained at Lorain County
Community College that they face a choice in November between
steady federal support for education and deep reductions in such
programs to pay for tax cuts for the wealthy.  Differing Visions  “We have two competing visions of our future,” Obama
said. “We keep having the same argument with folks who don’t
seem to remember how America was built.”  Without mentioning Romney by name, he indirectly drew a
contrast with his probable opponent, who helped form the
private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC in  Boston  and is the son of
a former auto industry executive.  “I wasn’t born with a silver spoon in my mouth,” Obama
said. “Michelle wasn’t, but someone gave us a chance,” he
added, referring to his wife.  Romney, whose father headed now defunct American Motors
Corp. before becoming governor of  Michigan , responded in an
interview on  Fox News  yesterday.  “ I’m not going to apologize for my dad and his success in
his life,” Romney said on “Fox & Friends.” “He was born poor
and he worked his way to become very successful despite the fact
that he didn’t have a college degree.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Lorain, Ohio at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  