-- Obama Stands Aside as Election-Law Enforcement Weakened
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-04-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/obama-stands-aside-as-election-law-enforcement-weakened.html
Barack Obama  pledged as a
presidential candidate to strengthen the  Federal Election
Commission  and nominate members “committed to enforcing our
nation’s election laws.”  Since taking office, he hasn’t pushed for achievement of
either goal.  The president has taken no action to reshape the FEC, even
as five of the six commissioners are serving on expired terms.
In the meantime, the FEC deadlocked along party lines on whether
to consider requiring nonprofits spending millions of dollars on
political ads to disclose their donors.  “President Obama should be held responsible for his
failure to at the very least nominate replacement
commissioners,” said  Paul Ryan , a lawyer for the Campaign Legal
Center, which seeks stronger oversight of political giving.
“Notwithstanding his promises to the contrary on the campaign
trail, cleaning up Washington has not been a high priority for
President Obama.”  The president’s inaction on an issue he used to distinguish
himself during his Senate career and on the presidential
campaign trail is among those that may depress enthusiasm among
the  Democratic Party ’s activists.  Small-Donor Priority  Almost half of the record $745 million he raised in 2008
came from contributions of $200 or less, and some of those
donors were motivated by his call to overhaul the campaign-
finance system, said Justin Ruben, executive director of
Moveon.org, an online organization with 7 million members who
worked to elect Obama.  “There’s no question that part of the change people voted
for was to change a system that is dominated by big money and
shut out their voices,” Ruben said. “The political process is
broken. One thing we can do is campaign-finance reform.”  The president’s re-election campaign now faces a new foe: a
crop of independent Republican committees formed in 2010,
financed by secret donors and bent on defeating him. Crossroads
Grassroots Policy Strategies, an organization formed with
guidance from  Karl Rove , top political adviser to President
 George W. Bush , and its affiliate American Crossroads have set a
goal of raising more than $240 million to beat Obama and
Democratic House and Senate candidates.  Eric Schultz , a White House spokesman, said FEC
replacements are coming.  “We are not going to publically speculate on future
personnel decisions, but the president intends to nominate well-
qualified candidates, and we will continue to support strong
enforcement of our campaign finance laws,” he said.  One FEC Nominee  In May 2009, Obama nominated one member to the FEC, labor
lawyer John Sullivan, whose name was withdrawn 15 months later
with no Senate action after he was opposed by Arizona Republican
Senator John McCain and then-Wisconsin Democratic Senator  Russ Feingold , two supporters of campaign finance laws who urged the
president to submit a full slate of replacements.  Obama has criticized the U.S.  Supreme Court ’s Citizens
United decision, which removed limits on corporate and union
spending on politics, and endorsed legislation in Congress that
would require nonprofits such as Crossroads and Priorities USA,
an organization founded by former Obama aides, to reveal the
names of their contributors.  “The president has legitimately complained about the
Supreme Court and legitimately complained about Congress failing
to pass the Disclose Act,” said  Melanie Sloan , executive
director of the watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and
Ethics in Washington. “But the president does have a role and
he is ignoring his own part.”  Petitioning White House  Sloan’s group joined 10 others in gathering more than
27,000 signatures and petitioning the White House through its
 website  to nominate new FEC commissioners. Representatives  Peter Welch  of  Vermont , Ted Deutch of  Florida  and 29 other House
Democrats made a similar request to Obama to appoint
replacements and tell “those seeking to exploit an uncertain
campaign landscape that the cop is back on the beat and that
federal election laws will be fully enforced.”  As a senator, Obama co-sponsored legislation to increase
public financing for presidential campaigns and extend it to
congressional candidates, and to impose new restrictions on
lobbyists.  While running for president, Obama pledged to strengthen
the FEC in a November 2007 written response to the Chicago-based
Midwest Democracy Network.  Obama’s Pledge  “I believe that the FEC needs to be strengthened and that
individuals named to the commission should have a demonstrated
record of fair administration of the law and an ability to
overcome partisan biases,” Obama wrote. “As president, I will
appoint nominees to the commission who are committed to
enforcing our nation’s election laws.”  In 2008, he eschewed donations from political action
committees and registered  lobbyists . Obama imposed those rules
on his 2012 re-election campaign as well, and he’s the only
presidential candidate this year to identify his top
fundraisers.  As president, he issued an executive order preventing
former aides from lobbying the White House after leaving office.  Advocates of tougher regulations of political money support
those moves, and Obama’s campaign highlights them in his re-
election pitches. Still, they see a lost opportunity.  Missed Opportunity  “Since the Republicans are so adamant against disclosure,
they are going to deadlock and nothing’s going to happen,” said
 Craig Holman , a lobbyist on campaign finance issues for
Washington-based  Public Citizen , which supports stronger
regulations. Had Obama “fixed the FEC earlier, I think we would
not be in this dark hole when it comes to money and politics.”  Jim Manley , a former aide to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , said Obama didn’t seem willing to confront Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell , an opponent of campaign
finance regulations who unsuccessfully sued to overturn the 2002
law sponsored by McCain and Feingold. Traditionally, political
party leaders suggest commissioners to the president.  “I just never got the sense that they were willing to go
down that road,” Manley said. “McConnell is dead set against
the whole idea behind the commission.”  Even if McConnell makes suggestions, Obama could choose
different Republicans, the way Republican President  Ronald Reagan  once rejected a Democratic candidate and told party
leaders to pick someone else, former FEC general counsel Larry Noble said.  “Nothing would stop a president from doing that again,”
Noble said. “The problem is they don’t want to spend the
political capital to do that.”  If Senate Republicans block Obama’s nominees, the president
should say “he will take matters in his own hands and recess-
appoint people who will enforce the law,” Ruben said.  “People want a president with chutzpah,” he said, citing
a Yiddish term meaning nerve. “There’s no political downside to
being strong on this issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 