-- Obama Won’t Sign Republican Spending Bills, Official Says
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-04-19T21:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/obama-won-t-sign-republican-spending-bills-official-says.html
President  Barack Obama  won’t sign
spending bills being written by  House Republicans , the
administration warned, escalating a budget fight that raises the
possibility of a government shutdown later this year.  Acting White House Budget Office Director Jeffrey Zients
said yesterday that the administration won’t accept any of the
dozen spending bills House Republicans are working on unless
they agree to abide by a budget deal reached last year.  Democrats have maintained Republicans are reneging on the
budget agreement by announcing that they will cut total spending
on the bills to fund government agencies by $19 billion.
Republicans say the limit set last year was meant to be the
maximum spending allowed, not the precise amount to be spent.  “These funding levels will mean deep and painful cuts in
investments that America needs to succeed,” Zients wrote in a
letter to lawmakers. “Until the  House of Representatives 
indicates that it will abide by last summer’s agreement, the
president will not be able to sign any appropriations bills.”  The dispute may lead to a government shutdown shortly
before the November elections because lawmakers need to agree on
legislation to keep the government operating in the 2013 fiscal
year, which starts Oct. 1.  The president won’t accept individual spending bills even
if they provide adequate funding without an agreement on total
spending, said Zients. That’s because increasing funding in one
measure would only require “deeper, more problematic cuts” in
others, he said.  Higher Spending Total  The administration received a boost today when Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  and most other Republicans on
the chamber’s Appropriations Committee voted to stick with the
higher spending total. The panel’s vote was 28-2, with
Republicans  Ron Johnson  of  Wisconsin  and Jerry Moran of Kansas
opposed.  “Both the Republican-led House and the Democrat-led Senate
support completing appropriations bills to fund the federal
government in a responsible and timely manner,” said Jennifer
Hing, a spokeswoman for House Appropriations Committee Chairman
Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican.  “When appropriations bills pass both the House and the
Senate, the president can choose to sign them, or he can choose
to shut down the federal government, put our people at risk, and
imperil our economic recovery,” she said.  Funding Levels  Both chambers are starting to consider the appropriations
bills that will establish funding levels for hundreds of
government programs. The Senate Appropriations Committee today
approved bills funding the departments of Transportation,
Housing and Urban Development, Commerce, Justice and other
programs.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , who sits on the panel,
said the bottom line is that “we agreed on a number.”  “Now if they want to re-litigate this and threaten to shut
down the government, it’s going to remind people of those dark
days last year when we couldn’t get anything right on  Capitol
Hill , before the president forged this agreement,” Durbin said
in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  Meanwhile, Senate Republicans have criticized Budget
Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, for
yesterday offering as his budget proposal a tax-and-spending
plan based on recommendations by the leaders of Obama’s debt-
reduction commission.  Conrad said he advanced the plan, which the committee took
up yesterday, to spur debate on what to do about a number of
major budget issues lawmakers must address, including the Bush-
era income tax cuts that expire at the end of the year. He said
he didn’t expect his colleagues to adopt the plan any time soon.  The proposal by former Wyoming Senator  Alan Simpson , a
Republican, and former Clinton White House Chief of Staff
Erskine Bowles, a Democrat, would have reduced the  budget
deficit  by $3.9 trillion over 10 years through a combination of
spending cuts, tax increases and reduced interest payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  