-- Oil Trades Near One-Week Low on Rising U.S. Stockpiles
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-04-19T07:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-in-new-york-on-rising-u-s-supplies.html
Oil traded near the lowest close in
more than a week in  New York  after a government report showed
U.S. crude stockpiles rose more than twice as much as forecast.  Futures were little changed after declining the most in two
weeks yesterday. U.S. supplies gained 3.9 million barrels last
week, Energy Department data showed. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts was for an increase of 1.8
million barrels. Prices also dropped after  Iraq ’s deputy prime
minister for energy said the  Strait of Hormuz  is unlikely to
close and there is no shortage of oil.  “The trend is there for inventories to build but we
haven’t seen dramatic decreases in the price of the commodity,”
said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a
commodity markets newsletter in Sydney. “The market is trying
to work out if we’re in a recovery mode or slowing. It’s a bit
quiet in  Iran  and the  Middle East , but it’s still there.”  Crude for May delivery was at $102.66 a barrel, down 1
cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 2:41 p.m. Singapore time. It slid 1.5 percent yesterday to
$102.67, the most since April 4. The more-actively traded June
contract dropped 5 cents to $103.07 a barrel today. Front-month
prices are 3.9 percent higher this year.  Brent oil for June settlement rose 0.3 percent to $118.36 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate
was at $15.26, from $14.85 yesterday.  Fuel Stockpiles  Oil in New York has technical support along its 100-day
moving average, around $101.93 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures have been trading above this
indicator for the past week. Buy orders tend to be clustered
near chart-support levels.  U.S. crude stockpiles climbed to 369 million barrels, the
highest level since May 27, the Energy Department data showed.
Refineries operated at less than 85 percent of capacity for a
second week, according to the report. Gasoline inventories
decreased  3.7 million barrels , compared with a median forecast
for a decline of 1.1 million barrels in the Bloomberg survey.  Gasoline for May delivery slid yesterday 3.13 cents, or 1
percent, to $3.2027 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
yesterday. That’s the lowest closing price in seven weeks.  Distillate inventories, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, dropped 2.91 million barrels last week, the
Energy Department said. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
they would shrink by 125,000 barrels.  OPEC Quota  The oil market is balanced and there is no need for OPEC to
change its output quota if demand remains at current levels,
Iraq’s Hussain al-Shahristani said in an interview in  London .
Ministers from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
are scheduled to meet June 14 in Vienna.  Iraq is hosting an international diplomatic gathering next
month to discuss Iran’s alleged efforts to develop nuclear
weapons as sanctions restrict buyers of its crude. Iran has
threatened to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit route for a
fifth of the world’s oil, in response to an embargo.  Japan ’s crude imports slid 2.4 percent in the fiscal year
ended March, the  finance ministry  said today. Purchases from
overseas fell to 210 million kiloliters, while the cost climbed
22 percent to 11.9 trillion yen ($146 million). Japan accounted
for 5 percent of the world’s oil consumption in 2010,according
to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  