-- Brent Oil Drops on Concern Europe Debt Woes May Curb Use
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-04-18T13:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/oil-trades-near-two-week-high-on-imf-forecast-spanish-debt-sale.html
Brent crude futures dropped for a
second day this week amid concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis may
curb oil consumption, while U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate was little changed.  North Sea Brent declined as much as 1 percent while
European equities fell and the euro declined against the dollar.
A cease-fire in Syria and plans for renewed negotiations next
month between Iran and the five permanent members of the United
Nations Security Council plus  Germany  reduced the likelihood of
more supply disruptions in the  Middle East . U.S.  crude
stockpiles  climbed for a fourth week, data from the industry-
funded American Petroleum Institute showed.  “The Brent market is gradually weakening on poor
fundamentals and a lower geopolitical risk in the market,”
Torbjoern Kjus, an oil analyst at DNB ASA of  Norway , said by
phone from Oslo. “Europe is not looking good at all, and it’s
not going to look any better for oil demand any time soon,”
said Kjus, who forecasts the grade will average $115 this year.  Brent for June settlement fell as much as $1.23 on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange and was down 95 cents,
or 0.8 percent, at $117.83 a barrel as of 1:46 p.m. local time.
The European benchmark contract’s front month  premium  to West
Texas Intermediate was at $13.61, the lowest since Jan. 31. The
spread was at $14.14 yesterday.  U.S. crude for May delivery was at $103.68 a barrel, down
52 cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract yesterday gained 1.2 percent to $104.20,
the highest close since April 2. Prices are 4.9 percent higher
this year.  Pressure on Brent  “Brent is under pressure from the renewed flaring-up of
the sovereign-debt crisis in the  euro zone , the resulting rise
in risk aversion and the decrease in the risk premium due to
recent signs of a slight easing in the Iran crisis,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said in a
note today.  Iranian delegates will meet with the five permanent UN
Security Council members and Germany on May 23 in Baghdad after
“constructive” talks in Istanbul, the European Union’s foreign
policy chief said April 15.  Officials from 57 countries, meeting in  France , voted
yesterday to tighten sanctions on  Syria .  Russia  halted
deliveries of light arms to Syria to avoid exacerbating a
conflict between government forces and opposition groups, a
person close to the Defense Ministry in Moscow said today. Syria
was the eight-largest oil producer in the Middle East in 2010,
according to the most recent data from BP Plc.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. crude stockpiles increased 3.4 million barrels last
week, the API said yesterday. An Energy Department report today
may show they expanded  1.8 million barrels , according to the
median of 10 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline inventories dropped 2.6 million barrels, the API
said. They are forecast to slip  1.1 million barrels , according
to the Bloomberg survey. Distillate supplies, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, fell 2.4 million barrels
compared with a projected 125,000 barrel decline.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines.  President  Barack Obama  urged Congress yesterday to bolster
federal supervision of oil markets, including bigger penalties
for market manipulation and greater power for regulators to
increase the amount of money traders must put up to back their
energy bets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  