-- Oil Falls as U.S. Supply Rises Twice as Much as Forecast
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-04-18T19:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/oil-pares-loss-on-rise-in-gasoline-heating-oil-supply.html
Crude fell the most in two weeks on
a U.S. Energy Department report showing a larger-than-expected
supply gain.  Prices dropped 1.5 percent after the government said oil
inventories rose 3.86 million barrels in the week ended April
13, more than double the increase forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of analysts. Refineries operated at less than 85 percent of
capacity for a second week.  “It’s another week of the battle of large numbers,” said
 John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based
hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The refinery industry
continues to operate at sub-optimal levels and crude oil of
course is going to build if they are not processing it.”  Oil for May delivery slid $1.53 to settle at $102.67 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures have
declined 6.5 percent since settling at $109.77 on Feb. 24, the
highest level since May 2011.  Brent for June settlement fell 81 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
$117.97 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Brent futures’  premium  to West Texas Intermediate for
June widened to $14.85 from yesterday’s $14.14.  Oil inventories climbed to 369 million, the most since the
week ended May 27, the department said. They were forecast to
grow 1.8 million barrels in the Bloomberg survey.  The U.S. gain comes after the  International Energy Agency 
reported April 12 that crude stockpiles among the 34
industrialized countries in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development rose 1.8 percent to 936.2 million
barrels in February from January.  ‘Correction Phase’  “The market is in a correction phase right now,” said
 Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at Societe Generale SA
in New York. “It’s not just the U.S. Throughout the OECD, we’ve
seen inventories increase.”  There is no need for the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries to change production quotas in June if
demand remains at current levels,  Iraq ’s deputy prime minister
for energy said.  “There is neither shortage of production or excess of
production,” Hussain al-Shahristani said in an interview in
 London  today after attending a refining conference. “In
general, the oil market is fairly balanced.”  OPEC ministers are scheduled to meet June 14 in Vienna.  U.S. petroleum demand fell 0.7 percent to 18.9 million
barrels a day last week from the period ended April 6, the
Energy Department said. That’s 2.1 percent less than a year ago.  Fuel consumption in the U.S. typically peaks between the
Memorial Day holiday at the end of May and the Labor Day holiday
at the beginning of September, a period the industry calls
summer driving season.  ‘Plenty of Oil’  “Even though we are going into the driving season, there
is still plenty of oil to be held in storage,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group in  New
York . “I am looking for prices to go down to $100.”  U.S. stockpiles of gasoline and diesel dropped more than
forecast in the Energy Department report as refineries operated
at a rate of 84.6 percent. That’s up from the previous week’s
83.8 percent, though lower than the 85.7 percent figure for the
week ended March 30.  Gasoline inventories  fell 3.67 million barrels to 214
million last week, the lowest level since Nov. 25. Stockpiles
were forecast to slip 1.1 million barrels, according to the
Bloomberg survey.  Distillate supplies , which include heating oil and diesel,
dropped 2.91 million barrels to 129 million. Inventories were
estimated to fall 125,000 barrels in the survey.  “The drop in crude prices is in large part due to the
failure of the market to respond to the supportive gasoline
data,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York.  WTI-Brent Spread  Brent’s premium to WTI widened for the first time since
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  said they
would start moving oil from Cushing,  Oklahoma , to the U.S. Gulf
Coast via the Seaway pipeline on about May 17. That’s earlier
than a previous June 1 start date.  The Seaway reversal is forecast to reduce a glut of crude
at Cushing, the U.S. Midcontinent pipeline hub, and bring WTI
prices closer to Brent.  “This Brent-WTI spread still has the potential to widen,”
said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of
Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “We still have a month before the
Seaway reversal.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 562,689
contracts as of 3:17 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 676,818
contracts yesterday, 5.3 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.57 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  