-- Olympus Seeks Approval for New Board to Move Past Scandal
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-04-19T07:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/olympus-seeks-approval-for-board-to-move-past-1-7-billion-fraud.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  shareholders are
being asked to vote on new management and let the company put
behind it an accounting fraud that wiped $4.2 billion off its
market value and sparked criminal probes in Japan and overseas.  At an extraordinary meeting tomorrow, the camera maker will
seek approval to appoint 11 new directors, including President-
designate Hiroyuki Sasa, currently head of marketing for its
medical systems unit, and Yasuyuki Kimoto, a former executive at
main lender  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  Former
President  Michael Woodford , who revealed the $1.7 billion cover-
up after being fired, has said he’ll attend.  The world’s largest endoscope maker has lost about half its
market  value  since dismissing Woodford Oct. 14. Overseas
 shareholders  including Southeastern Asset Management Inc. have
said some board nominees have conflicts of interest because of
their ties to Olympus creditors. Southeastern, once the largest
foreign stake owner, has signaled it will exit its holdings in a
blow to  Japan ’s attraction as an investment destination.  “There are really no factors prompting Olympus to change,
as it got support from lenders and its main business is doing
well,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million
at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo. “Investors
still look at the company with some doubt -- they can’t fully
trust it.”  Olympus  fell  1.2 percent to 1,209 yen at the close on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock has lost 51 percent since Oct.
14.  ‘Undue Influence’  Southeastern, Harris Associates LP and seven other Olympus
shareholders called for more independent directors in a joint
statement on March 21. Hideaki Fujizuka, a former executive at
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , another creditor of
Olympus, was nominated as a director after President Shuichi Takayama and all other board members offered in February to step
down.  The connection between Olympus’s main banks and some
proposed board members “gives rise to a potential conflict of
interest,” the investors said in the statement. The group
expressed “disappointment” at the “apparent willingness to
grant banking interests undue influence.”  Josh Shores, senior analyst and principal at Southeastern,
and David Herro, chief investment officer at Chicago-based
Harris, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comments.  ISS Proxy Advisory Services recommended shareholders vote
against the company’s board nominees, it said April 6.  ‘Worst Way Possible’  At least two current board members, Executive Officer
Shinichi Nishigaki and Executive Managing Officer Kazuhiro Watanabe, will remain division heads at Olympus, an official at
the Tokyo-based company said earlier this week.  The company also named Akihiro Nambu, who was head of
 investor relations , to run its financial division. Southeastern
Asset and other shareholders called for him to resign over the
accounting fraud to conceal investment losses.  “Nothing is changed and its business is as usual,”
Woodford said at a press conference in Tokyo today. “Olympus
handled it probably in the worst way possible that they could
have.”  The former president plans to vote against the board
nominees, he said.  ‘Bad Message’  Olympus has tumbled in Tokyo trading since Woodford was
dismissed Oct. 14 after challenging then-Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa and the board over inflated takeover payments.  “Olympus just sent out a bad message to investors,” said
Ichiro Takamatsu, a  fund manager  who helps oversee $2 billion at
Tokyo-based Bayview Asset Management Co. “Without Woodford,
this scandal would have been shrouded in darkness for good.”  Six people were indicted by prosecutors for falsifying
securities reports last month. Kikukawa, former executive vice
president Hisashi Mori and ex-auditing officer Hideo Yamada,
were prosecuted. The three were arrested in February for
suspected violation of Japan’s Financial Instruments and
Exchange Act.  Prosecutors also indicted Akio Nakagawa, Nobumasa Yokoo --
both cited in a December panel report as having aided Olympus in
structuring its loss-hiding proposals -- and Taku Hada, who was
arrested in February.  Executives Sued  Olympus sued 19 current and former executives, including
Takayama and five corporate auditors, in January over their
roles in concealing losses. Authorities in the U.S. and U.K.
have also investigated Olympus for a cover-up that involved
inflating fees to advisers on the $2.1 billion acquisition of
London-listed Gyrus Group Plc in 2008 and overpaying for three
Japanese companies.  Olympus  predicted  its first  annual loss  in three years for
the fiscal year ended March 31 after flooding in  Thailand 
damaged its equipment. The net loss may total 32 billion yen
($394 million), it said in February.  Sales at the company’s medical systems division, which
account for more than 40 percent of its revenue, increased 2.7
percent in the three months ended Dec. 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company will report earnings May 10.  Olympus’s  net assets  fell to 43.8 billion yen as of Dec. 31
from 151 billion yen as of June 30, after restating its earnings
statements, according to its financial statements.  Capital Ratio  The company’s ratio of capital to total assets dropped to
4.4 percent as of Dec. 31 from 13.5 percent as of June 30,
prompting it to seek partners, it said.  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Fujifilm
Holdings Corp. (4901)  approached Olympus about potential alliances,
Sasa said earlier this month.  “Olympus is fundamentally a healthy business,”
Southeastern and other investors said in the March 21 statement.
“Olympus’s financial difficulties are temporary,” and the
company would be able to generate at least 50 billion yen of
 cash flow  a year with “a qualified management team,” they
said.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer business,
Olympus produced its first camera in 1936 and a predecessor to
the modern-day endoscope in 1950, according to its website. The
company controls 75 percent of the global market for endoscopes,
instruments used to look inside the body’s cavities to help
detect disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  