-- Oncor Bonds Show Energy Future Contagion Risk: Corporate Finance
-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2012-04-18T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/oncor-bonds-show-energy-future-contagion-risk-corporate-finance.html
Bond investors are challenging the
notion that the regulated transmission and distribution unit of
the former TXU Corp., the electricity provider saddled with
$36.7 billion of debt from the 2007 buyout by KKR & Co. and TPG
Capital, will avoid being dragged down by its parent.  Relative yields on $800 million of 7 percent first-lien
notes due 2022 from the Energy Future Holdings Corp. unit, Oncor
Electric Delivery Co., widened to 220 basis points as of April
11, from 185 basis points on Jan. 13. The spread on similarly
rated utility bonds tightened 17 basis points over the same time
period, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Oncor’s Baa1 rating was put on review for downgrade in
February by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited contagion
risk from Energy Future Holdings and the parent’s reliance on
its units to repay its debt. Dallas-based TXU was taken private
in 2007 for $43.2 billion, the biggest leveraged buyout ever,
and KKR and TPG agreed to hold a majority stake in Oncor for
five years.  “The Armageddon outcome is that Energy Future Holdings
goes into bankruptcy and a judge says this ring fencing is
nonsense,” Philip C. Adams, a debt analyst at Gimme Credit LLC,
said in a telephone interview. “While remote, it’s a risk
factor Oncor has mentioned in their 10-K.”  Default Swaps  Three-year credit-default swaps tied to  Texas  Competitive
Electric Holdings, the company’s unregulated merchant power
unit, have soared 38 percentage points over the past 12 months
to 80.8 percent upfront yesterday, according to data provider
CMA. That level indicates a 96 percent chance the company will
fail to meet its obligations in the next three years.  “We believe Oncor’s ring-fence arrangement is very strong
and protects all of Oncor’s stakeholders, including ratepayers,
creditors and Oncor itself,” said Allan Koenig, a spokesman for
Energy Future Holdings, in an e-mailed statement.  Energy Future Holdings relies on its units, which hold
almost all of the company’s assets, to pay the principal,
premium and interest on debt incurred by its leveraged buyout,
according to a Feb. 21 regulatory filing.  When TXU was taken private, Energy Future Holdings made
commitments to the Public Utility Commission of Texas separating
itself from the unit, which included a requirement that Oncor’s
board have a majority of independent directors.  The commission placed two restrictions on the size of
dividends Oncor could pay its parents. The first constraint,
which expires at the end of the year, stipulates that cash
distributions don’t exceed adjusted cumulative net income; the
second requires the regulated unit to maintain a capitalization
ratio of 60 percent debt to 40 percent equity.  ‘Signs of Pressure’  “We believe elements of the ring fence are beginning to
show signs of pressure as Oncor is placed into a more meaningful
role in assisting both Energy Future Holdings and Texas
Competitive Electric Holdings with their interest and debt
service obligations,” James Hempstead, an analyst at Moody’s,
wrote in a Feb. 27 report.  Oncor paid $145 million in cash distributions to its owners
last year, down from $211 million in 2010, and as of Dec. 31 its
regulatory capitalization ratio was 59.7 percent debt and 40.3
percent equity, the company said in a separate Feb. 21
regulatory filing.  “The ring fence provisions of Oncor have not been
violated,” said  Terry Hadley , a spokesman for the commission.
“We are monitoring the situation.” Hadley said state law
“specifies that the utility not subsidize the business
activities of an affiliate with revenue from a regulated
service.” The commission hasn’t seen any evidence of this law
being violated, he said.  Debt Ratio  Energy Future Holdings had $36.7 billion of consolidated
debt as of Dec. 31, not including the $6.1 billion of borrowings
at Oncor, the company said in the filing. About $120 million of
that comes due before 2014, $4.3 billion in 2014 and $3.3
billion in 2015, the company said.  As a result of its high ratio of debt to earnings as well
as low forward gas prices, Energy Future Holdings may not be
able to repay or refinance its obligations as they come due, or
arrange additional financing, according to the filing. An
inability to extend or pay down its debt could force the company
to conduct a distressed-debt exchange or file for  bankruptcy
protection .  “If any member of the Texas Holdings Group were to become
a debtor in a bankruptcy case, there can be no assurance --
however remote in consideration of the ring-fencing measures --
that a court would not order an Oncor ring-fenced entity’s
assets and liabilities to be substantively consolidated with
those of such member of the Texas Holdings Group,” according to
the filing.  Gas Prices  Natural gas futures have fallen 72 percent to $1.95 per
million British thermal units since the day KKR and TPG took
Energy Future Holdings private, just as the recession sapped
demand and drilling expanded in the gas-rich Marcellus shale in
the eastern U.S. creating a supply glut.  As  gas prices  have dropped, wholesale electricity prices
plunged, hurting owners of independent wholesale generators such
as Energy Future Holdings. The company had a net loss of $1.91
billion last year, after a deficit of $2.81 billion the previous
year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Regulated utilities such as Oncor are allowed by the states
to adjust prices to ensure certain levels of profits, protecting
them from swings in commodity prices. Oncor reported net income
of $367 million last year, compared with $352 million in 2010,
according to its annual filing.  ‘A Maze’  “Oncor itself is pretty sleepy; it’s a high-grade company
that’s regulated and ring fenced,” Chris Chaice, an analyst at
New York-based Covenant Review, said in a telephone interview.
“This is a maze the owners have been working on for years: how
to realize value in equity in Oncor and leave as much parent TXU
debt behind.”  Moody’s rates Oncor’s senior secured debt Baa1 and changed
the company’s outlook to “negative” from “stable,” according
to the Feb. 27 report. The rating company assigned a Caa2 grade
to Energy Future Holdings. Standard & Poor’s rates Energy Future
an equivalent CCC.  The Moody’s report indicated that Energy Future
Intermediate Holdings, a unit of Energy Future Holdings and the
direct parent of Oncor Holdings, has issued debt secured by its
equity interest in Oncor, which also places pressure on the
corporate separation.  “You probably have some skittish holders of debt who would
rather sell now than wait for a TXU bankruptcy just in case
there are some repercussions for Oncor in the bankruptcy
process,” Marc Gross, a  money manager  at New York-based RS
Investments, said in an e-mail. “I don’t believe there will be
any repercussions, but there are some very conservative
investment-grade accounts who would sell out of the name out of
an abundance of caution and perhaps to avoid any questions from
risk management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  