-- Moody’s Fired by Danish Banks as Investors Show Support
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-04-19T14:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/moody-s-fired-by-danish-banks-as-investors-show-support.html
Denmark ’s  biggest banks  are firing
Moody’s Investors Service as they win assurances from some of
the country’s biggest investors that the opinions of ratings
companies hold limited value.  Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest mortgage lender and
 Europe ’s largest issuer of covered bonds backed by home loans,
terminated its contract with Moody’s on April 13, citing its
“volatile” views.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ’s mortgage unit Realkredit
Danmark A/S, the country’s second-largest home-loan provider,
dropped Moody’s in June. Jyske Bank A/S, Denmark’s second-
biggest listed bank, is looking into ending its dealings with
Moody’s, according to Steen Nygaard, its head of treasury.  “They have just crossed the line for fairness,” Nygaard
said in an interview. “It’s not just that we have an opinion
and if they rule against us, we are mad and walk away. It is
about the fundamentals where we simply cannot follow Moody’s
arguments.”  Moody’s in June criticized Denmark’s $470 billion mortgage-
bond industry, the world’s third largest after the U.S. and
 Germany , for failing to curb refinancing risks fueled by a
mismatch in funding and lending maturities. Since then,
 Nykredit’s benchmark index  of Denmark’s most-traded mortgage
bonds has risen 6.3 percent to a record, signaling investors are
disregarding the warnings.  “Moody’s has more or less every second month found
something new to think about,” Soeren Holm, group managing
director of finance at Nykredit, said today on a conference call
with investors.  Commercial Relationships  The company “does not comment on its commercial
relationships,” Jessica Sibado, a Moody’s spokeswoman, said in
a phone interview yesterday. “Moody’s considers Denmark as
having one of the strongest covered bond frameworks in Europe.
However, since 2009, Danish covered bonds have been impacted by
the weakening issuer credit strength” and “increasing
refinancing risks,” she said.  The ratings company generated 31 percent of its $2.3
billion in sales last year from Europe, the  Middle East  and  Asia 
combined, it said March 12. Nykredit and Jyske declined to
reveal what they paid Moody’s for their ratings.  “It’s not that ratings don’t matter. Of course they do,”
said Inger Huus Pedersen, head of fixed-income investments at
Hellerup, Denmark-based pension fund PKA, which oversees about
$27 billion in assets. “These mortgage bonds, we feel pretty
secure about. It’s an old system that’s gone through a lot,
which is why I’m quite secure about the system. History has
shown us that  ratings agencies  make mistakes as well.”  Senate Report  Investors, companies and governments are starting to
question the role of the ratings companies following their
failure to identify some of the imbalances that led to the
global financial crisis of 2008.  According to a 2011 U.S. Senate report, both  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s adjusted the way they graded mortgage-backed
securities after Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and at least
six more banks pressured them. When the ratings companies
changed their assessments in July 2007, it helped trigger the
financial crisis, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations said in April last year.  ‘Little Market Reaction’  Europe is in the process of reviewing regulation of the
ratings industry. One proposal would force companies to
periodically cut client ties to remove conflicts of interest and
increase competition. Denmark, which holds the rotating six-
month European Union presidency, recommended this month limiting
the proposal’s scope to structured finance instruments.  S&P’s decision to strip the U.S. of its top credit grade in
August was followed by gains in the nation’s Treasury debt. U.S.
government securities with maturities longer than a year have
returned 4.2 percent, including reinvested interest, since S&P’s
Aug. 5 downgrade. The  Bank of England  said March 27 there was
“little market reaction” to Moody’s decision to cut the
outlook on its Aaa rating to  negative .  In Denmark, Moody’s has been tougher on mortgage banks than
other rating companies. It ranked adjustable-rate bonds issued
by Nykredit Aa1, compared with S&P’s AAA grade. Nykredit’s
issuer rating at S&P is A+, its fifth-highest grade, with a
stable outlook. Moody’s ranks the lender A2, its sixth-highest
rating, with a negative outlook.  ‘Harsh Stance’  “Moody’s has shown a harsh stance on banks ratings
compared to the other agencies,” said Marc Stacey, a  fund
manager  at BlueBay Asset Management Ltd. in  London , which
oversees $42 billion in credit. “If Moody’s upcoming
announcements show that they are an outlier, compared to where
the other two rating agencies are, then you may find the Moody’s
rating being dropped by more and more issuers.”  Nykredit fired Moody’s amid a review of 114 financial
institutions in 16 countries. Moody’s said it may downgrade
banks as much as three levels. BRFkredit A/S, another Danish
mortgage lender, ended its dealings with Moody’s in October.  “If larger banks begin to look at the Danish banks and
follow suit, this could potentially reduce the impact of the
rating cuts and simplify matters for investors,” Prateek Datta,
an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said today in a
note to investors.  “It’s not a matter of the rating being X or Y,” Holm said
in a phone interview this week. “It’s a matter of volatility in
their methods and approaches, and it’s a matter of the value for
investors.”  ‘There Are Risks’  Denmark’s two-century-old mortgage market has moved away
from traditional, fixed-rate 30-year loans and started offering
adjustable rates in 1996 and interest-only loans in 2003 to
attract more customers. The country is still struggling to
emerge from a recession triggered by a burst housing bubble in
2007. A regional banking crisis claimed three lenders last year.  “We agree there are risks, but they are less than when the
 house prices  were in a bubble phase,” Nygaard said. “We cannot
see the huge risk to the Danish economy. Jyske Bank is much
stronger today that it was in 2007.”  Moody’s, which published its first guide to securities in
1900 after being founded by  John Moody , cut Jyske Bank and five
other Danish lenders last year after the government allowed
Amagerbanken A/S to fail, passing losses on to senior creditors.
Jyske is rated A2, with a negative outlook.  Moody’s rates Denmark’s government debt Aaa, with a stable
outlook. The country is one of only 12 in the world to enjoy the
top credit grade at Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Ratings.  Debt Dynamics  While Denmark’s government debt is half the euro-area
average at 44.6 percent of gross domestic product in 2012, the
European Commission estimates, its private debt is the world’s
highest. Household debt reached 310 percent of disposable
incomes in 2010, according to Exane BNP Paribas. Danes’ savings,
while high, are mostly “locked up” in hard-to-access pension
and real estate assets, central bank Governor Nils Bernstein has
said.  Adjustable-rate loans, as well as loans that delay
principle payments by as much as 10 years, make up more than
half Denmark’s outstanding homeowner debt, according to the
Association of Danish Mortgage Banks. Bernstein has urged the
industry to phase out interest-only loans, which he says erode
economic stability.  Foreclosures jumped an annual 32 percent last month to a
17-year high, after Denmark’s economy fell into a recession in
the second half and house prices sank an annual 8 percent in the
fourth quarter.  “What Moody’s is doing is putting pressure on the system,
and that is not necessarily a bad thing,” said Peter Lindegaard, head of investments for Danica Pension, a unit of
Danske Bank. Still, Lindegaard said Danica, which holds 20
billion kroner in mortgage debt, won’t exit Nykredit’s bonds
after the lender dropped Moody’s.  “We think we know as much as Moody’s about how the system
works,” Lindegaard said in an interview. “We still deem them a
very secure investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 