-- Torched Bank Warns Formula One Racing Into Bahrain Violence
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-04-19T07:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/torched-bank-forewarns-formula-one-racing-into-bahrain-violence.html
The National Bank of Bahrain’s
branch in the town of Jidhafs is boarded up after it was
firebombed twice in the week before the country hosts Formula
One motor-racing. Across one of the shutters, attackers spray-
painted the word: “Avoid.”  Acts of violence have intensified in the run-up to the
April 22 Grand Prix, the biggest international event in the
island kingdom since a crackdown last year on pro-democracy
protests led by the Shiite Muslim majority. Last year’s race in
Bahrain was canceled due to the clashes.  For Bahrain’s Sunni rulers, hosting auto teams such as
Mercedes and  Red Bull  and drivers including championship leader
 Lewis Hamilton  is an opportunity to persuade investors that the
unrest is in the past and the country is open for business. The
wave of attacks undermines that argument and suggests tensions
persist, with Shiite groups pledging to step up protests under
the global media spotlight that Formula One brings.  Political unrest has already slowed growth in Bahrain and
its escalation “would be a serious blow to the economy,”
Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage $8.5 billion of emerging-
market debt at Union Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt , wrote
in an e-mail this week.  Since the start of last year, Bahrain’s main  stock index 
has dropped about 20 percent, 10 times the decline on the
 Bloomberg regional benchmark . The cost of insuring its debt via
credit default swaps has doubled.  ‘Compromised Image’  Economic growth slowed to 1.8 percent last year, from an
average of almost 6 percent in the previous eight years, and
will only recover to 2 percent in 2012, the  International
Monetary Fund  said this week in its  World Economic Outlook .  Bahrain, with a population of about 1.2 million, has
promoted itself as a finance hub in the Gulf to rival
neighboring Dubai. Persistent protests will undermine that
campaign, said Jane Kinninmont, a senior research fellow for the
Middle East and North Africa at the Chatham House foreign-policy
institute in London  “For the services companies that Bahrain seeks to attract,
a main consideration will be their ability to attract and retain
professional talent, which will be reduced by perceptions of
political instability and by Bahrain’s compromised image in the
West,” she said in an e-mailed response to questions.  ‘Hospitable Environment’  Bahrain’s appeal to foreigners has already suffered. It was
the least attractive workplace for expatriates in the Gulf last
year, according to an April survey by  GulfTalent.com , dropping
behind Kuwait and Oman. Only 8 percent of companies said they
added employees last year, down from 23 percent in 2010.  Formula One will create more than 3,000 temporary jobs and
generate $500 million for the economy, the government says.
Beyond that, the race brings “huge returns” for the country
“by regenerating interest in Bahrain as a friendly and
hospitable environment,” Sheikh Salman bin Isa  Al Khalifa ,
chief executive of the racetrack, said last month.  Shiite groups are calling on the ruling Al Khalifa family
to grant constitutional government and equal rights. They say
repression has continued since the killing of at least 35
protesters last year, with dozens of activists jailed and
tortured. The Feb. 14th coalition, which demands the overthrow
of the Sunni monarchy, has called for “three days of rage” to
coincide with the race, which it dubs the “bloody Formula.”  A group was arrested yesterday for staging illegal
demonstrations before the race, Major-General Tariq al-Hassan,
the chief of public security, said in a statement yesterday. The
detainees assaulted citizens and policemen with Molotov
cocktails, iron rods and stones, al-Hassan said, according to
the state-run Bahrain News Agency.  ‘Facade of Normalization’  Al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite group, and smaller opposition
parties will use the media glare to “make our voices heard all
over the world,” Abdul-Jalil Khalil, a senior Wefaq member,
said in an April 15 phone interview.  The government called in troops from  Saudi Arabia  and other
Sunni-ruled Gulf states to help crush last year’s protests.
Small-scale demonstrations still take place regularly in Shiite
neighborhoods, sometimes spilling over into commercial areas of
the capital, Manama.  “Beneath a facade of normalization, Bahrain is sliding
toward another dangerous eruption of violence,” the Brussels-
based  International Crisis Group  said in a report this week.  Several banks have been torched this month, without anyone
claiming responsibility. Seven policemen were injured in a blast
last week in the Shiite village of al-Eker.  ‘Safe and Stable’  A convenience store owned by prominent Shiite businessman
Faisal Jawad was vandalized on April 10. Members of security
forces were among those detained in connection with the attack,
according to the  Interior Ministry .  Jawad said in a phone interview that his stores have been
attacked 54 times since last year’s protests. The perpetrators
“don’t represent the good people of Bahrain,” he said.  Even if there are no major disruptions to the Formula One
event, “investors should realize that Bahrain will continue to
face the risk of intensified unrest in the short and medium
term,” said Anthony Skinner,  Middle East  director for Bath,
U.K.-based  Maplecroft , a global risk adviser.  Bahrain’s government has downplayed security risks for the
auto race. Visitors will find “safe and stable conditions,”
the Information Affairs Authority said on April 10. In recent
clashes, “no person who was not a rioter or police officer has
been injured,” it said.  ‘Path of Reconciliation’  “‘We will not allow anyone to spoil an important event for
the vast majority of Bahrainis,” Sheikh Abdul-Aziz Mubarak Al-
Khalifa, a spokesman for the authority, said in an April 17
phone interview. He said the race is “a great venue for people
of all sects and religions to come together and support a cause
that will allow us to embark on a path of reconciliation.”  Khalil, from the opposition Wefaq party, said scores of
people have been injured in clashes with police this month and
scores more arrested in the past two weeks.  “Formula One should be held at a time of stability, not
when we’re going through such circumstances,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  