-- Torture Suits Against Companies Blocked by Top U.S. Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-04-18T19:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/torture-suits-against-companies-blocked-by-top-u-s-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court limited the
reach of a law that protects American citizens from torture in
other countries, ruling that victims can sue only individuals,
not organizations or corporations.  The justices unanimously threw out a suit filed against the
Palestinian Authority and Palestine Liberation Organization by
the relatives of Azzam Rahim, an American allegedly tortured and
murdered in the West Bank during the 1990s.  The ruling is a prelude to a dispute the court will take up
in its next term, when it will use a case involving  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  to consider the scope of a similar law that applies to
non-citizens, the Alien Tort Statute.  Multinational companies have faced dozens of suits under
the two laws accusing them of playing roles in human rights
violations, environmental wrongdoing and labor abuses.  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , Unocal Corp.,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  KBR Inc. (KBR)  have all been sued.  In the Palestinian case, the central issue was a provision
in the 1991 Torture Victim Protection Act that authorizes suits
against “an individual” engaged in torture. The Supreme Court
today upheld a lower court by saying that language excludes
corporations or organizations such as the PLO and  Palestinian
Authority .  “The text of the TVPA convinces us that Congress did not
extend liability to organizations, sovereign or not,” Justice
Sonia Sotomayor wrote for the court. “There are no doubt valid
arguments for such an extension. But Congress has seen fit to
proceed in more modest steps in the act.”  Alien Tort Statute  The ruling doesn’t necessarily dictate how the court will
rule on the Alien Tort Statute, which doesn’t include a similar
reference to “an individual.” Sotomayor said the Alien Tort
Statute “offers no comparative value here regardless whether
corporate entities can be held liable” under that statute.  The high court heard arguments on both statutes in
February, in each case focusing on whether individuals alone
could be sued. A week later, the justices ordered a second
hearing in the Alien Tort Statute case to consider arguments
that the law can’t be applied overseas.  A ruling on that issue would potentially impose more
sweeping limits on lawsuits, shielding corporate officers as
well as the companies themselves. The justices will take up the
matter in the nine-month term that starts in October.  The case acted on today is Mohamad v. Palestinian
Authority, 11-88. The Alien Tort Statute case is Kiobel v. Shell
Petroleum, 10-1491.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  