-- Louis-Dreyfus in ‘Veep’ Has Best Role Since ‘Seinfeld’
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-04-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/louis-dreyfyus-in-veep-has-best-role-since-seinfeld-.html
Avoid the sporks.  That’s the cocktail-party warning given to the Vice
President of the  United States  on  HBO (TWX) ’s tart new comedy
“Veep,” starring Julia Louis-Dreyfus.  Plastic utensils, warns the VP’s chief of staff, “are
politicized.”  Disaster, or at least coast-to-coast embarrassment, lurks
near every photo-op for the nation’s second-in-charge, and
“Veep” creator Armando Iannucci couldn’t have found a better
candidate for humiliation than Louis-Dreyfus in the role of
Selina Meyer.  Not since “ Seinfeld ” has the actress been given such a
rich comic landscape to play out her winning blend of
mortification and ire.  Handed the White House-edited version of a speech she
wrote, the appalled Louis-Dreyfus curses and snaps, “I have
‘Hello’ and prepositions!” Nothing else survived.  Iannucci, well-known in Britain for his 2005 political
satire series  “The Thick of It”  and its feature-film spin-off
“ In the Loop ,” has a good feel for Beltway absurdities.  To “normalize” her image, Selina drops by a black-owned
yogurt shop, but not before an intense staff debate over which
flavor sends the best message. (Jamaican rum beats mint).  Higher Priorities  Dry and unsentimental, the show has more in common with the
original British version of “The Office” than its American
counterpart.  Running late for a meeting with her emotionally distant
college-age daughter, Selina tells an aide, without a hint of
maternal remorse, “Something more important than Catherine came
up.”  Speculation that “Veep” (which lists former  New York 
Times columnist Frank Rich as an executive producer) would be a
thinly-disguised lampoon of Sarah Palin -- proves false, judging
from the three half-hour episodes available for review.  Selina’s political affiliation is unidentifiable. We know
virtually nothing of the off-camera president aside from his
apparent disdain for the woman who’ll take his place in an
emergency.  A former senator, Selina wielded considerable power before
landing a job that carries only the potential for it. She’s
nobody’s fool, and both Louis-Dreyfus and “Veep” are best when
depicting the petty slights and comeuppances that signal
unspoken power plays.  Sharp Wit  The show’s sharp wit comes more from cleverness than sitcom
slapstick.  The first episode, written and directed by Iannucci,
introduces the veep’s retinue (and the series’ excellent cast).
Tony Hale (“Arrested Development”) plays Selina’s toadying
handler; Anna Chlumsky (“In the Loop”) is her chief of staff;
Matt Walsh (“Hung”) is the seasoned press handler whose
personal life is so barren he invents a pet dog; and Reid Scott
(“The Big C”) is a new staff member as ambitious as he is
handsome.  It’s impossible to resist Louis-Dreyfus’s charms,
especially when Selina’s self-regard rises and falls with every
fresh tidbit of Oval Office gossip.  “Well, that’s terrific news,” she says, fooling no one,
upon hearing that a presidential health-scare was merely
heartburn.  Even better is the look on Louis-Dreyfus’ face when the
White House flunky provides the capper: “You’re needed back at
the yogurt store.”  “Veep” airs Sunday on  HBO  at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include a  review  of Tulsi
restaurant and the  Pulitzer Prizes .  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 