-- House Extends Highway Funding, Prepares for Senate Talks
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-04-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/house-extends-highway-funding-prepares-for-senate-talks.html
As the U.S. House and Senate
prepared to negotiate a spending accord for highways, ports and
railroads, the nation’s top transportation official said a
multiyear bill is doomed in this presidential election year.  “I wish we could say we could get a transportation bill,
but I know we won’t,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood,
who served in Congress for 14 years, said at an event in
 Washington  yesterday, hours before the House voted 293-127 to
extend current spending through Sept. 30. “There won’t be a
bill before the election.”  LaHood’s remarks reflect that the procedural victory in the
Republican-controlled House left both parties no closer to an
agreement less than seven months before the November vote. House
Speaker  John Boehner , who said yesterday he lacked the votes to
get a five-year bill through the chamber, heads into talks with
leaders of the Democrat-controlled Senate who pushed through a
two-year, $109 billion plan with bipartisan support.  House Republicans  rebuffed calls from Democrats to vote on
the Senate plan.  The bill passed yesterday extended current highway policies
and spending levels while adding language that would force the
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  to approve the Keystone XL
pipeline and throw regulation of coal ash back to the states,
initiatives Democrats oppose. Both sides said they were willing
to support the House measure to advance the legislation to a
conference committee.  Congress last month passed an extension of transportation
programs through June 30, the ninth short-term bill since the
last multiyear policy legislation expired in 2009. As recently
as March 29, Boehner told reporters that leaders were putting
“the finishing touches” on revisions to the five-year plan
that “would move quickly” when lawmakers returned to
Washington this week following a two-week recess.  ‘Move the Process’  “This bill contains no tax increases, earmarks, or new
federal government programs, which may disappoint Democrats, but
this legislation will help move the process forward,”  House
Transportation  and Infrastructure Committee Chairman  John Mica ,
a Florida Republican, said yesterday. Representative Nick Rahall
of West Virginia, the panel’s senior Democrat, urged House
leaders to appoint conferees immediately.  Boehner said yesterday he went to his so-called Plan B,
extending current highway programs, because of a lack of support
among Republicans for the five-year authorization of road,
bridge and transit initiatives. States, municipalities and
construction groups have said a five-year bill would allow
long-term budgeting and planning for projects.  Referring to a measure drafted by Mica’s committee, Boehner
of  Ohio  told reporters that “if I had my druthers H.R. 7 would
have been on the floor six weeks ago, but there weren’t 218
votes.”  Keystone Opposition  Lawmakers trying to negotiate a highway bill with less
money and no earmarks may agree on shortening the time it takes
for government to complete environmental reviews and reduce
specialized programs, said Jeff Shoaf, senior executive director
of government and public affairs at the  Associated General
Contractors of America , a construction trade group in Arlington,
Virginia.  “Both the House and the Senate are trying to do more with
the funding they do have,” Shoaf said. “All those provisions
add up to doing more with less.”  The White House said in a statement that it opposes the 
House bill for its Keystone language, which “circumvents a
longstanding and proven process for determining whether
crossborder pipelines are in the national interest.”  ‘Outrageous Giveaway’  The coal-ash provision would stop the Environmental
Protection Agency from regulating the substance that results
from coal production.  Representative David McKinley, a  West Virginia  Republican,
called coal ash a vital component in producing the concrete that
makes transportation projects affordable. Rahall supported the
amendment and predicted the Senate may go along.  A 2008 spill of more than 5 million cubic yards of coal ash
slurry in Kingston,  Tennessee , prompted the EPA to propose
regulating the byproducts of burning coal as hazardous material.  The coal-ash provision is “really an outrageous giveaway
to the utilities that treat a toxic waste with the same
environmental requirements that we treat household garbage,”
said Scott Slesinger, legislative director for the  Natural
Resources Defense Council , an environmental advocacy group. “We
can’t believe there’s enough support in the Senate for this kind
of anti-environmental measure.”  The bills are H.R. 7 and H.R. 4348.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  