-- Panetta Seeks $1.3 Billion a Year From Allies for Afghans
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-04-18T19:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/panetta-seeks-1-3-billion-a-year-from-allies-for-afghan.html
Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta 
and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. has firmed
up commitments from NATO allies to end combat missions in
 Afghanistan  by the end of 2014 as planned and to provide about
$4 billion a year to fund Afghan security forces.  Panetta and Clinton, who attended a North Atlantic Treaty
Organization meeting in Brussels today, said the alliance
strategy is working and the security transition to Afghan forces
is on track.  Financing the standalone Afghan force has taken on greater
urgency as Western allies head for the exit after more than a
decade of warfare in Afghanistan. NATO is committed to
Afghanistan’s success in providing security and governance to
its people, Panetta said at a press conference at the alliance
headquarters.  “If the Afghans win, we win,” Panetta said.  Clinton said “the transition is on track” to hand
security missions to the Afghan forces. The Afghans “are
increasingly standing up for their own security,” she said at a
joint press conference with Panetta.  The primary focus of the defense and foreign ministers’
meeting in Brussels was on discussing the security strategy for
Afghanistan in preparation for the NATO summit in  Chicago  next
month. The NATO allies seek to agree on the next phase of the
transition to support the goal of ending combat missions in
2014, to define the relationship with Afghanistan after 2014 and
to work with the Afghans to ensure that the security forces are
funded.  NATO made progress toward providing about $4 billion
annually to help Afghanistan pay for its security forces.  Financing Needs  Australia this week said most of its troops will come home
by mid-2013 and the front-runner in the French presidential
campaign,  Francois Hollande , is pledging a pullout by the end of
2012.  A “number of allies” announced financial contributions
today, NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told
reporters in Brussels. “Together with the rest of the
international community, we will play our part and pay our share
in and sustaining Afghan security forces at the right level,”
he said.  Afghan soldiers and police officers totaled about 337,000
in mid-March and are scheduled to peak at 352,000 in October
before gradually dropping back after 2014 to about 230,000.
American estimates put the cost of fielding the Afghan army and
police at $4 billion to $6 billion a year, depending on the size
of the force.  Seeking Contributions  Panetta went into today’s meeting looking for about 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) from NATO allies to go along with
$500 million from the Afghan government. The U.S. hasn’t
announced whether it will put in the roughly $2.2 billion still
needed.  The U.K. today announced it will contribute 70 million
pounds ($112 million) for Afghan forces.  Rasmussen called the total $4 billion sum the “planning
basis” and didn’t disclose which countries made offers or how
much. A breakdown of contributions by country won’t come until
after a summit of alliance leaders hosted by President  Barack Obama  in Chicago on May 20-21, he said.  In the latest incident that may strain relations between
coalition forces and Afghan officials and citizens, the Pentagon
said today it would investigate photos published by the Los
Angeles Times that the newspaper said showed U.S. troops
“grinning and mugging” as they held up body parts of dead
Afghan insurgents.  ‘Unfortunate Incidents’  “These events took place apparently a couple of years ago,
and I consider them an isolated event,” Rasmussen said. “Such
very unfortunate incidents do not in any way define our
relationship with the Afghan people.”  Tensions were exacerbated by last month’s murder of 17
Afghan civilians, for which U.S. Army Staff Sergeant Robert Bales faces charges, following the burning of Korans at an
American base and a video that showed U.S. Marines urinating on
the bodies of Afghans they had killed.  NATO allies are fine-tuning the timetable for winding down
the mission, as war weariness and the political calendar in the
West swamp doubts about Afghanistan’s ability to govern itself.  U.S. and NATO officials painted  Australia ’s announcement
yesterday that the majority of its 1,500 troops will be out by
mid-2013 as in line with the established schedule. Australia
will keep trainers and special forces in Afghanistan after 2014,
a U.S. official told reporters.  “The Australian announcement is fully within the framework
we have outlined for a gradual transition to Afghan
responsibility,” Rasmussen said.  Missile Defense  Defense ministers also consulted on the alliance’s need for
technologies and weapons systems over the next 10 years as the
U.S. and European nations wrestle with tight budgets. The goal
is to pool resources and share capabilities such as airlift,
munitions, intelligence and surveillance, missile defense and
cyber-security.  Rasmussen said the Chicago summit will also declare that
the equipment and command systems are in place to provide
initial limited coverage of NATO’s European territory from a
missile attack. The project has led to friction with  Russia .  In Chicago “our ambition is to declare an interim missile
defense capability,” he said. “Today we made clear that we are
all determined to make that happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  