-- Panetta Condemns Army Photos of Dead Insurgents in Afghanistan
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-04-18T22:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/panetta-condemns-army-photos-of-dead-insurgents-in-afghanistan.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
condemned and apologized for photos showing U.S. Army soldiers
desecrating the corpses of insurgents in Afghanistan.  The photos, taken in 2010 and published yesterday by the
Los Angeles Times, show grinning troops mugging for photos with
dead insurgents. One shows a smiling soldier with a dead
insurgent’s hand on his shoulder. Panetta promised a thorough
investigation,  “I have strongly condemned what we see in those photos,”
Panetta said at a press conference yesterday in Brussels, where
he attended a NATO conference. “That behavior that was depicted
in those photos absolutely violates both our regulations and,
more importantly, our core values.”  Earlier incidents involving the U.S. military sparked
protests in Afghanistan even as public opinion polls show
Americans souring on the war.  In January, a video circulated on the Internet showed four
U.S. Marines urinating on Afghan corpses. In February, President
 Barack Obama  apologized for the burning of Korans on a U.S. air
base that triggered riots and more than a dozen deaths. Last
month, Army Staff Sergeant Robert Bales allegedly went on a
shooting spree and killed 17 Afghan civilians.  “This embarrassment just adds to the list of insults to
the Afghan population and reinforces to some that NATO and U.S.
coalition forces, with local Afghan police, are just not
interested in respecting locals,” said Qamar-ul Huda, a scholar
of Islam at the U.S. Institute of Peace in Washington.
“Unfortunately, it gives Taliban insurgents some more
propaganda for their efforts to fight foreigners and
government.”  Koran Burning  The newly circulated photos are less likely to provoke the
mass protests that were triggered after the Koran burnings,
which U.S. officials described as an accident and Afghans called
a grave desecration of a sacred text, Huda said.  “The Koran burnings fall under another category, where
core identity markers felt violated,” Huda said in an e-mail.  Panetta said the Pentagon had urged the Los Angeles Times
not to publish the photos.  “The reason for that is those kinds of photos are used by
the enemy to incite violence,” Panetta said. “And lives have
been lost as a result of the publication of similar photos in
the past.”  A soldier serving in  Afghanistan  with the 82nd Airborne’s
4th Brigade Combat Team from Fort Bragg,  North Carolina ,
provided 18 photos on condition of anonymity, according to the
newspaper. The soldier said the photos demonstrated a breakdown
in leadership and discipline that compromised the safety of the
troops.  Decision to Publish  “After careful consideration, we decided that publishing a
small but representative selection of the photos would fulfill
our obligation to readers to report vigorously and impartially
on all aspects of the American mission in Afghanistan, including
the allegation that the images reflect a breakdown in unit
discipline that was endangering U.S. troops,” Times Editor
Davan Maharaj said in a statement published by the Times.  Panetta said the incident wasn’t discussed at the NATO
meeting. “My apology is on behalf of the  Department of Defense 
and the U.S. government,” he said.  Panetta, a former Central Intelligence Agency director who
became defense secretary in July, said the Pentagon will take
appropriate action if the investigation finds rules and
regulations were violated.  “I know that young people sometimes, caught up in the
moment, make some very foolish decisions,” Panetta said. “I am
not excusing that behavior, but neither do I want these images
to bring further injury to our people or to our relationship
with the Afghan people.”  “I would be a little surprised if there was a major
response to it,” said Noah Coburn, a socio-cultural
anthropologist at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs,  New
York , who has done work in Afghanistan. “In the past, the
Afghan public has responded most harshly when U.S troops appear
to be attacking their religion, as in the case of Koran
desecration, or threatening women, as in the case of night
raids,” he said in an e-mail. “These morbid images, I think,
primarily support ideas that they already have,” he said of
Afghan civilians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  