-- Panthers, Predators, Coyotes Triumph on Road in NHL Playoffs
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-18T04:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/panthers-predators-coyotes-triumph-on-road-in-nhl-playoffs.html
Kevin Klein scored the go-ahead
goal as the  Nashville Predators  moved within one game of
advancing to round two in the National Hockey League playoffs
with a 3-1 win against the  Detroit Red Wings .  The Predators headed home with a 3-1 advantage in their
best-of-seven series. The Florida Panthers overcame a three-goal
deficit to beat the New Jersey Devils 4-3 and take a 2-1 lead in
their series, and the Phoenix Coyotes topped the Chicago
Blackhawks 3-2 in overtime to move ahead 2-1 in their series.  At Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Gabriel Bourque gave the
Predators a 1-0 lead early in the third period before Jiri Hudler tied the score 79 seconds later. Klein and David Legwand
cemented the victory with two goals during the final 14 minutes.  Nashville can win its series against  Detroit  in Game 5 on
April 20.  At Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey, Zach Parise,
Stephen Gionta and Patrik Elias gave the Devils a 3-0 lead six
minutes into the game.  Sean Bergenheim  started the Panthers’
scoring 10 minutes later with a power-play goal, followed by
Jason Garrison’s tally with eight seconds left in the first
period. Mike Weaver and Brian Campbell contributed goals in the
second period for the Panthers.  The Devils host the Panthers in Game 4 tomorrow.  Coyotes Win in Overtime  At United Center in Chicago, Mikkel Boedker scored his
first goal of the playoffs 13 minutes into overtime for the
Coyotes.  Andrew Brunette got a goal with 29 seconds left in the
first period to give the Blackhawks a 1-0 lead. Rostislav Klesla
tied the game at 1-1 eight minutes into the third period.
Michael Frolik scored 30 seconds later for the Blackhawks and
Ray Whitney forced the game into overtime at nine minutes, 21
seconds.  The Coyotes are back in Chicago tomorrow for Game 4 against
the Blackhawks.  In tonight’s games, the  New York Rangers  are looking for
their third victory against the  Ottawa Senators  in Game 4 of
their series. The Pittsburgh Penguins travel to Philadelphia,
where the Flyers can take the series 4-0 with a win. The  Los
Angeles Kings , with a 3-0 series lead, host the Vancouver
Canucks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  