-- Pat Summitt Leaves Tennessee Basketball Team After 8 Titles
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-18T18:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/pat-summitt-leaves-tennessee-basketball-team-after-eight-titles.html
Pat Summitt is stepping down as
coach of the University of  Tennessee  women’s basketball team,
eight months after disclosing that she had been diagnosed with
early onset dementia.  Summitt, who won eight national championships and a college
basketball-record 1,098 games in 38 seasons at Tennessee,
retains the title of head coach emeritus and will assist the
coaching staff, help with on-campus recruiting and serve as a
mentor to players.  Holly Warlick, the associate head coach and an assistant on
the Tennessee staff for 27 seasons, was named Summitt’s
successor, the Knoxville, Tennessee-based school said in a
statement.  “I recognize that the time has come to move into the
future and to step into a new role,” Summitt, 60, said. “I
support Holly Warlick being named the next head coach, and I
want to help ensure the stability of the program going
forward.”  Summitt coached Tennessee last season with Warlick and
other assistants taking enlarged roles at practice and in games.
The Volunteers had a 27-9 record, advancing to the final eight
of the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament
before losing to the eventual champion, Baylor University.  Summitt had a .841 winning percentage with the Volunteers
and captured championships in 1987, 1989, 1991, 1996, 1997,
1998, 2007 and 2008. The 1997-98 team went 39-0.  Final Fours  Her teams made 18 trips to the Final Four of the NCAA
tournament, tied with the UCLA and North Carolina men’s teams
for the most by a college basketball program. Her eight
championships trail only the 10 won by former UCLA men’s coach
 John Wooden .  “It is extremely difficult to adequately express what Pat
Summitt has meant to the University of Tennessee, the sport of
basketball, and the growth of women’s athletics nationally,”
Tennessee Athletic Director Dave Hart said. “She is an icon who
does not view herself in that light, and her legacy is well-
defined and everlasting. Just like there will never be another
John Wooden, there will never be another Pat Summitt.”  Summitt said in August that she had been diagnosed last
year by doctors with early onset dementia, Alzheimer’s type.  She said she’ll continue her role as a spokeswoman in the
fight against Alzheimer’s through the Pat Summitt Foundation
Fund, while remaining close to the Tennessee women’s basketball
program in her new role.  “If anyone asks, you can find me observing practice or in
my office,” Summitt said. “Coaching is the great passion of my
life, and the job to me has always been an opportunity to work
with our student-athletes and help them discover what they want.
I will continue to make them my passion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  