-- PGE Gets Permits to Build First Polish Offshore Wind Farms
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-04-18T10:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/pge-gets-permits-to-build-first-polish-offshore-wind-farms-1-.html
PGE SA (PGE) , Poland’s largest power
producer, received three government permits to build the first
Polish offshore wind farms on the Baltic Sea.  The state-controlled utility applied to build wind farms
with a combined capacity of 3,450 megawatts, Lukasz Witkowski, a
PGE spokesman, said by phone today. The government has granted
five offshore permits for a total capacity of 4,500 megawatts,
Mikolaj Karpinski, a spokesman for the Transport, Construction
and Maritime Economy Ministry, said in an e-mail today in
response to Bloomberg questions.  Investors will have six years, with an option to extend by
two, to build wind farms, Deputy Transport, Construction and
Maritime Economy Minister Anna Wypych-Namiotko said on Feb. 22.
Poland got about 50 applications from companies to build wind
farms, each for 750 to 1,000 megawatts of power capacity.  The European Union’s biggest eastern state, which produces
about 90 percent of its electricity from coal, needs to increase
its renewable energy capacity to meet EU criteria for cutting
carbon-dioxide emissions. Poland has the potential to build as
much as 10,000 megawatts of offshore farms on the  Baltic Sea ,
which will generate 30 terawatt-hours of electricity per year,
or almost 20 percent of its current annual consumption, Bogdan
Gutkowski, the head of Polish Offshore Wind Energy Society, said
on Feb. 22.  Building one megawatt of offshore capacity is estimated to
cost 3 million euros ($3.9 million), Gutkowski said. That’s more
than double the price of a Feb. 15 deal PGE signed to build
1,800 megawatts in coal-fired units at its Opole plant.  Orlen, Kulczyk  Last year Poland changed the law, extending the validity of
permits to build offshore wind farms to 30 from five years. The
country’s onshore wind energy capacity installed will probably
rise to  5,521 megawatts  in three years from 1,933 megawatts,
according to forecasts by the country’s power grid operator.  PKN Orlen SA, Poland’s largest oil refiner, is set to get
permits to build offshore wind farms “within days,” while
Kulczyk Investments, owned by Polish billionaire  Jan Kulczyk ,
has already got government approval, Rzeczpospolita newspaper
reported last week.  Spokespeople for Orlen and Kulczyk had no immediate comment
on wind farm permits when contacted by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  