-- Philippine Bonds Gain on Predictions Rates to Stay at Record Low
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-04-18T08:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/philippine-bonds-gain-on-predictions-rates-to-stay-at-record-low.html
Philippine bonds rose on
speculation prices in the economy will remain stable, allowing
the central bank to hold  interest rates  at a record low.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will keep its  overnight
borrowing rate  at 4 percent at a meeting tomorrow, according to
all 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The monetary authority
cut rates at the previous two sessions. Manageable inflation is
a priority of President  Benigno Aquino , presidential spokesman
Edwin Lacierda said yesterday after a survey showed consumer
prices were one of the biggest concerns among Filipinos.  “The central bank can probably afford to stay at the
current level for a longer time given the outlook for stable
inflation,” said Speedy Delfino, a trader at East West Banking
Corp. in Manila.  The yield on 5 percent government bonds due August 2018
fell 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 4.90 percent,
the first decline in six days, as of 4 p.m. in  Manila , according
to prices from Tradition Financial Services.  The Bureau of the Treasury sold six-month and one-year
bills for the first time in a month on April 16, “an indication
that short-term secondary-market rates are normalizing,”
according to Delfino.  Inflation will be within the 3 percent to 5 percent target
this year, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco told reporters
today. Bangko Sentral will gauge the impact of previous rate
reductions and assess the outlook on consumer prices tomorrow,
he said. Gains in consumer prices unexpectedly slowed to a 30-
month low of 2.6 percent in March, official data show.  The peso closed little changed at 42.655 per dollar,
compared with 42.650 yesterday, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.
It earlier touched 42.560, the strongest level since April 3.  One-month implied volatility for the currency, which
measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, dropped 30
basis points to 5.40 percent, the lowest level since 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  