-- Pick n Pay Climbs on Second-Half Earnings, Expansion Plans
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-04-18T13:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/pick-n-pay-climbs-on-second-half-earnings-expansion-plans-1-.html
Pick n Pay Stores Ltd.  rose the
most in three weeks in Johannesburg as second-half earnings rose
and the South African supermarket chain said it plans to
increase selling space.  The stock climbed as much as 2.6 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since March 27, to 43.39 rand. The  shares  traded
2.4 percent up at 2:42 p.m., paring the fall to 7.1 percent this
year and giving the company a market value of 20.8 billion rand
($2.6 billion).  Earnings excluding one-time items climbed 6.7 percent to
105.98 cents a share in the fiscal second half through February
from a year earlier, following investment in a loyalty program
and distribution system, the retailer said in a statement today.  “The second-half earnings show we’ve potentially seen a
bottoming out as the benefits of its investment spending comes
through,” Shamil Ismail, an analyst at Cadiz Securities, said
by phone from  Cape Town .  The retailer  plans  to open more than 100 stores in the next
year, representing 3.5 percent growth in new space.  Pick n Pay has trailed in overall space growth and been
“underweight in fast-growing smaller supermarkets,” Deputy
Chief Executive Officer Richard van Rensburg said in a copy of a
presentation in Cape Town today.  The company plans to open three new stores in  Africa  in
2013, excluding TM Supermarkets in Zimbabwe and stores in  South
Africa , with one each in Mozambique, Zambia and Mauritius.  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , Africa’s largest food retailer,
said on Feb. 21 that profit climbed 20 percent to 1.4 billion
rand in the six months through Dec. 11 from a year earlier.  The sale of Pick n Pay’s Franklins supermarket chain in
 Australia  to Metcash Ltd. was completed on Sept. 30, earning the
South African company 438.4 million rand after tax. Proceeds
from the sale, which the company will reinvest in its South
African operations, were accounted for in the half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  