-- Poland Keeps Up Jobs Pace, Wages Slow Amid Rate-Rise Calls
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-04-18T12:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/poland-keeps-up-jobs-pace-wages-slow-amid-rate-rise-calls-1-.html
Polish  job growth  at companies with
more than nine workers held steady and corporate-wage increases
decelerated in March, suggesting the European Union’s biggest
eastern economy isn’t gaining strength and damping calls for
higher borrowing costs.  Corporate employment rose 0.5 percent from a year earlier,
the same rate as in February, the  Central Statistical Office  in
Warsaw said today. That matches the median estimate of 27
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Hiring fell 0.1 percent from
the previous month.  Economic growth in  Poland , the only EU member to dodge a
recession in 2009, will slow to 2.5 percent this year from an
estimated 4.3 percent in 2011 as the euro-region debt crisis
curbs exports demand, the government forecasts. Labor-market and
industry data this week “should be enough” to decide whether
to leave  interest rates  unchanged for an 11th month in May,
central banker Anna Zielinska-Glebocka said April 14.  The bank “will consider tightening monetary policy in the
nearest future, unless signs of considerable economic weakening
in Poland appear and the outlook for inflation returning to the
target does not improve,” Governor  Marek Belka  told an April 4
news conference after keeping rates unchanged.  The zloty, the world’s second-best performer against the
euro this year among currencies tracked by Bloomberg with a 6.8
percent advance, was 0.3 percent weaker at 4.1811 at 2:08 p.m.
in Warsaw.  Industry Loses Steam  Industrial-output growth probably slowed to 4.4 percent
from a year earlier in March, compared with 4.6 percent in
February, according to the median estimate of 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. That would be the second monthly
deceleration and the slowest pace since last July. The
statistics office will report the data tomorrow.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Polish unit  Bank Handlowy SA (BHW)  said March 19
it will cut 11 percent of its workforce and close 40 percent of
its retail branches this year to lower costs as the economy
slows. Bank BPH SA, a lender owned by General Electric Co.,
plans to eliminate as many as 600 jobs by the end of November as
it seeks to reduce costs to 60 percent of income in 2015, it
said in an April 17 regulatory statement.  Average gross wages rose 3.8 percent from a year earlier in
March after a 4.3 percent surge the previous month, matching the
median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Wages
rose 5.7 percent from February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  