-- Posen Switches Vote as BOE Concerned on Inflation Risks
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-18T11:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/posen-switches-vote-as-boe-concerned-on-inflation-risks.html
Adam Posen  ended his push for
further Bank of  England  stimulus this month and  David Miles 
described his view on the need for more as “finely balanced”
as officials said inflation may turn out faster than forecast.  The pound rose after minutes of the central bank’s April 4-
5 meeting showed that Posen joined the majority of the nine-
member Monetary Policy Committee in seeking no change to the 325
billion-pound ($517 billion)  asset-purchase target . U.K. jobless
claims rose less than economists forecast and the official
 unemployment rate  fell, a separate report showed.  While Bank of England officials noted that the U.K. may
face a recession in the first half of this year, they said
 inflation  may turn out faster than forecast. They endorsed a
final month of bond purchases to aid growth while setting the
stage for a possible pause in May, when they will consider new
quarterly forecasts and debate whether to halt the so-called
quantitative-easing program.  “The probability of QE in May -- which already looked
relatively low -- has diminished significantly,” said  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London. “It is too soon to rule out further QE in the second
half of 2012, but the probability of this is diminishing in
response to short-term inflation ‘stickiness’ and firmer
underlying activity data.”  While the  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday that
policy makers can still loosen policy further to aid  economic
growth , data showed inflation unexpectedly accelerated for the
first time in six months. Consumer prices rose an annual 3.5
percent in March, compared with 3.4 percent in February.  Inflation Threat  “There was a greater chance than before that above-target
 inflation  would persist into the medium term,” officials said
in the minutes released today in London.  Bank of England  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker , who sided with
the majority at this month’s meeting, said today that policy
makers will keep inflation expectations anchored to the central
bank’s 2 percent goal as the pace of price gains slows less than
expected this year.  “Inflation might remain above 3 percent throughout the
second quarter of this year, and possibly into the second half
of the year,” Tucker said in a speech in Liverpool, northwest
England. The rate of consumer-price gains remains
“uncomfortably above target,” he said.  Miles, who along with Posen was outvoted for a 25 billion-
pound increase in stimulus in March, and kept up his call this
month, described his view on the need for more as “finely
balanced” in the minutes.  BOE Forecast  “There was a risk that inflation would fall more slowly
than assumed in the February inflation report projections, and
the recent flow of data provided some support for this view,”
the minutes said.  British  jobless claims  rose by 3,600 in March to 1.61
million, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
 London . The median forecast of 29 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a gain of 6,000. Unemployment as measured by
International Labour Organization methods dropped to 8.3 percent
in the quarter through February from 8.4 percent.  The pound reached the strongest level against the euro in
more than 19 months and gilts dropped with the  yield  on the U.K.
two-year note climbing to a four-week high after today’s data.
European shares fell for the first time in three days.  The pound appreciated 0.7 percent to 81.83 pence per euro
at 12:13 p.m. London time. It reached 81.78, the strongest level
since Aug. 31, 2010. Sterling climbed 0.3 percent to $1.5977.
The two-year note yield advanced three basis points to 0.46
percent, after reaching 0.49 percent, the highest since March
21.  Stock Markets  The  Stoxx Europe (SXXP)  600 Index fell 0.7 percent and Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures declined less than 0.2 percent.  British economic growth “will be weak in early 2012,
before recovering,” the Washington-based IMF said in its World
Economic Outlook yesterday. “With inflation expected to fall
below the 2 percent target amid weaker growth and commodity
prices, the Bank of England can further ease its monetary policy
stance.”  The statistics office will release its initial estimate of
first-quarter GDP on April 25. That data will show whether the
U.K. returned to recession after the economy shrank 0.3 percent
in the final three months of 2011. Economic growth will be just
0.4 percent this year and will continue to stall until companies
boost investment, Ernst & Young LLP’s ITEM Club said this week.  MPC Split  The bank’s forecasts in February showed inflation will slow
below the 2 percent goal by the end of the year. The MPC split
that month as seven policy makers voted to raise the bond plan
by 50 billion pounds, while Posen and Miles wanted a 75 billion-
pound increase. The two were outvoted last month seeking a 25
billion-pound increase.  Elsewhere in  Europe ,  Sweden ’s central bank today left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 1.5 percent amid signs the
largest Nordic economy will avoid a recession after policy
makers across Europe stepped in to ease debt crisis concerns.
The move was predicted by 14 of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Turkey ’s central bank kept its interest-rate corridor
unchanged, leaving the benchmark one-week repo rate, the floor
of the corridor, at 5.75 percent, matching all 11 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey. The maximum rate on overnight loans was also
unchanged at 11.5 percent, the Ankara-based bank said on its
website today.  In  Asia , data today showed  China ’s home prices fell in a
record 37 of 70 cities tracked by the government in March as
officials pledged to keep restrictions on property purchases
that have sapped buyer demand. That underscores forecasts for
China’s economic growth to slow further this quarter after the
rate reached the lowest level in almost three years in the three
months through March.  South Africa ’s consumer price index increased 6 percent in
March from a year earlier, slower than the 6.1 percent recorded
in February and matching the median estimate of 18 economists.  In  North America , the Bank of  Canada  will release its
quarterly monetary policy report later today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  