-- Property Shares Decline After Home Prices Slump: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-04-18T21:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/property-shares-decline-after-home-prices-slump-china-overnight.html
SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  led Chinese
property stocks lower in New York trading after  home prices  in
the nation tumbled, raising concerns the world’s second-largest
economy will slow further.  SouFun, owner of China’s largest real estate website, fell
from the highest level in two weeks. Property agency services  E-
House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  dropped for the third time in four
days. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. was little changed at 102.76
yesterday. Casino operator  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) 
climbed to the highest level in eight months.  China’s home prices dropped in a record 37 of 70 cities
tracked by the government in March, the statistics bureau said
yesterday. The release comes a week after a report from  China ’s
statistics bureau showed first-quarter home sales declined 18
percent, as the government continued a two-year campaign to rein
in property prices. The retreat may worsen a slowdown in the
economy, which expanded at the slowest pace in 11 quarters
during the January-March period, International Strategy &
Investment Group said.  “The outlook for real estate equities is grim as long as
the government won’t lift the restrictions, which we think will
remain until 2013,”  Donald Straszheim , the head of China
research at International Strategy & Investment, said by
telephone from  Los Angeles . “The slowing trend in the Chinese
economy will continue this year as housing prices fall and trade
weakens.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 0.1 percent to a one-
month high of $37.54. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slid 0.4
percent to 1,385.14, following the biggest advance in more than
a month for the gauge on April 17, as Intel Corp. and
International Business Machines Corp. drove a slump in
technology shares after reporting results.  SouFun, E-House  Beijing-based SouFun sank 1.8 percent to $18.20, extending
its decline this month to 5.1 percent. E-House, based in
Shanghai, dropped 0.7 percent to $5.99.  China Real Estate
Information Corp. (CRIC) , a Shanghai-based property data and consulting
firm, retreated 0.8 percent to $5.27.  China has toughened since 2010 requirements for down
payments and mortgages, and imposed restrictions on the number
of homes each family is allowed to buy.  China Real Estate plans to hold a  shareholders’ meeting 
today in Shanghai to vote on an acquisition proposal by E-House,
according to a statement March 21. E-House said on Dec. 28 that
it agreed to acquire outstanding shares of Real Estate that it
didn’t already own.  Expectation Mismatch  There’s a “mismatch” between the market and the
government in their housing price expectations, Jinsong Du, a
Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit Suisse AG, said.  “What the investors worry about is the slowdown of the
economy as a result of a cooler housing market,” Du said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday. “The government
is more concerned about a potential rebound in prices that will
destroy all the efforts previously on cooling down the market.”  The Chinese economy  expanded  8.1 percent in the first
quarter this year, the slowest pace since the second quarter of
2009. The government in March cut the growth target to 7.5
percent for this year, after keeping it at 8 percent in the
previous seven years.  There will be more cities in China reporting declines in
home prices than those with gains in the next few months,
 Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in New
York, which oversees more than $1.6 billion, wrote in a note to
clients yesterday.“Home prices are always a lagging indicator
in a housing cycle,” he said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped 2 percent yesterday to
2,380.85, snapping a two-day slump. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  added
1 percent to 10,896.89 after a two-day decline.  Melco Gains  Melco, which operates in Macau, the only Chinese city where
casinos are legal, surged 3.8 percent to $14.87 in New York, the
highest close since Aug. 3. Its American depositary receipts
traded 2.9 percent  above  its Hong Kong stock, which gained 2.6
percent to HK$37.40, the equivalent of $4.82 per share. The
premium in the ADRs, each representing three Hong Kong shares,
was the  widest  since April 12.  Macau’s gross gambling revenue may rise 22 percent in April
from a year ago to more than 25 billion patacas ($3.1 billion),
analysts led by Anil Daswani at Citigroup Inc. wrote in an e-
mailed note to clients yesterday.  Spreadtrum Competitor  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a Shanghai-based mobile-
phone chip designer, plunged 7.8 percent to $13.67, the lowest
level since Aug. 8.  Chardan Capital Markets analyst Jay Srivatsa yesterday
recommended buying shares of Shanghai-based  RDA Microelectronics
Inc. (RDA)  RDA is taking market share away from Spreadtrum as it
undercuts its competitor’s pricing, said Srivatsa by phone, who
has a neutral rating on Spreadtrum.  Analysts led by Bill Lu at Morgan Stanley downgraded
Spreadtrum to equal-weight from overweight on April 16, meaning
they expect the stock to be in line with the total return of the
relevant country MSCI index over the next 12 to 18 months. They
cut the price target for its stock to $18.31 from $26.50.  Trading Band  The Chinese yuan was little changed at 6.3028 per dollar in
Shanghai yesterday, after rising the most in almost a month in
the previous day, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. The People’s Bank of China widened the yuan’s trading
band versus the dollar to 1 percent on either side of the so-
called fixing rate from 0.5 percent, effective April 16.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said China’s
move reflects changes that are “very significant and very
promising” at the Brookings Institution in  Washington 
yesterday. China is showing a commitment “to this broad change
in growth strategy, towards a growth strategy less dependent on
external demand,” he said.  The Chinese yuan could be made fully convertible in five
to 10 years and Russia’s central bank will include the currency
in its reserves once that is achieved, First Deputy Chairman
 Alexei Ulyukayev  said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York  yesterday. Widening in the yuan’s
trading band is “going in the right direction” in its moves to
liberalize the yuan, Ulyukayev said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  