-- Prosecutors Weigh Charges in News Corp. Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-04-18T17:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/prosecutors-weigh-phone-hacking-charges-for-journalists-police.html
U.K. prosecutors are considering
criminal charges against as many as four journalists, a police
officer and six members of the public in probes triggered by a
phone-hacking scandal at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid.  Files given to prosecutors by the Metropolitan Police
outline claims including violations of Britain’s data-protection
law, perverting the course of justice and witness intimidation,
the  Crown Prosecution Service  said today in a statement. The Met
said it has arrested 42 people in three probes of voice-mail
interception, computer hacking and bribery by the now-defunct
newspaper and another News Corp. title, the Sun.  “We are unable to give any timescale for charging
decisions, except to say that these cases are being considered
very carefully and thoroughly,” CPS said in the statement,
without identifying the suspects.  The claims already triggered a judge-led inquiry into media
ethics that has pulled in News Corp.’s competitors and heard
testimony from victims. News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  and
his son, Deputy Chief Operating Officer  James Murdoch , are
scheduled to testify at the inquiry in  London  next week,
according to a person familiar with the matter who declined to
be identified because the witness list hasn’t been published.  Brooks, Coulson  The scandal, involving journalists intercepting the voice
mail of celebrities and bribing police for stories, led to the
arrest in July of Rebekah Brooks, the ex-chief executive officer
of News Corp.’s British publishing unit. Former News of the
World editor  Andy Coulson , who served as press chief to U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron , was also arrested.  Brooks was detained a second time last month, along with
her husband Charlie, a former race-horse trainer, in a new probe
dubbed Operation Sacha, which is investigating an alleged
conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Police at the time
said they consulted with prosecutors before making the arrests.  Brooks’s spokesman,  David Wilson , declined to comment
today. Neither Brooks nor Coulson were named by prosecutors in
today’s statement and both have denied the allegations.  The new information from the Met was included in four files
on possible charges, with each file involving one unidentified
journalist. CPS spokesman Calum Grant declined to say whether
the files involve separate journalists.  Witness Intimidation  One file involves a journalist and a police officer in
relation to misconduct in a public office and offenses of the
data protection act. Another file relates to a journalist and
six members of the public accused of perverting the course of
justice. The two other files concern a journalist involved in
witness intimidation and a law covering data interception.  A message left at the press office of News Corp.’s U.K.
unit, News International, wasn’t immediately returned.  The CPS’s director of public prosecutions,  Keir Starmer ,
testified at the media-ethics inquiry earlier this month to
explain why only two News of the World employees were charged
with phone hacking in 2006, when police had evidence it was more
widespread. Police told prosecutors at the time that no such
evidence existed and resisted calls in 2009 to review the
evidence again, he said.  Rupert Murdoch shuttered the News of the World in July
after revelations it hacked the voice mail of a murdered
schoolgirl in 2002. Civil lawsuits against the company also shed
light on evidence proving the practice was more widespread than
News Corp. claimed, triggering the new police probes.  Most of the arrests have been made in the phone-hacking
probe, known as Operation Weeting, and the bribery
investigation, called Operation Elveden -- including three
people arrested for both. A separate investigation into leaks
from the phone-hacking probe has also been opened, known as
Operation Kilo.  The computer-hacking probe, dubbed Operation Tuleta, has
garnered three arrests.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  