-- Qualcomm Shares Drop on Lower Forecast
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-04-19T20:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/qualcomm-sales-profit-predictions-fall-short-of-some-estimates.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest maker of
mobile-phone semiconductors, declined the most in eight months
after its third-quarter forecasts fell short of some analysts’
estimates on increased spending to bolster chip output.  Sales for the period ending in June will be $4.45 billion
to $4.85 billion, the San Diego-based company said in a
statement yesterday. Analysts on average  estimated  $4.81
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income
will be 67 cents to 73 cents a share, Qualcomm said, compared
with the average prediction of 77 cents.  Qualcomm’s operating expenses surged 41 percent to $3.43
billion in the second quarter, outpacing sales gains, as the
company spent more on production to meet demand for new types of
advanced chips. Qualcomm can’t get enough supply from its
existing manufacturer and is seeking additional output, Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  said in an interview.  “Qualcomm has some of the best designs on the planet, but
they don’t have control of their manufacturing,” said Gus Richard, an analyst at Piper Jaffray Inc. “These guys killed it
in design wins and they need a lot of volume. They can’t get
that volume.”  The stock dropped 6.6 percent to $62.57 at the close in  New
York  for the biggest decrease since Aug. 8. The shares had
advanced 14.4 percent this year before today.  Before today, the stock’s 22 percent increase this year was
more than double the gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
and outpaced the 15 percent rise in the Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index, which investors use to track the
performance of chip-industry stocks.  Second Quarter  Net income in the second quarter, which ended March 25, was
$2.23 billion, or $1.28 a share, compared with $999 million, or
59 cents, a year earlier. Sales rose 28 percent to $4.94
billion. Analysts on average had predicted  earnings  of $1.10 a
share and sales of $4.84 billion.  Mobile-phone shipments are estimated to reach 1.7 billion
in 2012, a gain of 8.2 percent from 2011, according to IDC.
Smartphone shipments, a subset of the mobile-phone market, will
surge 33.5 percent, the market researcher predicts.  Qualcomm, like other chipmakers, relies on so-called
foundries in  Taiwan  such as  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2330)  to build its chips.  The company is spending to get its latest chips made by new
suppliers, Jacobs said yesterday. Extending production to new
manufacturers requires Qualcomm to invest in adapting its
designs to their production, increasing operating  expenses , he
said.  Strong Demand  The shortfall reflects heavy demand and hasn’t been caused
by manufacturing glitches, Jacobs said. Output should be able to
meet demand by the calendar fourth quarter, he said.  “It’s painful not to be able to supply all of the chips
your customers ask for,” Jacobs said.  Qualcomm sells baseband chips, which connect phones to
cellular networks, to wireless device makers, including Samsung
Electronics Co., Apple Inc. and  HTC Corp. (2498)  Those companies
account for more than 30 percent of Qualcomm’s sales, according
to a Bloomberg  supply-chain  analysis.  Even with the supply constraints, Qualcomm maintained its
forecast that revenue will be $18.7 billion to $19.7 billion for
the fiscal year ending in September.  “The rest of this year would have been a lot stronger if
not for our inability to get the product to some of our
customers,” Chief Financial Officer Bill Keitel said in an
interview. “You’ve got to make your customers happy every day.
It worries me when we don’t.”  The company is also expanding into the market for
application processors, the chips that run programs in phones
and tablet computers, and will be supplying its Snapdragon
processors to computer makers using the new version of Microsoft
Corp.’s Windows software.  Qualcomm’s licensing  revenue , which provides more than 70
percent of its profit, is calculated as a percentage of the
average selling price of phones. That income accrues regardless
of whether device makers use the company’s chips.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  