-- Trademark Is a Privilege in Australia, Government Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-04-18T07:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/trademark-is-a-privilege-in-australia-government-says.html
Trademark use by companies in
 Australia  is a privilege that the government can curtail,
Queensland state’s solicitor-general said in defending the
country’s plain-packaging legislation for cigarettes.  “Privilege is not property,”  Walter Sofronoff ,
Queensland’s solicitor-general, told the seven-judge panel of
Australia’s High Court today during the second day of a hearing
on the legality of the plain-packaging law. “It’s a liberty to
act unless regulated by law.”  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  Europe ’s biggest cigarette
maker, and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  were joined by  Philip Morris
International Inc. (PM) , the largest publicly traded tobacco
manufacturer, and  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  in a  challenge  to
the Australian law requiring cigarettes to be sold in uniform
packages. The tobacco companies are seeking a ruling deeming the
Australian law unconstitutional for seizing their intellectual
property without adequate compensation.  Australia’s trademark law is in place to ensure companies’
logos are protected from misuse by competitors or individuals,
Sofronoff said.  The government crossed a line with the new rules that
prohibit the use of logos and trademarks, moving from regulating
tobacco sales by requiring warning messages to “commandeering
people’s property,”  Bret Walker , a lawyer for  Imperial Tobacco ,
told the court today.  Government Demands  If upheld, the law could allow the government to impose all
sorts of demands including potentially requiring Ford Motor Co.
cars to be sold with signs proclaiming “I’d rather be driving a
Holden,” Walker said, referring to the General Motors Co.’s
Australian unit.  “It is wrong to hypothesize the extreme use of the
power,” Stephen Gageler, the federal solicitor-general, told
the court.  A more realistic example would be the requirement that all
cars sold in Australia are required to be fitted with seatbelts,
Gageler said.  Australia’s government is confident the law will be upheld,
Attorney-General Nicola Roxon told reporters before the start of
the hearing yesterday.  “Tobacco is the only legal product sold in Australia which
if used as intended will kill you,” Roxon said. “No other
product is in that category.”  Lawyers Challenged  Lawyers representing the  tobacco companies  were repeatedly
challenged on their positions by six of the seven justices, with
Chief Justice Robert French echoing Roxon’s concerns.  “You’re putting into the market a substance that causes
serious disease or is fatal,” French said, adding that puts
tobacco in a different category than cars or soft drinks.  The European Commission,  New Zealand , Canada, Belgium,
Iceland and  France  have all indicated an interest in
implementing a plain-packaging law on cigarettes.  Smoking is estimated to have led to the deaths of  more than
900,000 Australians  from 1950 to 2008, according to the
government. Still, almost one-sixth of the Australian population
aged 14 years and older smokes cigarettes on a daily basis, the
government said.  Under the plain-packaging law, cigarettes will be sold with
no company logos and the same font for all brands on a dark
brown background. Graphic health warnings will cover 90 percent
of the back of the package and 70 percent of the front. The law
was approved by the Australian Senate on Nov. 10.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v the
Commonwealth of Australia. S389/2011.  High Court  of Australia
(Canberra).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  