-- Real Madrid Sells Soccer’s Allure in Desert That Beat Woods
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-04-19T13:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/real-madrid-sells-soccer-allure-in-desert-that-beat-tiger-woods.html
Real Madrid is at the center of a
$1 billion bid to make a soccer-themed resort succeed in a
Middle East country where race cars and golf failed.  The world’s richest soccer club is lending its name to a
project in the  United Arab Emirates  with a 10,000-seat stadium
and a target of 1 million visitors a year. The attendance goal
exceeds the number of people who last year travelled to the
emirate of Ras al Khaimah, where the project will be based.  Branded real-estate developments ranging from the  Ferrari
World  amusement park in Abu Dhabi to a planned Tiger Woods golf
resort in Dubai stumbled after the global financial crisis in
2008 caused investors and visitors to retreat. Securing
financing for the park will be easier than attracting enough
paying customers to make the investment pay off, according to
Saud Masud, chief executive officer of SM Advisory Group LLC, a
New York based investment firm.  “There is enough money sloshing around this part of the
world that they can build anything they want,” Masud said.
“It’s a question of whether you can get it to work so you can
pay the money back with returns, and that’s very unlikely.”  The 40-hectare (99-acre) project on the artificial  Marjan
Island  is like many that evaporated after the U.A.E.’s  property
market  slumped. It will include a marina, yacht club and
interactive museum as well as homes, a shopping mall, a football
training academy and a 450-room five-star hotel. The centerpiece
of the resort, to be completed in 2015, will be a soccer stadium
in a half circle facing the sea.  In Dubai’s Shadow  Ras al Khaimah, which has little infrastructure compared
with Dubai and  Abu Dhabi , brought in 835,000 visitors last year,
according to its tourism authority. Dubai drew 9.3 million with
attractions such as the world’s tallest tower, palm-shaped
islands and indoor skiing.  The visitor target is “very aggressive,” according to
Emad Mostaque, a U.K.-based analyst at emerging markets
investment adviser Religare Capital Markets. He estimated that
only about 600,000 people a year visit Ras al Khamiah, the
northernmost emirate about an hour’s drive from Dubai. Census
data from 2005 put the emirate’s population at about 198,000.  Developments linked to global brands proliferated in Dubai
and Abu Dhabi in the years before the property market crashed in
2008. Projects valued at about $500 billion were halted or
cancelled across the U.A.E., Arqaam Capital analyst Mohammad Kamal said in January.  Halted Projects  The builders of a $1.1 billion Tiger Woods-branded golf
resort said at the end of 2011 that they had halted work.
Developer  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  sold its Ferrari World amusement
park to the Abu Dhabi government last year as part of a 36
billion-dirham ($9.8 billion) bailout. DreamWorks Animation SKG
Inc., Universal Studios and Legoland all planned attractions in
the Dubailand resort, most of which was put on hold in 2008.  Ras al Khaimah’s own development plans were hit by the
global credit crisis.  RAK Properties PJSC (RAKPROP)  halted work on parts
of  Mina Al Arab , a beach resort that included homes and offices,
after demand evaporated.  Still, Real Madrid Resort Island has advantages that may
help it avoid the fate of past projects, according to Mostaque
of Religare. Construction costs, land prices and  interest rates 
are “nicely depressed,” making it easier for the company to
reach its target for return on investment, he said.  Biggest Earners  Real  Madrid  was global soccer’s highest-earning team in
2011, with revenue of 479.5 million euros ($627 million),
according to an annual report published by Deloitte LLP. Forbes
Magazine ranked English Premier League champion Manchester
United as the world’s most valuable team at $2.24 billion. Real
Madrid was second at $1.87 billion.  Florentino Perez , the club’s president, is no stranger to
property development and innovative ways to boost Real Madrid’s
revenue.  The chairman and CEO of  Spain ’s biggest builder,
Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA, or ACS, sold the
team’s training ground for 500 million euros, in 2001, helping
bankroll signings of so-called Galactico players such as
 Zinedine Zidane  of  France  and  England ’s  David Beckham , boosting
marketing income and making the team soccer’s top earner.  Real Madrid officials weren’t made available by the team’s
media office to comment about the viability of the project or
whether the club is investing any money.  Millions of Fans  “This is more of a tourist and entertainment project, not
a housing one,” said RAK Properties CEO Mohammed Sultan Al Qadi. “It has the name and will have the customers. There are
millions of people who are loyal to” Real Madrid.  RAK slid 5 percent to close at 0.38 dirhams in Abu Dhabi
trading today, the lowest since Feb. 23. The shares have
declined 10 percent in the past 12 months.  The resilience of Dubai’s tourism and retail industries and
a revival in investment and development is also likely to
benefit new projects. Dubai’s malls and hotels benefited as
political upheaval across the  Middle East  drove visitors away
from more established destinations such as  Egypt .  “If it’s built as specified, it will be a success given
the tourist demand in Dubai and the U.A.E.,” said Alex Gemici,
a Dubai-based managing partner at investment company Greenstone
Equity Partners. “They would still have to fight to draw
tourists away from Dubai and Abu Dhabi.”  Sovereign wealth funds and large private investors are
eager to take part in the project, according to Louis-Armand de
Rouge, CEO of RAK Marjan Island Football, the Luxembourg-based
fund backing the development.  Zidane’s Role  Before joining the Real Madrid project, de Rouge, 53, was a
managing director at  London  and Singapore-based investment firm
Milltrust International Group. He was accompanied by Zidane, a
 World Cup  winner and Real Madrid’s director of football, on a
visit to Ras al Khaimah on March 29 ahead of a “roadshow” to
attract investors.  Investor interest is so strong that “the only problem will
be how to say ‘no’ to people,” said Khater Massaad, the CEO of
Ras al Khaimah Investment Authority. The government organization
known as RAKIA built the island where the Real Madrid project
will be located and sold plots to investors. Massaad said the
government isn’t investing in the project.  Gemici of Greenstone is less optimistic. “In the current
market environment, it will be very difficult to finance a
project of this nature without government help,” he said.  Investor Appetite?  Nakheel PJSC may provide a gauge of investor appetite for
U.A.E. development. The builder of palm-shaped islands off
Dubai’s coast is trying to raise at least 300 million dirhams to
build a retail and entertainment project called The Pointe at
Palm Jumeirah. It’s the company’s first retail development since
it received a government bailout in 2009.  Masud said he sees parallels between the Real Madrid
project and Ferrari World Abu Dhabi. The world’s largest covered
theme park opened in November 2010, only to be sold the
following year by developer Aldar to the government as a part of
the bailout. The theme park cut jobs and shortened opening hours
last November. Aldar fell 3.5 percent to about 1.09 dirhams in
Abu Dhabi trading today. That’s the lowest since Feb. 22.  Ferrari World is “an absolutely failed project and Aldar
was struggling. It had to sell it to the government as building
it cost way too much,” Masud said. “It’s ludicrous to think
that just because a stadium was built in RAK and has Real Madrid
logo, that the world will start descending on it,” Masud said.  Jon Barber, a spokesman for Ferrari World Abu Dhabi, said
the company doesn’t disclose visitor numbers.  Waterfront Development  Marjan Island itself is a microcosm of the U.A.E.’s
property woes. Land reclamation at the 2.7 million square meter
island was completed in January 2009 as part of the emirate’s
plan to increase its waterfront. About 70 percent of the $1.8
billion project was sold to private developers who planned to
build hotels and homes on the island.  Khoie Properties was one of them. The developer became
insolvent in 2009 and its 2.3 billion-dirham residential and
leisure complex, La Hoya Bay, was taken over by RAKIA. A year
later, the developer reached a settlement with RAKIA after
agreeing to complete the project.  A previous attempt to link Marjan Island with international
sports ended in disappointment in 2009. The government agreed to
build facilities for America’s Cup teams and sponsors on the
island in return for the publicity the world’s oldest and most
prestigious sailing race would generate for the emirate.  America’s Cup  Swiss billionaire Ernesto Bertarelli based his Alinghi team
on the island for three months and rival billionaire  Larry Ellison  was laying foundations for his BMW-Oracle team’s base
before a  New York  judge upheld a rule stating that races held
from November to May must take place in the southern hemisphere.
The event was planned for February 2010.  De Rouge said he’s banking on Real Madrid’s 300 million
strong global fan base and the growing popularity of soccer to
draw a steady stream of customers.  Qatar, a one-hour plane ride from Dubai, will spend about
$65 billion preparing to host the soccer World Cup in 2022. The
country of 1.6 million plans to double the number of hotel and
apartment rooms, build a new rail network, construct nine
stadiums and refurbish three existing ones after becoming the
first middle eastern country to be awarded the tournament.  “Football is the largest sport in the world and  Asia  is
the place where you have the biggest growth both in terms of
sports and middle class spending for travel and leisure,” de
Rouge said. “The region is just crazy about football and we
have seen it when we are around Zinedine Zidane.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  