-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Below 2% on Europe’s Debt Crisis
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-18T21:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/treasuries-snap-gain-on-speculation-retail-sales-rose.html
Treasury 10-year note yields
dropped below 2 percent for a fourth day as concern the European
sovereign-debt crisis is far from being resolved increased
investor appetite for the safest assets.  Yields on the benchmark note dropped to almost the lowest
level since March before the  Federal Reserve  bought $4.55
billion of longer-term Treasuries as part of a plan to boost the
economy.  Spain  is scheduled to auction two- and 10-year debt
tomorrow after surging borrowing costs there this month helped
boost demand for Treasuries.  “The story is being driven by uncertainty in Europe, and
as such we are seeing risk-off that is benefiting Treasuries,”
said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of
government- and agency-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a
fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional investors.
“The Spanish auction will give us short-term clarity. But, in
the longer term, we are in the same boat -- and maybe worse, as
Spain’s economy is bigger than  Portugal ’s,  Greece ’s and
Ireland’s.”  The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield fell two basis points,
or 0.2 percentage point, to 1.98 percent at 5 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
note maturing in February 2022 gained 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 7/32. The yield fell on April 16 to 1.94,
the lowest since March 6.  Fed’s Twist  The Fed bought Treasuries due from May 2020 to February
2022 after earlier selling $8.63 billion of notes due from July
2013 to January 2014 as part of its program, known as Operation
Twist, to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce
borrowing costs and counter risks of a recession.  Treasuries have returned a gain of 1 percent this month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes. The MSCI
All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of stocks this year returned 9.8
percent, including reinvested dividends.  “We won’t stray too far from 2 percent on 10-years till we
hear from Spain tomorrow,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at
 Societe Generale  in New York, one of the 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “People are looking to see if there’s
enough sponsorship for the paper.”  Treasury Inflation Protected Securities are rallying amid
demand for insurance against rising costs as the economy
improves and the  International Monetary Fund  raised its forecast
for U.S. economic expansion this year to 2.1 percent from 1.8
percent.  ‘Weak to Neutral’  An index of the bonds has gained 2.7 percent this year,
versus a 0.2 percent loss for conventional debt, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. Thirty-year bonds, among the most
sensitive to inflation because of their long maturities, slid 4
percent, the figures show. The U.S. plans to sell $16 billion of
five-year TIPS tomorrow.  The Washington-based IMF says a resurgence of  Europe ’s debt
turmoil is the biggest threat to global growth even after steps
taken by governments and the  European Central Bank  helped ease
tensions in financial markets.  “The concern is the potential for contagion of the
European credit crisis through Spain, which is giving Treasuries
a boost,” said Russ Certo, managing director of rates trading
at Gleacher & Co. in New York. He said he sees the benchmark
bond yield falling to as low as 1.65 percent. “The prospect for
resolution of geopolitical issues -- from the Fed to European
uncertainty -- are weak to neutral at best, which should
continue to support the market.”  ‘Haunting Reality’  Spain’s 10-year yields have jumped more than 1 percentage
point since Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said on March 2 that
the nation won’t meet a budget deficit target for this year.  Investors in Treasuries should “buy dips” in prices as
“headlines out of Europe will worsen in the coming months as
the haunting reality of too much debt and not enough growth does
its dirty work,”  William O’Donnell , head U.S. government-bond
strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at primary dealer RBS
Securities Inc., wrote in a note to clients today.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, has widened to 2.3 percentage
points from 1.95 percentage points at the end of 2011.  U.S. consumer prices rose 2.7 percent in March from a year
earlier, slowing from 2.9 percent in February, the Labor
Department said on April 13. Ten-year Treasuries yield negative
0.66 percent after accounting for costs in the economy. The so-
called  real yield  has been less than zero for almost a year.  Technical Analysis  The decline in 10-year Treasury yields may be coming to an
end after they breached a technical barrier, according to Shin
Kong Life Insurance Co., citing trading patterns.  Treasury rates of 2 percent are equal to the five-day
moving average, which will be a floor for the yield, said Will Tseng, who uses  technical analysis  to invest in  U.S. debt  at
Taipei-based Shin Kong Life, which has the equivalent of $52.6
billion in assets. The 20-day moving average of 2.13 percent
will be the upper limit over the next week or two, Tseng said.  The Treasury will tomorrow announce the sizes of three note
sales scheduled for next week. The U.S. will auction $35 billion
of two-year securities on April 24, the same amount of five-year
debt on the following day and $29 billion of seven-year
securities on April 26, according to Wrightson ICAP LLC, an
economic advisory company in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , that
specializes in  government finance .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net 
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  