-- Treating Parasites in Refugees Coming to U.S. Is Beneficial
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-04-18T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/treating-parasites-in-refugees-coming-to-u-s-is-beneficial.html
A program to treat intestinal worms
in people who emigrate to the U.S. is working at a low cost,
showing that refugees don’t have to become health-care burdens
to their new communities with the proper medical interventions,
researchers said.  African and Southeast Asian refugees treated before their
arrivals with albendazole, a medicine that stops worms from
absorbing sugar so they die, were 77 percent less likely to have
the parasites than those not given the drug, a study reported
today in the  New England Journal of Medicine  found.  The treatment program by the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention began in 1999. Today’s findings show it’s
possible to help vulnerable communities contain a global health
threat at a cost of about $1 per person, said Martin Cetron,
director of the CDC’s Global Migration and Quarantine unit.  “It’s very easy for the public to fear refugee arrivals in
their community,”  Cetron  said in a telephone interview. “With
a very cheap intervention, you can make a huge difference in
people’s lives” so they don’t become a burden to their new
communities.  Untreated, intestinal worms can lead to long-term medical
problems in those who are infected, Cetron said. One dose of
 albendazole  -- generally all that’s needed for effective
treatment -- costs less than $1, he said.  About 25 percent of the world’s population has  intestinal
worms , the most-common medical conditions in refugees, the
authors wrote. The U.S. settles about 80,000 people each year
from areas where the problem is rampant. Before they come to the
U.S., though, they undergo mandatory health screenings.  Researchers in the study looked at 26,956 refugees from
 Africa  and  Southeast Asia  who had stool samples taken when they
resettled in  Minnesota  between 1993 and 2007.  The study was funded by the Atlanta-based CDC,  University
of Minnesota , Minnesota Department of Health and Hennepin County
Medical Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  