-- Rehn Says Spain Has Formidable Challenges, Italy on Right Path
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-04-18T10:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/rehn-says-spain-has-formidable-challenges-italy-on-right-path.html
European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn comments on the economic
challenges for Italy and  Spain .  Rehn spoke to the European Parliament today in Strasbourg,
France. He is a member of the European Commission, the 27-nation
EU’s executive arm.  On Spain:  “Spain faces formidable challenges, especially concerning
youth unemployment, following the bursting of the credit boom
and the real-estate bubble.”  “This adjustment started in the wake of the crisis with a
rapid downsizing of the construction sector, a decrease in the
external deficit and some improvement in cost competitiveness.
Unfortunately, last year in Spain, there was a major fiscal
slippage.”  “This slippage came mainly from the regional governments
and therefore it is essential that Spain will, as part of its
reform efforts, concretely ensure better sustainability of
public finances of the autonomous regions.”  “The fiscal-policy stance of Spain, as recommended by the
commission and the euro group, is striking the right balance
between the necessary consolidation of public finances and
concerns about growth in the country.”  On  Italy :  “As regards fiscal consolidation, the effort enacted -- in
fact already since 2010 -- is significant and has helped to
restore confidence in financial markets.”  “At the same time, the sustainability of Italy’s public
finances and, of course, the development of its employment
depends on its growth prospects, especially in the context of
recession as today.”  “The policy response to tackle the longstanding structural
weaknesses and boost the growth potential in Italy has so far
been determined and, in fact, very comprehensive and wide
ranging. The rigorous implementation of the measures that have
been adopted so far, especially to open up competition in
product and services markets, to improve the business
environment and to make better use of structural funds for
investment, will be crucial to deliver their full benefits.”  “The crucial next step is the adoption by parliament of
the long-awaited reform of the labor market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  