-- Repair U.S. Ties With Pakistan Before They’re Irreparable
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/repair-u-s-ties-with-pakistan-before-they-re-irreparable.html
With general elections coming as
early as this fall, politicking in  Pakistan  is heavy these days.
So the unanimous passage by Parliament last week of  resolutions 
aimed at limiting military relations with the U.S. deserves the
Obama administration’s serious attention.  The decrees don’t tie the hands of President Asif Ali Zardari, but they are a warning of how little public tolerance
remains for any further U.S. infringements of Pakistani
sovereignty.  While the U.S. has its complaints against Pakistan, mostly
regarding its inconsistent pursuit of dangerous militants, the
Pakistanis regard the U.S. as prosecuting its security interests
without respect for Pakistani rights and lives. U.S. policy
makers have long seen the significant U.S. aid Pakistan receives
-- $1.6 billion in security-related and $1.4 billion in
economic-related support this year -- as the main driver of the
bilateral relationship. Parliament’s actions suggest that
Pakistani pride and perceived national interest are in fact
paramount.  Demand on Drones  In its most serious action, Parliament demanded that the
U.S. cease all drone strikes on Pakistani territory. The
government had already barred the U.S. from launching drone
attacks from Pakistan after American forces mistakenly  killed 24
Pakistani soldiers  near the Afghan border on Nov. 25. Drone
strikes have been pivotal to President Barack Obama’s pursuit of
militant jihadists operating out of Pakistan’s northwestern
tribal belt. He would be ill-advised to give them up entirely.
The Pakistani government and military wouldn’t want that either.
Among the targets of these attacks are al-Qaeda and Pakistani
Taliban fighters who are also their enemies.  Still, the U.S. should amend its drone policy to assuage
Pakistani concerns. A good start would be to entrench the
rollback adopted after the November debacle. Since then, the
U.S. has reduced drone attacks in Pakistan by about 50 percent,
according to  figures compiled  by the  New America Foundation .
Given that the U.S. has no plans to stay in the region forever,
this seems like a reasonable option and one that would reinforce
the original purpose of drones -- not as weapons in a war of
attrition but as tools to take out high-value targets.  Beyond the drone ban, Parliament resolved to bar the U.S.,
and other nations, from conducting any overt or covert military
operations there. As a rule, of course, sovereign countries
don’t allow foreign security agencies to function on their soil
without permission. Yet it happens all the time.  The issue is, what are the consequences of their actions,
if made public? Parliament’s vote suggests the repercussions
will be increasingly painful. That, again, is an argument for
the U.S. to tread less heavily on Pakistan. The costs of
breaching Pakistan’s sovereignty last year to kill  Osama bin Laden  were plainly worth it. But can the same be said for the
intelligence being pursued by CIA contractor  Raymond Davis , who
caused a diplomatic furor after killing two Pakistanis on a
street in Lahore? We’ll probably never know, but it’s a question
we hope the intelligence community is asking.  Pakistan’s Parliament also demanded an “unconditional
apology” from the U.S. for the Nov. 25 border clash. Obama, as
well as the secretary of State and senior military officials,
have already expressed regret and  condolences  over the loss of
life. And the Pakistani military hasn’t invited sympathy with
its refusal to participate in the  U.S. investigation , its
dismissal of the ensuing report blaming a lack of coordination 
on both sides, and its paranoid  charges  that the attack was
“deliberate at some level.” Still, a clear apology by the
Defense secretary would be appropriate given the loss of life;
the U.S. military’s responsibility for relying on incorrect maps
and failing to communicate timely, accurate information to its
counterpart; and the importance of the larger relationship.  Recognizing Sacrifices  That would signal to the Pakistani people that the U.S.
military is committed to repairing its relationship with its
Pakistani counterpart and recognizes the sacrifices local forces
have made in pursuing shared goals, while correctly keeping any
blame at the operational rather than the national level.  The parliamentary resolutions do offer one bright spot:
They would allow the U.S. to again use Pakistani roads to
resupply U.S. troops in  Afghanistan  with nonlethal equipment.
Since the Nov. 25 incident, the U.S. has had to use expensive
alternate routes. Parliament did not tie resumption of the
traffic to satisfaction on its other decrees. But it might, in
the future, or the government might, in its negotiations with
the Obama administration. This is an added reason for the U.S.
to repair ties with Pakistan before they become irreparable.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on creating a  bureau to
study climate change ;  Ezra Klein  on post-election  tax reform ;
 Caroline Baum  on the myopia of  short-term economic statistics ;
A. Gary Shilling on his readers’ questions about  his economic
forecast ; the Squam Lake Group on  money market reforms ; Fredrik
Erixon on  Europe’s coming welfare cuts .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 