-- Ivanhoe CEO Resigns as Rio Commits to Mongolia Mine Funds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-04-18T20:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/rio-ivanhoe-sign-accord-on-mongolia-copper-mine-funding.html
Billionaire Robert Friedland
resigned as chief executive officer of  Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. (IVN)  as the
company struck a deal with its majority shareholder  Rio Tinto
Group (RIO)  on funding for its $6 billion Mongolian copper mine.  Rio, which boosted its stake in Ivanhoe to 51 percent in
January, will provide an immediate credit facility of as much as
$1.5 billion to ensure construction at Oyu Tolgoi isn’t
interrupted, Vancouver-based Ivanhoe said yesterday in a
statement. Rio also will support the completion of a syndicated
loan of $3 billion to $4 billion. Ivanhoe plans a $1.8 billion
rights offer to repay the facility and a previous loan.  The accord, announced in tandem with the resignation of
Friedland and other top executives, may foreshadow Rio’s
acquisition of the Ivanhoe shares it doesn’t own, said Adam Graf, a New York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co.  “It appears that Rio is now closing in on taking over
Ivanhoe,” Graf said in a note to clients.  Ivanhoe has clashed with London-based Rio, which is
managing construction of the Mongolian project that will be one
of the world’s largest copper mines. In December, an arbitrator
ruled in favor of Rio in a dispute, effectively nullifying a
shareholder-rights plan that Ivanhoe adopted in April 2010 to
block any unsolicited takeover bid.  Rio, the world’s third-biggest mining company, had said it
may replace Ivanhoe’s senior executives, according to a
regulatory filing on Jan. 27.  Executives, Directors Resign  Ivanhoe said yesterday six other Ivanhoe directors and four
senior management members resigned. Independent directors will
hold a majority of seats on the 13-member board.  Kay Priestly, chief financial officer of London-based Rio’s
copper group and an Ivanhoe director, was appointed Ivanhoe’s
interim CEO, according to the statement.  Ivanhoe  rose  15 percent to close at C$13.41 in Toronto, the
biggest gain since Sept. 27. The shares have declined 26 percent
this year.  Ivanhoe said that Rio may advance loans to Oyu Tolgoi as an
alternative, or in addition to, the syndicated loan. Ivanhoe has
already drawn down about $1.3 billion of an existing $1.8
billion facility provided by Rio.  The Canadian company said it’s in active talks about
potential asset sales that may generate additional funds for the
mine. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. said April 2 it agreed to buy
Ivanhoe’s controlling stake in Mongolian coal producer  SouthGobi
Resources Ltd. (SGQ)  as part of a C$925 ($935 million) tender offer
for as much as 60 percent of the company.  SouthGobi Licenses  SouthGobi said this week the government asked for a
suspension of mining while it reviews the proposed sale.  Capital spending  on Oyu Tolgoi is forecast by Ivanhoe at
$2.1 billion this year. The company had $917.7 million of cash
as of March 19.  The financing pact marks the conclusion of direct efforts
by Friedland, 61, to develop the project in southern Mongolia
after buying rights to the deposit from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  for
$37 million in 2003. Most recently the company and Rio fended
off an attempt by Mongolia in October to boost the country’s
stake in the project from 34 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  