-- Roche Drops Illumina Bid on Concerns of Flawed Technology
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-04-19T15:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/roche-drops-illumina-bid-on-concerns-of-flawed-technology.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  is abandoning a
$6.7 billion bid for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  because investors are
concerned the U.S. company’s gene-mapping technology may go the
way of the 8-track or the floppy disc.  Roche Chairman Franz Humer, whose initially hostile
overtures months later yielded successful takeovers of Genentech
Inc. and Ventana Medical Systems Inc., failed to entice the San
Diego-based company into negotiations. The Swiss drugmaker said
yesterday it won’t extend a sweetened offer after its proposals
were rejected at a meeting of Illumina’s shareholders.  Roche’s refusal to pay a higher price may signal that
investors aren’t sure Illumina will emerge as the leader in a
race to introduce faster, cheaper, gene-sequencing instruments.
New products announced in the past three months from Oxford
Nanopore Technologies Ltd. and  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  may
overtake Illumina’s as the standard for researchers, Roche has
said. Illumina also is more optimistic about its own business
than analysts, Roche said.  “A lot of people in the sequencing industry really don’t
know which technology is going to win in the end,” said  Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.
“That spooked a lot of Roche shareholders. There is a huge
amount of caution that you end up buying Betamax and not VHS.”  Shares of Basel, Switzerland-based Roche rose 0.9 percent
to 164.40 Swiss francs in Zurich. Illumina fell 0.9 percent to
$44.12 at 11:46 a.m. in New York. Illumina shares  sank  below the
offer price for the first time last week and continued the
decline as investors grew concerned Roche would abandon the deal
if Illumina didn’t agree to start discussions. Roche’s offer
expires at 6 p.m. New York time tomorrow.  Deal Dashed  “I don’t see many possibilities for reconciliation at this
point,” Ben Kelly, an event-driven analyst at Louis Capital
Markets LP in London, said in an interview.  Roche pursued  Genentech  for about eight months and spent
$46.8 billion for the 44 percent of the biotechnology company
that it didn’t already own. Roche proposed $89 a share in July
2008, and began a hostile tender offer at a reduced price of
$86.50. The company then raised the bid twice, to $95 a share,
to eventually win support from Genentech’s board.  Roche waited seven months to raise a hostile $75-a-share
bid for Ventana. The maker of diagnostic tests for cancer agreed
to sell in January 2008 after Roche raised the bid 19 percent to
$89.50.  Bid for Illumina  The Swiss drugmaker made a hostile bid for Illumina in
January and raised it on March 29, less than a third of the time
Humer and Chief Executive Officer Severin Schwan took to raise
the bids for their last two large hostile takeovers. While
investors expected Roche would use the same tactic this time,
Illumina proved a harder sell, said Marc Booty, who helps
oversee more than $100 billion, including Roche shares at Pictet
Asset Management Ltd.  “Ventana was the leader in its field and there was a
scarcity of assets at the time,” Booty said. “With Genentech,
they were already the majority owner, so it’s apples and
oranges. With Illumina, it’s the first technology that can be
commercialized, but it’s not the only game in town.”  Roche probably won’t try to buy another gene-sequencing
company, said Martin Voegtli, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets in Zurich.  No Alternative Purchases  “We won’t see that in the near future,” Voegtli said in
an interview, adding that Roche may seek collaborations instead.
“They’ve already screened the landscape, they saw that Illumina
has come up with the most interesting and advanced technology,
so they would lose quite a bit of reputation if they just turned
around and bought something else.”  Roche said its offer represented a premium of 88 percent
over Illumina’s closing  stock price  of $27.17 on Dec. 21, the
day before market rumors about a potential transaction drove
Illumina’s stock price higher. Illumina yesterday said it was
pleased that Roche won’t extend the bid, which the U.S. company
had called “grossly inadequate.”  Roche’s effort to use a proxy fight to force negotiations
ended yesterday when Illumina won the support of shareholders
for its slate of directors, based on preliminary estimates at
the company’s annual meeting in  New York . Shareholders also
rejected Roche’s attempt to expand Illumina’s board to 11 from
nine members.  ‘Could Fit in Here’  “It would have given them an edge as diagnostic paradigms
evolved, but that was a 5- to 10-year view,” Booty said. “This
was a ‘this could fit in here and maintains our competitive edge
in the commercial lab space’ as opposed to a ‘we need this to
plug a hole now.’”  Roche may return with its $51-a-share offer if things don’t
go well for Illumina over next year, said Bryan Brokmeier from
Maxim Group.  “I don’t think Roche has completely given up,” Brokmeier
said. “They may come back with an offer if Illumina shares
don’t move higher and shareholders see that they shouldn’t have
walked away, or if Illumina comes out with better news on its
pipeline and greater information.”  Booty, the Roche investor, said it’s unlikely Illumina
investors would warm to Roche’s offer after maintaining it
undervalued the company.  “I’m happy to see Roche walk away,” Booty said. “In the
low 50s, it was a workable deal but it had created an overhang,
and now focus can return to the underlying business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in  London  at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  