-- Roche Decides Against Extending Illumina Bid on Data Lack
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-04-18T20:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/roche-decides-against-extending-illumina-bid-on-data-lack.html
Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  gained 1.2 percent
after earlier falling as much as 8.3 percent when  Roche Holding
AG (ROG)  said it wouldn’t extend its $51-a-share offer for the U.S.
maker of DNA-mapping tools.  Illumina’s shares rose 51 cents to $44.46 at the close in
 New York , after  sinking  as low as $40.35. Roche gained 1 percent
to 162.90 Swiss francs in Zurich trading.  Allowing the bid to expire at 6 p.m. New York time on April
20 would end the Swiss drugmaker’s three-month quest to buy
Illumina, a bid now valued at about $6.7 billion. Illumina
shares sank below the offer price for the first time last week
and continued the decline as investors grew concerned Roche
would abandon the deal if Illumina didn’t agree to start
discussions. Roche on March 29 raised the bid to $51 a share
from $44.50 a share.  “We think Roche’s reaction is to be expected,” said
Quintin Lai, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Milwaukee ,
in a note to investors. “Roche failed to sweeten adequately its
offer to win control of the board or to convince Illumina to
come to the negotiation table.”  Roche had moved to force Illumina into negotiations by
starting a proxy fight to gain control of the San Diego-based
company’s board. That attempt ended today when Illumina won the
support of shareholders for its slate of directors, based on
preliminary estimates at the company’s annual meeting in New
York. Shareholders also rejected Roche’s attempt to expand
Illumina’s board to 11 from nine members.  Illumina Response  “We are pleased that Roche has decided not to extend its
inadequate offer to acquire Illumina and that we can now return
our full focus to growing our business,” Illumina Chief
Executive Officer  Jay Flatley  said today in a statement.  Roche made its decision not to extend the offer based on
the meeting results, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said
today in a statement.  “We continue to hold Illumina and its management in very
high regard but, with access only to public information about
Illumina’s business and prospects, we do not believe that a
price above Roche’s offer for Illumina of $51 per share would be
in the interest of Roche’s shareholders,” Roche CEO Severin Schwan said in a statement. “In the absence of such
discussions, our duty to be disciplined with the assets of
Roche’s shareholders has led to this decision.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in 東京 at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  