-- Russia Should Decentralize Power to Lure Investors, Kudrin Says
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-04-18T21:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/russia-should-decentralize-power-to-lure-investors-kudrin-says.html
Russia ’s political system is
“flawed” and the government needs to decentralize power and
regulate more efficiently to lure greater numbers of investors,
said  Alexei Kudrin , the former finance minister.  “The vertical of power that’s built today is flawed,”
Kudrin said at a conference run by Russian lender VTB Group
today in New York. “From the issuance of permissions for
construction to the issuance of licenses, tax reviews, customs
control. The effectiveness of state governance is very low.”  The power to regulate currently held by federal ministries
should be passed to municipal governments, Kudrin said. “There
was never enough willpower to complete” past efforts to
decentralize the government, he said.  Should the government boost social spending to fulfill
promises made during Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s successful
campaign for president, taxes will “inevitably” increase,
Kudrin said.  Putin, who won his third term as president on March 4,
vowed to boost pensions and salaries for state workers and the
military, pledges that will contribute to a 4.8 trillion-ruble
($162.6 billion) increase in spending through 2018, according to
estimates by Capital Economics Ltd. Russia saw $35.1 billion of
 net capital outflows  in the first quarter, the most since the
last three months of 2008, as the European debt crisis and anti-
government protests deterred investors.  Kudrin was the longest-serving finance minister in the
Group of Eight major economies until he was forced out by
current President Dmitry Medvedev after publicly opposing
increases in military spending. During his tenure, Russia cut
state debt to less than 10 percent of gross domestic product and
oversaw budget surpluses from 2000 to 2008.  Not in New Government  “I decided I won’t be part of the new government,” Kudrin
said today.  Putin said in September that he and Medvedev would swap
jobs. A former KGB officer, Putin served as president for eight
years until 2008 when he had to relinquish the job because of
limits on serving more than two consecutive terms.  Kudrin told reporters in  New York  that he didn’t have a
forecast for how long Medvedev will remain as prime minister.
 Igor Yurgens , who heads a research group created by Medvedev,
said in February that Kudrin would do a better job as premier
than Medvedev.  Putin delayed increases in utility prices due in January
until July during the run-up to the March 4 presidential poll.  “The tariff policy shouldn’t be dictated by political
trends, it needs to be clear,” Kudrin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  