-- Russia Said to Halt Syrian Arms Supplies After U.S. Pressure
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-04-18T12:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/russia-said-to-halt-some-syrian-arms-supplies-as-fighting-ebbs.html
Russia  halted deliveries of light
arms to Syria to avoid exacerbating a conflict between
government forces and opposition groups, according to a person
close to the Defense Ministry in Moscow.  Prime Minister and President-elect Vladimir Putin’s
government ended supplies of weapons including anti-tank
missiles and grenade-launchers after reports in January of a
Russian shipment of ammunition to Syria provoked criticism from
the U.S., the person said by phone today, declining to be
identified because the information is confidential.  Susan Rice ,
the U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations , said then that
Russian arms shipments to President Bashar al-Assad’s regime
were of “grave concern.”  Russia has contracts with Syria to deliver ammunition,
pistols, sub-machine guns, machine guns, anti-tank missiles and
RPGs valued at between $250 million and $400 million, according
to the Center for the Analysis of Strategies and Technologies, a
research group in Moscow that advises the  Defense Ministry .
Vyacheslav Davidenko, a spokesman for Rosoboronexport, Russia’s
arms export monopoly, declined to comment on sales to Syria when
reached by phone today.  Thirteen months of violence since Assad started a crackdown
on an uprising have claimed more than 9,000 lives, according to
United Nations estimates. Veto-holding UN Security Council
members Russia and  China  have blocked two moves to condemn
Assad, including a February resolution that demanded the Syrian
leader’s resignation.  Syrian Raids  Syria forces conducted raids in a town in Idlib, killing a
civilian and heavy fighting and explosions were heard in Daraa,
the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in e-mailed
statements today. Government forces wounded eight people near
Damascus and killed two in Homs, the group said. The Syrian army
shelled villages near Idlib and killed 13 people today,  Al
Arabiya  reported.  Six Syrian soldiers were killed in a bomb blast in Idlib
today, the  Syrian Arab News Agency  reported without identifying
where it go the information. “Terrorists” were behind the
blast, the news service said.  Russia said opposition groups were trying to stage
provocations against the government to undermine the cease-fire
brokered by United Nations special envoy  Kofi Annan , Foreign
Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said in comments broadcast on state
television today. Russia blames outside powers for seeking to
undermine the peace effort by arming Syrian opposition groups.  Following a meeting with Annan yesterday, Qatar’s prime
minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Al Thani said that the Gulf
nation wasn’t supplying weapons to Syrian rebels.  Allow Observers  Syria is willing to allow the observers to use its
helicopters when necessary to evacuate wounded people, Walid al- Muallem, foreign minister, said today in Beijing. Muallem said
250 UN observers is a “reasonable” number to monitor areas of
tension, he said.  Some 57 of the countries belonging to the co-called Friends
of  Syria  group yesterday in Paris discussed efforts to assist
the opposition, including the provision of U.S. communications
gear, a plan funded by the Gulf states to pay salaries to
opposition fighters and coaching by several countries, including
the U.S. and U.K., to help fractious anti-government groups
become more cohesive, according to European diplomats who aren’t
authorized to speak to the media.  Russia in total has about $3.5 billion of arms contracts
with Syria, according to Center for the Analysis of Strategies
and Technologies data. The orders include Yakhont anti-ship
cruise missiles, MiG-29 fighter jets and Pantsir air-defense
systems.  Lavrov has rejected U.S. criticism of arms deliveries to
Syria, saying Russia wasn’t acting illegally or influencing the
outcome of the conflict.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  