-- Safeway Options Surge Signals Deal as Shorts Pounce: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-04-18T20:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/safeway-options-surge-signals-deal-as-shorts-pounce-real-m-a.html
Options traders betting on  Safeway
Inc. (SWY)  are growing more convinced the cheapest grocery-store chain
in America will be acquired, threatening short sellers that have
pushed bearish wagers to an all-time high.  Calls priced 10 percent above Safeway’s stock rose to the
highest on record this month versus puts on three-month
contracts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as traders
anticipate a possible takeover, said JonesTrading Institutional
Services LLC. Safeway  shares  climbed 12 percent in the last six
days, the most since 2009, after the company spurred deal
speculation by adjusting executive pay rules in the event of an
acquisition and promoting its chief financial officer.  While  short sellers  are more bearish on Safeway shares than
99 percent of stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, Safeway
is also the least expensive relative to earnings among U.S. food
retailers greater than $1 billion, the data show. The $5.9
billion company’s valuation and higher-quality stores than some
of its competitors may lure potential buyers, said Highmark
Capital Management Inc.  Kroger Co. (KR)  could pay $30 a share, about
a 37 percent premium, to merge with Pleasanton, California-based
Safeway and still boost both stocks, BMO Capital Markets said.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see vultures circling Safeway
to see if the wounded prey has any value to it,”  Todd Lowenstein , a Los Angeles-based fund manager for Highmark
Capital, which oversees about $17 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “They have some good assets and it’s been a tough
environment. When good assets get priced as if they’re in the
bargain bin like this, for both strategic and financial buyers,
it hits their radar.”  KKR’s Leverage Buyout  Today, shares of Safeway were unchanged at $21.92.  Teena Massingill, a spokeswoman for Safeway, said the
company doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked whether it
has been approached by any potential acquirers or would be open
to a sale. Keith Dailey, a spokesman for Cincinnati-based Kroger,
also said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Safeway, which got its start with a small grocery store in
 Idaho  in  1915 , now has 1,678 stores in the U.S. and  Canada .  A takeover wouldn’t be the first for the company.  KKR & Co. (KKR) 
took Safeway private in a 1986 leveraged buyout after Peter Magowan, the grocer’s chief executive officer at the time and
grandson of the company’s founder, allied with KKR in a takeover
battle against Herbert and Robert Haft. KKR sold its stake by
1999, making more than $7 billion on its original $129 million
investment, according to KKR’s records.  ‘Tough in Grocery’  Safeway shares had fallen  41 percent  in the last five years
through yesterday as bargain-hunting shoppers flocked to cheaper
competitors such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. In the same time period,
 Wal-Mart (WMT)  rose 28 percent, while Kroger, the largest U.S.
grocery-store chain, declined 19 percent and  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  lost
84 percent.  “It’s tough in grocery right now,” said Highmark’s
Lowenstein. “You look at the history of the grocery business
and they have gone in and out of the hands of private equity
many times.”  Even after  rising  for six straight days on takeover
speculation, Safeway had a  price-to-earnings ratio  of 11
yesterday, less than the six other U.S. food retailers with
market values of at least $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The group trades at a median of almost 17 times earnings.  Safeway was also valued as of yesterday at an 83 percent
discount to its $43.6 billion in  sales  last year, near its 18-
year low of an 87 percent discount, which was set in September,
the data show.  Bullish Options  Many traders in the options market are growing more
optimistic about the possibility of a takeover. Implied
volatility, the key gauge of options prices, for calls on three-
month contracts that pay off if Safeway shares gain 10 percent
jumped 12 percent on April 13, exceeding the cost of puts by
1.76 points, the most ever, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The number of outstanding call contracts to buy Safeway
surged 81 percent last week to 62,445 on April 13, the most
since August 2010, according to Bloomberg data. Open interest
for calls  exceeded  put contracts by 54 percent, the most since
April 2011.  “The call skews are absolutely telling us that people are
afraid of the upside,”  Chris Rich , head options strategist at
JonesTrading in  Chicago , said in a phone interview. “When
people are betting with their wallets, you need to listen.”  Takeover speculation was partly initiated when Safeway
adopted a “double-trigger vesting acceleration” that may
require executives to stay at the company to get their full
vested payout if the company is bought, according to a March 28
regulatory  filing . In addition to a change of control, awards
will only fully vest if an acquirer doesn’t assume the awards or
if an executive is fired without cause or quits “for good
reason” within one year, the filing said.  Change in Control  “There was a change in their language on the vesting of
options in the event of a change in control, basically making
Safeway more takeover friendly,” Karen Short, an analyst for
BMO Capital in  New York , said in a phone interview.  The change, along with share buybacks, the promotion of CFO
Robert L. Edwards to president and CEO Steven A. Burd ceding
day-to-day duties to focus on innovation and strategic
initiatives, may mean Safeway is considering a “corporate
action,”  Ken Goldman , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York, wrote in an April 13 note.  Goldman said in a subsequent e-mail the same day that
Safeway may be more likely to pursue a Reverse Morris Trust -- a
scenario in which a company can divest an asset without paying
taxes by spinning it off and merging it with another company --
than a leveraged buyout because of its debt and pension
liabilities.  Debt Burden  Michael Keara, an analyst at Morningstar Inc. in Chicago,
said in an e-mail that Safeway’s debt burden may be too large
for a buyout. The company had $6.3 billion in total long-term
 liabilities  at the end of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While the change in vesting policies would make retention
of management easier and cheaper in a takeover, it doesn’t
signal that Safeway is up for sale or an attractive target,
Edward Kelly, a New York-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG,
said in an April 12 note.  Short sellers are also betting that the company won’t be
bought. In a short sale, traders sell borrowed stock on the
assumption the price will decline and enable them to profit by
buying the shares back at a lower price.  Kroger Merger  About 27 percent of Safeway’s 268 million outstanding
shares were sold short as of April 13, higher than 496 stocks in
the  S&P 500  and a record for Safeway, according to  New York- 
based research firm  Data Explorers . Companies in the index have
average short interest of 2.8 percent.  Still, an acquisition of Safeway would help Kroger gain
scale as increased competition from non-traditional grocery
retailers such as Wal-Mart and  Target Corp. (TGT)  reduces market share
and profitability, according to Short at BMO. Kroger could pay
$30 a share for Safeway, financing the deal with  debt , and it
would still add to the combined company’s earnings and benefit
both sets of shareholders, Short said. Kroger would be paying a
37 percent premium to yesterday’s closing price of $21.92.  Private-equity firms may also be lured by Safeway’s real
estate and could look to sell off pieces of the company such as
its business in Canada to help pay down debt used for the
transaction, she said. As of Dec. 31, the grocer owned 42
percent of its stores and leased the rest, according to its
year-end  regulatory filing .  ‘Attractive Valuation’  William Nasgovitz, a Milwaukee-based portfolio manager at
Heartland Advisors Inc., which oversees more than $5 billion,
also said Safeway may be attractive for a private-equity buyer
or Kroger. The firm owned 1.3 million  shares  of Safeway as of
Dec. 31.  “It’s a stable business, it’s at an attractive valuation,
they have significant market share, and they own a fair amount
of real estate,” Nasgovitz said in a phone interview. “It
would be attractive for Kroger perhaps to combat the
supercenters of the world and the more specialty areas. As it
relates to a private equity firm, maybe they could leverage that
real estate portfolio.”  Activity in the options market last week indicates many
traders are anticipating a takeover, said Steve Sosnick, equity
risk manager at Timber Hill LLC, the market-making unit of
Interactive Brokers Group Inc. in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “Safeway’s been a name that has been on the rumor mill for
some time,” Sosnick said in a phone interview. “When they talk
about change-in-control clauses, that does nothing to diminish a
rumor mill. If you believed that something might happen, that
kind of news does nothing to dissuade you.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 