-- Satellite Export Controls Should Be Eased, U.S Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-18T19:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/satellite-export-controls-should-be-eased-u-s-says.html
Satellite export controls should be
relaxed by Congress so that U.S. companies can better compete
globally for sales of communications and remote-sensing
equipment, a report by the Pentagon and State Department found.  “Limited national security benefits” are provided by a
1998 law that applies more stringent controls on satellites than
on other equipment that may have both civilian and military
uses, the departments said in the report requested by Congress
and released today to lawmakers.  The report is “a key step toward relieving U.S. commercial
satellite system, component, and part manufacturers of
unnecessary controls,” said John Ordway, an export-licensing
attorney with Berliner, Corcoran & Rowe LLP in Washington.  Among companies that may benefit are  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC) ,  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Loral Space & Communications Inc. (LORL) ,  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) ,  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) ,  Alliant
Techsystems Inc. (ATK) ,  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB) ,  Moog Inc. (MOG/A)  and America
Pacific Corp., according to Ordway.  The report recommends removing from strict State Department
license requirements communication satellites that don’t contain
classified components and remote-sensing satellites that fall
short of certain performance parameters as well as subsystems,
parts and components for those systems.  U.S. at Disadvantage  “Current law forces the U.S. government to continue to
protect commonly available satellites and related items, thus
impeding the U.S. ability to work with partners and putting U.S.
manufacturers at a disadvantage but providing no noticeable
benefit to national security,” according to the State and
Defense departments.  The report specifies items that should remain on the State
Department’s more restrictive munitions licensing lists and
those than can be moved to the less restrictive oversight of the
Commerce Department’s “Commerce Control List.”  The equipment that can be shifted encompasses “hundreds of
thousands of items we think U.S. industry should be able to
compete” on, Gregory Schulte, deputy assistant secretary of
defense for space policy, told reporters on a conference call.  The 1998 law “places the U.S. space industrial base at a
distinct competitive disadvantage when bidding against companies
from other advanced satellite-exporting countries that have less
stringent export control practices and policies,” the report
found.  GPS Equipment  Global Positioning System, or GPS, equipment and radiation-
hardened circuits should remain subject to trade controls, the
departments said because both have military applications and
aren’t exclusively satellite technologies.  Their “final disposition” will depend on pending reviews
and agency discussions, according to the report.  Ordway said Congress needs to pass legislation sponsored by
Representatives Howard Berman, a California Democrat, and Don
Manzullo, an Illinois Republican, to supersede the 1998 law.  “The report makes clear that restricting exports of all
commercial satellites and components as if they were lethal
weapons, regardless of whether they’re going to friend or foe,
has gravely harmed U.S. space manufacturers,” Berman said in an
e-mailed statement.“My bipartisan bill would fix this
situation, and refocus our export controls on the true national
security threats:  Iran ,  North Korea , Cuba,  Syria ,  Sudan  and
China.”  Representative  Mike Turner , an Ohio Republican and chairman
of a strategic issues subcommittee, said he wasn’t convinced.  ‘Dragged Its Feet’  “The administration’s request would not make this country
safer or further our goals,” Turner said in an e-mailed
statement. The State Department “has dragged its feet enforcing
the current regime ‘‘specifically when it comes to companies the
department believes have illegally diverted our space technology
to China.’’  Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida Republican
who is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said
Congress ‘‘must carefully scrutinize this report’’ because the
Obama administration was ‘‘seeking to ease restrictions on these
sensitive technologies and bypass congressional oversight.’’  The 1998 law was passed after a congressionally mandated
commission headed by Representative  Christopher Cox , a
California Republican, concluded some U.S. companies gave  China 
access to U.S. technology that may have aided the communist
nation’s military missile programs.  Industry Groups  Industry groups such as the Aerospace Industries
Association say the law has stifled U.S. exports. The report
today backs that assertion, concluding, ‘‘Over the last 15
years, a substantial number of commercial satellite systems,
subsystems and related technologies have become less critical to
national security.’’  ‘‘At a time when the budget request for national security
space is already slated for a 22 percent reduction, Congress
needs to act to ensure the U.S. space industrial base remains
viable,’’ AIA President and Chief Executive Officer Marion C. Blakey said.  ‘‘These companies can only sustain our technological edge
if they aren’t regulated out of legitimate commercial markets,’’
she said in an e-mailed statement. U.S. manufacturers lost $21
billion in satellite revenue from 1999 to 2009, costing about
9,000 jobs because of the controls, according to her group.  China’s Role  The report emphasizes that the State and Defense
departments aren’t advocating a wholesale abandonment of the
1998 law, saying the U.S. ‘‘should maintain strict controls on
transfers of ‘‘non-critical’’ items ‘‘that are likely to be used
against the U.S. national interest.’’  China’s continuing efforts to acquire U.S. military and
dual-use technologies require vigilance, according to the
report. That nation’s civilian and military space industry ‘‘are
fused together such that reasonable regulators must consider the
high likelihood that space-related items and technology will be
diverted from a civil use and applied to military programs.”  China recently attempted to acquire a “fully functional,
European imaging satellite constellation” that was blocked
because it contained U.S. technology, the report found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  