-- SEC Beware, Money Funds Can Bring System Down
-- B y   t h e   S q u a m   L a k e   G r o u p
-- 2012-04-18T23:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/sec-beware-money-funds-can-bring-system-down.html
News reports suggest that the
Securities and Exchange Commission may be backing away from a
reform of money-market funds. This would be a mistake.  The debate over how to overhaul prime money-market funds
has focused on preserving the commercial viability of these
instruments while significantly lowering the threat they pose to
financial stability. The latter objective should have priority.  The threat is a run by investors who believe they face
impending losses on fund shares. In the two weeks after the
failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., institutional
investors reduced their investments in prime  money-market funds 
by about 40 percent, amounting to almost $400 billion. Only a
prompt guarantee by the  U.S. Treasury  -- a measure that is no
longer a legal option -- stopped the withdrawals.  A handful of large bank-owned broker-dealers still borrow
hundreds of billions of dollars each day from money-market
funds. Clearly, a run would affect systemically important banks.
Last week, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  stated his
concerns about the vulnerability of our financial system to a
panic on money-market funds.  The  Investment Company Institute , or ICI, the trade
organization that represents fund sponsors, says the reforms
that have been proposed are so expensive or so unattractive to
investors that money-market funds wouldn’t survive if they were
adopted.  Asset Value  Three types of changes are now under consideration. The
first of these would eliminate the “stable net-asset value”
rule, which allows fund shares to trade at the book-accounting
value (not market value) of assets, rounded to the nearest penny
per share. That means the shares typically trade at $1 each,
until they lose more than a half penny per share. Under the
proposal, fund shares would trade instead at a variable net-
asset value, that is, at the actual market value of the assets
held by the fund, as is the rule for other forms of mutual
funds.  The second proposal is to require that investors in money-
market funds be protected by a “capital buffer.” In January
2011, the  Squam Lake Group  -- our bipartisan panel of
economists, which has offered proposals on reforming the
financial system -- submitted a  comment letter  to the SEC in
response to the President’s Working Group Report on Money Market
Reform. We proposed that at least one of these two measures be
adopted.  A third proposal has emerged. It would require that when an
investor redeems money-market fund shares, a specified portion
of the proceeds would remain in the fund and absorb its first
losses over the next 30 days.  The ICI suggests that most investors won’t use money-market
funds if they have a variable net-asset value or a hold-back
rule. The trade group also suggests that a capital buffer would
be prohibitively expensive for a fund sponsor and its investors
to share. The ICI provides no cost analysis.  One industry representative suggests starting with a buffer
of 3 cents per $100 of fund assets, and then building this
buffer up to 30 cents per $100 over a number of years. Money-
market funds often have loss exposures to individual U.S. and
European banks of more than 3 percent, more than 100 times this
proposed initial buffer. If one of these banks were to encounter
solvency concerns, only a far higher buffer would protect fund
investors, and thus reduce the incentive for a run.  If the maximum loss to  fund assets  can indeed be absorbed
by a tiny buffer, then the cost of providing a substantially
larger one would be small because the investor would expect to
lose at most a tiny fraction of the buffer investment. In any
case, the expected return demanded by a buffer provider is
commensurate with the riskiness of the assets held by the fund.
This provides a strong incentive to the fund sponsor to manage
risk conservatively.  Commercial Viability  Suppose, however, that the ICI is correct that the proposed
reforms would eliminate the attractiveness of money-market funds
for investors. What then should be done? Should the commercial
viability of money-market funds take priority over the stability
of the  financial system ?  A “yes” answer implies that taxpayers should backstop
this business in any future crisis, either through another
bailout or by absorbing the costs to the broader economy of a
run on some of our largest financial institutions. Taxpayers
shouldn’t be forced to take this risk again.  Some have also raised concerns that if money-market funds
become sufficiently unattractive, institutional investors will
shift their funds to banks. Because most of a large
institutional investor’s bank deposits aren’t insured by the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , this migration could
increase the vulnerability of banks to runs.  Although we share this concern, regulators already monitor
this risk through the extensive supervisory and capital-adequacy
regime for banks. The Dodd-Frank Act charged the  Financial
Stability Oversight Council  with controlling risks to the
financial system. The FSOC’s first annual report identified
money-market funds as a risk to the system.  The council should reaffirm this conclusion and publicly
endorse meaningful reform by the SEC to address this risk. If
the SEC fails to act, the  FSOC  should designate some or all
money funds, or their sponsors, as systemically significant non-
bank financial firms and regulate them as such.  (The 12 members of the Squam Lake Group who signed this
article are: Martin N. Baily, the  Brookings Institution ; John Y. Campbell,  Harvard University ; John H. Cochrane,  University of
Chicago ; Douglas W. Diamond, University of Chicago;  Darrell Duffie ,  Stanford University ; Anil K Kashyap, University of
Chicago; Frederic S. Mishkin,  Columbia University ; David S.
Scharfstein, Harvard University; Robert J. Shiller, Yale
University; Matthew J. Slaughter,  Dartmouth College ; Hyun Song Shin,  Princeton University  and Rene M. Stulz,  Ohio State
University . The opinions are expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  fixing U.S.-Pakistan
relations  and creating a  bureau to study climate change ;  Ezra
Klein  on post-election  tax reform ;  Caroline Baum  on the myopia
of  short-term economic statistics ; A. Gary Shilling on his
readers’ questions about  his economic forecast ; Fredrik Erixon
on  Europe’s coming welfare cuts .  To contact the writers of this article:
Anil K Kashyap at  Anil.Kashyap@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  