-- Secret Service Head Backs Agent Firings, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-04-19T22:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/secret-service-says-three-agents-leaving-in-prostitute-case.html
Secret Service Director Mark Sullivan was so upset by allegations that 11 agents and officers
consorted with prostitutes in  Colombia  that he voiced
frustration over government rules barring their immediate
dismissal, Maryland Representative  Elijah Cummings  said.  The Secret Service chief told Cummings during a one-hour
meeting April 17 that “if it were up to him, every single one
of them would have been fired on the spot,” the Democratic
lawmaker told reporters.  Sullivan is “thoroughly convinced” that the agency’s
security wasn’t compromised by the episode in the resort town of
Cartagena just before President  Barack Obama  was set to arrive
for the Summit of the Americas, said Cummings, the top Democrat
on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  Secret Service spokesman Ed Donovan declined to comment on
Cummings’s characterization of his conversation with Sullivan,
saying “we have eight employees still in the process” of being
investigated.  Two Secret Service employees involved in the episode have
left the agency and a third is in the process of being
dismissed. The eight others are on administrative leave with
their security clearances suspended as pressure built in
Congress all of the agents to be fired.  At least 10 members of the military also were involved and
the Pentagon is conducting a separate investigation.  Reports about the misconduct overshadowed Obama’s
appearance at the Summit of the Americas, which concluded April
15 and was supposed to focus on the economy, trade and U.S.
engagement in  Latin America . The agents were relieved of duty
and sent back to the U.S. before Obama arrived in Colombia.  ‘Brought Disgrace’  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  expressed doubt that
any Secret Service agent implicated in the prostitution scandal
could keep his job after having “brought disgrace” on the
agency.  “I don’t see how those who were involved in this would be
able to continue in their work,” the California Democrat told
reporters. “Those people who were responsible have brought
disgrace and it’s disgusting.”  The fitness of any agent implicated in the episode is
called into question because “everything in being a Secret
Service agent is about judgment,” said  Darrell Issa , the
California Republican who is chairman of the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee. “You have to have judgment, or the
protected person is in danger,” he told reporters, calling the
episode “one of the most egregious breaches of judgment by any
standard.”  Awaiting Outcome  Representative Robert Aderholt, an Alabama Republican who’s
chairman of the House Appropriations Homeland Security
Subcommittee, said in an e-mailed statement that Sullivan
assured him the agency is “well under way to take appropriate
action.”  Obama retains confidence in Sullivan and wants to await the
outcome of the service’s inquiry before making any judgments on
the case, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said today.  “It is very much in the interest of everyone,” Carney
said, “to allow this investigation to be completed before we
make judgments on conclusions we don’t yet have.”  Obama has been regularly updated on the investigation,
Carney said at a briefing.  The Secret Service announced yesterday that one supervisory
employee was allowed to retire and another has been “proposed
for removal for cause,” which requires a 30-day notice and
opportunity to respond. A non-supervisory employee resigned.  Jon Adler, president of the Federal Law Enforcement
Officers Association, which is providing legal representation
for the Secret Service employees, said the group’s lawyers
“will continue to exhaust all resources to represent and defend
our members in response to the personnel actions taken.”  Price Dispute  More details of the Secret Service’s own investigation came
to light yesterday. A prostitute told an agent she met in a
nightclub before going to his hotel that her price for the
evening was $800, said Texas Republican Representative Mike McCaul, the chairman of a House Homeland Security oversight
subcommittee, whose staff was briefed by the Secret Service.  Later, the two got into a dispute over her demand to be
paid.  The agents “didn’t indicate to her they were  law
enforcement  or Secret Service agents,” McCaul said.  The Secret Service is planning polygraph examinations as
part of the investigation, McCaul said. Some of the agents
contend they didn’t know they were consorting with prostitutes,
he said.  The agency’s investigators are looking at videotape of the
hotel lobby and are interviewing hotel workers, the women
involved and agency employees still in Colombia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  