-- Singapore Exchange Shares Rise on Profit Gain: Singapore Mover
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-04-18T09:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/singapore-exchange-shares-rise-on-profit-gain-singapore-mover.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  climbed the
most in more than a month after the city’s bourse operator said
third-quarter net income rose 16 percent as it reduced expenses
and improved trading of derivatives.  Profit in the three months ended March 31 increased to
S$77.8 million ($62.2 million), or 7.25 cents a share, from S$67
million, or 6.26 cents a year earlier. That’s higher than the
average  estimate  of S$76.6 million by five analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Operating revenue declined 3.1 percent to S$163.6
million from S$168.8 million.  Global stocks posted their best quarter in 1 ½ years as the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO)  surged 11 percent in the three months ended
March, amid signs of growing investor confidence in corporate
profits.  Singapore ’s benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  climbed 14
percent, the most since the quarter ended September 2009.  “While we continue to deem SGX’s solid longer-term growth
prospects as a regional hub, we highlight that the nearer term
fortunes of the stock are more market-volume related,” Arjan van Veen, a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst who has a hold rating
for the stock, said in a report today.  The stock advanced 1.5 percent to S$6.82 at the close in
Singapore, the biggest gain since March 14.  “Market volumes will continue to be primarily driven by
global economic forces,” the company said in a stock exchange
statement yesterday. “We see growing interest from Singapore
and international companies to seek a listing on SGX.”  Civmec, Bumitama  Civmec Ltd. (CVL) , whose initial public offering was 2.1 times
subscribed, climbed 39 percent when it started trading on April
13.  Bumitama Agri Ltd. (BAL) , whose stock sale was 30.8 times
subscribed, jumped 31 percent on its debut the day before,
prompting SGX Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  to say the
exchange received the highest response to a Singapore share sale
in the past five years.  “One area of excitement was a strong IPO pipeline, which
according to management, could see billion-dollar listings over
the next one to two quarters,” Anand Pathmakanthan, an analyst
at Nomura Equity Research, who has the equivalent of a hold
rating on the stock, said in a report yesterday.  SGX has a “strong pipeline” of companies from  China ,
 Southeast Asia , India and  Europe  seeking to raise funds on the
exchange from share sales, according to a slide presentation
yesterday.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. may seek more than $2 billion
from an initial public offering of the Formula One auto-racing
series, according to four people with knowledge of the matter.
The private equity firm may sell a stake of about 20 percent in
Formula One, one person said last week, asking not to be
identified as the information is private.  CVC wants to conduct the sale in Singapore as early as June,
though its plans aren’t final, the people said.  Equities Trading  Appointed in December 2009, Bocker has been trying to boost
equities trading with the introduction of the world’s fastest
order processor in August and by scrapping the lunch trading
break in the city-state. His most ambitious plan, the A$8.3
billion ($8.6 billion) takeover bid for  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , was blocked by
the Australian government last year.  The company’s expenses dropped 5.9 percent to S$70.6
million in the quarter, driven by a 10 percent decline in
technology costs, according to the statement. Credit Suisse said
the decrease in expenses was a “key stand out” in the results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  