-- SKF Plans to Grow Renewables Business Faster Than Wind Industry
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-04-18T07:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/skf-plans-to-grow-renewables-business-faster-than-wind-industry.html
SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s largest maker
of ball-bearings, said growth in its renewable energy business
will outpace the wind industry in the next few years.  Renewables, mainly wind, generated about 3 billion kronor
($440 million) for Sweden-based SKF in 2010. That represented 5
percent of revenue, up from 1 percent in 2005, said Stefan Karlsson, head of strategic development at SKF’s renewable
energy unit. The company expects the wind industry to grow 10
percent to 15 percent a year.  “The target is that this will be a bigger portion of our
business,” Karlsson said in an interview at the European wind
Energy Association conference in Copenhagen. “We have been
growing our renewable business somewhat quicker than the wind
industry, and our aim is to carry on outgrowing the industry.
It’s a market in strong development.”  SKF’s clients include at least 13 of the 15 biggest wind
turbine-makers, according to Karlsson. He declined to name them.
SKF’s products, which include bearings, seals and turbine-
monitoring systems, make up 2 percent to 5 percent of the total
cost of a turbine, he said.  With turbines selling for an average of $910,000 per
megawatt of capacity, and the total turbine market forecast by
the Global Wind Energy Council to rise to 46 gigawatts this
year, turbine sales would total $37 billion. That means SKF is
vying for a share of a market that’s worth as much as 5 percent
of that, or $1.9 billion.  “The part of the value of the turbine that we provide is
exceptionally high,” Karlsson said. “Offshore is the next
generation of challenges. The seals and all parts have to be
more robust because if something goes wrong and there’s bad
weather, it can take you a week to access the turbine. With
onshore turbines you can just send a repairman in car.”  SKF also makes tracking systems for solar panels that
swivel to follow the sun through the sky during the day, and
bearings and seals for wave and tidal power devices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in Copenhagen via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 