-- Smaller Companies Getting a Pass From Tougher Swaps Regulation
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-04-18T23:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/smaller-companies-getting-a-pass-from-tougher-swaps-regulation.html
Farm co-ops, small banks and the
local gas company may be toasting U.S. regulators whose votes
yesterday freed them from strict Dodd-Frank Act oversight of
dealers in the $708 trillion global swaps market.  Those and other types of firms rely on trading and holding
swaps -- financial instruments they use to hedge risk or
speculate. Because of a 2010 proposal that any company entering
into swaps worth more than $100 million in a year could be
treated as a highly regulated dealer, so-called end users fought
an effort to include them in a new system of capital and
collateral requirements designed to avoid a repeat of the 2008
financial crisis.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and
Exchange Commission approved a final rule to start with an $8-
billion-a-year threshold that will drop to $3 billion within
five years unless incoming data suggest a different course. The
threshold increase means firms with a notional value of swaps
below $8 billion in the preceding 12 months won’t be considered
a dealer.  “Some of the people that fell in those gray areas, many of
them were worried they might get caught up in the swap dealer
definition,” said Luke Zubrod, a director at Chatham Financial
Corp., which advises companies that use derivatives to reduce
risk.  The rule is the most important to emerge so far in the
derivatives arena, Zubrod said, and demonstrated flexibility
from the regulators. Regional banks that provide swaps to
commercial customers, and some energy companies that trade
derivatives and provide risk-management services to customers,
would probably escape the 1,500 regulatory requirements that
dealers will face, he added.  “I think that they were listening,” he said of the
regulators.  Crisis Contribution  Largely unregulated derivatives trading helped fuel the
2008 financial crisis. Big financial firms such as  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  were most often associated with
troubled swaps deals. Today’s “major dealers” listed by the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s OTC Derivatives Supervisors
Group have included the largest banks, such as  Bank of America
Corp.  and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DB)   “From what I can tell today, there were improvements made
to the final rule that will reduce the negative impact on end-
users out in the countryside,” U.S. Representative  Frank Lucas ,
a Oklahoma Republican who heads the House Agricultural
Committee, said in a statement. Sweeping the so-called end-users
of swaps into the dealer category “simply doesn’t make sense,”
he said.  Reaching Dominant Players  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said he was confident the rule
would impose new requirements on the dominant players in the
swaps market even though the threshold is higher than initially
proposed.  “As the dealer market is dominated by large entities, I
believe the final swap dealer definition will encompass the vast
majority of swap dealer activity,” he said.  The rule was mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 to
govern clearing, trading, capital, collateral and internal
compliance standards, as well as swap dealers’ relationships
with clients including pension funds and cities. Dodd-Frank
calls for most swaps to be guaranteed by central clearinghouses
and traded on exchanges or other platforms.  The SEC estimated fewer than 50 will register as swap
dealers with the agency, which only oversees security-based
swaps under Dodd-Frank.  The CFTC will oversee about 95 percent of the swaps
markets, leaving the SEC primarily regulating credit-default
swaps, according to regulator estimates. About 85 percent of the
CFTC’s swaps are interest-rate swaps.  Division at CFTC  The rule was approved at the SEC by a unanimous vote. The
CFTC approved the rule in a 4-1 vote later in the day.
Republican  Scott O’Malia  was the CFTC’s lone dissenting vote.  “I am unable to support this rule not because it fails to
make positive policy choices but because it undertakes several
unnecessary and astonishing contortions to achieve those
results,” O’Malia said. “These contortions may lead to
potentially adverse inconsistencies and instabilities.”  Another change since the first proposal will let dealers
exclude portfolio hedging and anticipatory hedging activities
from their threshold calculations.  Companies won’t be subject to the new oversight
immediately. The CFTC must define what a swap is before it can
impose requirements on dealers. For securities-based dealers,
the SEC must also complete registration rules.  Yesterday’s votes cap a nearly two-year debate among the
regulators over how broadly to apply the oversight required by
Dodd-Frank. That debate was influenced by a lobbying campaign by
companies including  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  that
demonstrated how many industries the rule could affect.  ‘Thrilled’  “The companies that have more than $100 million and less
than $8 billion have to be thrilled,” said Andrea Kramer, a
partner at McDermott Will & Emery LLP in  Chicago . “This is a
win for companies that really never saw themselves as dealers in
the first place.”  Companies under the threshold are “a huge group of
commodity companies, mostly commercial end-users,” Kramer said.
“They don’t have to worry about getting swept up into the
dealer definition with all the attendant requirements and
regulations.”  Wall Street banks dominate dealing of swaps and other
derivatives.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp .,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
controlled 95 percent of cash and derivatives trading for U.S.
bank holding companies as of Dec. 31, according to the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  