-- Solar Thin-Film Panels May Outperform Rival Technology in India
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-18T08:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/solar-thin-film-panels-may-outperform-rival-technology-in-india.html
Thin-film solar panels may perform
better in hot climates than rival crystalline products, based on
half a year of data from the first Indian projects, an executive
at the nation’s largest contractor on the developments said.  “The last six months for which we have data show that the
performance of crystalline in hot climates is not as efficient
as thin film,” said S.N. Subrahmanyan, senior executive vice
president of construction at  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  “Of course,
it’s still early days. But that’s what we’re seeing.”  Concerns over use of thin-film panels were raised as  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the largest supplier, in February boosted provisions
for warranties by $37.8 million due to potential for “increased
failure rates in hot climates.” Developers and their lenders
are seeking data on how technologies fare in warmer conditions
as  Europe , the biggest solar market, cuts renewables subsidies.  Traditional crystalline modules are silicon-based, while
thin-film technology coats panels with materials such as cadmium
telluride, copper indium gallium selenide and amorphous silicon.  Crystalline’s competitiveness matches thin-film when placed
on trackers to rotate panels with the sun’s movement, boosting
output as much as 20 percent, Subrahmanyan said in an interview.  Early results showed dust from desert conditions where most
plants are built in Rajasthan and Gujarat states interferes with
generation, while thin-film panels are easier to wash, he said.  The possibility panels will degrade at different rates at
plants expected to last at least 25 years means it’s too early
to say which product is better, he said by phone from Chennai.  First Solar, based in Tempe, Arizona, said high ambient
temperatures may accelerate stress corrosion cracking in glass
and other defects after analyzing panels returned under warranty
and other data from markets including the southwestern U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  