-- Southern Nuclear Power Plant Foes Urge Court to Block License
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s ,   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/southern-nuclear-power-plant-foes-ask-court-to-block-license-1-.html
Opponents of  Southern Co. (SO) ’s plan to
build two nuclear  power plants  in  Georgia  asked a court to block
a license for the project granted by the federal  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission .  The NRC on April 16 denied a request by nine environmental
groups that it halt construction at the two reactors, setting
the stage for yesterday’s filing with the U.S. Court of Appeals
in  Washington .  The agency approved the license on Feb. 9 by a 4-1 vote.
The environmental groups initially asked the appeals court to
review and then reject the permit in a petition filed with that
court on March 20.  “Issuance of a stay is in the public interest,” the
groups said in their filing yesterday, arguing the NRC failed to
fully consider lessons learned from  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant disaster caused by a March 2011 earthquake and
tsunami.  “A majority of the commissioners conceded that ‘the
Fukushima events were significant, warranting enhancements in
safety measures,’” the environmental groups said. The
commissioners made no commitment to implement recommendations
made by a  task force  they appointed to study the accident in
Japan, the groups said.  ‘Respond in Court’  “We will respond in court at the appropriate time and
believe the agency position is sound,”  Eliot Brenner , an NRC
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Steve Higginbottom, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Southern,
said the environmental groups’ criticism of the NRC’s order is
unfounded.  “We are confident that the agency fully complied with
federal regulatory requirements in approving and issuing the
license, including an analysis of the environmental impacts of
severe accidents, earthquakes, tsunamis and floods,” he said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement  The environmental groups failed to show that building the
new units at the Vogtle Electric Generating Plant, about 179
miles (288 kilometers) from Atlanta, would irreparably harm the
environment, the NRC said in its April 16 order denying their
request to delay construction.  The alleged environmental impacts of building the reactors,
as opposed to operating them, aren’t related to the lessons
learned from the Fukushima incident, the commission said.  NRC Chairman  NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  opposed granting Southern
licenses for the units because the company wasn’t asked to
implement upgrades that may be required of U.S. plants in
response to Fukushima.  “I simply cannot ignore what happened at Fukushima,” he
said in a statement after the 4-1 vote on Feb. 9. On April 16,
he voted with his colleagues to allow construction to go forward
at Vogtle.  “Given that these licenses have been issued, I concur with
the general analysis of my colleagues” that the environmental
groups “have not satisfied the standard” to cause the
commission to delay construction, he said then.  The case is Blue Ridge Environmental Defense League v. U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 12-1151,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  