-- Spanish Bonds to Fall as MEAG Sees 10-Year Yields Near 7%
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-04-18T12:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/spanish-bonds-to-fall-as-meag-sees-10-year-yields-near-7-.html
Spanish  10-year bond yields  may
rise toward 7 percent amid the waning benefit of two rounds of
extraordinary European Central Bank loans, according to MEAG
Munich Ergo Asset Management GmbH.  A surge in Spain’s benchmark debt yield to the highest in
more than four months may also push German bund rates to record
lows, Andreas Grassl, the Munich-based deputy head of fixed
income, said in an interview on April 12. Nations including
Greece sought aid after yields breached 7 percent. The ECB lent
euro-area banks more than 1 trillion euros ($1.31 trillion) in
three-year loans in December and February to boost liquidity.  “We’re still in the debt crisis and it still isn’t
solved,” said Grassl, who oversees about 23 billion euros. “In
the next weeks we will see Spanish yields rise to between 6 and
7 percent as they try to find the correct level. If discussions
about the euro breakup start again or if there’s a weakening of
austerity measures bunds will have new low yields.”  Spain ’s 10-year rates rose to 6.16 percent on April 16, the
highest since Dec. 1, from this year’s low of 4.83 percent on
March 1. Benchmark German yields fell to 1.639 percent on April
10, approaching the record-low 1.636 percent set on Sept. 23.  Spanish 10-year yields fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 5.82 percent at 12:57 p.m. London time,
while bund yields were little changed at 1.73 percent.  Budget Struggle  Spain’s 10-year yields have surged almost 1 percentage
point since March 1 on concern Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will
struggle to bring the nation’s deficit under control after
announcing on March 2 the country would miss its 2012 budget-
deficit goal. Concern that Spain may follow  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal in seeking a bailout has seen bunds rise as investors
seek the safety of German assets.  MEAG, the asset-management arm of  Munich Re , the world’s
largest reinsurer, had 216 billion euros under management as of
Dec. 31, according to its website.  The  money manager  had 1.9 percent of its fixed-income
portfolio invested in Spanish debt as of Dec. 31, down from 2.7
percent a year earlier, according to data provided by the
company. German debt made up 35 percent of the portfolio at the
end of last year, compared with 30.7 percent at the close of
2010.  Spanish  two-year  note yields are now higher than before the
ECB began offering its three-year loans in so-called longer-term
refinancing operations.  ECB Purchases  The ECB will probably try to bring down Spain’s borrowing
costs by buying the nation’s debt through the Securities Market
Program, rather than through a third round of LTRO, Grassl said.
The ECB has spent 214 billion euros buying debt from Greece,
Ireland,  Portugal ,  Italy  and Spain since the SMP began in May
2010.  “The market is very nervous at the moment,” Grassl said.
“They are only looking at the bad news, the only way to
stabilize the market is through the ECB,” which will
“intervene when yields get close to 7 percent.”  The ECB said two days ago it hadn’t settled any government
bond purchases for a fifth-straight week.  It “should step up purchases of bonds,” Jaime Garcia- Legaz, a Spanish deputy minister in Luis de Guindos’s Economy
Ministry, said in an interview on April 13.  The ECB owns about 7.3 percent of Spain’s government debt,
according to a Morgan Stanley estimate in a research note
published the same day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 