-- Sudan's President Threatens to Overthrow South Sudan
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-04-18T21:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/sudan-s-president-threatens-to-overthrow-south-sudan.html
Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir
vowed today to overthrow the  South Sudan  government, as the
south pledged to defend itself and called for a return to
negotiations.  “Our main target from today is to liberate South  Sudan ’s
citizens from the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement,” al-
Bashir said in a speech aired on Sudan TV. “This is our
responsibility before our brothers in South Sudan,” he said.  South Sudan’s deputy information minister, Atem Yaak Atem,
said the Khartoum government has been launching ground and air
attacks against his country since it declared independence July
9, and accused Sudan of trying to overthrow his government by
supporting militia groups.  “We don’t see any reason for full-scale war as long as
there is room for negotiation,” he said today by phone from
Juba, the South Sudanese capital. “We have been telling them we
are ready for negotiation.”  South Sudan seceded from the north following a 2005 peace
deal that ended two decades of war. It assumed control over
about three-quarters of the formerly unified nation’s daily oil
output of 490,000 barrels. Most of the crude is pumped by the
China National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional
Bhd. and India’s ONGC Videsh Ltd.  Sudan said today it’s calling on the UN Security Council to
end South Sudan’s week-long occupation of the oil-rich Heglig
region. South Sudan’s army seized the region, which both
countries claim, on April 10 after a series of border clashes,
prompting Sudan to withdraw from African Union-led negotiations
and to mobilize its army.  “The story began in Heglig, but will end in Khartoum or
Juba,” al-Bashir said. “There are two choices: Either we end
up in Juba or they end up in Khartoum. The old borders cannot
take us both.”  While the south would defend itself, Atem said his
government has “no plan to attack or occupy anybody’s
territory.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Jared Ferrie in Nairobi, Kenya at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  