-- Swan Says IMF Forecasts Back Australia Budget Surplus Projection
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-18T01:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/swan-says-imf-forecasts-back-australia-budget-surplus-projection.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
forecasts for Australian economic growth are “broadly
consistent” with government projections that underpin its plan
to return the budget to surplus, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  Australia’s economic expansion will accelerate to 3 percent
this year and 3.5 percent in 2013, the Washington-based IMF said
in its World Economic Outlook. Unemployment will remain at the
current 5.2 percent this year and next, the report showed.  “These forecasts are broadly consistent with the outlook
in” Treasury’s midyear review that has the budget returning to
surplus, Swan said in a statement. “With solid growth, low
unemployment, contained inflation, strong public finances and a
record pipeline of business investment, the Australian economy
is the standout performer of the developed world.”  Swan has pledged to end four years of deficits in the
fiscal year that begins July 1 as the government attempts to
reverse a slump in opinion polls before an election next year.
The goal has been threatened by global pressures including
slowing economic growth in China, Europe’s debt crisis and
elevated unemployment in the U.S.  The IMF predicted inflation in  Australia  would slow to 2.7
percent this year, within the central bank’s 2 percent to 3
percent target range, before accelerating in 2013.  The central bank said this month that a reduction in
 interest rates  at its May 1 policy meeting hinges on an April 24
report on first-quarter inflation, as recent data indicates the
economy is growing slower than earlier predicted. The RBA
decided against lowering borrowing costs at its three meetings
so far this year as the global recovery stabilizes and a mining
boom sustains domestic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  