-- Regulators Approve $8 Billion Threshold for Swaps Dealers
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-18T20:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/swap-regulators-set-to-approve-8-billion-threshold-for-dealers.html
U.S. regulators agreed to a scaled
back definition of which companies will face new oversight as
dealers in a portion of the  derivatives market , where largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 financial crisis.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and
Exchange Commission adopted rules today defining so-called swap
dealers as firms conducting swaps of derivatives with a notional
value of $8 billion a year, up from $100 million in an earlier
proposal. The threshold will fall to $3 billion after five years
unless new market data persuade regulators to use a different
level.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial instruments
used to hedge risks or for speculation. The companies designated
as swap dealers will ultimately be subject to the highest
capital and collateral requirements for market participants.  The threshold “is a number that will protect end-users
with trading operations that were concerned they would get swept
into dealer status,” said Andrea Kramer, a partner at McDermott
Will & Emery LLP in  Chicago . “The companies that have more than
$100 million and less than $8 billion have to be thrilled
today.”  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said he was confident the rule
would impose new requirements on the dominant players in the
swaps market even though the threshold is higher than initially
proposed.  Large Entities  “As the dealer market is dominated by large entities, I
believe the final swap dealer definition will encompass the vast
majority of swap dealer activity,” he said.  The rule was mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 to
govern clearing, trading, capital, collateral and internal
compliance standards, as well as swap dealers’ relationships
with clients including pension funds and cities. Dodd-Frank
calls for most swaps to be guaranteed by central clearinghouses
and traded on exchanges or other platforms.  The SEC estimated fewer than 50 will register as swap
dealers with the agency, which only oversees security-based
swaps under Dodd-Frank.  The CFTC will oversee about 95 percent of the swaps
markets, leaving the SEC primarily regulating single-name
credit-default swaps, according to regulator estimates. About 
85 percent of the CFTC’s swaps are interest-rate swaps.  ‘Foundational Step’  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said the rule is a
“foundational step in the establishment of the new regime to
regulate trading in this very significant market.”  “These rules clarify for market participants whether their
current activities will subject them to comprehensive oversight
in the coming months,” she said.  The rule was approved at the SEC by a unanimous vote. The
CFTC approved the rule in a 4-1 vote later in the day.
Republican  Scott O’Malia  was the CFTC’s lone dissenting vote.  “I am unable to support this rule not because it fails to
make positive policy choices but because it undertakes several
unnecessary and astonishing contortions to achieve those
results,” O’Malia said. “These contortions may lead to
potentially adverse inconsistencies and instabilities in the
years that follow.”  Beyond swap dealers, the rule also defines a smaller group
of “major swap participants” that hold large positions in
categories such as currency exchange rates or commodity swaps.
One threshold for “substantial position” would be daily
uncollateralized exposure of $1 billion in any major swaps
category except for rate swaps, where $3 billion will be the
mark. The SEC expects no more than five major swap participants
will have to register as such participants.  Exclusions  Another change since the first proposal will let dealers
exclude portfolio hedging and anticipatory hedging activities
from their threshold calculations. Major swap participants will
also be allowed to omit hedging or the mitigation of commercial
risk from their position total.  Companies won’t be subject to the new oversight
immediately. The CFTC must define what a swap is before it can
impose requirements on dealers. For securities-based dealers,
the SEC must also complete registration rules.  Today’s votes cap a nearly two-year debate among the
regulators over how broadly to apply the oversight required by
Dodd-Frank. That debate was influenced by a lobbying campaign by
companies including  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  that
demonstrated how many industries the rule could affect.  ‘Measured Approach’  The CFTC and SEC “seem to have taken a measured approach,
and have considered the comments received to adopt rules that
account for market realities,” Ian Cuillerier, a New York
derivatives lawyer at White & Case LLP, said in an e-mail,
adding that his firm is still studying the rule.  Wall Street banks dominate dealing of swaps and other
derivatives.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp .,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
controlled 95 percent of cash and derivatives trading for U.S.
bank holding companies as of Dec. 31, according to the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency.  The CFTC also voted 5-0 in favor of a separate rule today
that treats commodity options like all other swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  