-- Sweden’s Riksbank Keeps Key Interest Rate at 1.5%
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-04-18T09:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/sweden-s-riksbank-keeps-key-interest-rate-at-1-5-.html
Sweden’s Riksbank kept its main
 interest rate  unchanged amid signs the largest Nordic economy
will avoid a recession after policy makers across  Europe  stepped
in to ease debt crisis concerns.  The repo rate was kept at 1.5 percent, after two cuts since
December, the Stockholm-based bank said today. The move was
predicted by 14 of 18 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . Four
forecast a quarter point cut. The central bank repeated its
intention to keep rates unchanged over the next year.  “Following the sharp slowdown in the Swedish economy
towards the end of last year, it is now possible to discern some
positive signs,” the bank said. “At the same time, inflation
is low and expected to remain so over the coming year.  Monetary
policy  needs to remain expansionary to support the recovery.”  A rebound in Swedish exports, rising retail sales and
improving  consumer confidence  has brought the economy back from
the “abyss,” Finance Minister Anders Borg said this week. The
 economy  may avoid a recession as growth slows to 0.4 percent
this year from 3.9 percent in 2011, sending the budget into a
deficit, according to the finance minister.  Yields Jump  The krona strengthened 0.3 percent to 8.8569 per euro and
0.03 percent to 6.7680 per dollar as of 11:26 a.m. in  Stockholm .
The yield on the two-year note rose eight basis points to 1.196
percent.  Half of Sweden’s output comes from exports, while 70
percent of that goes to Europe. The economy shrank 1.1 percent
in the fourth quarter, its first contraction since 2009.  “The world economy seems to be facing brighter times and,
if that proves to be correct, the Swedish economy can turn
around quite quickly,” said Mikael Nilsson, an economist at
Barclays Capital Plc. The Riksbank won’t cut rates more and will
raise faster than forecast starting next year, he said.  The  European Central Bank  flooded financial markets with 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of cheap loans for three years, a
facility known as the longer-term refinancing operation. There
were renewed concerns this month as  Spain  has struggled with
rising debt yields and doubts over deficits.  The Riksbank today cut its economic growth forecast to 0.4
percent this year from 0.7 percent and to 1.9 percent in 2013
from 2.1 percent. Inflation will average 1.2 percent this year
and 1.9 percent in 2013 and unemployment will rise to an average
7.7 percent 2012 from 7.5 percent in 2011, it said. The bank
targets inflation of 2 percent.  Rate Bets Fade  Swedish  retail sales  rose more than predicted in the first
two months of the year, while  consumer  and  manufacturing
confidence  improved for a third month in March.  Traders and investors scaled back predictions for rate cuts
this year. Futures show traders expect the Riksbank will lower
its rate to 1.30 percent in December, up seven basis points from
yesterday and from as low as 0.75 percent in December.  Sweden ’s benchmark OMX stock index has risen 6 percent this
year, paring some of last year’s 14 percent loss.  Swedish growth will pick up to 3.3 percent next year, Borg
predicted this week. Unemployment will average 7.8 percent this
year and 7.7 percent in 2013, according to the government.  Two of six Riksbank board members, Lars E.O. Svensson and
Karolina Ekholm, argued for a cut to 1 percent today as
inflation lags behind estimates. The two also advocated
larger rate cuts at the past two meetings, and were the only two
board members to call for lower rates in October.  Inflation has trailed the central bank’s forecasts in the
first three months of the year. Consumer price growth eased for
a sixth month out of seven to an annual 1.5 percent in March.  The low cost pressure and worsening labor market will force
the Riksbank to cut rates at its next meeting in July, said
 Annika Winsth , chief economist at Nordea Bank AB.  “We’re still slightly more pessimistic than the Riksbank
when it comes to growth and also the labor market, and
historically rising unemployment has prompted the Riksbank to
cut rates,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  