-- Swiss Franc Weakens Versus Euro as Jordan Names SNB Presi
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-04-18T15:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/swiss-franc-weakens-versus-euro-as-jordan-names-snb-presi.html
(Corrects sixth paragraph to show the franc breached the
euro cap only once.)  The  Swiss franc  fell as the
government named interim chairman Thomas Jordan the full-time
head of the  Swiss National Bank , ending concern a new leader
would ease the policy of limiting the currency’s strength.  The franc declined the most in a week against the euro
after Jordan was formally appointed president at a government
meeting today in Bern. The SNB imposed a cap of 1.20 francs per
euro in September to protect exporters as investors sought the
currency as a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Jordan’s ascension is the official removal of any
uncertainty regarding policy continuity,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief foreign-exchange strategist at Swissquote
Bank SA in Geneva. “However, it doesn’t eliminate the core
issue, which is investors value the perceived safety of the
franc over the euro. Demand for the franc should continue to
create problems for the SNB.”  The franc depreciated 0.1 percent to 1.2012 per euro at
4:03 p.m.  London  time after weakening as much as 0.2 percent,
the most since April 11. The currency was little changed at
91.60 centimes per dollar.  Jordan, 49, became interim chairman of the SNB on Jan. 9.
He replaced Philipp Hildebrand, who stepped down that day after
it was revealed his wife exchanged $504,000 of francs into
dollars in August, shortly before the cap was imposed.  The franc briefly strengthened beyond 1.20 per euro on
April 5.  Policy Continuity  “I stand for the continuity of the SNB monetary policy,”
Jordan said a press briefing. “The franc limit is absolutely
necessary in the current situation. The whole governing board is
fully behind this limit which we continue to defend regardless
of what happens on the financial markets.”  Jordan declined to comment on a possible increase to the
franc’s cap.  The Swiss government also named Fritz Zurbruegg, head of
the Federal Finance Administration, to the SNB’s governing
board, while Jean-Pierre Danthine was named deputy president.  The currency floor will be lifted to 1.25 francs per euros
over the next quarter, according to Barclays Plc.  “The franc remains very expensive relative to the SNB’s,
and our, judgment of fair value,”  Paul Robinson , global head of
foreign-exchange research in London, wrote today in a note to
clients. “Raising the floor makes sense, both to loosen the
monetary stance and tactically to ensure the floor continues to
meet little challenge. We expect an increase to 1.25 over the
next quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  