-- SXC Health Solutions to Buy Catalyst in $4.4 Billion Deal
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-04-18T20:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/sxc-health-solutions-to-purchase-catalyst-in-4-4-billion-deal.html
SXC Health Solutions Corp. (SXCI)  agreed
to buy  Catalyst Health Solutions Inc. (CHSI)  in a cash and stock
transaction valued at $4.4 billion to stay competitive as larger
pharmacy benefits managers join forces.  Catalyst investors will receive $28 in cash and 0.6606
shares of SXC stock for each Catalyst share under the terms of
the agreement, the companies said today in a statement. That
implies a purchase price of $81.02 per Catalyst share, 28
percent above yesterday’s closing stock prices.  Pharmacy benefits managers are combining after Express
Scripts Inc., the largest one in the U.S., agreed to pay $29.1
billion for Medco Health Solutions Inc. SXC of Lisle,  Illinois ,
one of the biggest providers of technology for processing
prescription claims, was the target of speculation last month.
The company is now in position to be one of the nation’s largest
pharmacy benefit companies, said Brian Tanquilut, an analyst
with Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee .  “SXC will be the next big player in the PBM space,”
Tanquilut said in a telephone interview. “The opportunity to
win new business from the larger guys, meaning Express-Medco,
CVS, is there.”  SXC  rose  11 percent to $89.36 at 4 p.m. New York time.
Rockville, Maryland-based Catalyst surged 34 percent to $85.23.
SXC’s calculation understates the value of the share portion of
the deal, and Catalyst is trading at the proper value, according
to Tanquilut.  Big Four  SXC is targeting the current “big three” of the PBM world
--  Express Scripts Holding Co. (ESRX) ,  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and
UnitedHealth Group Inc., hoping to eventually make it a big four
as his company grows, said SXC Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Mark Thierer.  “We’ve laid a three to five year plan out for our board,”
Thierer said in an interview today. “I do see SXC moving right
into the largest buyers, competing directly” with the biggest
PBMs, he said.  His company will have “a lot of gunpowder” to do future
deals, Thierer said. SXC will target companies that can help
them grow is scale, as well as smaller, closely held companies
with capabilities in specialty pharmaceuticals like expensive
injectable drugs. “I’m expecting continued consolidation” he
said. “People have a lot of money on the balance sheet,
leverage is cheap, I’m expecting a lot more activity,” he said.  Transaction Costs  The enlarged company expects to incur about $40 million to
$45 million of “transition expenses” while SXC expects to pay
annual interest of about $70 million from financing the
transaction with $1.7 billion in debt.  Thierer and will continue as CEO and chairman in the
combined company.  “We will be the second-largest independent PBM in the
country, in terms of prescription volume,” Thierer said on a
conference call today. “The transaction will expand our reach
to larger clients.”  The companies have little overlap among clients, with
Catalyst having many state employers while SXC has state
Medicaid clients, Thierer said.  “This catapults SXC and Catalyst into a much better
negotiating stance,” said Anthony Vendetti, a Maxim Group LLC
analyst in  New York  who follows both companies. “It gives them
more leverage with drug manufacturers and drug distributors and
because of their increased size, it gives them more leverage
with clients.”  Seven Acquisitions  SXC made at least seven acquisitions since November 2004,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Previous to today’s
deal, their largest purchase had been Healthtrans LLC for $250
million in January.  “SXC has a history of acquiring companies and integrating
them well,” Vendetti said in a telephone interview.  Founded as Systems Xcellence in 1993, SXC negotiates with
drugmakers for lower prescription medicine prices on behalf of
health insurers, Medicare and Medicaid plans, workers’
compensation programs and long-term care facilities.  SXC also makes software that processed one out of every
five drug claims in the U.S, according to the company’s 2010
annual report. Jefferies’s Tanquilut said that most of the
acquisitions have been clients who use SXC’s technology.  Tanquilut said the company may take a year to complete the
integration, then move on to more deals to keep growing and
compete with  Express Scripts  and CVS. The company needs to add
smaller assets in specialty pharmaceuticals, most of which will
probably be closely held regional companies, he said.  Deal Advisers  JPMorgan Chase & Co. served as lead financial adviser to
SXC, while Barclays Plc assisted and Sidley Austin LLP provided
legal advice. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. took the lead in advising
Catalyst, with Citigroup Inc. offering additional advice and
Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy acting as legal counsel.  JPMorgan is providing financing to SXC for the cash portion
of the deal, according to today’s statement.  Express Scripts, which completed the purchase of Medco on
April 2 after receiving approval from the Federal Trade
Commission, is the subject of a lawsuit by trade groups that
wanted to block the acquisition. St. Louis-based Express Scripts
has asked that the lawsuit be dismissed because the trade groups
waited too long to file the challenge. The companies agreed to
the deal in July.  There have been more than $80 billion in deals in the
pharmacy services industry worldwide over the past 10 years, the
largest being Express Scripts’ purchase of Medco, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. SXC’s offer values Catalyst at 27
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, the data show. The median in a survey of 10 deals
over the past decade is about 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  