-- Syngenta Pushes Through Goal-Topping Prices to Buoy Sales
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-04-18T08:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/syngenta-pushes-through-goal-topping-prices-to-buoy-sales-1-.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest
crop-chemical company, increased prices more than expected in
the first quarter, helping prop up sales.  Sales increased 7 percent to $4.3 billion, after currency
adjustments, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a
release. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey expected $4.33 billion,
according to a mean estimate. Syngenta shares fell in Zurich
trading.  Syngenta, like seeds-competitor  Monsanto Co. (MON) , benefited
from a warm start to the spring in the U.S. that led farmers to
bring forward orders for seeds and crop-protection. Chief
Executive Officer Michael Mack said there “will be some
effect” as sales that are normally booked later in the year get
pulled into the first quarter.  “Pricing was good but sales volume was a little bit
short,” said Bettina Edmondston, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets in Zurich. “Going into today everybody was expecting
strong results, which was reflected in the share-price
movement.”  Shares of the maker of Axial herbicide and Cruiser seed
care fell 2.7 percent to 314.8 Swiss francs as of 9:42 a.m.  The target for increasing prices for the full year still
remains 2 to 3 percent, Chief Financial Officer John Ramsay said
in an interview. They gained 4 percent in the first quarter.  Syngenta claims the No. 3 spot in seed production with a 9
percent market share. It’s on track to add 0.5 of a percentage
point growth this year, the executives said.  The company generated $1.5 billion in free cash last year,
two-thirds of which was returned to shareholders through share
buybacks and dividends.  With no indication that  DuPont Co. (DD) ,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and
 Bayer AG (BAYN)  are seeking to offload their rival seed operations,
Syngenta is looking at acquisitions of between $100 and $600
million, Ramsay said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  