-- Syria Squeezed as Nations Pressure Assad on Cease-Fire
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-04-18T08:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/syria-squeezed-as-nations-pressure-assad-on-cease-fire.html
France , the U.S. and other
countries are showing little confidence in the week-old Syria
cease-fire, increasing the pressure on President Bashar al-Assad
to halt the violence while aiding his opponents.  Fifty-seven countries, meeting in France, voted yesterday
to tighten sanctions on Syria as Russia accused Persian Gulf
nations of arming opposition fighters. Members of the so-called
Friends of Syria group are openly supporting the rebels with
non-lethal assistance, such as communications equipment, and
weighing gestures to further cast Assad’s regime as a pariah,
including the expulsion of Syria’s ambassadors, according to
European diplomats who aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  While the daily death toll has dropped, Assad hasn’t lived
up to the terms of the United Nations-backed peace plan, which
include a pullback of his forces and steps toward democratic
reforms. Even as the first UN monitors arrived in Syria, Assad’s
tanks continued attacking Homs and other areas, Mark Toner, a
U.S. State Department spokesman, said yesterday.  “The long-term prospects of cease-fire are not good,
primarily because it addresses none of the underlying issues,”
said  Joshua Landis , director of the Center for Middle East
Studies at the University of Oklahoma at Norman. Furthermore, he
said, some countries want only one outcome -- the end of the
Assad government.  The Sunni Muslim Gulf countries want to weaken Shiite
Muslim  Iran  by ousting its closest regional ally, Assad. “They
don’t think dialogue is possible, and anything that falls short
of replacing the regime is a defeat,” Landis said.  Playing for Time  Qatar’s prime minister, after finishing an Arab League
meeting yesterday with UN special envoy  Kofi Annan , who brokered
the cease-fire, said the agreement made little difference.  “We are fearful that the Syrian regime is playing for
time,” Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Al Thani said in Qatar. “We
hope to be wrong but until now we have not felt substantive
change in the way the Syrian government has been dealing with
this dossier.”  A UN diplomat said the widespread view is that while
there’s little chance the cease-fire will work, it offers an
opportunity to deploy observers in the country. This diplomat,
too, spoke on the condition of anonymity because he wasn’t
authorized to discuss the topic.  The cease-fire monitors, if deployed, would be in position
to assess the military actions of Assad’s forces and the armed
opposition, as well as to document possible  war crimes  by the
regime. Six UN monitors, led by Moroccan Army Colonel Ahmed
Himmiche, have arrived in Syria. Another 25 to 30 observers are
expected to follow in the next few days, Toner said.  Friends of Syria  In Paris, the Friends of Syria held a technical-level
meeting to consider ways to increase financial pressure on the
Syrian leadership. Officials represented the European Union, the
Arab world, the U.S. and other nations sympathetic to the anti-
Assad movement.  French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe , speaking to reporters,
said that sanctions have drained Syrian foreign reserves by half
and that the regime is trying to evade them. He didn’t provide
any figures. The country’s foreign-currency reserves totaled
about $18 billion last October, the governor of the central bank
told Bloomberg at the time.  Qatar’s prime minister denied arming the Syrian opposition.
“This business of arming was interpreted differently by
different people,” Al Thani said yesterday. “Self defense is a
legitimate right, but if you ask us have we armed the
opposition, the reply is no we have not.”  Assets Frozen  Russia  and China have blocked efforts at the UN to punish
Syria for its crackdown. Still, individual countries have frozen
Syrian assets and barred government officials from visiting. The
Paris meeting participants discussed freezing individuals’
assets, as well, one of the European diplomats said.  Other efforts include the U.S. equipping opposition forces
with communications gear, a Gulf-funded plan to pay salaries to
opposition fighters and coaching by several countries, including
the U.S., to help the fractious opposition groups  become a more
cohesive force, the diplomats said.  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem was set to discuss
Annan’s cease-fire plan with Chinese officials in a visit to
Beijing today, the English-language  China Daily  newspaper said
in a story today, citing experts it did not identify.  China  will continue communicating with the government and
opposition parties, urging them to cooperate with the UN’s
monitoring and conduct political dialogue, China’s Middle Easy
envoy Wu Sike said, according to China Daily.  Onus on Assad  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said yesterday on
state television that “outside forces” continue to give the
opposition arms and encouragement in order to undermine the
cease-fire.  In Syria, government forces killed 39 people yesterday,
mainly in the northern province of Idlib, the Local Coordination
Committees in Syria said on its website.  The “erosion” of the cease-fire is unacceptable, Toner
said yesterday in  Washington . Saying that the opposition has
“has held its fire and lived up to its side of the agreement,”
Toner said that “the onus is on the Assad regime” to comply
with the UN peace plan. In Annan’s six-point plan, Assad
committed to undertake a Syrian-led political process, cease all
violence, provide humanitarian assistance, release detained
prisoners, allow journalists to move freely and respect Syrians’
right to demonstrate peacefully.  “They’ve barely fulfilled one,” Toner said.  ‘Last Best Efforts’  Landis said the Assad government may benefit if the cease-
fire prevents the issue from reaching the  Security Council  and
enables  Syria  to pressure the West to limit support for the
opposition. “In many ways, this plays into regime hands,”
Landis said.  The U.S. ambassador to the UN,  Susan Rice , said that wasn’t
so. The monitors “are perhaps the best, and potentially the
last best, efforts to resolve this situation through peaceful
diplomatic means,” Rice said yesterday in  New York .  “It may be impossible to do so,” she added, if the regime
insists on continuing to use violence “as long as it can get
away with it.”  The tenuous cease-fire may give the opposition time to
regroup and enable the Syrian Free Army to improve its command
and control, Landis said. “They’ve taken an incredible beating
from the regime,” he said. “They’re fragmenting, bickering,
falling apart.”  The opposition can’t wait too long before it starts testing
the cease-fire, Landis said. “The longer they take to get
organized, the more distracted the international community will
get,” he said. “A lot of things can come up to steal the fire
of the Syrian Revolution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  