-- U.K. Unemployment Unexpectedly Falls as Economy Gains Momentum
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-04-18T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/u-k-unemployment-unexpectedly-falls-as-economy-gains-momentum.html
U.K. jobless claims rose less than
economists forecast in March and a broader measure of
 unemployment  fell for the first time for almost a year, signs
that the labor market is stabilizing as the economy recovers.  Jobless-benefit claims rose by 3,600 from February to 1.61
million, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median forecast of 29 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a gain of 6,000. Unemployment as measured by
International Labour Organization methods fell to 8.3 percent in
the quarter through February from 8.4 percent.  The figures provide for a boost for Prime Minister  David
Cameron , who is facing criticism from the opposition  Labour
Party  that he is damaging the recovery by trying to cut the
 budget deficit  too quickly. Employment rose in latest period,
suggesting hiring by private companies is making up for the loss
of tens of thousands of public-sector jobs.  “Growth is on a rising trajectory,” said  Alan Clarke ,
economist at Scotia Capital Europe Ltd. in  London . “Things are
looking less bad.”  The increase in the number of people claiming jobless
benefits last month was the 17th in succession and the smallest
since December. It left the claimant-count rate at 4.9 percent.
In February, the claimant count rose 4,500 rather than the 7,200
initially reported.  In the three months through February, unemployment fell
35,000 to 2.65 million people. A third, 883,000, had been
looking for work for more than a year.  That figure will rise to almost a million by year-end, the
Institute for Public Policy Research said today in a report that
describes long-term unemployment as “the hidden crisis of the
slowest ever economic recovery in the U.K.”  Data suggest growth resumed growth in the first quarter,
though Ernst & Young LLP’s ITEM Club predicted this week the
economy will expand just 0.4 percent this year, half the pace
seen by the  Office for Budget Responsibility , which produces
forecasts for the Treasury, and the  International Monetary Fund .  Strains in the labor market remain. British clothing brand
and retailer Aquascutum yesterday collapsed into administration,
jeopardizing about 250 jobs. British Airways, the U.K. unit of
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, said on April 11
it plans to cut jobs at London Gatwick airport to respond to
increasing competition from low-cost carriers.  Still, the government has argued that the labor market is
showing signs of stabilizing, with companies including Tesco Plc
and Nissan Motor Co. and GlaxoSmithKline Plc announcing plans to
create thousands of jobs in recent weeks.  Today’s figures show the number of people in work climbed
by 53,000 to 29.2 million between December and February.  Underlining the squeeze on household budgets, total pay
growth slowed to 1.1 percent in the three months through
February, the lowest since mid 2010, from 1.3 percent in the
three months through January. Weekly pay excluding bonuses was
unchanged at 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  