-- U.K. Unemployment Unexpectedly Falls as Growth Resumes
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-04-18T10:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/u-k-unemployment-unexpectedly-falls-as-growth-resumes-1-.html
U.K.  jobless claims  rose less than
economists forecast in March and a broader measure of
unemployment fell for the first time for almost a year, signs
that the labor market is stabilizing as the economy recovers.  Jobless-benefit claims rose by 3,600 from February to 1.61
million, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median forecast of 29 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a gain of 6,000. Unemployment as measured by
International Labour Organization methods fell to 8.3 percent in
the quarter through February from a 16-year high of 8.4 percent.
No change was forecast.  The figures provide a boost for Prime Minister  David Cameron , who faces criticism from the opposition  Labour Party  
that he is damaging the recovery by trying to cut the budget 
deficit too quickly. Employment rose in latest period, 
suggesting hiring by private companies is making up for the loss
of tens of thousands of public-sector jobs.  “These figures look pretty good and are suggestive of some
reasonable underlying momentum in growth,” said David Tinsley,
chief U.K. economist at BNP Paribas SA in London and a former
 Bank of England  official. “The fact that unemployment is
stabilizing is very good news for the government.”  Minutes of the Bank of England’s March policy meeting
published today showed  Adam Posen  ended his push for further
stimulus and  David Miles  said his view on the need for more was
“finely balanced” as officials said inflation may turn out
faster than forecast.  ‘Hidden Crisis’  The pound rose against the dollar after the reports and was
trading at $1.5969 as of 11:09 a.m. in London, up 0.3 percent on
the day.  The increase in the number of people claiming jobless
benefits last month was the 17th in succession and the smallest
since December. It left the claimant-count rate at 4.9 percent,
the highest since 1997. In February, jobless claims rose 4,500
rather than the 7,200 initially reported.  In the three months through February, ILO unemployment fell
35,000 to 2.65 million people. A third, 883,000, had been
looking for work for more than a year.  That figure will rise to almost a million by year-end, the
 Institute for Public Policy Research  said today in a report that
describes long-term unemployment as “the hidden crisis of the
slowest ever economic recovery in the U.K.”  Growth Outlook  Data suggest growth resumed growth in the first quarter,
though Ernst & Young LLP’s ITEM Club predicted this week the
economy will expand just 0.4 percent this year, half the pace
seen by the  Office for Budget Responsibility  and the
 International Monetary Fund . The OBR, which produces
forecasts for the Treasury, last month predicted ILO-based
unemployment will peak at 8.7 percent this year.  Strains in the labor market remain. British clothing brand
and retailer Aquascutum yesterday collapsed into administration,
jeopardizing about 250 jobs. British Airways, the U.K. unit of
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, said on April 11
it plans to cut jobs at London Gatwick airport to respond to
increasing competition from low-cost carriers.  Still, companies including Tesco Plc and Nissan Motor Co.
have announced plans to add thousands of jobs in recent weeks
and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  claimed
vindication for a budget that cut the  tax rate  on corporate
profits after GlaxoSmithKline Plc said last month it will
create more than 1,000 posts in the U.K.  Part-Time Boost  Today’s figures show the number of people in work climbed
by 53,000 to 29.2 million between December and February, though
the increase was entirely driven by an 80,000 increase in part-
time work, suggesting employers remain cautious about hiring.
The number of people working part-time because they could not
find a full-time job climbed to 1.4 million, the most since at
least 1992.  Underlining the squeeze on household budgets, pay growth
slowed from 1.3 percent to 1.1 percent in the three months
through February, the lowest since mid 2010 and a third of the
pace of consumer-price inflation. The slowdown was caused by a
sharp fall in bonuses, particularly at financial-services firms.
Wage growth excluding bonuses was unchanged at 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  