-- U.S. Wireless Seen Contracting After IPhone Binge: Tech
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-04-18T21:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/u-s-wireless-seen-contracting-after-iphone-binge-tech.html
The U.S. wireless market, long the
fastest-growing sector in the telecommunications industry, looks
like it’s headed for a wall.  Sales of wireless contracts, the most lucrative segment of
the business because it locks in monthly payments over long
periods, may have shrunk for the first time ever in the first
quarter. One big reason for the sharp reversal: Soaring iPhone
sales in late 2011 may have satiated consumers’ appetites for
wireless plans.  A decline would mark a turning point for the previously
rapid-growth business, leaving carriers such as  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
 Verizon Wireless  and Sprint Nextel Corp. fighting over a
shrinking pool of customers. A slowdown also forces device
manufacturers such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  to
battle more intensely for customers.  “The huge fourth quarter fueled by the iPhone took all the
air out of the first quarter,” said  Philip Cusick , a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst in New York. “It’s a saturated market.”  U.S. wireless carriers shed a combined 20,000 contract
customers in the first quarter, Cusick estimated.  The decline forces carriers to seek revenue gains at the
expense of weaker players, said  Chetan Sharma  of Chetan Sharma
Consulting in Issaquah, Washington. That may mean increasing
promotional activity by carriers who already are selling
smartphones at a loss to lure users into two-year contracts, a
practice that has reduced profit margins.  To offer the iPhone, for instance, carriers already pay
Apple about $600 per phone and then collect $199 from retail
customers, subsidizing the difference with revenue from monthly
service charges.  These subsidies have narrowed wireless operating income
margins at AT&T to 15.2 percent in the fourth quarter, down from
30 percent in the first quarter of 2010.  ‘Milestone’  “This is a milestone,” Sharma said. “What you’ll see in
a saturated market are the forces of consolidation and price
pressure. Margins in the U.S. have already been shrinking at a
faster rate than any other time in the wireless industry.”  AT&T, Verizon Wireless and Sprint representatives declined
to comment.  Tom Seitz, a Jefferies & Co. analyst in New York, also has
factored in a possibility that the contract-user number dropped
in the first quarter.  “The industry is maturing,” Seitz said. “Given that the
pie isn’t growing rapidly any longer, it’s now a game of share-
shifting.”  IPhone Surge  Within the industry, AT&T and Verizon Wireless probably
kept winning users from smaller rivals  T-Mobile USA  and  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S) , Cusick and Seitz said. T-Mobile probably lost
600,000 contract customers and Sprint 125,000 last quarter,
Cusick said. Verizon Wireless added 500,000 contract users and
AT&T gained 225,000 such customers, Cusick estimates.  The potential first-quarter drop follows exceptionally
strong gains in the previous period, when holiday sales of Apple
Inc.’s new iPhone 4S boosted subscriber numbers. The first
quarter also is traditionally the slowest sales period for the
industry, and contract-subscriber growth may resume after that,
Cusick and Seitz predict.  Some analysts say the market may have avoided a contraction
in the first quarter. James Ratcliffe of Barclays Capital Inc.
estimates that the big four carriers -- Verizon Wireless, AT&T,
Sprint and T-Mobile USA -- added 380,000 contract customers
collectively.  Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kansas, fell 3.5 percent to
$2.52 at the close in New York, and AT&T lost 0.5 percent to
$30.75.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , which owns Verizon Wireless
with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , retreated 0.2 percent to $37.66. T-
Mobile is a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   Market Penetration  Gains in the prepaid market -- a smaller, faster-growing
part of the mobile-phone business -- means the wireless industry
as a whole kept adding users in the first quarter. Still, in
that market, which includes carriers  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS)  and  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , the growth also is
slowing, Seitz and Cusick said.  The number of new prepaid customers added by the industry
in the first quarter was an estimated 2.5 million, an 18 percent
decline from the year-earlier growth rate, according to Cusick.  “If you take out every kid under 10 and every adult over
80, you have a market with 125 percent penetration,” Seitz
said. “It’s no surprise the industry is maturing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  