-- U.S. Stocks Decline as Intel, IBM Tumble After Results
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-18T21:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/u-s-stock-futures-fluctuate-yahoo-gains-as-intel-slides.html
U.S. stocks fell, after the biggest
advance in more than a month for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, as  Intel (INTC)  Corp. and International Business Machines Corp.
drove a slump in technology shares after reporting results.  Intel and  IBM (IBM)  dropped at least 1.8 percent amid the slowest
sales growth since 2009.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Class A shares
slid 1.3 percent as  Warren Buffett  was diagnosed with stage 1
prostate cancer. Genworth Financial Inc. tumbled 24 percent
after delaying plans for a public offering of its Australian
unit backing home loans after “elevated” losses in the nation.
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest maker of mobile-phone chips, sank 3.5
percent at 5:03 p.m. New York time on disappointing forecasts.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.4 percent to 1,385.14 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slid 82.79 points, or 0.6
percent, to 13,032.75. The  Russell 2000 Index (RTY)  dropped 0.9
percent to 803.32. About 5.9 billion shares changed hands on
U.S. exchanges, or 12 percent below the three-month average.  “Profits are lukewarm,” said Nick Sargen, chief
investment officer at Fort Washington Investment Advisors in
Cincinnati, which oversees about $40 billion. “You get
disappointments from some bellwether technology companies at a
time when the market has had such a good run. We’re not bearish,
but if we’re going to add to positions, we need a pullback.”  Stocks fell as Intel forecast gross margin that was lower
than some analysts predicted and IBM’s sales missed forecasts.
The S&P 500 had risen 11 percent in 2012 through yesterday on
better-than-estimated economic and corporate data. Equities also
dropped as Bank of England policy makers said inflation may be
higher than forecast. Spain will auction 3.3 percent two-year
notes and 5.85 percent 10-year debt tomorrow.  ‘Fragile’  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink, who has been advising
investors to put more money in stocks, said clients are still
overwhelmed by fear as global markets remain “fragile” despite
the first-quarter rally. Fink said investors remain pessimistic
and customers removed money from active equity products while
turning to passive investments such as exchange-traded funds.  “The fears of the investor still are more overwhelming
than the hope for a better future,” Fink, chairman and chief
executive officer of New York-based BlackRock, said today during
a conference call with investors and analysts. “Despite the
rally in  global equities  from its lows, I would still qualify
the market to be quite fragile.”  Nine out of 10 groups in the  S&P 500 (SPX)  retreated today as
financial and technology shares had the  biggest losses . Both
groups are still up more than 17 percent this year, for the
biggest gains in the benchmark index.  Intel, IBM  Intel slumped 1.8 percent to $27.95, while IBM retreated
3.5 percent to $200.13. IBM’s revenue climbed 0.3 percent to
$24.7 billion in the period, while Intel sales rose 0.5 percent
to $12.9 billion. That was the smallest increase for either
company since the third quarter of 2009, when the  U.S. economy 
was just emerging from recession. Even so, Intel predicted a
pickup in sales for the current quarter.  The two technology giants are seeking growth in emerging
markets while coping with a slowdown triggered by the European
debt crisis. The personal-computer market, which contracted in
the U.S. last year for the first time since 2001, also is
hurting demand for Intel’s processors. IBM, meanwhile, is more
focused on expanding earnings per share, rather than pursuing
less-profitable orders.  “All else being equal, you’d rather see top-line growth,”
said Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in New York. Still, he said, most investors are looking more
closely at profit than sales. “IBM has conditioned investors to
focus on EPS growth. That’s how it provides guidance.”  Not Life Threatening  Berkshire Hathaway Class A shares lost 1.3 percent to
$119,750 even after Buffett said his condition is “not remotely
life threatening.” The 81-year-old billionaire will begin a
two-month treatment of daily radiation in July, he said.  “I feel great -- as if I were in my normal excellent
health -- and my energy level is 100 percent,” Buffett said in
the letter yesterday. “I will let shareholders know immediately
should my health situation change. Eventually, of course, it
will; but I believe that day is a long way off.”  Genworth Financial Inc. tumbled 24 percent, the most since
2008, to $5.87. The  IPO (GNW)  is now planned for early 2013, after the
company previously targeted the offering for the second quarter
of this year, the insurer said. Genworth has said it plans to
sell as much as 40 percent of the unit.  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. fell 0.2 percent to $608.34, after swinging
between gains to losses during the day. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said investors should buy Apple shares, which fell as much as
8.8 percent in the past week, amid a “very big year” for the
world’s biggest company by market value.  Qualcomm’s Results  After the close of regular trading, two other technology
giants reported results. Qualcomm sank 3.5 percent to $64.64 in
extended trading. The largest maker of mobile-phone chips
projected third-quarter sales and profit that fell short of some
analysts’ estimates.  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  surged 6.5 percent to $38.20 at
5:03 p.m. New York time as sales and profit topped analysts’
forecasts.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  advanced 3.2 percent to $15.49 as first-quarter
sales topped estimates, fueling optimism that a turnaround
effort by Chief Executive Officer Scott Thompson may take hold.  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  added 4.6 percent to $34.17. The world’s
largest provider of hydraulic fracturing services said first-
quarter  profit  increased as rising crude prices drove producers
to expand drilling in North America.  Catalyst Health Solutions Inc. (CHSI)  surged 34 percent to $85.23.
 SXC Health Solutions Corp. (SXC)  agreed to  buy  the company in a cash
and stock transaction valued at $4.4 billion to stay competitive
as larger pharmacy benefits managers join forces. SXC Health
jumped 11 percent to $89.36.  Catch a Break  Consumers may catch a break from higher food prices at U.S.
supermarkets, said Charles Grom, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.
Consumer prices for groceries and producer prices for processed
foods are rising more slowly this year, according to data
compiled by the Labor Department.  The pace of price increases slowed in March by the most
since July 2009, according to both indicators. Food bought at
stores cost 3.6 percent more than a year earlier. The rate was
0.9 percentage point lower than in February. Processed-food
prices last month rose 4.3 percent, a decline of 1.6 point.  “Food inflation should continue to slow,” he wrote,
because increases last year were unusually steep. Prices for
food that’s eaten at home peaked at a 6.2 percent growth rate
last September. The pace was the fastest since December 2008.  Sales growth may suffer at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the
world’s largest retailer, and the  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and Supervalu
Inc. supermarket chains as they struggle to raise prices, Grom
wrote. The New York-based analyst has sell ratings on Wal-Mart
and Safeway and a hold rating on Supervalu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  