-- U.S. House Panel Approves Measure to Repeal Resolution Authority
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-04-18T21:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/u-s-house-panel-approves-measure-to-repeal-resolution-authority.html
U.S. House panel approved a measure
to repeal the federal government’s power to seize and liquidate
the largest financial firms, ignoring objections of Democrats
and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner .  The Republican-led Financial Services Committee backed the
legislation today in a 31-26 party-line vote, reigniting debate
over a Dodd-Frank Act mechanism crafted as part of an effort to
prevent a repeat of the market tumult that followed the
September 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “This authority is not a death panel for failed
institutions,” said Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama
Republican who leads the committee. “It is taxpayer-funded
support for their creditors and counterparties.”  Bachus and his colleagues targeted the resolution piece of
Dodd-Frank, approved by a Democrat-led House in 2010, after
Republicans were instructed last month to find $261 billion in
cuts and savings to offset looming cuts to the  Department of
Defense . The measure passed today has little chance of gaining
approval by the Democrat-led Senate or President Barack Obama.  The  Congressional Budget Office  said the measure, which
would also end Obama’s Home Affordable Modification Program,
subject the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to the
congressional appropriations process and reauthorize the
National Flood Insurance Program, would lead to $35.1 billion in
cuts or new funds over 10 years.  ‘Gimmick’  Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who
co-wrote the regulatory law that bears his name, called the CBO
estimate the that the repeal would save $22 billion a
“gimmick” because regulators are required by the law to recoup
any taxpayer dollars used in the process.  Frank’s objections echoed those offered by Geithner in a
letter sent to lawmakers yesterday. Repealing the resolution
authority “would critically undermine the government’s ability
to limit the damage to the economy in the event of future
financial crises,” Geithner wrote to Bachus and Frank.  “This returns us to 2008, where there was no capacity to
deal with a failing institution,” said Frank, the Financial
Services Committee’s top Democrat.  The resolution authority was crafted by lawmakers as part
of Dodd-Frank’s response to the credit crisis that led to
government-aided bank mergers and taxpayer bailouts to bolster
markets after Lehman’s collapse. The authority, signed into law
by Obama in July 2010, empowered the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. to liquidate systemically important firms when they become
insolvent.  Reconciliation  The Financial Services panel was required to find $29.8
billion by the Republican budget passed by the House in March.
The budget issued so-called reconciliation instructions to the
committees; a parliamentary device that has been used to force
changes in tax and entitlement laws since it is immune to the
filibuster in the Senate. Senate Democrats have said they will
not take up the House-passed budget.  “The Senate is not in agreement with this so this is a
bogus budget reconciliation process,” Representative Gwen Moore, a Wisconsin Democrat, said.  Geithner, separately in his letter, also weighed in on
several House proposals to make change to the derivatives
regulations required by Dodd-Frank, saying regulators haven’t
completed rules and making changes during their implementation
would undermine the process.  “Treasury believes that the proposals are at best
premature and that regulators should be permitted to continue
their work through the rulemaking process,” Geithner wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  