-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for April 13 (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-04-18T14:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-april-13-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged just under 14.5 million
barrels per day during the week ending April 13, 99 thousand
barrels per day above the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 84.6 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production increased slightly last week, averaging 8.9
million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased
last week, averaging 4.4 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 8.7 million barrels per day last
week, up by 196 thousand barrels per day from the previous week.
Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged nearly
9.1 million barrels per day, 395 thousand barrels per day above
the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 427 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 119 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 3.9 million barrels
from the previous week. At 369.0 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are in the upper limit of the average range for this
time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by 3.7
million barrels last week and are in the upper limit of the
average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and blending
components inventories decreased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories decreased by 2.9 million barrels last week and are
in the middle of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories increased by 0.9 million barrels
last week and are above the upper limit of the average range.
Total commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 2.2 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged about 18.6 million barrels per day, down by 2.7 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged 8.7 million
barrels per day, down by 2.8 percent from the same period last
year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged just under
3.8 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by
0.5 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 3.7 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  