-- UBS U.S. M&A Co-Head Quits in Second Departure This Week
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-04-18T21:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/ubs-s-u-s-m-a-co-head-resigns-in-second-departure-this-week-1-.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Ehren Stenzler, the co-
head of U.S. mergers and acquisitions, is leaving the bank, one
day after the resignation of Aryeh Bourkoff, the head of
 investment banking  for the Americas.  Stenzler stepped down today, said  Peter McKillop , a
spokesman for the Zurich-based bank. Bourkoff and Stenzler are
weighing job offers from two banks and also exploring the idea
of starting their own firm, according to a person with knowledge
of the matter, who declined to be identified because the details
are private. The bankers plan to make a decision in the coming
weeks, the person said.  Bourkoff and Stenzler were top dealmakers for technology,
media and telecommunications companies such as Comcast Corp. in
their time at UBS. More than 50 U.S. investment bankers have
left the Swiss firm since 2009.  Cary Kochman, who was global co-head of mergers, and Mary Ann Deignan, former head of  equity capital markets  in the
Americas, are among those who have left UBS for competitors in
the past year. UBS said it has hired about 40 managing directors
in the investment banking division in the past 12 months,
including many in the Americas. Its voluntary attrition at that
level is at its lowest in years, the bank said.  Last month, UBS hired  Andrea Orcel  from  Bank of America
Corp.  to co-head its investment bank with Carsten Kengeter. UBS
ranks 14th among financial advisers on mergers and acquisitions
so far this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Marc-Anthony Hourihan, who is working with  Japan ’s Asahi
Kasei Corp. on its $2.2 billion deal for Zoll Medical Corp.,
will take over as UBS’s sole head of U.S. mergers. The Wall
Street Journal reported Stenzler’s departure earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  