-- Unemployment From Italy to Spain Fuels Debt Crisis
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-04-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/unemployment-from-italy-to-spain-fuels-debt-crisis.html
Surging unemployment rates from
Spain to  Italy  and Greece are threatening efforts to quell the
region’s debt crisis and keeping bond yields close to record
premiums relative to benchmark German bunds.  Joblessness is soaring as European nations reduce spending,
igniting strikes and protests from  Athens  to  Madrid .
Unemployment in Spain surged to almost 24 percent, pushing the
euro-region level to 10.8 percent in February, the highest in
more than 14 years. Italy’s rate is at 9.3 percent, the most
since 2001, hampering efforts to spur economic growth.  Deepening recessions in Italy and Spain contributed to a
five-week slide in Italian and Spanish bonds as the shrinking
tax base helped lead to both countries raising their deficit
targets. The yield premium investors demand to hold Spanish 10-
year debt over German bunds reached a four-and-a-half-month high
this week.  “The higher the jobless rate, the more that has to be
spent on benefits, creating the potential for a negative
spiral,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank
in London and a former ECB official.  Berenberg Bank predicts euro-region unemployment will peak
at 11.5 percent in September, he said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds rather than similar-maturity German securities was 411
basis points yesterday, compared with an average 130 during the
past five years. The rate has risen more than 80 basis points
this year. The spread was 376 basis points for Italy and 1,072
basis points for  Portugal .  Youth Joblessness  Spain’s jobless  rate  has more than doubled since 2008 after
the collapse of a real estate market that fueled a decade of
economic growth. The country is now home to more than one third
of the euro-region’s jobless and more than half of young people
are out of work.  Hundreds of thousands of Spaniards protested on March 29 in
a general strike against Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s overhaul
of labor market rules and the deepest budget cuts in at least
three decades that are pushing the economy deeper into its
second recession since 2009.  “Spain faces formidable challenges, especially concerning
youth unemployment,” European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told lawmakers at the European
Parliament in Strasbourg yesterday.  Italy’s jobless rate rose to the highest in more than a
decade in February and the  International Monetary Fund  forecast
on April 17 that  unemployment  will reach 9.9 percent this year.
Italian bonds reversed morning gains yesterday after the
government cut its growth forecasts and abandoned a goal to
balance the budget next year.  Estimate Revisions  Italy’s gross domestic product will contract 1.2 percent
this year, more than twice the previous forecast, and the
deficit will end next year at 0.5 percent, more than the 0.1
percent previously forecast. The Italian announcement came six
weeks after Rajoy abandoned  Spain ’s deficit goal for next year.  Joblessness in both countries may worsen as the recession
deepens and rigid labor market laws are overhauled. Rajoy passed
in February a plan to make it cheaper for employers to let
workers go, while Italy gave companies more leeway to fire
workers without fear of court-ordered reinstatements.  “High unemployment means a very dissatisfied electorate
and makes it difficult to get stuff done,” said  Padhraic Garvey ,
head of developed market debt at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “It
makes it significantly more difficult to pass austerity measures
and exacerbates a difficult situation.”  Rajoy’s Challenges  Rajoy probably will face further unrest if he’s forced to
implement more budget cuts to meet ambitious deficit goals. His
government has now pledged to reduce the shortfall to 5.3
percent of GDP in 2012 from 8.5 percent in 2011 and by more than
2 percentage points next year to get within the EU’s 3 percent
limit. Despite a raft of austerity last year, the country
achieved a deficit reduction of less than 1 percentage point.  Falling joblessness in  Germany  underscores the widening gap
between the resilience of the euro-region’s largest economy and
the so-called periphery. The nation’s adjusted  jobless rate 
slipped in March to a two-decade low of 6.7 percent, according
to the statistics office. While the 17-member euro-region
economy will shrink 0.4 percent in 2012, Germany’s economy
probably will grow 0.7 percent, according to economists’
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “The divergence between Germany and the other economies is
here to stay,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of interest-rate
strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “It provides a
structural reason for spreads to stay wider, regardless of what
other progress is made on containing the crisis.”  Greek Elections  In  Greece , where official data showed unemployment climbed
to 21 percent in January, elections scheduled for May 6 may
produce a hung parliament, raising questions about the nation’s
ability to implement its austerity measures. The nation’s 2
percent bond due in February 2023 trades at about 25 cents on
the euro.  In Portugal, where the government forecasts the
unemployment rate will average 13.4 percent this year, up from
12.7 percent in 2011,  Soares da Costa SGPS SA , Portugal’s third-
biggest publicly traded construction company, said it’s
expanding abroad and eliminating jobs at home, where it faces a
slump in government infrastructure spending.  “High and rising unemployment is likely to impact at a
political level and may make the reforms more difficult to
undertake,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds
Banking Group Plc in  London . “If the political desire to reform
comes in to doubt, then the market wouldn’t like that. There’s
good scope for the crisis to get worse in the near term, the
economies are still on pretty shaky ground and there’s a lot of
political risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 