-- Hungary Ready to Compromise Further on Bank Law, Csefalvay Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-04-18T15:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/hungary-ready-to-compromise-further-on-bank-law-csefalvay-says.html
Hungary  is ready to compromise
further on a central bank law that’s raised objections from the
European Union and the  European Central Bank  and blocked talks
on an international bailout, an Economy Ministry official said.  Amendments to the bill, submitted to lawmakers yesterday,
address four of six issues criticized by the 27-member bloc,
State Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay said today in an interview in
London. The government wants to speed the passage of the changes
while continuing talks on the remaining concerns, he said.  “That fact that these four points have been sent to
Parliament indicates we’re willing to compromise,” Csefalvay
said. “We’re obviously ready to compromise on this, as we have
been so far and are going to be in the future.”  The government said the amendments address “some points”
raised by the EU in an infringement procedure against the
eastern European nation, whose request for financial aid was
halted because of concern the bill would curtail central bank
autonomy. The ECB said April 5 it had “serious concerns” about
the bank’s independence even after reviewing the proposed
changes.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  turned to the IMF in November
after the forint dropped to a record against the euro and
Hungary’s credit rating was cut to junk. The currency traded 0.4
percent lower at 297.42 at 5:33 p.m. in Budapest.  The government met representatives from the EU, ECB,
 International Monetary Fund  and central bank on March 16 in
 Frankfurt  to discuss the law and resolved some “technical
details” on the remaining questions, according to Csefalvay.  “It’s in our interest to start the actual negotiations as
soon as possible,” Csefalvay said. “We’re doing everything to
clarify all the issues regarding the central bank law.”  He declined to say how long talks on the remaining issues
may last or when the bailout talks may begin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  