-- Turkish Yields Rise on Possibility of More Policy Tightening
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-04-18T14:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/turkish-yields-rise-on-possibility-of-more-policy-tightening.html
Turkish  yields  rose to the highest
level in almost three weeks after the central bank said it may
deploy tightening measures more frequently to fight  inflation .  The yield on two-year benchmark bonds increased 8 basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 9.50 percent at 5 p.m. in
Istanbul, the strongest since March 29.  The Ankara-based bank may lend more frequently at the top
end of its interest-rate corridor, it said after the Monetary
Policy Committee meeting today. The lower and upper bounds of
the policy range were left unchanged at 5.75 percent and 11.5
percent, matching all 11 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  “The bank is getting more hawkish in every meeting,”
 Ozgur Altug , chief economist at BGC Partners in Istanbul, said
in an e-mailed note. “The central bank will be keen on
maintaining its relatively tight monetary policy at least until
the third quarter,” Altug said, citing Turkey’s “very large”
 current-account deficit .  The lira weakened for the first time in three days and
traded 0.1 percent lower at 1.7913 per dollar after the bank
resumed lending at 5.75 percent in its daily one-week repo
auctions. It has withheld lending at the minimum funding rate
for the past five days, resulting in the lira appreciating 1.1
percent.  The bank provided 4 billion liras ($2.2 billion) in one-
week repurchase agreements in today’s auction against bids for
19.9 billion liras.  Turkey ’s central bank varies its funding rate on a daily
basis, maintaining borrowing costs within the interest-rate
corridor introduced last year. The most recent round of policy
tightening began on April 11 after the lira weakened to a three-
week low at 1.8177 per dollar during intraday trade.  The current-account deficit in Turkey is about 10 percent
of gross domestic product, the biggest among 60 major economies
tracked by the  International Monetary Fund  as a proportion of
GDP. The country’s inflation rate is 10.4 percent, which is more
than twice the bank’s 5 percent target for this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  