-- Hurricanes to Provide Little Gas Support: Energy Markets
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-04-18T17:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/hurricane-season-to-provide-little-gas-support-energy-markets.html
A below-average Atlantic storm
season in 2012 probably will provide little support for energy
prices as natural gas trades at 10-year lows.  Only four hurricanes are expected this year, according to
researchers at  Colorado State University  who pioneered long-
range Atlantic forecasting. In total, the storm season that runs
from June 1 to Nov. 30 will produce 10 named systems, compared
with 19 last year,  they said  in a report April 4.  Natural gas has fallen 34 percent this year, the worst
performer in the 24-commodity Standard & Poor’s GSCI index, as
the U.S. recorded its fourth-warmest winter ever and as output
rose with improved production techniques. Prices may slide
further as forecasters predict a cooler-than-normal summer along
with the diminished hurricane threat to the oil- and natural-
gas-rich  Gulf of Mexico .  “Your weather scenario is not at all positive,” said
James L. Williams, owner of  WTRG Economics  in  London ,  Arkansas .
“It’s one where we could drop through $1.50 and maybe even bump
a dollar, at which point you need to be a bankruptcy lawyer who
knows about natural gas.”  Gas for May delivery rose to $1.976 per million British
thermal units at 1:34 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
after dropping as far as $1.94, the lowest intraday price since
Jan. 29, 2002.  Gulf Energy Interests  The Gulf of  Mexico  is home to 29 percent of U.S. oil
output, 6.4 percent of gas production and 40 percent of refining
capacity, meaning hurricane forecasts such as the one developed
at Colorado State 29 years ago are closely watched.  A hurricane has winds of at least 74 miles (119 kilometers)
an hour. Tropical Storm Don, which never grew more powerful than
50 mph, forced the shutdown of about 12 percent of oil
production and 6.2 percent of gas output in the Gulf last July,
according to the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation
and Enforcement .  The power of major hurricanes, with winds of 111 mph or
more, was demonstrated in 2005 when Katrina and Rita killed more
than 1,800 people, caused $91 billion in damage and destroyed
113 energy platforms in the Gulf.  The storms, which struck within a month of each other, shut
down 95 percent of oil production and about 30 percent of U.S.
refining capacity, and closed almost every large natural gas
processing plant from Galveston Bay, Texas, to  Alabama , the
Energy Department said in a 2006 report.  The total natural gas production lost in the 10 months
following Katrina was equivalent to 22 percent of yearly output
in U.S. Gulf waters, the department said. Gas futures hit a
record $15.78 in December 2005.  Major Storms Outlook  Colorado State predicts only two major storms will form
this year.  MDA EarthSat Weather  and  Commodity Weather Group LLC  have
predicted 11 storms will reach the 39-mph threshold to become
named systems in 2012.  The season will fall below the 12-storm average because the
 Pacific Ocean  may warm and form an El Nino pattern, said  Phil Klotzbach , lead author of Colorado State’s report. El Nino
creates high vertical wind shear in the Atlantic that keeps
hurricanes from developing, he said.  An El Nino may also mean the U.S. has a cooler summer, said
 Matt Rogers , president of Bethesda, Maryland-based Commodity
Weather Group. Last year,  Texas  had the hottest summer ever in
the U.S. with an average temperature of 86.8 degrees Fahrenheit
(30.4 Celsius), breaking the mark of 85.2 set in  Oklahoma  in
1934, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  Rogers said he expects May to September to be 1.1 percent
warmer than the 10-year normal, while falling 9.1 percent below
last year. He predicts average temperatures in the Northeast
will be about 2 degrees below normal.  Summer in Cities  Heat in the large cities of the Northeast, as well in as
 Chicago  and  St. Louis , are what the natural gas market needs for
prices to rise, Williams said.  “You have more people on the East Coast, so that is where
you want your 100 degrees -- preferably 110,” he said.  The period from October to March is considered the heating
season, when the most energy is consumed to warm homes and
businesses. It is the peak for natural gas use in the U.S., said
Teri Viswanath, director of commodity strategy at BNP Paribas SA
 New York .  Temperatures in the 2011-2012 season were 3.8 degrees above
average, making it the second-warmest on record behind 1999-
2000, according to NOAA. The weather contributed to natural gas
inventories that reached 2.487 trillion cubic feet in the week
ended April 6, the highest level ever for that time of year,
Energy Department data show.  Production Up  Stockpiles also grew as drilling techniques including
hydraulic fracturing, or “fracking,” allowed producers to
reach previously bypassed deposits. Marketed gas output will
rise 4.5 percent this year to a record 69.22 billion cubic feet
a day, according to the Energy Department.  “We have got a three-month lead on last year’s injection
season,” Viswanath said. “We are where we sat at June.”  Viswanath said high summer electricity demand for air
conditioning and a more disruptive  hurricane season  than
expected are needed to erode the stockpile surplus and boost the
natural gas market.  “Frankly, weather has not been friendly to producers, so
why would all these factors line up for producers?” she said.
“It probably isn’t going to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  