-- Verizon Wireless to Sell Airwaves If It Completes Cable Deal
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-04-18T21:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/verizon-wireless-to-sell-airwaves-if-it-completes-cable-deal.html
Verizon Wireless , seeking to gain
approval to buy airwaves from cable companies, will sell other
spectrum licenses potentially worth billions of dollars if it
can complete the purchase under scrutiny from regulators.  The largest U.S. wireless carrier plans to conduct an open
sale process for all of its 700 megahertz A and B spectrum
licenses, covering dozens of major cities across the U.S. and
smaller markets, according to a statement today from the Basking
Ridge, New Jersey-based company. Verizon Wireless paid $4.7
billion for the spectrum, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Verizon Wireless said the sale is contingent on the closing
of its pending $3.6 billion purchase of unused airwaves from a
group including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable provider,
and No. 2  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , as well as separate deals with
Cox Communications Inc. and  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) 
Opponents have said the accord with the cable group, which needs
approval from the Federal Communications Commission, would
result in less competition and higher prices.  “This is a reflection that their approval process is not
going well,” Walt Piecyk, analyst at BTIG LLC in New York, said
in an e-mail. “Investors have underestimated the challenges
that Verizon faces at the FCC.”  Verizon Wireless and the cable companies also agreed to
market one another’s services, an arrangement that the  Justice
Department  is looking into.  Original Auction  “The timing of this announcement has absolutely nothing to
do” with the progress of the cable deal’s regulatory review,
 Peter Thonis , a spokesman for Verizon Wireless’s parent,  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , said in an e-mail. Verizon Wireless has
long had plans to sell the A and B airwaves after the cable
spectrum deal was done, Thonis said.  Verizon Wireless purchased the A and B-block spectrum
licenses as part of a $9.9 billion  winning bid  that also
included the C-block during a 2008 FCC auction.  Verizon Communications, which owns the wireless unit with
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  retreated  0.2 percent to $37.66 at the close
in New York. Rival  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  fell 6.9 percent to $1.76, as
investors speculated a big swath of airwaves on the market
threatens to dilute the company’s spectrum value.  ’Political Pressure’  Verizon Wireless and competitors  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  T-Mobile USA 
and  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  are seeking to boost their
spectrum holdings to ensure they have enough capacity as demand
for services such as Web browsing and video streaming rises.
AT&T attempted and failed to buy T-Mobile for $39 billion last
year, citing spectrum as one of the main reasons for the deal.  Regulators are trying to make sure the market remains
competitive and that no one carrier has spectrum holdings large
enough to reduce rivalry. The government blocked AT&T’s T-Mobile
deal, saying it would have hurt competition.  “This does not resolve the anti-competitive problems”
posed by Verizon Wireless’s deal with cable companies, Debbie
Goldman, telecommunications policy director for the
 Communications Workers of America , a labor union, said in an
interview.  While Verizon Wireless is volunteering to sell spectrum
assets, the FCC may have demanded it do so before approving the
deal with cable carriers, Piecyk said.  Based on need and resources, AT&T, MetroPCS, Leap and T-
Mobile are the most likely buyers of Verizon’s A and B-block
spectrum, said  Jonathan Chaplin  of Credit Suisse Group AG.  “It would have been some time before they would have
needed the A&B block,” the analyst said today in a note. By
selling it, Verizon Wireless diffuses “political pressure” and
opposition to the cable deal from other carriers, he said.  Creating a Cartel?  Harold Feld , legal director of the Washington-based policy
group Public Knowledge, which opposes Verizon’s transaction with
the cable providers, said the pledge to sell some airwave assets
does little to reduce the harmful effects of the deal.  “Verizon is trying to use the mere offer of a spectrum
sale to tempt the FCC and the Justice Department into approving
the deal with the cable companies, and the agencies should
resist the temptation,” Feld said in an e-mailed statement.
“At the end of the day, Verizon and the cable companies will
still have created a cartel.”  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment.  Verizon Wireless has been building a so-called long-term
evolution, or LTE, network on its 700 megahertz C spectrum and
planned to add the cable companies’ spectrum licenses to its
buildout plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  