-- Vestas Chief Calls for European Carbon Tax to Spur Renewables
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-04-18T15:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/vestas-chief-calls-for-european-carbon-tax-to-spur-renewables.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  said the European Union should
impose a tax on  carbon emissions  to spur renewable energy and
lower  greenhouse gases .  Carbon trading isn’t stimulating the spending on renewable
energy needed to cut emissions quickly, Engel said today in a
debate on the future of the European Emissions Trading System in
Copenhagen. He cited Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph
Stiglitz  to justify his call for a tax, which Danish Environment
Minister Martin Lidegaard immediately said won’t be possible.  “If there’s something you want less of, tax it,” Engel
said. “It’s a simple way to make things happen. If you put a
tax on carbon, it will work.”  The ETS is the cornerstone of EU climate policy, imposing
emission curbs on more than 12,000 carbon-emitting factories and
power plants. EU emission permits have fallen to a record low
this year amid concerns there are too many permits. Denmark, the
current holder of the rotating EU presidency, is hosting a
meeting of energy and environment ministers this week in Horsens
to discuss the need to improve the system.  “The idea of putting a global carbon tax in place I think
it’s a wonderful idea, but I hate to be the messenger to tell
you that it won’t happen,” Lidegaard told Engel. “We can’t get
a carbon tax through.”  Denmark said earlier this month that a decline in emission
costs casts “some doubt” on the ability of the program to
promote investment in low-carbon technologies.  “One of the biggest problems is the unpredictable behavior
of the ETS,” Engel said. “When companies don’t understand the
game, they keep back on investment.”  EU carbon permits for December today rose as much as 2.8
percent to 7.37 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  and were at 7.31 euros as of 2:50 p.m. The
contract has lost 60 percent in the past year, falling to a
record low of 5.99 euros on April 4 on concern that the ETS will
be oversupplied for most of the next trading period from 2013 to
2020.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in Copenhagen via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net  