-- Vivendi CEO Under Fire to Tackle Stock’s 9-Year Low
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-04-19T16:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/vivendi-ceo-faces-call-for-asset-review-after-stock-slump.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chief Executive Officer
 Jean-Bernard Levy  came under fire from shareholders asking for
plans to tackle the company’s low valuation relative to its
businesses as the stock trades at a nine-year low.  With his 7.95 billion-euro ($10.4 billion) buyout of
wireless venture SFR from  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , Levy set out a
year ago to erase a discount on Vivendi shares that’s typical of
holding companies with stakes in multiple units. The stock has
dropped 39 percent since the deal, with SFR’s profit eroded by
 Iliad SA (ILD) ’s cheaper mobile-phone packages.  “You got the timing all wrong when you bought SFR and
you’ve got no headroom left to do more deals,” Louis Bulidon, a
shareholder, said at Vivendi’s annual meeting in Paris today.
“You’re asking us to sit and wait for the earnings slump to
subside in 2014, but what exactly are your plans?”  Levy and supervisory board Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou faced
calls to change management and invite new members to the board,
such as Vincent  Bollore (BOL) , who owns 1.09 percent of the company
and is due to finalize the sale of his television assets to
Vivendi in exchange for 22.4 million shares. Minority
shareholders also asked for a review of assets and the company’s
conglomerate structure ahead of the meeting.  Worst Performer  Levy cleaned up predecessor  Jean-Marie Messier ’s
acquisition binge and added Brazilian phone company GVT and
video-game maker  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  to boost growth.
Vivendi’s adjusted net income was 2.95 billion euros in 2011,
compared with a loss of 23.3 billion in 2002. Yet, Paris-based
Vivendi’s shares and net debt are little changed from when he
took over in August 2002 and the company is the  worst performing
stock  on  France ’s benchmark  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  this year.  Vivendi fell 2.7 percent to 12.42 euros at the close of
Paris trading today. That brings the decline to 27 percent this
year, while the CAC 40 has climbed 0.5 percent.  The company’s market capitalization of 15.5 billion euros
is less than the 18 billion euros valuation for SFR alone, based
on the price Vivendi paid for Vodafone’s 44 percent stake. The
transaction was completed in June.  The owner of  Universal Music Group  and the Canal Plus pay-
TV operator will continue to be worth less than the sum of its
businesses because of its conglomerate structure, analysts say.  Barclays Capital’s Julien Roch assumes a 10 percent
discount, while analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Raymond James & Associates put the discount at 15 percent. After
SFR,  Maroc Telecom (IAM)  is the second most valuable business, with
Vivendi’s 53 percent stake worth 5.9 billion euros, according to
Barclays and Raymond James analysts.  ‘No Taboos’  “Our conglomerate discount has become gigantic, close to
40 percent,” Fourtou said today. “We will not stay idle, and
there are no taboos about how we will tackle this. We will look
over our strategy, our perimeter and our image among
investors.”  A year ago, Levy said that taking over SFR would enable
Vivendi to add more than 600 million euros to adjusted net
income each year in 2012 and 2013 and allow the company to
increase its  dividend . Levy told shareholders today that the SFR
deal had contributed 480 million euros to Vivendi’s adjusted
result in 2011 and would add another 500 million this year.  Competition from Iliad, which began services as France’s
fourth mobile-operator in January, prompted Vivendi to forecast
an earnings slump through 2013. Vivendi also changed its
dividend policy on March 1, projecting 45 percent to 55 percent
of profit as payouts starting next year, compared with more than
50 percent.  Emerging Markets  “It looks like Levy is under pressure from the board,”
said Lionel Heurtin, a  fund manager  at Ofi Asset Management,
which oversees 47.3 billion euros and owns Vivendi shares.
“Buying SFR was supposed to bring down the conglomerate
discount on the shares, but things got complicated along the
way.”  In an address to shareholders from the basement of the
 Louvre Museum , the CEO focused on  emerging markets  growth,
citing GVT’s pay-TV push in  Brazil . Vivendi’s revenue in
emerging markets reached 5.5 billion euros in 2011, or 20
percent of total, and has doubled since 2008.  Vivendi’s biggest  shareholders , Societe Generale Asset
Management,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Caisse des Depots et Consignations
and Amundi, which together hold about 23.6 percent of shares
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, declined to be
interviewed for this story.  Regulatory Probes  Levy is working on a new business plan for SFR, which he
may unveil before the end of June, people familiar with the
matter said March 29. The executive took over SFR from 11-year
veteran CEO Frank Esser last month. An internal document showed
that SFR had halted more than 100 projects and that it planned
to reduce ad spending and slow store openings as it explores
further cost cuts.  Vivendi also faces scrutiny from regulators in the coming
months. Universal Music’s November purchase of  EMI Group (EMIS) ’s
recorded music unit for $1.9 billion is being investigated by
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the European Union. The
latter last month extended its review to Sept. 6.  France’s antitrust authority said this week that Canal
Plus’s purchase of Bollore Group’s television assets to extend
into free television raises “serious doubts” over competition.  CEO Pay  Levy got a raise of about 10 percent in 2011 and received 1
million euros in fixed salary. Including variable compensation
and  stock options , his  pay  amounted to 4.46 million euros last
year. The supervisory board has decided to keep Levy’s fixed and
variable salary in 2012 unchanged, and his stock options will be
cut by 5 percent. Shareholders, who did not have a say over his
remuneration today, criticized the CEO for not aligning his
salary to the share’s performance.  “We believe CEOs should be rewarded when shareholders have
also made some money,” said Nathalia Ponkratova of Proxinvest,
a consulting firm which advises institutional investors
including some of Vivendi’s top five shareholders, among which
France’s state fund Caisse des Depots et Consignations and
Amundi.  “Levy’s fixed salary has gone up regularly,” Ponkratova
said. “We’d certainly like to know why.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  