-- VMware Sales Forecast Meets Estimates on Client Contracts
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-04-18T23:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/vmware-sales-forecast-meets-estimates-on-new-client-contracts.html
VMware Inc. (VMW) , the biggest maker of
software that enables computers to run multiple operating
systems, forecast second-quarter sales that met analysts’
estimates as more companies sign contracts for its software.  Sales in the quarter ending June 30 will be $1.1 billion to
$1.12 billion, the  Palo Alto , California-based company said
today in a statement. That compares with the $1.1 billion
average estimate of analysts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In the first quarter, profit excluding some items was
66 cents a share, beating the 60-cent estimate of analysts.  VMware is benefiting as customers install its
virtualization software to cut costs by making their servers
more efficient and by setting up data centers for cloud
computing. The company signed more software licenses as
customers look to combine programs onto a smaller number of
servers, said Rob Owens, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities.  “The numbers were a little bit better than we were
expecting,” said Owens, who is based in  Portland ,  Oregon , and
rates the shares outperform, meaning he expects the stock’s
return to exceed the average among its peers.  License revenue in the first quarter rose 15 percent to
$481.9 million, ahead of Owens’s $470 million estimate.  First-quarter net income rose to $191.4 million, or 44
cents a share, from $125.8 million, or 29 cents, a year earlier,
VMware said. Sales rose to $1.06 billion from $843.7 million,
exceeding the $1.03 billion average estimate of analysts.  Confident About Cloud  During a conference call with analysts, Chief Executive
Officer Paul Maritz said the company is focusing on competition
from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which builds virtualization software into
its Windows Server products. At the same time, VMware is looking
for growth from software that can automate groups of computer
servers for cloud computing applications.  “We’re pretty confident that’s a market that’s going to
grow,” he said.  VMware rose 2.8 percent to $114.38 in extended trading
after the report. Earlier, the stock added 0.7 percent to
$111.29 at the close in  New York . The shares have risen 34
percent this year.  Investors had anticipated the better-than-expected profit.
The company, majority-owned by  EMC Corp. (EMC) , said last week that
results for the current quarter would “broadly meet or slightly
exceed” guidance it gave in January. That month it forecast
first-quarter sales of $1.02 billion to $1.04 billion.  For the full year, VMware said sales will be $4.53 billion
to $4.63 billion, in line with analysts’ estimates of $4.56
billion. Operating margin for the year will be 30.25 percent to
31.25 percent of sales.  Management Shuffle  The software maker announced a management shuffle last
week, including the departure of Chief Financial Officer Mark Peek, who helped take it public in 2007. Annual earnings have
more than doubled to $723.9 million since 2008, the first full
year after Peek joined.  VMware also said on April 11 that Carl Eschenbach has been
promoted to chief operating officer and co-president, while
Raghu Raghuram was promoted to executive vice president of cloud
infrastructure and management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  