-- Piech Ducati Toy Seen Overloading Volkswagen’s Full Plate
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-04-19T07:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/volkswagen-seen-winning-no-earnings-from-piech-ducati-toy-cars.html
Ferdinand Piech , who has added six
brands during his two-decade tenure leading  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , is
about to add another with the purchase of Ducati Motor Holding
SpA. This time he risks overreaching.  The 860 million-euro ($1.1 billion) deal for the exotic
Italian motorcycle maker, which was approved yesterday by the
Piech-chaired VW supervisory board, raises the number of VW
nameplates to 11 and stretches the automaker’s product range
from 195-horsepower two-wheelers to 50-ton trucks. The addition
of Ducati isn’t likely to add much to the company’s bottom line
and may prove a distraction for Piech, who is already working on
the integration of Porsche AG.  “The Ducati deal shows that Piech is an engineer and
engineers are sometimes like little babies,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive Research at
the  University of Duisburg-Essen  and one of the most influential
observers of the German  auto industry . “It’s a new toy.”  Folding in Ducati adds another project for VW management,
which is already tasked with integrating Porsche SE’s carmaking
operations, fashioning a truck alliance with affiliates  Scania
AB (SCVB)  and  MAN SE (MAN)  and thwarting  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ’s efforts to
force it to return a 19.9 percent stake after their partnership
failed. VW is aiming to overtake GM and fend off  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  to become the top global carmaker.  From Trucks to Bikes  VW’s diversification and accumulation of new brands
counters the strategy at its biggest competitors.  Fiat SpA (F)  last
year spun off its Iveco truck operations into  Fiat Industrial
SpA (FI)  to push its integration with Chrysler Group LLC.  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  unloaded Volvo, Jaguar and  Land Rover  to become leaner.
 General Motors Co. (GM)  shuttered the Hummer, Pontiac and Saturn
brands and sold Saab as part of its bankruptcy reorganization.  “With heavy trucks, and now motorcycles, they may be
coming to the limits of the types of products they understand
with their car way of thinking,” said Christoph Stuermer, an
IHS Automotive analyst in  Frankfurt . “With trucks, the inside -
- the layout of the motor and the transmission -- matters but
the packaging doesn’t” unlike cars.  Volkswagen last week raised its stake in Munich-based MAN,
the maker of trucks and buses, to 73 percent of the common
shares from 56 percent. The move is part of an effort to forge
an alliance with Scania, which VW controls through a holding of
71 percent of the Soedertaelje, Sweden-based company’s voting
rights. MAN and Scania follow Lamborghini, Bugatti and Bentley
as brands added under Piech’s reign, which dates back to 1993
when he became chief executive officer. Piech, who turned 75
this week, became chairman in 2002.  Porsche, Ducati  The German automaker is exploring alternatives to integrate
the Porsche brand after a merger with the Porsche SE holding
company failed because of legal tangles. VW already owns 49.9
percent of the maker of the 911 sports car after Piech crossed
his cousin Wolfgang Porsche to thwart Porsche’s takeover of
Volkswagen.  Ducati, which will be part of VW’s Audi unit, last year
sold about 42,000 motorcycles such as the $28,000 Superbike 1199
 Panigale S Tricolore . The Bologna, Italy-based company’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
rose 39 percent to 93 million euros in 2011, a person familiar
with the figures said March 13. Revenue rose 20 percent to 480
million euros.  “We firmly believe that Audi and Ducati are an excellent
fit,” VW Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said today at
the company’s annual meeting in Hamburg. “Both companies are
sporty, global premium brands. We are convinced Ducati will
substantially strengthen Audi and the entire Volkswagen Group.”  Volkswagen, which last year generated 159 billion euros in
revenue, can safely afford the purchase, with 17 billion euros
in net liquidity at the end of 2011.  Board Controversy  Piech will stand for his third five-year term as chairman
at Volkswagen’s annual shareholders meeting today in Hamburg.
His wife Ursula, a former kindergarten teacher, has also been
nominated for the supervisory board, extending Piech-Porsche
family’s influence over the Wolfsburg-based company.  With the addition of Ursula Piech, the number of family
members on the 20-member board would rise to five. Shareholders
of Qatar Holding LLC and the German state of  Lower Saxony  each
have two board seats, while 10 seats are held by labor
representatives in accordance the German corporate rules.  Hermes Equity Ownership Services, a London-based fund
manager and  investment adviser , criticized the lack of
independent members.  “We will not support” the proposal of Piech to a third
term and the nomination of his wife, Hans-Christoph Hirt,
Hermes’s executive director wrote in an April 17 letter to Piech
and Winterkorn.  Piech’s Legacy  Even with the criticism, few people deny Piech’s
contribution to Volkswagen. When he took over as CEO in 1993,
the maker of the Golf hatchback was unprofitable, posting a loss
of about 992 million euros. Last year, the automaker reported a
record profit of 15.4 billion euros. Over that period, the
group’s sales nearly tripled to 8.36 million vehicles from 2.96
million in 1993. Last year, the company surpassed Toyota to
become the world’s second-largest carmaker.  “He’s done all the right things,” said Juergen Meyer, a
 fund manager  with SEB Asset Management in Frankfurt. “He thinks
long term. He built up Audi at a time when competitors that are
now fighting for survival gutted their brands.”  VW Transformation  Piech is the grandson of Ferdinand Porsche, who developed
the Beetle under a contract with the Nazis in 1934 and founded
the Porsche carmaker. Piech’s career at Volkswagen began in
1972, when he moved to Audi from Porsche after the family
decided to end its active role in the Stuttgart-based
manufacturer’s operations. At Audi, he pushed the development of
the Quattro all-wheel-drive system, helping establish the brand
as an innovator.  “After establishing Audi, Piech took over Volkswagen at a
time when it was in a tense economic state and transformed into
one of the world’s leading automotive companies,” Ulrich Hackenberg, the VW brand’s development chief, said in an April
12 interview. “Volkswagen wouldn’t be where it is today without
him and I admire him for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  