-- Westfield Sells 7 U.S. Malls to Starwood for $1 Billion
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-04-18T07:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/westfield-sells-7-u-s-malls-to-starwood-for-1-billion.html
Westfield Group (WDC) , the world’s
biggest shopping center operator by assets, will sell eight
malls in the U.S. for $1.15 billion, using the funds to repay
debt and invest in businesses offering higher returns.  The Sydney-based company will sell seven of the properties,
which are among its “non-core” assets, to  Barry Sternlicht ’s
Starwood Capital Group LLC for $1 billion, and another property
to an undisclosed buyer for $147 million, it said in a statement
to the Australian stock exchange today. The shares rose to the
highest in more than a year.  Westfield, which spun off ownership of half its Australian
and New Zealand malls in November 2010, is taking advantage of a
rebound in prices for U.S. properties as the economy is picking
up, to focus on development, which gives higher returns. U.S.
shopping centers had a net gain in occupancies in the first
quarter as consumer spend more amid improving employment,
according to property-research company Reis Inc.  “The transaction market for those second-tier malls is
definitely better now than it was last year,” said  John White ,
who helps oversee $3 billion as Melbourne-based managing
director for Asia-Pacific public real estate securities at
investment firm Heitman. “When you think of what they’re going
to be doing with the proceeds, moving into higher total-return
development projects, then that is positive to the execution of
their strategy.”  The company in February announced a joint venture with the
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, which will pay A$1.8
billion ($1.9 billion) for a 45 percent share of 10 U.S. malls
and two redevelopment sites.  The  shares  rose 3.4 percent to A$9.17 at the close of
trading in Sydney, the highest since March 2011.  Strategic Plan  “Today’s announcement represents a further step in our
strategic plan to increase return on equity and long term
earnings growth,”  Peter Lowy , co-chief executive officer of the
company, said in the statement. “This transaction is an
important step in the repositioning of our portfolio.”  The company created  Westfield Retail Trust (WRT)  in November 2010
to own interests in its Australian and New Zealand malls,
freeing up capital for Westfield Group to explore opportunities
at home and overseas for higher-return projects.  The group in July said it would invest $612.5 million to
develop the retail part of  New York ’s World Trade Center as part
of a joint venture with the  Port Authority  of New York and  New
Jersey .  The  U.S. economy  has added 635,000 jobs since December as
unemployment fell to 8.2 percent in March from 8.5 percent. U.S.
retail sales in March rose 0.8 percent, three times more than
projected, as an improving jobs market gave households
confidence to sustain spending.  New Markets  In August, Westfield said it would spend 740 million reais
($398 million) to acquire half of Sao Paulo-based mall operator
Almeida Junior Shopping Centers Sa.  Two days later, it announced plans to invest 115 million
euros ($151 million) to buy a 50 percent stake in the
development site of a Milan shopping center in partnership with
Italian developer Gruppo Stilo, with the cost of the entire
development totaling as much as 1.25 billion euros.  “There are parts of  Europe  that are going to be quite
strong, and the north of  Italy , where Milan is, is one of those
areas,” Heitman’s White said. “With Europe, there will be
ongoing structural reform, in places like Italy and  Spain . It is
a big shopping center, and it will take a while to develop and,
with any luck, the Italian economy will be in much better shape
by the time they finish.”  U.S. Malls  The cost of insuring Westfield’s bonds from non-payment was
little changed at 185 basis points as of 11:25 a.m. in Sydney,
according to prices from Westpac Banking Corp. The company’s
credit default swaps rose 10 basis points this week to 192 basis
points, the highest since Feb. 21, according to CMA. An increase
of the value signals deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness, while a drop suggests the opposite. A basis
point is equal to 0.01 percent.  Starwood has formed a new retail platform to acquire
majority interests in the centers in  Chicago ,  San Francisco ,
 Cleveland , Miami, as well as Lincoln, Nebraska and Fairfield,
 California , in which Westfield will retain a 10 percent interest
in the assets, it said.  The company is also selling the Eastland mall in West
Covina, California, in a separate transaction. It is getting
close to book value on all the properties, it said.  Earnings Dilution  The disposal is expected to dilute funds from operations by
about 2 Australian cents a share, before the capital is
redeployed and prior to a share buyback, Westfield said.  “The sales announced today are for close to half of the
non-core portfolio targeted for sale,” Simon Wheatley, a
property analyst at Goldman Sachs & Partners  Australia , wrote in
a report today. “The sale of non-core assets makes sense but
the meaningful dilution to earnings per share is not being
offset by a clear increase in earnings per share growth thereby
challenging the valuation equation somewhat.”  The Starwood sale is expected to be completed in the
current quarter, and the Eastland mall disposal will settle
within 45 days, Westfield said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  