-- Will U.S. Avoid 2012 Recession? A Postscript
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-04-18T23:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/will-u-s-avoid-2012-recession-a-postscript.html
Last week’s four-part series laying
out the reasons for my prediction of a U.S. recession in 2012
elicited a variety of questions and comments from readers that
merit a response.  -- Global context: One reader objected to my focus on the
U.S. alone: “There is no longer an American economy -- only a
world economy. The world economy is very unstable and will
continue to be so into the foreseeable future. The U.S. has
almost no available policy defenses against this instability, so
any progress we make on the jobs and income fronts will sooner
or later (mostly sooner) be undone by destabilizing global
happenings and global geopolitical competition.”  This is a valid point. The series covered the  U.S. economy ,
but I have written extensively about the other major world
markets in my monthly newsletter, “ Insight ,” and will cover
Japan in my next articles for Bloomberg View.  My thinking is as follows:  Europe  is in a recession that
could be as severe as the one in 2008-2009 in which  real gross
domestic product  in the euro area fell 5.4 percent from peak to
trough, almost matching the U.S. decline of 5.5 percent. The
continuing, unresolved --- and probably unsolvable -- financial
crisis has again spilled over into the real economy.  Europe Outlook  The joining of northern and southern Europe under a common
currency, but without a common fiscal policy, has proved
untenable. The alternatives to continued bailouts of  Greece ,
 Portugal  and probably  Spain  are the dissolution of the euro
area, runs on the banks by investors and the risk of a
continent-wide depression. The dire outlook was temporarily
obscured by the 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) in loans from
the  European Central Bank  to the banks that was used to finance
the deficits of weak countries. But those measures simply loaded
the red ink onto the balance sheets of the four remaining AAA
rated countries --  Germany , the Netherlands,  Luxembourg  and
 Finland . In addition, even that massive bailout is losing its
punch, as shown by the recent jump in Spain’s sovereign interest
rates.  The effects of the  euro-zone  recession on the U.S. in terms
of trade are limited:  U.S. exports  account for 14 percent of GDP
and just 15 percent of those goods go to the euro zone. As a
result, the U.S.’s GDP exposure is only 2 percent. More
worrisome is that 25 percent of the foreign exposure of U.S.
banks is in the euro zone.  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , which was
sunk by leveraged bets on European sovereign debt, may be the
canary in the  coal mine .  For its part, China reacted to the Great Recession with
huge stimulus spending, the equivalent of 12 percent of GDP; by
contrast, the U.S. effort in 2009 amounted to 6 percent of GDP.
China’s growth revived rapidly, but so did inflation, with
double-digit food-price increases in a country where many live
at subsistence levels. In addition, Chinese savers, who have few
viable investment alternatives, piled into real estate, fueling
a property boom that the leadership despises.  In response, the government has slammed on the monetary
brakes and made property speculation distinctly unattractive.
Furthermore, the Chinese economy remains  export-led  with
consumer spending accounting for a mere 34 percent of GDP,
compared with 59 percent in  Japan , 58 percent in Germany and 71
percent in the U.S.  The recession in Europe and slow growth elsewhere has cut
into  Chinese export growth . Real GDP growth in the first quarter
was 8.1 percent, down from 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter; it
is probably headed for hard-landing levels of 5 percent to 6
percent. When China doubled the allowed daily fluctuation band
for the yuan on April 16, the currency fell. That contradicts
the widespread belief that the Chinese currency is still
undervalued.  Commodity Bubble  Because China was the foundation of the earlier commodity
bubble, the weakness in industrial and agricultural commodity
prices in the last year probably indicates not just a global
slowdown or recession but also a hard landing in  China .
Commodity exporters such as Brazil and  Australia , and their
currencies, are already feeling the effects. Weaker commodity
prices, however, will help the profit margins of U.S. producers,
wholesalers and retailers who haven’t been able to pass price
increases through to consumers.  --  Income inequality : Several readers expressed concern
about  income polarization  in the U.S. and attributed it,
correctly, to the maldistribution of education. One reader
wrote: “Structural unemployment issues remain an untouched
area. There needs to be a consensus to implement skills training
and adjustment programs for those who are unemployed because
firms are still demanding better-skilled workers.”  True enough. Many U.S. companies are shifting research and
development abroad because there aren’t enough engineers and
scientists at home to fill the demand. Low grades and high-
school  achievement scores  relative to students abroad are being
addressed, partly by standardized testing. But parents as well
as teachers are responsible. And persuading college students to
spend their afternoons in the physics lab rather than on the
playing field or socializing isn’t easy. There are many
unemployed residential-construction carpenters, electricians and
plumbers, but is it reasonable to expect them to be retrained as
software engineers?  -- Housing market: Some readers noted the plight of U.S.
housing. One summed it up this way: “In the traditional model,
real recovery is hardly possible without housing recovery. If
politicians and voters want one, there may be time to find the
way to provide housing without loading people with debt. If
young people will spend five years amassing a down payment, and
another five years paying mortgages and paying down student
debt, there will be no money for anything else, and no real
recovery in the nearest 10 years.”  Housing Overstock  I addressed this issue in a  Bloomberg View series  in
February. I explained that there are now about 2 million excess
U.S. housing units, over and above normal working inventories
for new and existing homes. Some are listed for sale but many
aren’t, including foreclosed houses and vacant properties that
owners are keeping off the market until prices rise.  At current rates of housing starts and household formation,
it will take about four years to work off this excess inventory.
That’s plenty of time for those surplus houses to push prices
down an additional 20 percent. Also, the $25 billion settlement
between mortgage servicers and state attorneys general and the
federal government may have cleared the way for mass
foreclosures and price-depressing sales.  Foreclosures, stringent lending standards and high
unemployment lowered the homeownership rate to 66 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2011, from its 69.2 percent peak in the fourth
quarter of 2004. It may be on its way to 64 percent, or maybe
even lower. I estimate that these conditions will create 3.9
million new renters by 2016. Most will probably be in
apartments, but some may rent single-family houses if the
problems of maintaining them can be solved to the satisfaction
of financial institutions and other large-scale owners.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4  of
the series.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  fixing U.S.-Pakistan
relations  and creating a  bureau to study climate change ;  Ezra
Klein  on post-election  tax reform ;  Caroline Baum  on the myopia
of  short-term economic statistics ; the Squam Lake Group on  money
market reforms ; Fredrik Erixon on  Europe’s coming welfare cuts .  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 