-- Twinkie Maker Asks to Void Labor Contracts to Cut Costs
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-18T15:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/twinkie-maker-asks-to-void-labor-contracts-to-cut-costs.html
Hostess Brands Inc., the maker of
Twinkie snack cakes, began a court process to overhaul labor
agreements to cut costs as it works to reorganize and emerge
from  bankruptcy protection .  Hostess is asking U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain in
 White Plains ,  New York , for permission to reject union
contracts, warning that it faces liquidation if it can’t modify
labor deals.  Chief Executive Officer Gregory Rayburn testified at a
hearing today that a proposed change to pension plans for
workers is needed because the pensions can’t meet their
obligations.  “We need to be fair and equitable in how we treat them,”
Rayburn said about employees. Hostess has a responsibility to
ensure “that whatever we are funding at whatever level is going
to be there when the employees retire,” he said.  Hostess, which also makes Wonder bread and Ding Dongs, is
on its second trip through bankruptcy. The hearing on the union
contracts comes after the company failed to reach agreements
with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and the bakery
workers union.  The Teamsters have authorized a strike if Hostess is
allowed to impose contract terms. Rayburn said Hostess couldn’t
survive a strike.  ‘The Only Ones’  The Teamsters union, which represents more than 7,000
employees, said this week that it offered a counterproposal to
the Irving, Texas-based company, saying workers “are the only
ones doing the sacrificing.”  “Executives lie and claim labor costs are to blame,” Ken Hall, the Teamsters’ general secretary-treasurer, said in a
statement. “But it is incompetence and greed, pure and simple,
that have put this iconic company in the position it is in
today.”  Hostess wants to end participation in multiemployer pension
plans, saying its contributions of $103 million a year are
“unsustainable,” according to a company fact sheet. Hostess
has proposed ceasing contributions to “financially unstable”
plans.  The company also wants to freeze wages and has proposed
changing work rules that it says cause “widespread
inefficiencies.” It wants to use third-party distributors to
deliver products to some customers, according to the company.  Hostess filed for bankruptcy in January, blaming high labor
costs. It said in court papers that investors are unlikely to
provide new capital unless it can escape “crippling” pension
liabilities. If it can’t impose labor changes, it will “almost
certainly be forced to liquidate,” it said.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New
York at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  