-- Worst Yet to Come as Crisis Rescue Cash Ebbs, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-04-18T08:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/worst-yet-to-come-as-crisis-rescue-cash-ebbs-deutsche-bank-says.html
The worst may be yet to come in the
global financial crisis as the central bank spending that kept
defaults low runs out, according to  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Credit-default swap prices imply that four or more European
nations may suffer so-called credit events such as having to
restructure their debt, strategists led by  Jim Reid  and  Nick Burns  said in a note. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe
Index of contracts on 15 governments including Spain and Italy
jumped 26 percent in the past month as the region’s crisis
flared up.  “If these implied defaults come vaguely close to being
realised then the next five years of corporate and financial
defaults could easily be worse than the last five relatively
calm years,” the analysts in London said. “Much may eventually
depend on how much money-printing can be tolerated as we are
very close to being maxed out fiscally.”  Default rates stayed in line with historical norms between
2007 and 2011 because of the “unprecedented intervention” of
European and U.S. policy makers, the analysts wrote in the
 report  yesterday. Now, credit markets are giving up the gains
that followed the  European Central Bank ’s 1 trillion-euro ($1.3
trillion) longer-term refinancing operations and the U.S.’s
Operation Twist that buoyed  government bonds .  Although defaults have been low, recoveries are falling
because the public spending that kept non-payments down has
failed to spur economic growth, according to the analysts.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “The LTROs gave us some respite but they don’t appear to
have taken the problem away,” Burns said in a phone interview.
“At the moment there are no more LTROs on the table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in  London  at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  