-- Yapi Kredi Focuses on Cards, Fees as Industry Profit Lags
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-04-18T10:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-18/yapi-kredi-focuses-on-cards-fees-as-industry-profit-lags-1-.html
Yapı & Kredi Bankası AS, the
Turkish bank part-owned by  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , will focus on credit
cards, income from fees and project financing as slower loan
growth and stiffer competition pare profit.  Loans in the industry are expected to expand at a maximum
of 15 percent in 2012 with overall profit declining 10 percent,
Chief Executive Officer Faik Acikalin told reporters in Istanbul
yesterday. Yapi Kredi forecasts that its loans will increase 17
percent, he said.  Turkish banks are seeking alternative means to boost profit
after the central bank in Ankara took measures to pare a boom in
lending that grew as fast as 40 percent last year. Deposit costs
also increased as the central bank squeezed liquidity by
providing less cash to banks at its lowest lending rate of 5.75
percent.  Yapi Kredi and other Turkish banks will need to raise fees
and commissions by a “reasonable amount” to help reverse the
narrowing in profit margins brought on by slower loan growth and
more competition for deposits, Acikalin said.  ”This is necessary for sustainable growth,” he said.
”Banking is a costly industry and this has to somehow reflect
in fees and commissions.”  Yapi Kredi climbed 0.9 percent to 3.53 liras at 12:51 p.m.
on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange (XU100) , rising for a second day and
valuing the bank at 15.4 billion liras ($8.6 billion.) Yapi
Kredi is  Turkey ’s fifth-largest bank by market value.  Acikalin said Yapi Kredi would focus on deposits as the
primary means to raise more funding. The bank’s deposits will
grow by 15 percent in 2012 compared with 12-13 percent growth in
the industry, he said.  Bond Sales  Turkish banks are also expected to sell more eurobonds and
sukuk this year to help finance growth even as costs of
borrowing rise, Acikalin said. Yapi Kredi will refinance $2.7
billion of syndicated loans this year, he said.  ”External debt instruments will become more attractive to
Turkish banks even though costs slightly increase there,”
Acikalin said.  Yapi Kredi will maintain its No. 1 ranking in credit cards
and will lead the market in loans to small and medium-sized
businesses within five years, Acikalin said.  The bank will have 700,000 small and medium-sized business
clients at the end of this year compared with 600,000 now,
Acikalin said.  Yapi Kredi will open 50 to 60 new branches in 2012 and aims
to have 1,000 branches by the end of next year, Acikalin said.  UniCredit is ”extremely happy with Yapi Kredi’s
performance” and has no plans to sell its stake in the bank,
Acikalin said.  ”Yapi Kredi is indispensable in terms of UniCredit’s game
plan,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  