-- Manziel Throws Three Texas A&M Scores, Then Is Pulled by Coach
-- B y   M i k e   B u t e a u   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-01T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/manziel-throws-three-texas-a-m-scores-then-is-pulled-by-coach.html
Heisman Trophy winner Johnny Manziel
sat out his first-half suspension and then threw for three
touchdowns before he was pulled for unsportsmanlike conduct in
 Texas A&M University ’s 52-31 rout of  Rice University  in their
college football season opener.  Alabama ’s Christion Jones returned a punt and a kickoff for
two touchdowns and caught a pass for another score as the
Crimson Tide beat Virginia Tech 35-10 at the Georgia Dome in
Atlanta.  In  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey , Penn State beat Syracuse
23-17 in the 71st meeting between the long-time rivals before
61,202 fans at MetLife Stadium.  Manziel, who led the Aggies to an 11-2 season last year and
became the first freshman to win the trophy as the best player
in college football, was suspended for the first half of the
game for what the school said was an “inadvertent” violation
of National Collegiate Athletic Association rules. He had been
investigated for allegedly accepting money for autographs.  Manziel entered the game with  Texas  A&M beating Rice 28-21
at Kyle Field in  College Station , Texas. On his first drive, he
ran for 12 and seven yards, before he threw an incomplete pass
and was sacked. Taylor Bertolet kicked a 44-yard field goal.  ‘Foolish Penalty’  After throwing a 23-yard touchdown pass to Mike Evans in
the third quarter and an 18-yard scoring pass to Ben Malena in
the fourth quarter, he connected with Evans again on a nine-yard
throw and then pointed at the scoreboard -- an action that got
the team a 15-yard penalty and Manziel’s exit from the game.  “A foolish penalty at the end,” coach Kevin Sumlin told
reporters. “No matter what the comments are or what. He’s going
to face that every week with the people chirping. That’s not OK,
and obviously I addressed that on the sideline right after the
play. That’s something he’s going to have to deal with every
week.”  Manziel, who completed six of eight passes for 94 yards,
didn’t address reporters after the game. However, he did talk to
his teammates two nights ago to discuss the “mistakes he’s
made,” said Sumlin, who added the speech was a condition of
reinstatement.  “Maybe actions you think just hurt you end up hurting the
whole football team,” Sumlin said. “That was the real gist of
his message to the team, that everybody’s individual acts affect
the team and when that happens it’s not good.”  Texas A&M  is seventh in the Associated Press writers’ poll.  Alabama Wins  Alabama, college football’s two-time defending national
champion and No. 1 in the AP poll, jumped out to a 7-0 lead on
the fourth play of the game when Jones returned a Virginia Tech
punt 72 yards.  After T.J. Yeldon put the Crimson Tide up 14-0 on a 2-yard
run later in the first quarter, Virginia Tech running back Trey
Edmunds ran for a 77-yard touchdown to pull the Hokies within a
touchdown. Virginia Tech’s momentum lasted only six plays before
Alabama’s Vinnie Sunserie intercepted a Logan Thomas pass at the
Hokies’ 38-yard line and returned it 62 yards to put Alabama
ahead 21-7.  Following a  Virginia Tech  39-yard field goal in the second
quarter, Alabama increased its lead to 28-10 when Jones, a
junior wide receiver and kick-return specialist, ran the ensuing
kickoff back 94 yards for his second touchdown of the game.  Need Improvement  A.J. McCarron, Alabama’s senior quarterback, connected with
Jones in the third quarter on a 38-yard pass play to put Alabama
ahead 35-10. McCarron completed 10 of 23 passes for 110 yards.
He also threw a first-half interception after going all of last
season with only three interceptions.  “Special teams was great in this game,” Alabama coach
Nick Saban told reporters. “To get both a kickoff and punt
return is outstanding. We want our return game to be a weapon
for us and it certainly was tonight.”  With only 206 yards in combined rushing and passing
offense, Saban was disappointed in his team’s overall
performance.  “We’ll look at this film and make a lot of corrections,”
he said. “I don’t think there’s anybody in our locker room who
is happy with how they played. I think everybody realizes that
we need to improve.”  Penn State  freshman quarterback Christian Hackenberg
completed a 51-yard touchdown pass to Allen Robinson to give the
Nittany Lions a 13-3 advantage. He then connected with Geno
Lewis on a 54-yard pass with 11 minutes, 39 seconds left in the
game for a 23-10 lead.  Hackenberg completed 22 of 31 passing attempts for 273
yards, two touchdowns and two interceptions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net 
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  