-- HTC Employees Detained Amid Trade-Secret Investigation
-- B y   C i n d y   W a n g   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2013-09-02T09:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/htc-says-operations-not-affected-by-alleged-breach.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  employees were detained by
Taiwan authorities after the smartphone maker alleged that some
of its  trade secrets  were leaked.  Two product design executives were detained, Huang Mou-hsin,
the deputy chief prosecutor at the Taipei District Prosecutor’s
Office, said today. A director and another senior manager in the
design and research-and-development divisions were questioned
and released on bail. A fifth person working outside the company
also is a suspect, said Huang, who declined to comment on the
person’s role. Shares fell 5.8 percent to NT$147.50 in Taipei.  HTC, which peaked in 2011, has plunged 88 percent since
then as it lost market share in smartphones to  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  The Taoyuan City, Taiwan-based
company has revamped its marketing strategy and shuffled
executives to rebuild the brand after its global ranking in
smartphones fell to ninth.  “We believe the investigation and detention of HTC’s key
R&D executives will have damaging impact on its new model roll-out in the next 6 months,” Richard Ko, an analyst at KGI
Securities Co. in Taipei, said in report to clients today.  HTC, the first maker of phones using software from  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , said its operations aren’t affected and its fourth quarter
products are on schedule, according to an e-mailed statement
today.  The company filed complaints to the Ministry of Justice’s
Investigation Bureau last month, accusing employees of leaking
commercial secrets and using fake receipts to seek reimbursement,
Huang said Aug. 31. Investigators searched HTC offices and the
employees’ homes on Aug. 30, according to Huang.  “Protecting the company’s proprietary and intellectual
properties, privacy and security is a core fundamental
responsibility of every employee,” HTC said in a  statement  on
its website. “The company expects employees to observe and
practice the highest levels of integrity and ethics.”  The company didn’t specify what secrets were involved in
the alleged breach.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Clark in Tokyo at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  