-- CFR to Decide on Binding Adcock Offer in Weeks, CEO Says
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-09-01T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/cfr-to-decide-on-binding-adcock-offer-in-weeks-ceo-says.html
CFR Pharmaceuticals SA (CFR) ,  Chile ’s
largest drugmaker, will decide within weeks whether to make a
binding offer for  South Africa ’s  Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP) ,
CFR’s Chief Executive Officer Alejandro Weinstein said.  CFR completed due diligence of the Johannesburg-based maker
of hospital products and medicines in mid-August, and is now
“doing a thorough review of all data to see if we move to the
next binding step,” Weinstein said in an interview at CFR’s
headquarters in Santiago on Aug. 30. “At this stage, we have to
be very rational. No decisions can be done only by gut
feeling.”  CFR said in July that it signed a non-binding agreement to
buy Adcock in a cash-and-shares deal that values the South
African company at a potential $1.3 billion, or 73.51 rand per
share. The offer has prompted a rival bid from Actis LLP, a
London-based private-equity firm, two people familiar with the
matter said on Aug. 13. Johannesburg-based food and car sales
company  Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT)  had a bid for 60 percent of Adcock
rejected in March and its pursuit remains a “work in
progress,” Financial Director David Cleasby said on Aug. 26.  “If there are other bidders it’s a good sign,” Weinstein
said, adding that his company has exclusive negotiating rights.
“It means that we are aiming for something good. I would be
more concerned if there weren’t other interested parties.”  Shareholder Opposition  CFR said in the July statement that it planned to finance
the Adcock deal with a $750 million share sale, $500 million of
debt and $50 million of cash. Any unsubscribed shares would be
listed in Johannesburg and given to Adcock investors, a clause
that has been opposed by some shareholders who said such an
arrangement may overvalue CFR.  Adcock  shares  traded at 66.10 rand at the close in
Johannesburg on Aug. 30, 10 percent below the potential value of
the CFR proposal.  “If and when we move to the binding offer, we’ll disclose
the final details of how much we plan to pay in cash and how
much in shares,” Weinstein said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  