-- China Economy Strengthens as Factory Gauge at 16-Month High
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-02T02:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/china-aug-manufacturing-pmi-beats-estimates-with-51-0-reading.html
China’s economy  is strengthening
after a two-quarter slowdown, with a manufacturing gauge rising
to a 16-month high in August as new orders jumped and overseas
demand rebounded.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was at 51.0, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said yesterday in Beijing. A separate manufacturing
PMI released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
rose to 50.1 last month from 47.7 in July, the biggest gain in
three years and the first reading above 50 since April.  Improvement in manufacturing may bolster confidence that
the economy is responding to Premier  Li Keqiang ’s policies to
support growth amid a crackdown on shadow banking aimed at
curbing financial risks. JPMorgan Chase & Co. yesterday joined
Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG in raising estimates
for an increase in gross domestic product, citing strength in
infrastructure and real estate, and a pickup in exports.  “The recovery is being driven primarily by domestic demand
but international demand is picking up too as we can see from
the jump in new export orders,” said Lu Ting, head of  Greater
China  economics at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong. “This
will surely boost markets’ confidence in China’s recovery amid
the turmoil in some  emerging markets .”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.4 percent at 9:47 a.m.
local time. It rose 2 percent last week, the biggest gain since
March.  Orders Jump  The official PMI figure compared with the 50.6 median
estimate of 31 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey and July’s
50.3 level. Estimates ranged from 50.4 to 52. The preliminary
reading of HSBC’s index released Aug. 22 was 50.1, while the
median estimate of 13 analysts was for a 50.2 final level.  JPMorgan raised its estimate for China’s third-quarter
economic growth to 7.6 percent from 7.4 percent and its
projection for the final three months of the year to 7.5 percent
from 7 percent, Hong Kong-based chief China economist  Zhu Haibin 
said in a report yesterday. “Economic conditions are improving
and the downside risk to economic growth has been mitigated in
the near term,” Zhu said.  Deutsche Bank lifted its third-quarter estimate to 7.7
percent from 7.5 percent, according to an Aug. 22 note. Credit
Suisse last week increased its 2013 forecast to 7.6 percent from
7.4 percent.  Tolerate Slowdown  China’s GDP growth slowed to 7.5 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, extending the longest streak of
sub-8 percent expansion in at least two decades and putting the
government at risk of missing its 2013 goal of 7.5 percent. Li
signaled in July he won’t tolerate a slowdown beyond a 7 percent
bottom line.  A sub-index of new orders in yesterday’s report rose to
52.4, the highest level since April 2012, and a gauge of input
prices was the highest since February.  “Input prices are usually a good tracker of the strength
of aggregate demand relative to supply so the reading suggests
demand has strengthened notably,” said Helen Qiao, chief
Greater China economist at Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong .
“Sector-specific measures adopted recently are starting to show
an impact but it also implies a lower probability for high-profile easing.”  Li has avoided a broad-based stimulus to reverse slowing
growth, instead rolling out targeted measures that include tax
cuts, boosting infrastructure spending including on railways,
and supporting strategic industries such as renewable energy.  Export Outlook  China’s top solar-panel makers are returning to
profitability following two years of losses as higher demand and
prices drive up margins. JinkoSolar Holding Co. last month
reported second-quarter net income of $8 million, its first
profit since the third quarter of 2011, as sales jumped 43
percent from a year earlier.  China’s export outlook improved, with a gauge of new
 overseas orders  in yesterday’s report rising above 50 for the
first time since March. While that contrasts with the
contraction indicated in the export index of HSBC’s PMI, it
tallies with trade reports from Asian economies and signs of
stronger growth in the U.S. and  Europe .  South Korea ’s  exports  jumped 7.7 percent in August from a
year earlier, the government said yesterday, the biggest gain
since January.  The  U.S. economy  expanded more than analysts estimated in
the second quarter, an Aug. 29 Commerce Department report showed.
Economic confidence in the euro area rose to a two-year high,
according to data last week.  ‘Modest’ Impact  China’s official PMI indicates the impact of the
government’s crackdown on non-bank financing and its efforts to
rein in credit growth have “so far been modest,” said  Louis Kuijs , chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
Hong Kong.  Interest rates  in China’s interbank market surged to record
highs in June as the central bank allowed a cash crunch in order
to squeeze speculative lending and curb shadow banking.
 Aggregate financing , the broadest measure of new credit that
includes banks’ off-balance-sheet loans, corporate bond and
stock issues, fell to a 21-month low in July.  While the campaign will help ease the risks of a financial
crisis, it may also curb economic expansion as companies find it
harder to get funding.  “The current rebound in growth is still benefiting from
loose monetary and credit conditions earlier this year,” said
Ding Shuang, senior  China  economist at Citigroup Inc. in Hong
Kong. “But since May, conditions have tightened considerably
and that will weigh on investment and growth toward the end of
the year.”  --Shen Hu, Nerys Avery. With assistance from Ailing Tan in
 Singapore . Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Shen Hu in Beijing at 
 hshen33@bloomberg.net 
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  