-- China Probes State-Assets Head as Anti-Graft Push Widens
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s   a n d   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2013-09-02T02:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/china-state-assets-head-jiang-under-investigation-xinhua-says.html
China ’s corruption watchdog opened a
probe into the director of the state-owned assets overseer,
pursuing the highest profile official since Xi Jinping took over
the Communist Party last year with a pledge to fight graft.  Jiang Jiemin , head of the State-Owned Assets Supervision
and Administration Commission, is under investigation for
alleged “serious disciplinary violations,” the Ministry of
Supervision said yesterday. He is also the former chairman of
state-owned China National Petroleum Corp., the country’s
biggest oil producer.  By pursuing Jiang, the leadership is widening graft
investigations after Xi warned that corruption threatened the
Communist Party’s six-decade hold on power. Focusing on the
state-owned companies Jiang oversaw and China’s oil industry may
give Xi, who became president in March, and Premier Li Keqiang
greater impetus to push through changes at a key party economic
policy meeting in November, said Willy Wo-Lap Lam of the  Chinese
University  of Hong Kong.  “Xi probably emerges more powerful than ever,” Lam, an
adjunct professor of history, said by telephone. “Xi and Li
will subject these huge conglomerates to more intense scrutiny,
-- this is a way to impose some sort of discipline.”  The probe comes less than a week after a court in eastern
China wrapped up ousted Politburo member  Bo Xilai ’s five-day
trial on bribery, embezzlement and abuse-of-power charges. On
Aug. 30, the  South China Morning Post  reported that  Zhou
Yongkang , a CNPC general manager in the 1990s who was a member
of the Politburo Standing Committee until last year, is also
being investigated. Jiang and Zhou’s career paths overlapped in
1989-1990.  Graft Investigation  Also last week, four officials at CNPC and its Hong Kong-listed unit, PetroChina Co., were removed from their posts as
part of investigations by China’s graft watchdog.  Jiang no longer appears under the leadership section on
SASAC’s website and articles detailing a visit he made to
Aviation Industry Corp. were removed.  When Xi took over the party last November, he warned that
corruption posed a grave threat to the party. Since then, state-owned media have praised the government’s targeting of both
“tigers and flies” -- party cadres across the power spectrum.  An investigation of Zhou, which hasn’t been confirmed,
would indicate that Xi has amassed enough power to push through
economic policies aimed at maintaining 7 percent annual  growth ,
including controlled financial liberalization and more
competition for state-owned companies, said Arthur Kroeber,
Beijing-based managing director of GaveKal Dragonomics, an
economic analysis firm.  “A takedown of Zhou, who was usually seen as a proponent
of state enterprises and political repression, would make clear
that Xi does have the power to push through difficult changes,”
Kroeber wrote in an Aug. 30 note.  Vice Chairman  Other officials under investigation by the discipline
commission include Liu Tienan, vice chairman of the country’s
planning agency, who was fired in May and expelled from the
party in August. Li Chuncheng, a deputy party secretary of
Sichuan province, was put under investigation in December, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported at the time.  Zhou held the top party post in Sichuan from 1999-2002,
when Li Chuncheng  served  in top posts in the provincial capital,
Chengdu.  Bo was removed from his post as party secretary of
Chongqing in March, 2012 after his police chief in the
municipality fled to a U.S. consulate with evidence that his
wife, Gu Kailai, murdered a British businessman. The verdict
from his trial will be announced at a later date, Xinhua said at
the end of his trial on Aug. 25.  Jiang was head of state-owned CNPC until earlier this year.
All four of the officials targeted in the probe last week worked
at CNPC during Jiang’s chairmanship.  Gaining Speed  “This announcement suggests the anti-corruption campaign
is picking up speed,” Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a research
note yesterday. The investigation into Jiang “shows the new
leadership is on track to establishing its authority, which is a
necessary condition for implementing tough structural reforms,”
Nomura said in the note.  Jiang and Zhou’s paths crossed in the oil industry, where
they worked for more than three decades. Both  served  in top
Communist Party posts at the Shengli oilfield in the eastern
province of Shandong from 1989-1990, where Jiang began his
career in 1972, according to their official  biographies .  Oilfield Positions  After working in oilfield positions in Shandong and the
western province of Qinghai, Jiang became an assistant to CNPC’s
general manager in February 1999, when he led a team preparing
for PetroChina’s initial share sale.  PetroChina rose 1 percent to HK$8.52 at 9:33 a.m. in  Hong
Kong . Kunlun fell 0.4 percent to HK$11.26.  Jiang was deputy governor of Qinghai in the early 2000s
before returning to CNPC as a deputy general manager. He was
appointed general manager in November 2006 and became chairman
of PetroChina in May 2007, according to the company’s website.
Jiang was appointed to the newly created post of CNPC chairman
in November 2011, it said.  He was the only head of a state-owned energy company
selected as a full member of the Communist Party’s 205-strong
central committee in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Hong Kong at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  