-- Czech Monetary Policy Needs to Loosen, Central Banker Lizal Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-09-01T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/czech-monetary-policy-needs-to-loosen-central-banker-lizal-says.html
The Czech Republic needs more
relaxed monetary policy as consumer-price growth is slower than
the central bank’s target and the economy isn’t creating
inflation risks, policy maker Lubomir Lizal said.  With the  benchmark  interest rate near zero, the Ceska
Narodni Banka in Prague is debating whether it needs to start
the first currency interventions since 2002 to ease monetary
conditions through a weaker koruna. While the koruna has
weakened this year, it is overvalued compared with the central
bank’s forecast that assumes lower market interest rates than
current levels, Lizal said in an interview with the E15
newspaper, published today.  Rate setters are assessing the strength of a  rebound  after
the economy grew in the April-June period after six consecutive
quarterly contractions. While the return of expansion is a good
signal, it isn’t clear confirmation of a turnaround and
undershooting the inflation target “may be a problem,” Lizal
said.  “There is a need to further relax monetary conditions,”
Lizal said, according to a transcript of the interview,
published by E15. “The exchange rate has weakened to some
extent since the beginning of the year, which helped ease
monetary conditions and contributed to a shift toward the
 inflation (CZCPYOY)  target. But the latest data are showing me that it
wasn’t sufficient.”  The  koruna  has weakened 2.6 percent this year, and traded
at 25.745 per euro on Aug. 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency has moved to the center of policy
deliberations as its depreciation helps boost the
competitiveness of exports and makes imports more expensive.  Increased Chances  The central bank on Aug. 1 left its  main  interest rate
unchanged for a sixth meeting at what it calls a “technical
zero” of 0.05 percent, almost half a point below the European
Central Bank’s benchmark. The seven-member board voted at the
last meeting for the first time on whether to start koruna
sales. The bank didn’t disclose breakdown of the ballot.  The chances of starting koruna sales have increased as
opposing policy makers are softening their resistance, Governor
Miroslav Singer said after the August meeting.  Inflation slowed to 1.4 percent in July from a year earlier
from 1.6 percent in the previous month, below the central bank’s
estimate of 1.7 percent.  Price growth relevant to monetary policy and adjusted for
the primary effect of changes in indirect taxes slowed to 0.7
percent in July from 0.9 percent in the previous month, staying
below the the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent tolerance
band.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  