-- Daiichi Sankyo’s New Blood Thinner Matched Warfarin in Study
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-09-01T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/daiichi-sankyo-s-new-blood-thinner-matched-warfarin-in-study.html
Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568) ’s experimental
blood thinner edoxaban was as effective and less risky than
standard treatment warfarin in a study that may position the
Japanese company to compete with drugmakers including Pfizer
Inc.,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)   The 8,240-patient study found that a once-daily edoxaban
pill given after initial heparin therapy was equivalent to the
generic medicine warfarin at preventing new blood clots in
patients who have had clots in a vein or lung. Patients who took
edoxaban had significantly less bleeding, a feared side effect
of blood thinners, than did patients on warfarin.  The results may help Daiichi Sankyo join the race to
replace warfarin, a half-century-old therapy that requires close
monitoring to avoid side effects such as severe bleeding that
can be life-threatening.  “The bar is high, but if we look at analogous areas like
the development of ACE inhibitors” to treat high  blood
pressure , “there was scope for the development of several,”
Keith Fox, professor of cardiology at the Center for
Cardiovascular Science at the  University of Edinburgh , said in
an interview before the results were released.  Fox is chairman of the program committee for the  European
Society of Cardiology’s meeting  in Amsterdam, where the data
were announced today. The study was also published online today
in the  New England Journal of Medicine .  Patent Protection  Daiichi Sankyo is seeking to offset a drop in sales when
its best-selling Benicar hypertension drug loses patent
protection in 2016 with edoxaban and another anti-clotting
treatment called Effient, which was approved in the U.S. in
2009.  Benicar  generated  258.8 billion yen ($2.6 billion) for the
year ended March for Daiichi Sankyo, or 26 percent of its total
sales.  Today’s four-year-long study, dubbed Hokusai-VTE, is part
of the last stage of patient trials generally required for
regulatory review. Patients were given edoxaban or warfarin for
as long as 12 months after being diagnosed with a blood-clotting
condition called venous thromboembolism.  Edoxaban caused less bleeding across a broad range of
patients, including those with severe blockages in the arteries
of the lungs, the researchers said.  In venous thromboembolism, clots form in veins deep in the
body, often in the legs. The clots can then break off and travel
into the lungs, causing a potentially deadly pulmonary embolism.  Heart Rhythm  From 300,000 to 900,000 people in the U.S. are affected by
 VTE  each year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta. Almost half of the conditions occur
either during or soon after discharge from a hospital stay or
surgery and an estimated 60,000 to 100,000 Americans die of the
illness each year.  Daiichi Sankyo is also testing the drug in patients with a
heart rhythm disorder called atrial fibrillation, to prevent
blood clots from forming in the heart. If it’s approved in both
groups of patients, sales of edoxaban are expected to reach 40
billion yen by the year ending March 2018, according to SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc.  “Edoxaban will face intense competition when it reaches
the market,” Yasuhiro Nakazawa, a health-care analyst at SMBC
Nikko in  Tokyo , said in a telephone interview before the study
results were published. “Patients and doctors don’t seem to
switch brands once they are on medication, so it’ll be a slow
start for Daiichi Sankyo.”  Edoxaban will compete with Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s
Pradaxa, J&J and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Xarelto, and Pfizer and Bristol-Myers Squibb’s Eliquis.  “The important point for the VTE trials is the safety
profile of the drug, how it can minimize the risk of major
hemorrhage,” SMBC Nikko’s Nakazawa said. Eliquis has a good
safety profile, Nakazawa said.  For Related News and Information:
Daiichi Sankyo 9-Month Profit Almost Triples After Settlement  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  