-- David Frost, Nixon TV Interviewer, Dies at 74, BBC Says
-- B y   M i k e   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-09-01T11:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/david-frost-nixon-tv-interviewer-dies-at-74-bbc-says-1-.html
Veteran British television
interviewer David Frost, whose interview with former U.S.
President Richard Nixon was made into a Hollywood movie, died at
the age of 74, the  BBC  reported today, citing a family
statement.  Frost died after giving a speech on the Queen Elizabeth
cruise ship late yesterday, according to the statement.  “His family are devastated and ask for privacy at this
difficult time,” the family statement said. “A family funeral
will be held in the near future and details of a memorial
service will be announced in due course.”  Frost’s career spanned journalism, comedy writing and
daytime television presenting, including “The Frost Report”
and “That Was The Week That Was.”  He presented news programs during his career for the BBC,
CNN and Al Jazeera English. He interviewed seven U.S.
presidents, and British prime ministers including Margaret
Thatcher, David Cameron, Tony Blair and Harold Wilson.  “My heart goes out to David Frost’s family,” Cameron said
in a posting on his Twitter account. “He could be -- and
certainly was with me -- both a friend and a fearsome
interviewer.”  Frost gained international fame with his series of
interviews in 1977 with Nixon for U.S. television. The
encounters formed the basis for “Frost/Nixon” (2008), directed
by Ron Howard, in which Frost was portrayed by Michael Sheen
while Frank Langella played the disgraced former president.  “Michael was fantastic,” Frost said in an interview with
the Telegraph newspaper in May this year. “He stopped just
short of doing an impersonation of me, which would have easily
slipped into caricature. He put his own intelligent
interpretation; he read my character. It worked. I’m
tremendously grateful.”  Frost was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Harrison in London at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  