-- Delhi Gang Rape Victim’s Family Slams Teen’s Sentence
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-09-01T18:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/delhi-gang-rape-victim-s-family-slams-teen-s-three-year-sentence.html
The family of the  New Delhi  woman
who was gang raped and murdered in December slammed a court
verdict that sent a teenager convicted of attacking her to three
years in a reform home and demanded he be hanged.  The brother of the victim said he tried to attack the
teenager in court and broke down in tears when the verdict was
announced on Aug. 31. The defendant, who was 17 at the time of
the attack and is now 18, should face the death penalty like
four other men being tried for the same  crimes  in a separate,
specially convened fast-track adult court, the brother said.  This was the first verdict in a case that reverberated
around the world and shone a spotlight on the scale of sexual
violence in the world’s second-most populous country. The 23-year-old physiotherapy student was assaulted aboard a moving bus
as she returned home from the cinema with a male friend in the
nation’s capital in December in a case that caused revulsion and
outrage and weeks of nationwide protests.  “There is no justice for my sister,” the victim’s
brother, whose name can’t be published under laws forbidding
identification of rape victims, said in an interview yesterday.
“This kind of punishment sends out a message that you can
commit rape and you won’t be punished.”  Maximum Sentence  A tribunal in the nation’s capital handed down the maximum
punishment for a juvenile offender allowed under  India ’s laws.
Indian political leaders, including Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde, have been calling for tougher sentences for criminals
under the age of 18 in the wake of the woman’s murder.  The mother of the woman, who had tears running down her
face after the verdict was announced, said she will continue to
campaign for the teenager to be awarded the death penalty. As
the defendant has served eight months in a remand home awaiting
trial, he will be freed in just over two years.  “We feel cheated,” the woman’s mother told reporters.
“This kind of justice is meaningless.”  The juvenile comes from  Uttar Pradesh , one of India’s
poorest states, and moved to New Delhi at the age of 11,
according to the Hindustan Times. The  newspaper  also reported he
was the most brutal among the attackers, allegedly sexually
assaulting the victim twice, once while she was unconscious.  India’s top court is currently hearing a petition seeking a
new  interpretation  of laws on criminal responsibility so longer
sentences can be considered.  Stalking, Voyeurism  Amid demonstrations following the attack, the government
passed laws imposing stricter punishments for sexual assaults
and the setting up of fast-track courts. The government
toughened laws on sexual assault, criminalizing stalking and
voyeurism, and allowing for capital punishment if an attack
leaves the victim in a vegetative state.  The verdict comes at a time when a series of attacks on
women reignited an angry debate about their safety in India. Two
police officers working in the suburbs of New Delhi were
arrested along with two other men at the weekend for gang raping
a woman, the police said. A spiritual guru was also arrested for
sexually assaulting a young girl at the weekend.  After a photographer working as an intern at a magazine was
gang raped while shooting an abandoned textile mill in  Mumbai ,
there were street protests and an outpouring of anger. While the
victim was taken away and repeatedly raped two weeks ago, her
male colleague was tied up and assaulted.  Dumped Naked  Even in a country accustomed to  violence  against women, the
murder of the student in New Delhi triggered a furious response.
Her life story, a journey from small-town India to the big city
in search of a better education and opportunities, resonated
with millions who make the same journey each year.  During the two-hour assault in the bus, the woman was
repeatedly raped before being dumped naked along with her male
companion near New Delhi’s airport. The couple had been tricked
into boarding the vehicle the accused were driving illegally.  In revelations that fueled public outrage, the victims were
ignored by passersby and police argued over where to take them
as they lay bleeding on the street, according to televised
comments by the man who survived the attack. Neither has been
officially identified.  “India is one of few countries in the world which caps
sentences for juveniles regardless of the crime,” said Kamal
Kumar Pandey, a lawyer who petitioned the  Supreme Court  for the
law to be changed earlier this year. “It is totally irrational.
There is no justice for the victims.”  The trial of the four other defendants charged with
conspiracy to abduct the woman, sexually assault and murder her
is expected to finish in about a month. All the men have pleaded
not guilty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  