-- Dubai Shares Gain Most Since 2012 as Obama Delays Syria Strike
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-09-01T13:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/dubai-leads-gulf-shares-higher-as-obama-delays-strike-on-syria.html
Dubai shares  gained the most in 18
months, rebounding from the worst weekly slump since 2011, after
the U.S. President put off a military strike against Syria.  The  Dubai Financial Market General Index (DFMGI)  advanced 3
percent, the biggest jump since March 2012, to 2,599.35 at the
close in Dubai. The measure slid 6.6 percent last week amid
concern a military strike against Syria was imminent and will
hurt tourism and investments in the emirate.  Emaar Properties
PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai,
gained the most in almost four weeks and  Deyaar Development
PJSC (DEYAAR) , a builder of home and office towers, surged 13 percent,
before announcing a joint venture for a residential tower.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said yesterday he’ll seek
authorization from Congress before ordering the strike against
Syria for using chemical weapons, delaying action to at least
Sept. 9, when congressional leaders return from their recess.
Thirty members of U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
 Conservative Party  joined the Labor opposition on Aug. 29 to
reject his request to authorize military strikes.  Last week’s decline “was sharper, so in context a rebound
of this magnitude is not surprising,” Amer Khan, a director at
Shuaa Asset Management, said in an e-mail. The political
situation in Syria “has lost the urgency it had prior to the
weekend, given the developments in the U.K. and the U.S.”  While Obama said that he’s already decided to take military
action, he’ll give lawmakers the opportunity to debate and vote
on it. France, which had indicated it would join in taking
military action, said it would wait for its parliament before
taking action, according to the  Associated Press .  Sharp Rebound  The “sharp rebound in the U.A.E. indices was driven once
again by domestic retail investors responding to the dissipating
threat of Syrian strikes,”  Julian Bruce , head of institutional
trading at EFG-Hermes U.A.E. Ltd., said by e-mail today.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest
Shariah-compliant bank, climbed 3.3 percent, the most since Aug.
6, to 3.45 dirhams. Emaar rose 1.7 percent to 5.85 dirhams and
Deyaar surged to 54 fils. There are 100 fils to the dirham.  Deyaar said after the market’s closed that its joint
venture with Dubai Properties Group will begin sales of homes
from a residential tower in the Dubai International Financial
Center, home to the regional offices of Citigroup Inc. and
Standard Chartered Plc, by mid-September. The tower is 80
percent complete and hand-overs will begin in the second half of
2014, it said in a statement to the Dubai bourse.  Drop  ‘Overdone’  Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark index gained 1.8 percent, Saudi
Arabia’s 1.5 percent, Oman’s measure 0.7 percent and Qatar’s 0.5
percent. Kuwait’s fell 0.1 percent and Bahrain’s was little
changed.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index increased 0.6 percent. Israel’s TA-25
Index gained 0.6 percent as  government bonds  advanced. The yield
on the benchmark 4.25 percent notes due March 2023 declined four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.97 percent.  Dubai’s gauge has surged 60 percent this year, the second-most, after Ghana, among more than 90 benchmarks tracked
globally by Bloomberg. The gain comes as the economy recovered
from the impact of a property crash that was sparked by the
global credit crisis.  Last week, Dubai’s index had the biggest weekly slump since
March 2011, leaving the gauge at an average price-to-book ratio
of 1 compared with 2 in neighboring  Saudi Arabia (SASEIDX)  and 1.7 in
Qatar.  The drop “was overdone and the market holds stocks that
are attractive like in the banking and real-estate sectors,”
Nabil Farhat, a partner at Al Fajer Securities, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  