-- Egypt Boosts Suez Security as Foiled Attack Shows Risks
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-09-02T10:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/egypt-boosts-suez-security-as-foiled-attack-shows-risks.html
Egyptian authorities moved to
bolster security along the  Suez Canal  after a foiled attack on a
ship traversing the waterway that handles about 8 percent of
world trade spotlighted new threats confronting officials after
Mohamed Mursi’s ouster.  The failed Aug. 31 attack on the Panama-registered  Cosco (1919) 
 Asia  didn’t damage the ship or its cargo, Suez Canal Authority
head Mohab Mamish said in a statement yesterday. The military
dealt “decisively” with the attempt, he said, without giving
details.  The maritime incident underscored the threats in the
country as the military-backed government pursues an offensive
against the Muslim Brotherhood and militants following Mursi’s
July 3 ouster. More than 1,000 people have died, most of them
supporters of the toppled Islamist leader who were killed in a
single week in August amid clashes with security forces.  “Events like this increase the confusion and cause
international embarrassment,” said Adel Soliman, head of the
private Strategic Dialogue Forum research institute. “You have
a state of turbulence in the street under which anything can
happen.”  The waterway and the ships transiting it are completely
secure, the state-run Middle East  News Agency  said today, citing
Ossama Askar, commander of the Third Field Army.  State of Emergency  Authorities are already grappling at once with quashing the
Brotherhood who see Mursi’s ouster as a “coup” while the
military presses on with a campaign aimed at purging the
strategic  Sinai Peninsula  of insurgents, some inspired by al-Qaeda.  After the Islamist was pushed from power,  Egypt  declared a
state of emergency and enforced a curfew that’s since been eased
-- all in what has been a largely successful bid to quash the
protests led by the Brotherhood and their Islamist allies.  Mursi will face trial in a Cairo criminal court along with
14 Muslim Brotherhood leaders for “inciting violence and
killing” in events that occurred near the el-Itihadiya palace
in Cairo on Dec. 5, news agency MENA reported, citing
Prosecutor Mohamed Hisham.  Leaders Arrested  A Brotherhood call for protests on Aug. 30 fizzled because
security authorities prevented demonstrators from rallying in a
single location. The group said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday that “the era of sleep and rest is over until we take
back the revolution.”  Authorities yesterday ordered Sobhi Saleh, another
Brotherhood leader, held for 15 days pending investigation after
he was arrested in the Mediterranean city of Alexandria. Saleh
faces allegations including inciting violence, according to the
Alexandria prosecutor’s office said in a faxed statement
yesterday. In all, more than 1,000 Brotherhood members,
including its supreme guide, have been arrested, with some
facing charges as serious as murder.  Keeping canal traffic flowing normally became a concern
even before Mursi was deposed as the military stepped up
security along the waterway months ago.  Canal Authority spokesman Tarek Hassanein said by phone
that he didn’t have additional details and Zhang Jiqing, general
manager at the executive division of the Beijing-based COSCO,
didn’t return two calls outside normal business hours yesterday.  The Suez Canal and SUMED pipeline, as the link between
Egypt’s ports of Ain Sukhna on the  Red Sea  and Sidi Kerir on the
Mediterranean is known, together handled 3.8 million barrels a
day of crude and products, according to 2011 data cited by the
 International Energy Agency . Most of that traffic was
northbound.  The recent unrest has undercut Egypt’s hopes to rally an
economy stunted since longtime leader  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster in
2011. It’s also led some key allies, including the U.S. and
European Union, to talk about withholding aid.  Early Elections  Egyptian officials have downplayed the criticism as threats
and said they have contingency plans. At the same time,
officials are pressing ahead with a “road map” announced by
the military that sees the country amending the now-suspended
constitution and holding elections by early next year.  Interim President Adly Mansour issued a decree yesterday
setting up a 50-member committee charged with amending the
charter, which would then be voted on in a referendum,
presidency spokesman Ehab Badawy told reporters. The Salafi Nour
Party will have a representative on the panel, Badawy said,
adding that invitations were extended to other Islamist parties,
including the Brotherhood’s political arm, the Freedom and
Justice Party. Only Nour responded, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  