-- Egypt Military Bolsters Suez Security After Failed Attack
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-09-01T11:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/egypt-military-bolsters-suez-canal-security-after-failed-attack.html
Egyptian authorities said they
tightened security along the  Suez Canal  after foiling an attack
on a passing ship, even as they pressed their crackdown on the
Muslim Brotherhood by arresting another top leader.  The failed attack on the Panama-registered Cosco  Asia  as it
crossed the waterway didn’t damage the ship or its cargo, the
state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported, citing Suez Canal
Authority head Mohab Mamish. The military dealt “decisively”
with the attempt, he said, without giving details. Canal traffic
is normal and 55 ships are expected to cross today, Mamish said,
according to the news agency.  The reported assault on the waterway that handles about 8
percent of world trade comes as the military-backed government
pursues an offensive against the Muslim Brotherhood and
militants following the July 3 ouster of Mohamed Mursi from the
presidency. More than 1,000 people have died, most of them
supporters of the toppled Islamist leader who were killed in a
single week in August amid clashes with security forces.  Two days ago, a Brotherhood call for mass protests fizzled
because security authorities prevented demonstrators from
rallying in a single location. The group, which maintains Mursi
was deposed in a military coup, said in an e-mailed statement
today that “the era of sleep and rest is over until we take
back the revolution.”  Leaders Arrested  A prominent element of the crackdown has been the arrest of
top group members, and yesterday, authorities detained Sobhi
Saleh, a senior Brotherhood leader, in the Mediterranean city of
Alexandria, state-run Ahram Gate reported. In all, more than
1,000 Brotherhood members, including its supreme guide, have
been arrested, with many facing charges ranging from inciting
violence to murder.  Authorities also arrested a top suspected militant who
confessed to killing 25 policemen in the  Sinai peninsula  last
month, Ahram Gate said. The militant, known as Adel Habara and
sentenced to death in absentia for another attack, recreated the
incident  for authorities, the news website reported, citing
unidentified security officials in Sinai.  The report of an attempted attack on a freighter in the
Suez Canal complicates  Egypt ’s already troubled security
situation. Canal Authority spokesman Tarek Hassanein said by
phone that he didn’t have additional details and Zhang Jiqing,
general manager at the executive division of the Beijing-based
COSCO, didn’t return two calls outside normal business hours.  Traffic Flowing  Keeping canal traffic flowing normally became a concern
even before Mursi was deposed. The military stepped up security
along the waterway months ago, concerned that the political
tumult that led to his overthrow would affect canal operations.  The Suez Canal and SUMED pipeline, as the link between
Egypt’s ports of Ain Sukhna on the  Red Sea  and Sidi Kerir on the
Mediterranean is known, together handled 3.8 million barrels a
day of crude and products, according to 2011 data cited by the
 International Energy Agency . Most of that traffic was
northbound.  The recent unrest has undercut Egypt’s hopes to rally an
economy stunted since longtime leader  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster in
2011. The latest bouts of violence and the military-backed
government’s crackdown have led some key allies, including the
U.S. and European Union, to talk about withholding aid.  Planning Minister Ashraf El-Arabi said he thought the West
was unlikely to punish Egypt economically, due to its political
and economic influence, MENA reported. Even so, he said, the
government has a strategy to deal with all possible scenarios
through announced plans to promote “national investments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  