-- Egypt’s State Oil Companies Seeking to Restructure Foreign Debts
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2013-09-01T13:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/egypt-s-state-oil-companies-seeking-to-restructure-foreign-debts.html
Egyptian state-owned energy
companies are negotiating new terms and repayment schedules for
debts owed to foreign partners, Oil Minister Sherif Ismail said,
as the country tries to boost output amid political turmoil.  The restructuring is a “huge challenge” and a priority
for the government, which wants foreign oil and gas companies to
continue investing in exploration and development, Ismail said
in an e-mailed statement from the ministry. The statement didn’t
specify the amount of debt the ministry seeks to restructure,
nor did it identify the partners involved.  Egypt  is increasingly strapped for cash to repay
international energy companies in the aftermath of the 2011
uprising against former President  Hosni Mubarak . Foreign-currency reserves have dwindled and the pound weakened, raising
investor concerns. Egyptian General Petroleum Corp., the state-run company in charge of oil operations, owes foreign companies
$5.4 billion, Ismail said in an Aug. 22 interview from Cairo.  Among the options under discussion is for foreign companies
to raise their output of crude and condensates and then export
their share of the increased production as repayment for money
they’re owed, Ismail said. The restructuring won’t affect
foreign companies’ plans to invest more than $8.5 billion to
explore for and develop energy in Egypt’s fiscal year ending
June 30, 2014, he said.  China Petrochemical Corp.,  Asia ’s largest refiner, agreed
last week to pay $3.1 billion for a 33 percent stake in  Apache
Corp. (APA) ’s Egyptian oil and gas business, marking the biggest
purchase in the  Middle East  by the Chinese state company known
as Sinopec Group.  A military coup toppled former Egyptian President Mohamed
Mursi in July, sparking protests and violence that have killed
at least 1,000 people. Mursi had become the first democratically
elected president a year ago after Mubarak’s 29-year reign ended
in February 2011 following calls for his ouster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  