-- Employment Probably Picked Up in August: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-09-01T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/employment-probably-picked-up-in-august-u-s-economy-preview.html
Employers probably added more
workers in August and the  jobless rate  held at a more than four-year low, signaling a strengthening U.S. labor market that will
help sustain growth, economists said before a report this week.  Payrolls rose by 180,000 following a 162,000 gain
the prior month, according to the median forecast of 71
economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Labor Department
figures Sept. 6. Manufacturing probably cooled after expanding
in July at the fastest pace in two years, other data may show.  Faster hiring and income gains will help underpin  consumer
spending  and allow the world’s largest economy to better weather
the lingering effects of higher taxes and  federal budget  cuts.
Federal Reserve policy makers are watching the job market as
they debate scaling back monthly bond purchases meant to
stimulate growth and cut unemployment.  “We’re on track for a pretty solid payrolls report for
August,” said Brian Jones, a senior U.S. economist at Societe
Generale in New York. “It goes hand in hand with the improving
economy.”  Reports last week showed a mixed picture. Gross domestic
product expanded at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the second
quarter, up from the 1.7 percent pace previously estimated, and
the  MNI Chicago Report (CHPMINDX) ’s measure of business activity grew in
August for a fourth consecutive month. In other data, consumer
spending rose less than forecast in July, and consumer sentiment
dropped in August from a six-year high.  Shares Drop  Stocks in August suffered their worst month since May 2012
as investors reacted to the possibility of an American military
response to a chemical weapons attack in  Syria . The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index dropped 3.1 percent last month to close at
1,632.97 on Aug. 30. U.S. exchanges are closed tomorrow for the
Labor Day holiday.  The jobs report may show the unemployment rate, derived
from a separate Labor Department survey of households than the
payrolls tally, held in August at 7.4 percent, the lowest since
December 2008, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Overall payroll gains so far this year have averaged
192,430 a month, up from 180,330 in the second half of 2012.
Through July, the U.S. had recovered 6.7 million of the 8.8
million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month recession that
ended in June 2009.  This is the last payrolls report Fed officials will see
before their Sept. 17-18 meeting. Sixty-five percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13 said central bankers
will probably decide to scale back on its bond purchases at the
meeting.  Fed Taper  Policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke’s plan to start reducing the $85 billion a month
in asset purchases later this year if the economy improves,
minutes of their last gathering showed. Central bankers had
affirmed a pledge on July 31 to continue bond buying until they
see signs “the outlook for the labor market has improved
substantially.”  Job gains and rising home values are boosting Americans’
finances and propelling spending on big-ticket items such as
automobiles, which in turn bodes well for manufacturing and
further gains in employment.  Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, is expanding output of its Fusion sedan to a
factory in Flat Rock,  Michigan , which could produce another
model as demand grows. The additional shift of 1,400 new workers
at the plant will boost Fusion capacity more than 30 percent.  ‘Sales Momentum’  “We expect the sales momentum to stay here in the U.S. and
around the world,” Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s president of the
Americas, told reporters on Aug. 29.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index , due on
Sept. 3, dropped to 54 last month from July’s 55.4 that was the
highest since June 2011, according to the Bloomberg survey
median. Readings of 50 are the dividing line between expansion
and contraction.  Two days later, the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM group will
release its  services  index, which covers almost 90 percent of
the economy. The gauge fell to 55 in August from a five-month
high of 56, according to economists surveyed.  Some companies are trimming their workforce.  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, will eliminate 2,300 jobs in
mortgage production because demand for refinancing has slumped
and may drop even more as interest rates rise. Other smaller
cuts were made recently around the country, according to people
with knowledge of the matter, who requested anonymity because
the changes hadn’t been publicly disclosed as of Aug. 22.  Among other reports this week, trade data due Sept. 4 from
the Commerce Department may reflect lackluster global demand.
The  gap  between exports and imports widened to $38.8 billion in
July from the prior month’s $34.2 billion that was the smallest
in almost four years, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  