-- Japan’s Nuclear Watchdog Sees Ocean Dump for Fukushima Water
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n ,   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-09-02T08:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/tepco-should-use-welded-tanks-to-stem-toxic-tide-academic-says.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s plan to
manage radioactive water at its wrecked Fukushima plant may
include a controlled discharge into the ocean once its toxicity
is brought within legal limits, Japan’s nuclear regulator said.  Nuclear Regulation Authority Chairman Shunichi Tanaka said
today the ocean dump could be necessary as the country’s
government prepares to present its plan for handling tainted
water at the site that’s increasing by 400 tons a day.  Managing the water used to cool melted fuel at the
Fukushima plant’s reactors has become a fundamental challenge
for the utility known as Tepco, which has struggled to contain a
series of leaks including the loss of about 300 tons of
contaminated water it reported two weeks ago.  “It is important for us to understand the need to make
difficult judgments in order to avoid larger problems in the
future,” Tanaka said of the possible ocean discharge during a
speech to reporters in Tokyo.  Contaminant levels must be brought below accepted limits
through filtration or other treatments before the water is
discharged, he said.  Japan ’s Nuclear Emergency Response Headquarters may present
its response to the water management crisis as early as
tomorrow, Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato said
today, relaying comments made by Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga to lawmakers earlier.  ‘Complete Package’  The government wants to present a “complete package” of
steps to tackle the water problem, Suga said, according to Kato.  Tepco’s challenge was further illustrated yesterday when
the utility said it had found a new radioactive leak, capping
its worst month since the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami
caused reactors to meltdown.  The company said it had halted the contaminated water leak
from a pipe near an area of high radiation levels discovered on
Aug. 31. Of the hot spots found over the weekend, one recorded
radiation of 1,800 millisieverts per hour around the bottom of a
bolted-flange tank storing water used to cool melted reactor
cores. That’s 18 times the level reported at the same spot on
Aug. 22, Tepco said.  The weekend’s findings probably reflect Tepco’s beefed-up
monitoring crews finding contamination that was missed earlier,
former nuclear engineer Michael Friedlander said in a phone
interview.  Thrown Together  Tepco boosted the number of tank-inspection patrols from
twice a day to three times a day after last month’s 300-ton
leak, Yoshikazu Nagai, a company spokesman, said by phone.
Patrols are increasing further to four times a day beginning
today, when the number of inspection staff grows to 60 members
from 10, he said.  The company also planned to install gauges on all of its
tanks to monitor changes in water levels that suggest leaks,
Nagai said. Those water level checks are currently done by
measuring the temperature of the tanks’ outer walls, he said.  “They threw these tanks together, they’re exposed to the
elements and now that they have more people looking at it with a
higher degree of diligence, they’re finding leaks,” said
Friedlander, who spent 13 years operating U.S. nuclear plants.
“Those leaks have probably been around for quite some time and
they’ve probably been growing because until now they haven’t
been doing any work on them.”  Radiation Levels  Radiation levels Tepco disclosed at the weekend don’t raise
an immediate concern for the general public because the site is
off limits, Tetsuo Ito, head of Kinki University’s Atomic Energy
Research Institute, said yesterday by telephone.  Direct exposure to 1,800 millisieverts for four hours can
be lethal, but it’s not life-threatening for Tepco’s inspectors
as they don’t stay in one spot for four hours, he said.  Tepco said the 1,800 millisieverts reading was found 5
centimeters above the area that was checked, falling to 15
millisieverts at 50 centimeters. The reading was for beta
radiation that travels short distances and can be blocked by use
of metal sheet such as aluminum, the company said on its
website.  With more than 338,000 metric tons of water of varying
levels of toxicity stored in pits, basements and hundreds of
tanks at the Fukushima plant, Tepco has been overwhelmed in
trying to contain leaks.  While the water stored in tanks has been treated to remove
cesium, other radioactive elements such as strontium must be
reduced before it can be discharged into the ocean, Tanaka said.  Corroded Filters  Tepco’s unit for filtering such contaminants, known as
ALPS, was taken off line due to corrosion on Aug. 8, just months
after beginning operation. Trade Minister Toshimitsu Motegi said
last month that Tepco was being given until mid-September to
restart the system.  “If we do decide to discharge into ocean, we will make
every effort to ensure that contaminant levels are below the
accepted limits,” Tanaka said. “One way to achieve it is to
use the ALPS system, which does remove many radioactive
elements.”  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe last month said Tepco isn’t able
to handle the disaster recovery after the company acknowledged
that contaminated groundwater at the plant was seeping into the
ocean. Japanese government officials estimated that leak at 300
tons of irradiated water a day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  