-- Steinbrueck’s Jabs Fail to Knock Out Merkel in Election Debate
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-09-02T08:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/merkel-clashes-with-steinbrueck-on-crisis-austerity-in-tv-debate.html
German election challenger  Peer Steinbrueck  probably failed to close Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
lead in the polls during the campaign’s only debate, as they
sparred over the economy and the euro-region debt crisis.  Steinbrueck sought to score points against the chancellor,
saying that her approach to tackling the crisis that dominated
her second term has failed while domestic inaction has resulted
in a “standstill.” Just one of three spot polls taken after
the 90-minute exchange found Steinbrueck the winner.  “Steinbrueck needed a very clear victory to get out of his
slump and he didn’t score that victory,”  Jan Techau , director
of the Brussels office of the Carnegie Endowment, said by phone.
“Both had strong and robust moments,” meaning “there was no
clear winner.”  Three weeks before the Sept. 22 vote that will determine
who takes the helm of Europe’s biggest economy, polls show
Steinbrueck’s Social Democrats trailing Merkel’s Christian
Democratic bloc by 15-19 percentage points.  Steinbrueck, whose campaign of social justice has struggled
to take off after setbacks earlier this year, seized on the
crisis to go on the offensive, saying he’d back away from her
application of austerity to southern Europe in “deadly doses.”
Merkel, who said for the first time that  Greece  may need more
aid, cited narrowing bond spreads in the euro area as evidence
that her course is right for Europe and for  Germany .  No Game-Changer  A Forsa poll for RTL television taken immediately after the
debate showed Merkel the winner by 44 percent to 43 percent for
Steinbrueck. An FG Wahlen survey of 1,188 viewers had 40 percent
for Merkel and 33 percent for Steinbrueck, with 27 percent
saying there was no difference. An Infratest poll for ARD
television gave Steinbrueck 49 percent to Merkel’s 44 percent.  “It was roughly even, which at the very margin is good
news for Steinbrueck,” Holger Schmieding, chief economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London , said in a telephone interview. “His
personal popularity gap to Merkel, which is huge, may narrow a
bit. But I don’t think this will be a major game-changer for
party preferences.”  The two candidates jousted over pensions, the NSA spying
affair, Germany’s energy shift, taxes and minimum wages, each
frequently interrupting the four moderators while largely
refraining from personal attacks on the other.  Germany needs “a new beginning,” said Steinbrueck,
Merkel’s first-term finance minister. “We’ve been standing
still for four years. A lot of things didn’t get done.”  Economic Strength  Merkel championed her steering of Germany through the
crisis that spread from Greece, saying her stance of tying aid
to conditions forces the euro area to become more competitive.  The German economy is “strong” with more  in employment 
than ever before and higher tax revenue than at any time, she
said, warning that Steinbrueck’s platform of tax increases
threatened to put German prosperity at risk.  “We can ensure the economy continues to move upwards,”
Merkel said. “Naturally the job isn’t over. Naturally there are
many worries and problems, but we have demonstrated that we can
cope in a difficult period.”  Support for Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and its CSU
Bavarian sister party dropped a percentage point to 39 percent
in an Emnid poll for Bild am Sonntag newspaper yesterday. Her
Free Democratic coalition partner gained a point to 6 percent.
Steinbrueck’s SPD dropped two points to 23 percent and its Green
party ally had 11 percent, down a point. The Left Party had 10
percent, up two points. Emnid polled 1,851 voters on Aug. 22-28.
No margin of error was given.  Greek Needs  The election campaign has been dominated by the debt crisis
after Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said on Aug. 20 that
Greece will need more money. Steinbrueck said more Greek aid
shows the government’s crisis strategy isn’t working.  Far more emphasis must be placed on bolstering economic
growth and stemming record unemployment in the 17-nation euro
region, Steinbrueck said. Referring to a program to tackle youth
joblessness announced by Merkel earlier this year, he said “the
question is what’s come of it.” There is “only the savings
club battering Greeks over the head.”  Merkel rebutted the charge, citing the “fortunate” rise
in German bond yields and lowering of yields in other states as
evidence “that the euro area is becoming more competitive.”
While signaling that her policy wouldn’t change in a third term,
she echoed Schaeuble on Greece’s aid needs. Schaeuble is due to
brief parliament’s Budget Committee on Greece in Berlin today.  “Nobody knows precisely how things will develop in
Greece,” Merkel said. “My job as chancellor is to ensure that
the reform pressure on Greece doesn’t let up.” She said “it’s
possible that there will be a new aid package for Greece. Nobody
knows how big.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  