-- Everbright Securities Plunges on Record Penalty: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-02T04:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/everbright-securities-executives-resign-amid-record-penalties.html
Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  plunged to
the lowest since its shares started trading in 2009 after
 China ’s securities regulator imposed a record penalty on the
broker for  insider trading  and two more executives resigned.  The country’s seventh-largest brokerage by market value
declined by the 10 percent daily limit to 9.06 yuan at today’s
opening in Shanghai, after trade was suspended on Aug. 30, and
stayed at that level through the 11:30 a.m. break. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.1 percent. The stock has slid 36 percent
this year.  The 23.4 billion yuan ($3.8 billion) of erroneous stock
purchase orders that roiled China’s markets on Aug. 16, and
later trades to offset the mistake, led to Everbright being
barred from most proprietary trading, lifetime bans from the
 securities market  for four executives and the resignation of the
president. The regulator also imposed 523 million  yuan  in fines
and confiscation of illegal gains at the end of last week.  “Everbright still faces the risk of a rating downgrade and
investor lawsuits,” Zhao Xianghuai, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Guotai Junan Securities Co. wrote in a research note published
today. “Investors may be seeking as much as 2.7 billion yuan in
compensation. Its other operations, such as asset management and
investment banking, may be suspended.”  State-controlled Everbright committed insider trading by
selling exchange-traded funds and index futures before telling
the market it had made erroneous trades, the China Securities
Regulatory Commission said. Assistant President Yang Chizhong
and Board Secretary Mei Jian resigned, Everbright said yesterday
in  statements  to the  Shanghai  stock exchange.  Benchmark Penalties  The fine marks a “vivid footnote” to the regulator’s
pledge to crack down on misconduct, the China Securities Journal
wrote in an  editorial  today. Strict enforcement should be the
norm of the nation’s capital market and the penalties on
Everbright have set the benchmark, the state-controlled
newspaper wrote.  President Xu Haoming, one of the four to receive a lifetime
ban, resigned Aug. 22 and the brokerage suspended Yang Jianbo,
the head of its proprietary trading business. The firm estimated
it lost 194 million yuan on the trades, based on Aug. 16 closing
prices, and said the figure may change.  Everbright’s proprietary trading business, excluding fixed
income, has been halted and the CSRC will also suspend reviews
of any new businesses, the regulator said.  The watchdog’s investigation into the erroneous trades was
its second probe of Everbright this year. The CSRC in June began
scrutinizing the brokerage in relation to Henan Tianfon Energy-Saving Panel Science & Technology Co.’s initial share sale
application, which the regulator said contained falsified
information. The CSRC said July 19 it had concluded field
investigation work and passed the case to its administrative
penalties commission.  Everbright Securities is controlled by state-owned  China
Everbright Group , which has businesses from banking, insurance
and asset management to tourism and property development.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  