-- Fate of GM, Toyota Factories Hangs on Australian Election
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-09-02T08:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/fate-of-gm-toyota-factories-hangs-on-australian-election.html
The fate of Australian car plants
run by  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  hangs on the
Sept. 7 election that pits a government committed to subsidies
against an opposition vowing to scale back support.  GM’s manufacturing unit in  Australia , Holden, is waiting on
the result before deciding on investments in the country beyond
2016, as Prime Minister Kevin Rudd styles the contest as a vote
on the industry’s future.  Rudd’s government has set aside  A$5.4 billion  ($4.8
billion) for the domestic car industry until 2020 and pledged
another A$700 million during the campaign. Facing a
deteriorating budget position, opposition leader  Tony Abbott ,
the opinion poll favorite, wants to cut A$500 million from the
subsidies by 2015.  “What we aren’t going to do is what Mr. Rudd has done over
the last few weeks, and basically run down the road after Holden
waving a blank check at them,” Abbott said Aug. 21 in Brisbane.
“It is possible to do sophisticated motor manufacturing in this
country without a government handout.”  The election will be “a referendum on whether or not we
will keep making cars in Australia,”  Kim Carr , Rudd’s industry
minister, said in an e-mailed statement the same day.  Cars made in Australia slumped to 13 percent of domestic
sales in 2012 from  80 percent  in 1984, according to data from
Ford and the  Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries . The value
of Australia’s car exports in 2012 was 29 percent below the
average of the previous 10 years, government data show.  Small Market  Abbott’s policy isn’t “going to be enough to keep the
manufacturers here long-term,” said Tony Lemmo, chief executive
officer of Autoteam Australia Consulting in Melbourne. “Our
market, quite frankly, is not big enough for a manufacturing
facility.”  The local manufacturing operations of GM and Toyota had
combined operating earnings of A$492 million over the five years
to 2010, according to a 2012 report by researcher Ibisworld Inc.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , set to close its Australian car lines in
2016 after nine decades, said in May that the unit’s costs are
four times those of its Asia divisions and wouldn’t be
sustainable even with a doubling of aid.  “Automotive is a volume business,” Richard Reilly, CEO of
the Federation of Automotive Products Manufacturers, said in a
telephone interview. “If you don’t have the volume going
through, then the economies of scale aren’t there, and that
makes it very difficult to continue as a business.”  Strong Aussie  GM, Ford and Toyota have been hit by a strong Australian
dollar that’s made exports uncompetitive and brought in more
imports. The Aussie has averaged about 99 U.S. cents this year,
about 30 percent more than its average since its 1983 float.  Those problems are compounded by waning demand for the
high-powered sedans that local operations are geared toward
making, according to Craig Shulman, a senior analyst at
Ibisworld in  Melbourne . And Australia’s distance from global
suppliers means its factories can’t operate effectively without
subsidy, he said.  “The automotive industry in Australia hasn’t historically
been well-placed to provide a location for cost-effective
manufacturing,” Shulman said. “Since its inception the
industry has always had some sort of government assistance.”  Vintage T-Bird  Costs at Holden are up about 60 percent from 10 years ago,
making it one of GM’s most expensive operations, the division’s
managing director, Mike Devereux, said in April.  The carmaker “won’t make any decisions about future
investment” in the country “until after the federal election
and after we have held detailed discussions with the next
government,” Holden spokesman Sean Poppitt said by e-mail. The
division employs about 4,000 people at two plants, in Melbourne
and Adelaide.  Toyota and Ford declined to comment. Australia’s auto
industry employs about 45,000 people, according to the
 Federation of Automotive Products Manufacturers , a supplier
group.  Ford’s exit in 2016 has raised doubts about the viability
of the industry Down Under. The removal of one of the three
carmakers could spark a “domino effect” as the industry
becomes too small to support its suppliers, Jac Nasser, chairman
of miner  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and former chief executive of Ford
globally, said in Melbourne in April.  In Geelong, a coastal city about 75 kilometers (50 miles)
southwest of Melbourne where Ford started assembling its Model T
in 1925, the company today employs about 1,200 people, making it
the city’s second  biggest private-sector employer .  “People are worried about what’s being done about new
jobs,” said Tode Angelevski, 55, who has spent 10 years
assembling engines at the plant.  Strolling through a vast staff car park where a colleague’s
vintage Thunderbird sits alongside ranks of modern sedans and
SUVs, almost all Fords, he asks, “Where am I going to find a
new job at my age?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  