-- Federer Advances at U.S. Open Tennis as American Men Keep Losing
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-09-01T04:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/federer-advances-at-u-s-open-tennis-as-american-men-keep-losing.html
Five-time champion  Roger Federer 
advanced to the fourth round of the U.S. Open tennis tournament
as American men moved to the brink of some dubious history.  Federer, 32, of Switzerland, whose No. 7 seeding is his
worst at the National Tennis Center in  New York  since 2002, won
in straight sets against Adrian Mannarino of  France .  Losses by No. 13 John Isner and unseeded Jack Sock left Tim
Smyczek, a wild-card invitee ranked 109th in the world, as the
only American man left in the tournament. If Smyczek loses today
to  Spain ’s Marcel Granollers, it would mark the first time in
the tournament’s 133-year history that no American man has
reached the fourth round at the U.S. Open.  “I don’t care,” Isner said in a news conference after his
four-set loss to No. 22 Philipp Kohlschreiber of  Germany . “No,
I’m going to watch football for a while. That’s all I care
about.”  There has been an American man in the fourth round of the
U.S. Open every year since the tournament began in 1881,
according to the U.S. Tennis Association. Breaking that streak
would be the latest indignity for the sport in the U.S.  No American man has won any of tennis’ four Grand Slam
events -- Wimbledon and the Australian, French and U.S. opens --
since  Andy Roddick  won in New York in 2003. At Wimbledon this
year, no U.S. man reached the third round for the first time in
101 years.  There is no such concern for U.S. women. American wild-card
entrant Alison Riske upset seventh-seeded Petra Kvitova
yesterday to reach the fourth round. Today, top-seeded  Serena Williams  and No. 15 Sloane Stephens meet in a fourth-round match
for a spot in the quarterfinals.  Williams-Stephens Rematch  Williams, 31, the defending champion, and Stephens, 20, are
the two best-ranked American women and will be meeting in a
rematch of their Australian Open quarterfinal in January that
was won by Stephens.  Also today, men’s top seed Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  will
play 95th-ranked Joao Sousa of Portugal and defending champion
 Andy Murray  of the U.K. will face Germany’s  Florian Mayer .  Winners yesterday included women’s No. 2 Victoria Azarenka
of Belarus, who needed three sets to defeat No. 26 Alize Cornet
of France, and men’s No. 2  Rafael Nadal  of Spain, who cruised
past Ivan Dodig of Croatia in straight sets.  Federer, playing the last match of the night on the main
Arthur Ashe Stadium court, defeated Mannarino 6-3, 6-0, 6-2.
Federer has a career 67-8 record at the U.S. Open, which he won
each year from 2004 to 2008.  Riske’s Upset  Riske, 23, who was born in Pittsburgh and trains in College
Park, Maryland, beat Kvitova 6-3, 6-0. Ranked 81st on the WTA
Tour, Riske was invited to play the event after failing to
qualify on her own. She won 85 percent of her first serves and
had seven unforced errors, compared to 27 for her Czech
opponent, the Wimbledon champion in 2011.  “It was really emotional for me,” Riske told reporters.
“I feel like I’m playing within myself. I’m not doing anything
crazy and it feels really comfortable, so it’s exciting.”  Riske next will play Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia, who
overcame four match points to beat Israeli qualifier Julia
Glushko 3-6, 7-5, 7-6 (7-4).  Azarenka, the two-time defending Australian Open winner and
2012  U.S. Open  runner-up, dropped a first-set tiebreaker to
Cornet before pulling out the match 6-7 (2-7), 6-3, 6-2.  Slow Start  Azarenka made 20 unforced errors in the opening set,
compared to 11 in the second and seven in the third.  “The first set Alize played really well and I wasn’t
patient enough,” Azarenka said in an on-court interview after
her match. “I had a lot of chances and I didn’t convert them.”  Azarenka next meets 13th-seeded Ana Ivanovic of Serbia, who
was one game from elimination before coming back to defeat
American Christina McHale.  McHale, a 21-year-old ranked 114th on the WTA Tour, was
leading 6-4, 5-4 with a chance to serve out the match for her
first trip to a Grand Slam fourth round. Instead, her serve was
broken by Ivanovic, who took the set 7-5 and won the final set
6-4.  Nadal, whose 12 Grand Slam championships include the 2010
U.S. Open title, extended his undefeated record on hard courts
this year to 18-0 with a 6-4, 6-3, 6-3 defeat of Dodig. Nadal’s
fourth-round opponent will be Kohlschreiber.  Also yesterday, men’s No. 4 seed  David Ferrer  of Spain
topped qualifier Mikhail Kukushin of  Kazakhstan  and No. 10 Milos Raonic of Canada beat 23rd-seeded  Feliciano Lopez  of Spain. No.
18 seed Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia defeated Sock in four sets.  In the women’s draw, 2009 U.S. Open runner-up  Caroline Wozniacki  of  Denmark  lost to Italian qualifier Camila Giorgi in
three sets. Giorgi won 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 in two hours, 32 minutes
against the sixth-seeded Wozniacki.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster at the U.S. Open at  rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  