-- Garcia Takes One-Shot Lead Into Third Round of PGA Deutsche Bank
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-01T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/garcia-takes-one-shot-lead-into-third-round-of-pga-deutsche-bank.html
Spain’s  Sergio Garcia , who usually
doesn’t enter the Deutsche Bank Championship in favor of a week
off, has a one-stroke lead going into today’s third round of the
U.S. PGA Tour event.  Garcia, who started with five birdies in seven holes and
ended with an eagle, had a 7-under 64 yesterday to finish the
second round at 13-under 129 at the TPC Boston golf course in
Norton,  Massachusetts .  Roberto Castro of the U.S. and Henrik Stenson of  Sweden 
share second place behind Garcia at the second FedEx playoff
event.  PGA championJason Dufner and  Matt Kuchar , who each shot 66
yesterday, are tied for fourth at 10-under 132. U.S. Open winner
Justin Rose shares sixth place at 9 under with Jordan Spieth and
Harris English.  Tiger Woods , who carded a 67 yesterday, is among the 10
golfers who are at 7-under 135.  “There’s so many guys up there that are 9 under par or
better,” Woods said. “There’s a ton of guys up there. It’s
going to take a couple of low rounds.”  Garcia decided to enter the Deutsche Bank Championship when
he feared he wouldn’t make the top 70 golfers to advance to the
third event in the FedEx Cup series. He stands at 55th.  “Unfortunately, I didn’t play well enough and it was
touch-and-go if I was going to make the BMW without playing
here,” Garcia said. “Sixteen guys could easily pass me if they
played well. So we decided to come here and make a little bit of
an extra effort of playing five weeks in a row, which I don’t
usually enjoy very much.”  The top 70 qualify for the BMW Championship outside  Chicago 
from Sept. 12 to 15. The top 30 in the standings then compete
for the FedEx Cup title and the $10 million bonus at the Tour
Championship in Atlanta from Sept. 19 to 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  