-- GCC Bonds ‘Screaming Buy’ If Syria Widens Spread: Analyst
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-09-01T12:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/gcc-bonds-screaming-buy-if-syria-widens-spread-analyst.html
A decline in Gulf Cooperation
Council sovereign and state-owned corporate bonds in the event
of a U.S. strike on  Syria  would make them a “screaming buy,”
according to Sergey Dergachev at Union Investment Privatfonds.  “These credits are extremely solid,” Frankfurt-based
Dergachev, who helps oversee about $10 billion in emerging-market funds, said Aug. 30, singling out bonds issued by
companies such as  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC  and Dubai
Electricity & Water Authority, known as Dewa. “There is scarce
supply out of this region and there is so much liquidity sitting
on the sidelines from local investors.”  The spread between Dewa’s $1.5 billion bonds due October
2020 and the zero-coupon swap curve, or z-spread, widened almost
30 basis points to 296 since Aug. 21, the day when President
Bashar al-Assad’s forces allegedly killed 1,300 people in a
chemical attack, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The average
yield on Gulf Cooperation Council bonds rose last week for a
third week, advancing nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 4.37 percent, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC
US Dollar Sukuk/Bond Index.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  yesterday said he would seek
authorization from Congress for a military attack on Syria to
punish Assad for his alleged use of chemical weapons. The
prospect of a U.S. attack had helped push  oil prices  to the
highest level in two years.  “If there will be some attack on Syria and deterioration
of security situation, a spread widening in this block would be
for me a screaming buy,” Dergachev said in an e-mailed reply to
questions submitted by Bloomberg. “I will expect strong local
bid and strong bid from Asian investors for high quality
names.”  The six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes
 Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar, supplies about
one-fifth of the world’s crude oil. Crude prices have gained 17
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  