-- GM Set to Sell Record 5 Million Chevrolets, Batey Says
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-09-01T16:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/gm-set-to-sell-record-5-million-chevrolets-batey-says.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  expects 2013
sales of  Chevrolet  vehicles to reach 5 million for the first
time in GM’s 100-year history, spurred in part by growth in the
Middle East, said the global head of Chevrolet, Alan Batey.  “When I look out and think about where we need to take the
brand, the Middle East is a significant part of that
opportunity,” he said in Dubai today at an event for the media.  Chevrolet sales worldwide in 2012 were just under this
year’s outlook, at 4.95 million, GM said. About 65 percent of
Chevrolet’s sales have come from outside North America as it
focuses on  emerging markets , Batey said. Top markets for growth
are the U.S., China, Russia,  Mexico  and Brazil, he said.  Political unrest hasn’t hurt GM’s sales in the  Middle East ,
where it expects continued growth, said John Stadwick, president
and managing director of the company’s operations in the region.  “Is there concern today with what’s happening in Syria?
I’d say probably more so in the Levant countries than maybe GCC
countries. We’ve not seen a downturn,” Stadwick told reporters
in Dubai today, referring to the Gulf Cooperation Council. “We
haven’t seen what’s happening in  Egypt , Syria or Lebanon affect
the overall market. The Egyptian operation is exceeding their
sales forecast.”  The Middle East ranks among GM’s top 10 markets, doing $5
billion of business last year, according to Stadwick. GM has an
estimated 10 percent market share in the Middle East, though
there are no official market numbers, he said. The U.S.
automaker reported a 3.9 percent increase in its second-quarter
sales in July.  Mideast Growth  The  auto industry  is expected to continue growing in the
Middle East at an annual rate of 4 percent to 5 percent, a
slower pace than the 7 percent to 9 percent growth in the three
years since uprisings in the Arab world began, he said. GM aims
to outpace that forecast, Stadwick added.  “The demographics are right here: a young population,
incomes are growing, the GDP is better, the stars are aligned
for growth in this part of the region,” he said.  There is a “90 percent correlation” between  oil prices 
and car sales in the region, Stadwick said. The regional turmoil
pushes up oil prices, governments get higher oil revenue and
have more money to spend on roads and infrastructure, with the
trickle-down effect of people making more money to spend on
cars, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  