-- Libya Oil Output Decline Threatens Public Sector Pay, MP Says
-- B y   S a l e h   S a r r a r   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-09-01T14:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/libya-oil-output-decline-threatens-public-sector-pay-mp-says.html
Libya’s government may stop paying
civil servants by the end of the year as protests at petroleum
facilities curtail the nation’s oil output to one-tenth of its
capacity, a lawmaker warned today.  The North African state is now producing 150,000 barrels a
day, after losing 50,000 barrels in daily production yesterday
because of strikes by workers and security guards over pay and
allegations of corruption, Sliman Qajam, a member of the
parliamentary energy committee, said in a telephone interview in
Tripoli. Libya needs to produce 400,000 barrels a day just to
afford public-sector salaries, he said.  “The government is running on its reserves,” Qajam said.
“If the situation doesn’t improve, it won’t be able to pay the
salaries by the end of the year.”  The loss of Libyan oil production should be the “real
price driver,” in crude markets, Vienna-based JBC Energy said
in a research note last week. U.S. threats to attack  Syria 
compounded the impact of Libya’s supply disruption in pushing
Brent crude to a six-month high of $117.19 a barrel on Aug. 28.
Libya holds  Africa ’s largest proven oil reserves, according to
BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Dar Al-Ifta, the nation’s highest religious authority,
prohibited the protests in a decree published on the state-run
 National Oil Corp.  website. “While sit-ins constitute
legitimate measures to assert what’s right and end what’s wrong,
they are prohibited if they cripple vital services such as oil
companies and hospitals,” it said.  The government denies allegations by some members of the
Petroleum Facilities Guard that crude had been sold illegally.
Prime Minister Ali Zaidan threatened to resort to force should
negotations with the striking staff fail, in comments published
in newspapers yesterday.  Libya produced 575,000 barrels a day on average in August,
the lowest monthly rate since the 2011 overthrow of Muammar Qaddafi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has an
installed capacity of 1.6 million barrels a day and last pumped
at that level in July 2012, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  