-- Minzhong Opposes Glaucus Report as Aimed at Hurting Shares
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-09-01T23:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/minzhong-refutes-glaucus-report-as-aimed-at-pushing-shares-lower.html
China Minzhong Food Corp. (MINZ) , the
vegetable processor targeted by Glaucus Research Group, said it
“strongly” denied the allegations in the short-seller’s report, 
describing it as going beyond fair comment.  Glaucus’s statements on the Putian, China-based company’s
performance were made with the sole objective of driving down
the company’s share price and gaining from the decline, Minzhong
said late yesterday in a statement.  The response follows a collapse in Minzhong’s market value
after Glaucus said the company deceived investors and
regulators. More Chinese businesses trading in Hong Kong,
 Singapore  and  New York  are drawing scrutiny from short-sellers.
 China  Minzhong tumbled 48 percent, the most on record, in less
than two hours on Aug. 26 after Glaucus, which has an office in
 Newport Beach ,  California , questioned the company’s accounts in
a report.  “The manner in which they made these statements and the
conclusions which they drew from them were mischievous and
calculated to cause panic and impose maximum damage on the price
of the company’s securities for their own benefit,” Minzhong
said in a 19-page statement that was  accompanied  by invoices and
pictures of its factory lines and warehouses.  The stock was suspended from trading at 53 Singapore cents,
after falling the most since the company’s share sale in April
2010, when it raised S$237 million. The company asked for a
further trading halt in its shares today.  James Hill , principal at RLM Finsbury in Hong Kong, a
public relations firm that represents Glaucus, couldn’t be
reached for a comment on his mobile phone yesterday. Glaucus
didn’t respond to an e-mail.  Chinese Listings  Minzhong is among 143 China-based firms listed on
Singapore’s $558.4 billion stock market, according to the latest
data from the exchange. Short interest in the stock rose to a
record 7.2 percent of the outstanding shares on Aug. 28 from
this year’s low of 3.8 percent in March, according to the most
recent data from research company Markit Group Ltd.  The issues raised by Glaucus show “a complete lack of
understanding of the way we conduct our business as well as the
operating environment in the People’s Republic of China,”
Minzhong said, reiterating an Aug. 29 statement. The company
didn’t falsely record sales and is consulting legal advisers on
its options, it said then.  Minzhong may have fabricated sales and payments to its
largest supplier, doctored accounts and overstated  capital
spending , Glaucus said in the  report . It also questioned the
food processor’s reported receivables and cash balance.  Fabricated Sales  “Evidence indicates that Minzhong fabricated sales to its
top two customers, suggesting that the company overstated
revenues in its IPO prospectus by at least a third during the
track record period,” Glaucus said.  The Chinese company said it has documentation, including
sales contracts, to defend the allegations. Glaucus “used terms
such as ‘doctored SAIC financials,’ ‘fabricated sales’ and
‘cover up,’ which they know or ought reasonably to have known
are false or misleading,” Minzhong said.  Glaucus was founded by Matt Wiechert, a former investment
banker, to probe companies that appear “too good to be true,”
according to its website. It has also issued reports on Hong
Kong-traded  China Metal Recycling Holdings Ltd. (773)  and China
Medical Technologies Inc. and  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  in New York.  China Metal  Hong Kong ’s securities regulator said in July it found
evidence China Metal had inflated the size of its business and
is seeking to wind up the company. China Medical filed for
Chapter 15 foreign-firm bankruptcy protection in New York last
year, while SouFun, China’s biggest real-estate website owner,
has surged more than 70 percent since Glaucus’s April report.  Minzhong’s biggest investor,  PT Indofood Sukses Makmur (INDF) , the
parent of  Indonesia ’s largest instant-noodle maker, said last
week it’s comfortable with its investment. Indofood, which
doubled its stake in Minzhong to 29.3 percent in March,
conducted due diligence before making its investment, Director
Thomas Tjhie said Aug. 26, adding that he had spoken to
Minzhong’s chief financial officer about the Glaucus report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  