-- Israel 2023 Yield Drops as Obama Seeks Nod on Syria
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-09-01T10:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/israel-2023-yield-drops-as-obama-seeks-congress-nod-on-syria.html
(Corrects shekel appreciation in second paragraph.)  Israel ’s benchmark government bonds
rose, pushing the yield down to one-week low, after U.S.
President  Barack Obama  slowed his march toward ordering a
military strike against Syria for using chemical weapons.  The yield on the benchmark 4.25 percent notes due March
2023 declined three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
3.98 percent at 12:10 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The yield jumped 26
basis points last month, the biggest increase since the notes
started trading in August 2012. The shekel appreciated 1 percent
to 3.6213 a dollar in the three days to Aug. 30.  Obama yesterday called on Congress to approve a military
operation “limited in duration and scope” to punish the Syrian
government and to reinforce an international norm against such
“heinous” acts. Congressional leaders have agreed to take up
the issue once lawmakers return from their recess on Sept. 9.  “The delay in the threat of an attack on  Syria  that will
be small in scale according to yesterday’s speech by Obama is
bringing back some buyers after yields soared in the last few
weeks,” said Yshai Shilo, a fixed-income broker at Tel Aviv-based I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage & Investments.  Israel, which shares a border with Syria to its north,
bolstered air defenses in the northern part of the country and
called up reserves in  air force , intelligence and home front
units.  Five-year credit-default swaps, or the cost of insuring
government debt over the period, rose one basis point to 141 on
Aug. 30, the highest since June 24, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The shekel appreciated 3.1 percent this year, the best
performer among a list of 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  