-- Italy Coalition Reels as Berlusconi Threatens to Sink Letta
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2013-09-02T09:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/italy-s-government-reels-as-berlusconi-threatens-to-topple-letta.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s ruling coalition came under renewed strain as  Silvio Berlusconi  threatened to bring down the government if Letta’s
party votes to expel the three-time ex-premier from the Senate.  “We’re not available to keep the government going if the
left decides to prevent the head of People of Liberty from
remaining in politics,” Berlusconi  told  a rally organized by
the Army of Silvio supporters’ association on Aug. 30. He
softened his rhetoric a day later, saying he “didn’t issue an
ultimatum” and wants the government to continue to govern.  Letta has been struggling to contain tensions within the
coalition government since  Italy ’s top court upheld Berlusconi’s
 tax-fraud  conviction on Aug. 1. His Democratic Party, the
biggest force in the coalition, has said Berlusconi’s expulsion
from the Senate is required by an anti-corruption law enacted in
December 2012.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty, the second-biggest party,
claims the law is unconstitutional and shouldn’t be applied to
the former premier, whose conviction stems from tax fraud in
2002 and 2003. The party is pushing for a Constitutional Court
ruling on the matter. The Senate’s committee for immunity and
elections will start discussing the issue on Sept. 9.  Property Tax  The political brinkmanship drove the difference between
yields on Italy’s 10-year debt and similar-maturity German bunds
as high as 265 basis points on Aug. 28, the highest in almost a
month. The spread narrowed by 8 basis points today to 246 at
11:16 a.m. in  Rome . The  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  was up 1.3 percent, as
investors shrugged off political concerns.  “We believe the coalition government will stay in place
for this year,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts led
by  Alberto Gallo  wrote in a note to investors today.  Letta’s government last week passed cuts to an unpopular
property tax, helping to ease tensions with Berlusconi, who had
opposed the levy. The prime minister tried on Aug. 30 to
separate the impending impeachment procedure against Berlusconi
from the survival of his coalition.  “Anyone who draws improper connections between the Senate
decision and the government will have to explain the meaning of
these dangerous relations to the citizens,” Letta said in
comments broadcast by SkyTG24.  Yet Berlusconi said it’s “absurd” to assume that the
People of Liberty would remain in Letta’s coalition if the
 Democratic Party  forced his removal from the Senate.  Senate Seat  “We’re not afraid of blackmail,” Democratic Party leader
Guglielmo Epifani said Aug. 31, the Ansa news agency reported.  Meanwhile, the Corriere della Sera newspaper reported that
some lawmakers from Letta’s party would be willing to allow an
extension of the impeachment procedure, buying Berlusconi time
to formulate his next move.  The process to strip Berlusconi of his Senate seat may take
weeks or months before an eventual vote in the full chamber is
called.  President Giorgio Napolitano on Aug. 30 named four
senators-for-life, a move criticized by People of Liberty
lawmaker Daniela Santanche, who said Berlusconi was more
deserving for the post, which grants some legal immunity.  Roberto Calderoli , the Senate’s vice president and a member
of the Northern League party that’s not part of the governing
coalition, said the appointments indicate that plans may be
afoot for a new Letta government with a different coalition of
parties to support it, according to the party’s Facebook page.  New Election  If the current coalition falls, Napolitano could ask Letta
or someone else to try to form a new government before calling a
new election.  More than 10 members of the opposition Five Star Movement
of comedian-turned-politician Beppe Grillo would back a new
government led by the Democratic Party if Berlusconi topples the
current coalition, European Parliament lawmaker Sonia Alfano
said yesterday.  The February vote left Letta’s party with a majority in the
lower house, while Berlusconi and Grillo each won a blocking
majority in the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  