-- Mitsubishi Aircraft to Open Europe Quality-Control Center
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-09-02T07:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/mitsubishi-aircraft-to-open-europe-quality-control-center.html
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) ’s
aircraft unit, building  Japan ’s first passenger jet, will set up
a quality-assurance center in Europe after pushing back the
delivery of the aircraft by more than a year.  Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp.  will open the center in a couple
of months and is considering locations including in  Germany ,
where suppliers are based, President Teruaki Kawai said in an
interview in Tokyo. It will be the second such center overseas
after the company  opened  one in  Illinois  in June to strengthen
its collaboration with suppliers.  The company said Aug. 22 it postponed at least for the
third time both the test flight and delivery of the passenger
plane after delays in certification. U.S. customers  SkyWest Inc. (SKYW) 
and Trans States Holdings have pledged support to Mitsubishi as
it attempts to break into the regional-jet market dominated by
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and  Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA .  “We need to bolster our foundation, as Japan has never
made a passenger jet,” Kawai, 65, said on Aug. 30. Mitsubishi
counts on the centers to respond swiftly to various
qualification tests and inspection to ensure quality, he said.  Overseas suppliers including  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s
Pratt & Whitney and European Aeronautic, Defense & Space Co.’s
Eurocopter, contribute about 60 percent of the Mitsubishi
Regional Jet aircraft’s parts, according to the company.  Mitsubishi Heavy gained the most in a month, rising 2.8
percent to 554 yen in Tokyo trading. The stock has added 33
percent this year, compared with a 31 percent advance in the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Delivery Delays  “Investors reacted positively to this news as it’s a good
move,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , a Tokyo-based analyst at  Iwai Cosmo
Holdings Inc. (8707)  “There are high expectations for the jet.”  Mitsubishi Aircraft, based at Nagoya, Japan, said last
month it will hand over its first plane in the second quarter of
2017, instead of an earlier plan to deliver by March 2016. The
plane’s initial test flight has been delayed to the second
quarter of 2015 as against in the last three months of this
year. The schedule was changed because of delays in
certification, it said at the time.  In April 2012, it had announced postponement in the
schedule citing delays in fabrication processes and completion
of technical studies. In 2009, delivery of the plane was pushed
back amid design changes.  The manufacturer is building 78- and 92-seater versions of
the regional jet to compete with planes from Bombardier and
Embraer as it forecasts global demand for 5,000 similar-sized
aircraft over the 20 years to 2030.  Mitsubishi Aircraft targets to win 2,500 orders, or half of
the demand, Kawai said.  Firm Orders  The aircraft maker, 10 percent owned by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
has orders for 325 aircraft. The planes use variations of an
engine being developed by Pratt & Whitney that will help cut
fuel consumption by 20 percent.  Last month, U.S. commuter carriers SkyWest and Trans States
said they are in talks about a new timetable with Mitsubishi
Aircraft after it pushed back deliveries.  SkyWest, a commuter carrier that serves as a partner of
United Airlines, committed a year ago to 100 of the Mitsubishi
planes, valued at $4.2 billion. Trans States, based in St.
Louis,  agreed  in 2009 to purchase 50 Mitsubishi jets with
options for 50 more.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  