-- Liverpool Beats Manchester United as Arsenal Defeats Spurs
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-01T18:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/liverpool-beats-manchester-utd-in-league-arsenal-defeats-spurs.html
Liverpool beat champion Manchester
United 1-0 to go top of English soccer’s Premier League. Arsenal
defeated Tottenham 1-0 in the north London derby and Swansea won
2-0 at West Brom.  Daniel Sturridge scored for Liverpool in the fourth minute
at Anfield as United suffered its first defeat this season under
new manager David Moyes. Olivier Giroud got the 23rd-minute goal
for Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium.  Liverpool has now won its first three league games, all of
them 1-0 and with Sturridge on target each time. The result
continues Moyes’s hoodoo at Anfield: he never won there in 12
visits with his former team, Everton.  Liverpool has nine points, followed by Chelsea on seven,
with Manchester City, Arsenal, Stoke and Spurs all on six.  At Anfield, United was without striker Wayne Rooney, who
sustained a head injury in training. The former Everton player
is unlikely to be fit for  England ’s World Cup qualifiers against
Moldova on Sept. 6 and in Ukraine four days later.  Sturridge, who turned 24 today, got the decisive goal with
a header from close range after Daniel Agger nodded the ball
goalwards from a corner.  Strong Resolve  “Our mentality was key,” Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers told Sky Sports. “We didn’t play as well as we have and
Manchester United played some really good football, but our
defensive mentality gets better all the time. The resolve we
have in the group was evident.”  United threatened without making the breakthrough.
Liverpool goalkeeper Simon Mignolet punched away a Nani strike
as United battled for a leveling score and, with three minutes
to go, Robin Van Persie shot wide from a chance on the right of
goal.  At the Emirates Stadium, Spurs were again without winger
Gareth Bale, who’s poised to join Real Madrid in a world-record
transfer fee before the European player-trading window closes
tomorrow.  Arsenal got the only goal as Giroud slotted the ball in at
the near post after Theo Walcott crossed from the right. It was
his third league goal in as many games this season.  The Gunners withstood Spurs pressure in five minutes of
added time to hold out for the win.  “It was a very intense game, sometimes technically we
dropped our level,” Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger said. “We
did hang on in the end. Still it was a very interesting game.”  Ben Davies and Pablo Hernandez were Swansea’s scorers as
the team bounced back from losses in the first two games. West
Brom has only one point after three matches.  Yesterday, Manchester City beat Hull 2-0, Crystal Palace
had a 3-1 victory over Sunderland, Newcastle defeated Fulham 1-0
and Norwich beat Southampton by the same score. Cardiff and
Everton drew 0-0 and Stoke won 1-0 at West Ham.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  