-- Netanyahu Says Israel Ready as Obama Syria Stance Criticized
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-09-01T14:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/netanyahu-says-israel-prepared-as-obama-syria-stance-criticized.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said his country’s foes have “very good reasons” not
to test its strength, as a member of his cabinet said the U.S.
delay in striking Syria bodes ill for action against Iran.  President  Barack Obama  announced yesterday in  Washington  he
will first seek congressional approval before ordering a
military strike in response to the Syrian government’s alleged
use of chemical weapons against a rebel-held area outside
Damascus on Aug. 21. His decision pushed back any action -- and
possible retaliation by Syria or its allies against  Israel  -- by
at least a week.  “The citizens of Israel know well we are prepared for any
possible scenario,” Netanyahu said at the cabinet’s weekly
meeting in Jerusalem today, according to an e-mailed statement
from his office. “Israeli citizens also need to know that our
enemies have very good reasons not to test our strength and
might -- and they know why.”  Israel, sitting on  Syria ’s southern border and a longtime
foe, would be a potential target for retribution if the U.S.
does attack Syria.  Israeli Minister of Housing and Construction Uri Ariel
criticized the U.S. delay, saying that failing to act now
against Syria will also undermine confidence in Obama’s declared
resolve to keep Iran from developing a nuclear weapon.  ‘Bottles of Champagne’  “In Tehran they are opening bottles of champagne, and
surely shifting into high gear toward nuclear weaponization,”
Ariel said in a post on his Facebook page. “Anyone who now
believes this president will strike Iran only on evidence that
the Iranians have crossed a nuclear red line, is probably
hallucinating,” Ariel said. His post defied Netanyahu’s order
to ministers to stop commenting on U.S. policy toward Syria.  Israel’s  Army Radio  and parliament’s Knesset TV Channel
quoted unidentified officials in Jerusalem today echoing Ariel’s
criticism, saying Obama’s move made it more probable Israel
would eventually have to act alone against  Iran’s nuclear
program .  “Until there is a significant U.S. response that will
deter further Syrian use of chemical weapons, Israel will see
this as a reflection of American impotence,”  Gerald Steinberg ,
a political scientist at  Bar-Ilan University  outside  Tel Aviv ,
said by phone.  Results of an Aug. 27-28 survey published today show 54
percent of Jewish Israelis think America’s status as a key
player in the  Middle East  would be strengthened by an attack on
Syria, while 21 percent said it would not be affected. Fourteen
percent said it would be diminished.  U.S. Standing  Among Arab Israelis, 34 percent said an attack would hurt
America’s standing in the region, and 26 percent said it would
be strengthened. The survey of 601 Israelis was carried out by
the Israel Democracy Institute and Tel Aviv University, and had
a margin of error of 4.5 percentage points.  While Israel and the U.S. both dispute Iran’s assertions
that its nuclear program is designed solely to produce energy
and medical isotopes, they have disagreed over how to deal with
it. Obama has pressed Netanyahu to hold off on a military
strike, declaring repeatedly that the U.S. would use force, if
necessary, to keep Iran from becoming a nuclear power.  At the  United Nations  last September, Netanyahu predicted
that by the summer of 2013, Iran would have “moved on to the
final stage” of building a bomb.  Israelis, meanwhile, continued to flock to distribution
centers today to pick up government-issued gas masks, with lines
forming before dawn, Channel 2 television reported. The military
bolstered defenses in the north last week, calling up reservists
in the air force and home front command, and deploying missile
defense systems.  Israel’s benchmark government bonds rose today, pushing the
yield down to a one-week low. The yield on the benchmark 4.25
percent notes due March 2023 declined four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.97 percent at 3:11 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The
yield jumped 26 basis points last month, the biggest increase
since the notes started trading in August 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  