-- Obama Surprises Aides With Bid for Congressional Approval
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-09-01T17:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/obama-surprises-top-aides-with-request-for-congress-ok.html
After a week of planning for a
strike against  Syria  with his political, diplomatic and military
aides, U.S. President  Barack Obama  surprised even his closest
advisers with a last-minute change-of-heart.  The decision to seek authorization from Congress was the
president’s alone, a step none of the four top congressional
leaders had sought and none of his national security advisers
had recommended, according to two administration officials
familiar with the discussions. The officials spoke on condition
of anonymity to describe how the president reached the decision.  Obama’s shift followed two developments earlier in the
week: an assurance by Army General Martin Dempsey, the chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that a strike wasn’t time-sensitive, and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s decision to
seek a vote in Parliament, which he lost.  Obama settled on his plans during a 45-minute walk around
the South Lawn with his chief of staff,  Denis McDonough , on Aug.
30, the officials said. He called top White House aides to the
Oval Office at 7 p.m. For two hours, they discussed the move,
with some close advisers warning there were risks, said the
officials, who declined to detail those risks or who voiced
them. The president wasn’t swayed, they said.  The participants in the Oval Office meeting, which was
limited to White House officials, were Obama, McDonough,
National Security Adviser  Susan Rice  and her deputies Tony Blinken and  Ben Rhodes  and national security staff counsel Brian
Egan and chief of staff Brian McKeon, and White House senior
adviser  Dan Pfeiffer  and deputy chief of staff Rob Nabors,
according to a photograph released by the White House.  Later Huddle  Only after Obama had made up his mind and huddled with his
own aides did he call Vice President  Joe Biden , Secretary of
State  John Kerry  and Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, the
officials said.  Yesterday, Obama summoned his national security team, hours
before telling congressional leaders and the public of his
decision. In the Situation Room, the president, vice president,
McDonough, Rice, Dempsey, Nabors, Blinken, Rhodes, Egan, Hagel
and Kerry and were joined by CIA Director  John Brennan ; Attorney
General Eric Holder; Obama counter-terrorism adviser  Lisa
Monaco ; Director of National Intelligence James Clapper; the
vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Navy Admiral James “Sandy” Winnefeld; and Biden’s national security adviser Jake Sullivan, according to another official photograph released by
the White House.  Multiple Benefits  The two officials said the president presented the move to
seek authorization as having multiple benefits: bolstering the
credibility of any U.S. action, giving Americans more
information, making Congress more accountable, insulating him
from political criticism and furthering a long-held goal of
moving the U.S. off a permanent state of war after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.  A delay also allows Obama to use his visit to the G-20
summit next week in  St. Petersburg , Russia, to build a broader
political coalition of countries willing to support U.S.
military action even if they aren’t contributing militarily.
France has indicated it stands with the U.S.  Obama’s maneuver, though, relies on Congress to authorize
the use of force and assumes Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
regime won’t use a delay to launch another chemical weapons or
other mass-casualty attack. Congress is unlikely to vote before
the week of Sept. 9.  If either assumption turns out to be wrong, the president
hasn’t ruled out ordering a strike on his own. Obama and aides
made it clear he’s not ceding executive power and that they
consider him to have the legal authority to proceed even if
Congress says no.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  