-- Obama Pause Emboldens Assad Backers as Opponents Adjust
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-09-01T14:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/obama-pause-emboldens-assad-backers-as-opponents-adjust.html
Syria ’s leaders were emboldened, its
opposition disheartened and U.S. allies driven to a strategic
rethink by President  Barack Obama ’s decision to pause in the
drive toward war.  The Obama administration “has seen with its own eyes how
its allies have deserted it, and how all it has on its side are
a few mercenaries and adolescent French politicians,” Al-Thawra, a state-run newspaper close to President Bashar al-Assad, said in an editorial.  By putting a U.S. intervention on hold at least until
Congress returns on Sept. 9, Obama reshuffled the calculations
of Assad’s government and its opponents in neighboring countries
such as  Turkey , Jordan and  Israel , and of U.S. allies in the
Arab gulf states and  Europe . The civil war that began in March
2011 has claimed more than 110,000 lives, the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights  said today.  Obama announced the delay after Britain, the closest
American ally, decided to opt out of a military campaign against
Syria, as the wounds of a decade of fighting in Afghanistan and
 Iraq  shifted public opinion against involvement in another
Middle Eastern war.  Syrian opposition figures, hoping for American backup since
Obama declared the use of chemical weapons a “red line” a year
ago, ranged from doubting whether the U.S. will ever attack to
showing a conviction that Congress will eventually untie the
president’s hands.  ‘No Confidence’  “We have no confidence in the U.S.’s intention to help rid
the Syrians of Assad,” Colonel Ahmad Hijazi of the Free Syrian
Army said by phone today from an undisclosed location.
“Whatever strike that follows will just be for show.”  Louay Almokdad, a logistical coordinator for the rebel
army, said though he understood the democratic mechanisms in the
U.S. and Europe, the price of the delay “will be more blood.”  A less pessimistic note was sounded by Burhan Ghalioun, a
member of the Syrian National Coalition, the umbrella opposition
group. “The president needs his decision supported by the
American people,” Ghalioun said in an interview. “I don’t
think that the Congress will undermine the president.”  Ghalioun said the pause will give Obama time to line up
more allies and perhaps get the U.K. to change its mind. In
 London , however, Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told  Sky News 
it’s not “realistic to think we can go back to parliament every
week with the same question, having received an answer.”  Markets Rally  The rebellion against Assad, sparked by the so-called Arab
Spring revolutions of 2011, has dispersed refugees across the
region. Obama said yesterday that once authorized by Congress,
any U.S. intervention would be limited, aimed at halting Assad’s
alleged use of chemical weapons. Assad and his officials have
repeatedly denied using them.  Middle Eastern markets rallied after Obama put off ordering
U.S. warships in the eastern  Mediterranean Sea  to attack. The
 Dubai Financial Market General Index (DFMGI)  gained 3 percent, the
biggest jump since March 2012, to 2,599.35 at the close in
Dubai. The measure slid 6.6 percent last week on concern an
attack would hurt tourism in the region. Stocks advanced in  Abu
Dhabi ,  Saudi Arabia , Oman and Qatar. Stocks in Israel, at risk
of being drawn into the conflict, also gained.  Assad struck a defiant pose. Speaking to a group of
visiting Iranian lawmakers in Damascus, he said a U.S. strike
wouldn’t end Syria’s determination to fight terrorism and that
his forces can confront any foreign aggression, just as they are
facing internal threats. His comments were reported by Syria’s
al-Ikhbariya TV today.  Syrian Threat  A member of Assad’s inner circle, Minister for National
Reconciliation Ali Haidar, said the postponement still leaves
Syria and the U.S. in a state of war. He urged fellow citizens
to take “pre-emptive” action against the superpower.  “When Syria is targeted, every Syrian has the right to
respond with all possible means available and against any U.S.
or Western interest or any country linked to the aggression,”
Haidar said in a phone interview.  Haidar isn’t part of the core national security advisers
who map out military strategy.  Obama’s turnabout reset the decision-making in  France ,
which became the U.S.’s principal European ally in a possible
military strike after Britain’s pullout. Opposition lawmakers
called on President  Francois Hollande , who has wide powers to
commit French forces without consulting parliament, to give the
National Assembly a say on the handling of Syria.  “The risk today is that France becomes a puppet of
decisions made in the U.S.,” Bruno Le Maire, a former
agriculture minister, said today on BFM television. “The French
should be consulted through their representatives.”  ‘Coalition of Volunteers’  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault will meet tomorrow with
the heads of the lower and upper houses of the legislature, as
well as the chairmen of the foreign affairs and defense
committees and opposition leaders. About two-thirds of French
voters are against an intervention in Syria, a BVA poll for Le
Parisien newspaper showed.  Turkey pressed for a military strategy that goes beyond
Obama’s aim of punishing Assad for the alleged use of chemical
weapons on rebel-held territory near Damascus on Aug. 21, which
the U.S. says killed more than 1,400 people, including more than
400 children.  Turkey, which defends NATO’s southeastern flank and borders
Syria, wants a “coalition of volunteers” to topple Assad
“because it’s time to stop the deaths,” Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said on television yesterday.  The Turkish leader’s plea for regime change -- an echo of
the U.S. and British rationale for invading Iraq in 2003 --
isn’t likely to attract followers, said Nihat Ali Ozcan, an
analyst at the Economic Policy Research Foundation in Ankara.  “By raising the idea of ‘coalition of volunteers,’ Erdogan
is sending a message that Turkey may join a military coalition
if the plan is to make sure that Assad is gone,” Ozcan said.
“The problem is there is no volunteer for such a mission.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  