-- Moscow Foreign Flows Dream Doubted on Discount: Russia Overnight
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-09-01T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/moscow-foreign-flows-dream-doubted-on-discount-russia-overnight.html
The Moscow Exchange’s transition to
a two-day stock settlement today won’t suffice to lure foreign
investors to locally-traded stocks because of concerns over
minority shareholder rights, according to BCS Financial Group.  Russia ’s main stock and fixed-income exchange is moving
today from the current system of T+0, in which trades must be
settled on execution, to a T+2 mode. Andrey Shemetov, the
bourse’s deputy chief executive officer said on Aug. 29 that he
“dreams” of a day when 75 percent of Russian equity trading
happens on the Moscow Exchange. The 30-day average value of
trades in 10 of the biggest Russian companies tracked by
Bloomberg in London is about 50 percent greater than in Moscow.  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Russian stocks in the U.S. posted the biggest weekly decline in
two months after the country’s benchmark Micex Index fell to a
three-week low. The slump sent the average valuation on Russian
equities to 5.2 times estimated earnings, the cheapest among 21
emerging economies tracked by Bloomberg. Russia, ranked the most
corrupt nation among the Group of 20 advanced economies, said
last week that gross domestic product growth will slow.  “You can build the best of breed pipes to trade Russia,
but if Russia Inc. does not shape up its corporate governance
issues, international investors will continue to sit on the
sidelines,”  Luis Saenz , the London-based head of equity sales
and trading at BCS Financial Group, said by e-mail on Aug. 30.  OAO Pharmstandard, Russia’s biggest drugmaker, announced on
July 8 an unexpected plan to pay as much as $630 million to buy
a company controlled by a board member and to spin off the non-prescription drug business. OAO TNK-BP Holding, the traded unit
of the oil venture that OAO Rosneft bought for $55 billion, said
in June the board recommended not paying dividends for 2012.  Economic Growth  Russia, which wants to make Moscow an international
financial center, is also struggling to stem its steepest
slowdown since a 2009 contraction. The biggest energy exporter
cut its 2013 economic-growth forecast for the second time this
year, Deputy Economy Minister Andrey Klepach said Aug. 26.  “It’s important that people still go to ADRs and GDRs
because people don’t have too much confidence in Russia,” Alper Ince, who helps oversee  about $9 billion as managing director
of Pacific Alternative Asset Management in  Irvine ,  California ,
said by phone on Aug. 29. “It’s going to definitely increase
liquidity if this combines with increased confidence in Russia
and governance.”  Boost Trading  The exchange’s transition to two-day stock settlement will
boost foreign trading on the Russian market, according to
Shemetov. He said the main growth in trading volumes following
the move to the new system will occur next year. Eighty percent
of total trades happen in T+0 and it’ll take two to three months
to get T+2 volumes to the same level, he said.  Several London-based banks have started trading on the
Moscow Exchange in T+2 mode and plan to offer  hedge funds  and
other clients access by year-end, Shemetov said without naming
the companies.  “We were living in a tin can, we traded inside ourselves,
nobody from the West could really trade here,” Shemetov said.
“The biggest achievement of this project is that we finally
opened this can and let in some fresh air, meaning foreign
liquidity.”  The transition to T+2 “would certainly mean that people
who would instinctively veto any plans to invest in the market
would at least be forced to think again,” Julian Mayo, who
helps manage $2.5 billion in emerging-market assets at
Charlemagne Capital Ltd. in  London  said by phone on Aug. 29.  Corporate Bonds  Moving Russia’s corporate bonds to T+2 has been delayed
because of insufficient volume, according to Shemetov. The
exchange doesn’t have a deadline for corporate bonds to
transition to T+2, while government OFZ bonds will continue to
trade in T+0 and T+2, Shemetov said.  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity gauge slid 3 percent for the
week to 90.06, led by OAO Mechel. The nation’s biggest producer
of coal for steelmakers sank 6.5 percent to $2.89 to trade at a
0.6 percent discount to its Moscow stock.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, fell 3.3 percent to $25.81 last
week. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings
in the  stock futures , rose 0.8 percent to 23.13 in U.S. hours
Aug. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  