-- Most Read on Bloomberg: JPMorgan Probe, Currency Spike, Brothels
-- B y   S t a n l e y   J a m e s
-- 2013-09-01T06:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/most-read-on-bloomberg-jpmorgan-probe-currency-spike-brothels.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. JPMorgan Bribery Probe Said to Expand as Spreadsheet Found  Aug. 29 (Bloomberg) -- A probe of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
hiring practices in  China  has uncovered red flags across  Asia ,
including an internal spreadsheet that linked appointments to
specific deals pursued by the bank, people with knowledge of the
matter said.  2. Currency Spikes at 4 P.M. in London Provide Rate-Rigging
Clues  Aug. 28 (Bloomberg) -- In the space of 20 minutes on the
last Friday in June, the value of the  U.S. dollar  jumped 0.57
percent against its Canadian counterpart, the biggest move in a
month. Within an hour, two-thirds of that gain had melted away.  3. Brothels in Nevada Suffering as Internet Disrupts Oldest
Trade  Aug. 28 (Bloomberg) -- In a dim parlor furnished with red
velvet couches and a stripper pole, Brooke Taylor is having a
sale on herself.  4. Ex-JPMorgan Trader Released, Saying He Opposes U.S.
Extradition  Aug. 28 (Bloomberg) -- Former JPMorgan Chase & Co. trader
Javier Martin-Artajo was released from police custody after
telling a Madrid court he opposed attempts by U.S. prosecutors
to extradite him on charges he hid trading losses that cost the
bank $6.2 billion.  5. Ackermann Resigns From Zurich Board After CFO’s Suicide  Aug. 29 (Bloomberg) --  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  Chairman
 Josef Ackermann  resigned after the company’s finance chief died
in a suspected suicide.  6. Stocks Fall as Oil Reaches 18-Month High on  Syria , Gold
Rallies  Aug. 27 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks slid the most since June and
oil surged to an 18-month high amid concern the U.S. will take
military action against Syria. Treasuries, the yen and gold rose
while Turkey’s lira and  India ’s rupee reached record lows.  7. Ackermann Quit Zurich After Being Named in CFO Suicide Note  Aug. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Josef Ackermann’s abrupt resignation
as chairman of Zurich Insurance Group AG came after Chief
Financial Officer Pierre Wauthier mentioned him in his suicide
note, the company said.  8. Fed Officials Rebuff Coordination Calls as QE Taper Looms  Aug. 26 (Bloomberg) --  Federal Reserve  officials rebuffed
international calls to take the threat of fallout in  emerging
markets  into account when tapering U.S. monetary stimulus.  9. N.J. Jail Is Home for Husband as Lifetime of Alimony Fought  Aug. 27 (Bloomberg) -- Ari Schochet has grown so accustomed
to being sent to jail for missing alimony payments that he goes
into a routine.  10. U.S. Sees Multiday Strikes on Syria as U.K. Submits UN Draft  Aug. 28 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. officials planning potential
military strikes on Syria aren’t limited to a one-day operation,
an administration official said, as the UN Security Council’s
permanent members considered a resolution condemning last week’s
suspected chemical attack.  COLUMNS  1. Five Reasons Housing Isn’t Ready to Drop Dead: Caroline Baum  Aug. 29 (Bloomberg) -- Hissss! That’s the sound of the air
coming out of the housing market. At least that’s what some
folks thought they heard when the U.S. Census Bureau reported a
13.4 percent dive in new home sales in July, the biggest decline
in more than three years and one that coincided with a sharp
increase in  mortgage rates .  2. Asia’s Real Problem Is Boosterism, Not Fed Policy: William
Pesek  Aug. 27 (Bloomberg) -- It’s time to set our clocks back in
Asia. Not to 1997, as many are recommending, but to 1994.  3. Will Obama Make the Fed Even Worse With Summers?:  Ramesh
Ponnuru   Aug. 27 (Bloomberg) -- President  Barack Obama  is making the
most important economic-policy decision of his second term:
picking a new chairman for the Federal Reserve. We shouldn’t be
optimistic, because nothing the president has said or done
suggests that he is at all displeased with a Fed performance
that has been just short of disastrous.  4. Summers Pick Fits Obama’s Preference for Beaten Path: Ezra
Klein  Aug. 29 (Bloomberg) -- At this point,  Larry Summers  isn’t
just the favorite for Federal Reserve chairman. He’s the
overwhelming  favorite. Unless something truly unexpected shows
up in the vetting process (a paid toast at Bashar al-Assad’s
birthday party, for example) or the administration comes to
believe  Senate Democrats  will revolt against a Summers
nomination, he’s going to get the job.  5. JPMorgan Investigations Are America’s New Pastime: Jonathan
Weil  Aug. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Hardly a week goes by without a new
report about a government investigation of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and how much money the bank might have to pay because of some
alleged violation of the law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stanley James in  Hong Kong  at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  