-- Rudd Relies on Queensland Roots as Defeat for Labor Looms
-- B y   D a n i e l   P e t r i e   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-09-01T22:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/rudd-relies-on-queensland-roots-as-labor-battles-to-avoid-defeat.html
Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s
prospects at this week’s election hinge on his home state of
Queensland, a region 2 1/2 times the size of  Texas  that’s given
federal Labor a  majority  of votes just once in 20 years.  Rudd’s governing Labor party must pick up seats in the
state to offset forecast losses in its heartland of western
Sydney, another battleground in the Sept. 7 vote. Opinion
surveys suggest Rudd’s local roots won’t be enough to propel
Labor over the line in opposition-held Queensland districts.  “Rudd’s appeal hasn’t held up in Queensland during the
election,” said Stephen Stockwell, a political analyst at
Griffith University in the state capital  Brisbane . “People have
underestimated the trouble the Labor brand has here.”  Underscoring the state’s importance, Rudd and Liberal-National coalition leader  Tony Abbott  opened their campaigns in
Brisbane, where pockets of unemployment above 20 percent reflect
an economy squeezed by an elevated currency and high  household
debt . Dissatisfaction with state Labor, which suffered its worst
ever defeat at elections last year, is outweighing Rudd’s
personal standing and damaging the party’s federal prospects.  Seeking to win back Queenslanders, Rudd has proposed
shifting a naval base from Sydney to Brisbane at an estimated
cost of A$6 billion ($5.3 billion), and promised to help pay for
an under river rail tunnel. Abbott opposes the naval shift and
said it’s up to the state government to pay for urban rail.  “I want to see  Australia  boom again,” said Phillip Davis,
49, a Brisbane-based construction worker who voted for Rudd in
2007 and plans to back the coalition for the first time. “For
 consumer confidence  we need to change government.”  State Wipeout  Last year, the Liberal National Party ended 14 years of
state Labor rule in the resource-rich region that generates a
fifth of Australia’s wealth, winning 78 out of 89 seats. Labor
was hurt by corruption scandals and voter anger over the sale of
A$15 billion in public assets without consulting the electorate.  Labor lost  seven  federal seats in Queensland in the 2010
general election that was held two months after Rudd was ousted
in a party coup and replaced by his deputy,  Julia Gillard  from
Victoria state. The ensuing infighting within the party as
Gillard struggled to manage a hung parliament and hold off Rudd
supporters has led to disillusionment with the government.  “Everyone is sick of the soap opera in Canberra,” said
Tim Woodhouse, 39, who owns and operates a hardware store in
Brisbane’s western suburbs and voted for the coalition in 2010.  Labor returned Rudd to the leadership June 26, seeking to
buoy its electoral chances and tap goodwill toward him in his
home state, which has 30 federal electoral districts. Labor
holds eight, the coalition 20 and independents two.  Local Factor  “I am a Kevin Rudd fan because I reckon he is one of us,”
said David Lake, 49, who owns and operates a print design
business in Brisbane, and has voted for both Labor and the
opposition coalition. He intends to vote for Rudd. “The person
is as important as the party,” he said.  Rudd has sought to use spending cuts by the Queensland
conservative state government led by  Campbell Newman  as leverage
in the campaign against Abbott, warning a federal coalition
would slash services even harder. Labor recruited former
Queensland premier Peter Beattie -- who led the state for nine
years through 2007 before retiring -- to run in the marginal
electorate of Forde.  “We can prevail and we will prevail,” Rudd yesterday told
party faithful who packed the Brisbane Convention Center for a
nationally televised speech in which he promised tax breaks for
small business and legislation to ensure Australian companies
participate more in major expansion projects. “I’ve been in
tougher spots than this and I’ve come from behind before.”  Poll Lag  With 71 seats in the 150-member lower house, Rudd’s
minority government already trails the coalition by one and must
win at least five more seats to retain office without support
from the Greens and independents. Opinion polls show that’s
unlikely.  The coalition leads Labor 54 percent to 46 percent on a
two-party preferred basis, a Newspoll published today in the
Australian newspaper showed. The survey, conducted Aug. 30-Sept.
1 among 1,116 voters and with a margin of error of 3 percentage
points, showed Abbott overtaking Rudd as preferred prime
minister for the first time, 43 percent to 41 percent. Among
eight marginal Queensland seats not held by Labor, the coalition
leads 60 percent to 40 percent, according to a Newspoll survey
published Aug. 24.  Premier Joh  Queensland was ruled by conservative state governments from
1957 until 1989, including 19 years under Premier Joh Bjelke-Petersen. He was deposed from the leadership of the Nationals in
1987 and the party lost the 1989 election as an inquiry revealed
corruption and misuse of the police force. Since then, at a
state level, Labor ruled for 21 of the next 23 years before
losing office in the 2012 landslide.  Queensland is the third-biggest state by population and
more than half of world steel-making coking coal comes from the
Bowen Basin in central Queensland.  Apart from the liquefied natural gas industry, the state’s
economy struggled in the past six years as the sustained
strength of the Australian dollar weighed on the tourism and
education industries. A property glut in the state’s southeast
that includes the  Gold Coast  sent the price of apartments
plummeting by about 25 percent.  “There’s not been too many bright spots apart from LNG in
the Queensland economy for the past few years,” said  Michael
Turner , a debt strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Sydney, who
hails from the Gold Coast. “It’s been a struggle in the
 property market  in the southeast corner.” Unemployment there
has also been “noticeably higher” than the national average
over the past couple of years, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  