-- Shanghai Cites Pipe in Deadly Ammonia Accident at Warehouse
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-01T13:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/shanghai-probes-deadly-ammonia-leak-at-frozen-seafood-warehouse.html
Pipe leakage at a frozen-seafood
plant was responsible for an ammonia leak that killed 15 people
yesterday, the Shanghai government said following an initial
probe into the accident.  The city’s worst accident in almost three years also
injured 25 workers of Shanghai Weng’s Cold Storage Industrial
Co. They are in stable condition, according to a statement on
the city’s official Sina  Weibo site . Investigators are examining
buildings, equipment installation and daily monitoring and have
hired professional organizations to audit the relevant
equipment, it said.  Shanghai has started a city-wide safety check on companies
that use liquid ammonia, according to the statement.  The accident comes three months after a blaze triggered by
leaked ammonia in  Jilin province  killed 120 people. In that
accident on June 3, a leak of liquid ammonia at a poultry plant
in Dehui city caused an explosion that triggered the fire at a
17-acre facility. The incident prompted President Xi Jinping to
order an investigation and pledge punishment for those
responsible.  Most of the injured were migrant workers from neighboring
Jiangsu province, who were employed less than a month ago and
hadn’t been fully trained, the Beijing Times reported. Xiong
Weiguo, a director at the Work Safety Administration, declined
to comment on the report, pending the results of the
investigation, which he said could take one or two months.  Four calls to the company went unanswered and its website
was inaccessible today.  The 2010 fire in  Shanghai  was at a building undergoing
renovations that was covered with scaffolding made of flammable
nylon netting and bamboo. It was started by sparks from
unlicensed electric welders and exacerbated by high winds,
firefighters said at the time. Police detained at least 12
people.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Hu Shen in Beijing at 
 hshen33@bloomberg.net 
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  