-- Slovenia Plans to Stress Test Lenders Soon, Jazbec Tells Banka
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-09-01T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/slovenia-plans-to-stress-test-lenders-soon-jazbec-tells-banka.html
Slovenia will subject its lenders to
stress tests and transfer souring assets to a state-run bad bank
without delay, central bank Governor Bostjan Jazbec said in an
interview with the Croatian magazine Banka.  “We want to clean up the balance sheets of troubled banks
as soon as possible and as efficiently as possible,” Jazbec
said, according to the interview published on the Zagreb,
Croatia-based magazine’s website.  Slovenia, the first former communist country to adopt the
euro, has delayed measures to fix its ailing financial industry
that’s brought the nation to the brink of needing a bailout. The
government of Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek has pledged to
transfer non-performing loans to a government agency and inject
about 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) into its three top
lenders, including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., to avoid seeking
aid, which the premier said the country won’t need.  After the cleanup, the government will capitalize the banks
as it considers their sale, said Jazbec, 43, who was appointed
to the post in July. The country “has set its own deadlines, as
no one is forcing us to do this,” he said.  To finance the capital boost for the banks, Slovenian
lawmakers in July approved revised spending for this year’s
budget that almost doubles the deficit to 7.9 percent of gross
domestic product, the highest shortfall in the European Union in
2013. The Alpine nation is mired in its second recession since
2009.  An international bailout would be a “last resort” for
Slovenia, Jazbec said.  ‘Other Options’  “Slovenia is solving its problems alone and is able to
solve them alone,” he told Banka. “Seeking aid always remains
a possible solution, but at the moment Slovenia has other
options.”  Jazbec said Slovenia isn’t under pressure to hold a fire
sale of its properties, according to the magazine.  “The worst thing is when one is forced to sell, and we are
not there yet,” he said.  The former Yugoslav republic wants to sell state assets to
narrow the budget shortfall, with Telekom Slovenije d.d., the
country’s former phone monopoly, and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor
d.d., the second-biggest bank, among 15 companies to be
auctioned off. The government will probably hire outside
advisers to manage state-owned enterprises to avoid political
meddling, Bratusek said on Aug. 22.  Jazbec also said the central bank has no plans to raise
reserve requirements for bad loans because that would render
banks less efficient, according to the magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  