-- Sobyanin Seen Winning Moscow Election in First Round, Poll Shows
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-09-01T10:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/sobyanin-seen-winning-moscow-election-in-first-round-poll-shows.html
Acting Moscow Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin 
will probably win the first direct election for the city’s
leader in a decade in the first round, according to a  survey 
published by the Russian research company  Levada Center .  Sixty-one percent of respondents believe Sobyanin will get
more than 50 percent of the vote on Sept. 8 to avoid a second-round runoff, Moscow-based Levada said in a report published
today. Sobyanin has the support of 58 percent among decided
voters, while 18 percent plan to back opposition leader Alexey Navalny and 12 percent favor Communist Ivan Melnikov.  Sobyanin, President  Vladimir Putin ’s former chief of staff
who was appointed mayor two years ago, stepped down in June to
run in early elections, two years before his term was due to
end, to capitalize on his popular lead over the opposition. The
Russian capital’s last mayoral election was in 2003 before
legislation was changed the following year to grant the
president the right to appoint regional leaders.  Navalny, a lawyer and anti-corruption activist who helped
organize the biggest protests against Putin’s 13-year rule in
2011 and last year, is contesting the election after receiving a
five-year prison sentence in July for embezzling cash from a
state timber company. He was released for the duration of his
appeals process after thousands of backers protested his
conviction in central Moscow and other major cities.  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  has refrained from running in
the mayoral race, saying the authorities had scuppered his
party’s prospects of participating through a ban on candidates
with foreign assets.  Levada’s survey of 1,000 people was conducted Aug. 27-30
and has a margin of error of no more than 4.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  