-- Sturridge Goal Puts Liverpool Atop League; Arsenal Beats Spurs
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-01T23:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/sturridge-s-birthday-goal-puts-liverpool-top-arsenal-tops-spurs.html
Daniel Sturridge scored the winning
goal on his birthday as Liverpool defeated defending champion
Manchester United 1-0 to move atop English soccer’s Premier
League. Arsenal beat north London rival Tottenham 1-0 and
Swansea won 2-0 at West Brom.  Sturridge’s goal came in the fourth minute at Liverpool’s
Anfield stadium yesterday as United lost for the first time
under manager David Moyes. Olivier Giroud got Arsenal’s goal at
the Emirates Stadium.  Liverpool won its opening three games of a Premier League
season for the first time since 1994-95 to lead the standings
with nine points. Sturridge has scored in all three 1-0
victories. Chelsea has seven points, with Manchester City,
Arsenal, Stoke and Spurs all on six.  “Our mentality was key,” Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers told Sky Sports. “We didn’t play as well as we have and
Manchester United played some really good football, but our
defensive mentality gets better all the time. The resolve we
have in the group was evident.”  Rodgers’s pleasure at the victory was echoed by Liverpool
owner John W. Henry.  “Terrific win; terrific start for the season,” Henry
posted on Twitter. “Poised and smart play against United. Team
effort, superb desire.”  United was without striker Wayne Rooney, who sustained a
head injury in training. The former Everton player last night
withdrew from  England ’s squad for World Cup qualifying games
against Moldova on Sept. 6 and in Ukraine four days later.  There was a minute’s applause before the start for former
Liverpool manager Bill Shankly to mark today’s 100th anniversary
of his birth.  Early Goal  Sturridge, who turned 24 yesterday, headed in after Daniel Agger nodded the ball goalwards from a corner.  Liverpool’s high-tempo game had United on the back foot
early on. Philippe Coutinho pulled a shot wide and Steven Gerrard tested goalkeeper David De Gea with a free kick.  United’s Tom Cleverley, Robin van Persie and Michael Carrick were cautioned for first-half challenges. Van Persie
clashed just before halftime with Martin Skrtel as the two
tussled in the penalty area, and referee Andre Marriner called
captains Gerrard and Nemanja Vidic together to try to calm their
players down.  Ashley Young was booked later as Liverpool continued to
stretch the visiting team, while Lucas and Iago Aspas were also
cautioned.  United had its own threats. Liverpool’s Simon Mignolet
punched away Nani’s strike as United battled to tie the match,
and with three minutes to go Van Persie had a chance on the
right of goal though shot wide.  ‘Working Hard’  “We’ve been working hard as a team and it showed on the
field, the dedication we put in,” Sturridge said. “I just
anticipated the header from Dan, I thought he would flick it on
and he did.”  One goal also separated Arsenal and Tottenham, which lost
5-2 at the Emirates Stadium in each of the past two seasons.  The visiting team was without winger Gareth Bale, whose
transfer to Real Madrid was confirmed later. Spurs have spent
more than 100 million pounds ($155 million) on new players
including Roberto Soldado, Paulinho and Nacer Chadli.  Tottenham goalkeeper Hugo Lloris pushed an early free kick
from Santi Cazorla wide and the Spanish midfielder then went
close from another free kick.  Giroud’s Goal  Arsenal got the only goal in the 23rd minute, Giroud
slotting the ball in at the near post after Theo Walcott crossed
from the right. It was Giroud’s third league goal in as many
games this season.  Mathieu Flamini, after his return to Arsenal from AC Milan,
came on to replace  Jack Wilshere , who was feeling unwell.
Flamini was cautioned after halftime for a foul on Danny Rose as
Spurs took the initiative.  Giroud almost made it 2-0 as his shot was deflected wide.
Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny dived to save from Jermain Defoe and Giroud blocked a follow-up shot. Nacho Monreal
couldn’t score from close range after Lloris pushed away
Walcott’s effort.  Kyle Walker had a stoppage-time chance to make it 1-1,
though miscued from close range.  Swansea, which had lost its first two league games, won at
West Brom with goals by Ben Davies and Pablo Hernandez. West
Brom is still without a victory and replaced Swansea at the
bottom of the 20-team standings.  Two days ago, Manchester City beat Hull City 2-0, Crystal
Palace had a 3-1 victory over Sunderland, Newcastle defeated
Fulham 1-0 and Norwich beat Southampton by the same score.
Cardiff and Everton drew 0-0 and Stoke won 1-0 at West Ham.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  