-- Syria Has Right to Respond to U.S. Threat, Minister Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-09-01T13:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/syria-has-right-to-respond-to-u-s-threat-cabinet-minister-says.html
A Syrian cabinet minister called for
a pre-emptive response against the U.S. and the premier  said
his country wouldn’t be cowed after President  Barack Obama  asked
Congress to approve an attack on Syria.  The U.S. has declared war and Syrians have the right to
respond preemptively against U.S. interests with all means
available, Syrian Minister for National Reconciliation Ali Haidar said in a phone interview today.  “I am among those who call for a preemptive” response by
all Syrians, Haidar said, commenting on Obama’s statement
yesterday that he was prepared to use military force against
Syria.  Obama asked Congress to authorize a military strike for
what the U.S. says is the Syrian government’s use of chemical
weapons in an attack that killed more than 1,400 people. Syria
denies the allegations and says rebels linked to al-Qaeda and
abetted by the country’s enemies carried out the attack.  “It’s unacceptable that a Syrian is afraid to leave his
home for fear of the U.S. threat, while an American ambassador
can wander about as he pleases,” Haidar said. “It’s
unacceptable that our leaders have to go into hiding to protect
themselves while U.S. interests are proceeding normally.”  The U.S. has no known interests in  Syria . The Syrian
government expelled U.S. and other Western diplomats in June
2012.  No Retreat  Haidar said Obama’s decision to seek congressional approval
before embarking on a military strike was not a “retreat.”  “He’s kept the sword in his hand, he just hasn’t chosen to
limit himself to a date,” he said.  “When Syria is targeted, every Syrian has the right to
respond with all possible means available and against any U.S.
or Western interest or any country linked to the aggression,”
he added.  Prime Minister Wael al-Halaqi said Syria is strong enough
to ward off any aggression and isn’t intimidated by threats,
state-run SANA news agency said.  The bellicose rhetoric came from cabinet members who are
not among the core national security advisers who map out
military strategy.  Syria’s Deputy Foreign Minister Fayssal Mekdad said the
U.S. should abandon “a history that’s full of wars and
hatred.”  “Now is the right time for it to regain the trust of the
the world in the values that U.S. administrations have
distorted,” Mekdad said in an interview. “We hope that all
talk of war ends because wars do not serve but rather destroy
people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  