-- U.K. Lenders to Make Payments to Cover Iceland Costs, BBA Says
-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 2013-09-01T09:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/u-k-lenders-to-make-payments-to-cover-iceland-costs-bba-says.html
U.K. lenders will make the first of
three multimillion-pound payments today to cover the costs of
compensating customers for savings held in failed Icelandic
banks, according to the British Bankers’ Association.  The payments, comprising three tranches of 363 million
pounds ($563 million) each during the next three years, will be
made to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, the BBA said
today in a  statement  on its website.  The government guaranteed the savings of hundreds of
thousands of British customers at Icelandic banks in 2008, with
U.K. lenders now being asked to help repay the costs.
Compensation was funded by the FSCS with loans from the
Treasury, and these debts need to be repaid by April 2016.  “This compensation ensured that no savers who had money in
Icelandic banks lost out,” BBA Chief Executive Anthony Browne
said in the statement. “These payments show that the system
works, and we hope it gives confidence to consumers that if
there is ever another bank failure that their savings will be
protected.”  The compensation being paid by the lenders will fund the
shortfall created as a result of the FSCS being unable to
recover the full amount that’s owed by the estates of the
Icelandic banks Icesave, Heritable Bank Plc and Kaupthing Singer
& Friedlander, BBA said in the statement.  The FSCS predicts the ultimate shortfall will equal about
500 million pounds. The body is expecting the Icelandic banks to
make further payments after April 2016, BBA said.  The FSCS is funded by banks and guarantees the deposits of
account holders in the U.K. If a bank fails, the fund repays
depositors and then seeks to recoup the money from British banks
and building societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Barwell in London at 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  