-- U.K. Hometrack House Prices Rise in Strongest Market Since 2007
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-09-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/u-k-hometrack-house-prices-rise-in-strongest-market-since-2007.html
U.K. house-price  growth accelerated
in August amid the strongest market conditions for six years as
demand continued to outpace the number of homes for sale,
Hometrack Ltd. said.  Average values in England and  Wales  rose 0.4 percent after
a 0.3 percent gain in July, the London-based property researcher
said in a statement today. Prices were up 1.8 percent from a
year earlier, the most since July 2010. In a separate report,
the Engineering Employers’ Federation raised its forecasts for
U.K. economic growth and manufacturing output.  Hometrack’s survey adds to evidence of a mini-boom in the
housing market, with reports last week showing values rising and
mortgage approvals at their highest since 2008. Bank of England
Governor  Mark Carney  said he’s alert to risks from the  property
market  and policy makers will act if signs of a bubble emerge.  “A lack of housing for sale is set to remain a feature of
the market and this will keep an upward pressure on prices in
the near term,” said  Richard Donnell , director of research at
Hometrack. “We expect demand to continue to expand over the
remainder of the year so long as the outlook for the economy and
mortgage rates remains unchanged.”  Underlying market conditions are at levels not seen since
the financial crisis, with the average time taken to sell a
property falling to 8.1 weeks and sellers achieving 94.6 percent
of the price sought last month, Hometrack reported.  New buyers registering with real-estate agents to browse
property rose 1.1 percent, the same as in July. Demand fell in
August in each of the last three years. Growth in new property
listings slowed to 0.8 percent from 2.4 percent.  Recovery Spreading  Seven of the 10 regions tracked by Hometrack showed price
gains, led by a 0.9 percent increase in London. Two regions
showed no change while values dropped 0.1 percent in the
northeast.  Signs of economic growth have lifted  consumer confidence .
The economy expanded 0.7 percent in the second quarter, and
recent data suggest the recovery is gaining traction.  A survey by the EEF and BDO LLP showed manufacturing output
rose to a three-year high in the third quarter, with a gauge of
production rising to 32 from 12. A measure of investment
intentions rose to 24, the highest in six years.  The group raised its forecast for manufacturing growth in
2014 to 2.1 percent from 1.9 percent, following a 0.5 percent
contraction this year. It also raised its forecast for U.K.
gross domestic product growth to 1.2 percent this year and 2
percent next year, versus earlier projections of 1.1 percent and
1.8 percent.  ‘Growing Confidence’  “Industry’s prospects have brightened considerably,”  Lee
Hopley , chief economist at the EEF, said in a statement. “There
is growing confidence that improving trading conditions will
continue into the final months of this year and then accelerate
through the gears in 2014.”  Nationwide Building Society  said last week that  home prices 
rose 0.6 percent in August and the BOE’s commitment to maintain
record-low  interest rates  until at least the end of 2016 may be
helping to support demand.  There is also concern that Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ’s Help to Buy program, which allows people to
purchase a home with a deposit as little 5 percent of the value
of the property, risks injecting too much stimulus into the
housing market.  Officials are monitoring the housing market “closely” and
“will as appropriate make our views known in terms of the
degree of this risk and the potential action that should be
taken to address it,” Carney said in an interview with the
Daily Mail newspaper published Aug. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  