-- Yen Falls as Manufacturing Data Damps Safety Demand
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-09-02T15:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-01/yen-weakens-against-major-peers-as-abe-gets-sales-tax-backing.html
The yen dropped to a one-month low
against the dollar as reports showed manufacturing in  China  and
 Europe  expanded and the threat of imminent military action
against  Syria  eased, damping demand for haven currencies.  Japan ’s currency slid at least 0.7 percent versus all of
its 16 major peers as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe won backing for
a sales-tax increase, signaling he is making progress on
policies that have helped weaken the yen.  Australia ’s dollar
gained on China’s improving growth prospects. The pound rose to
a two-month high versus the euro after a gauge of U.K.
manufacturing increased more than analysts forecast last month.  “The improvement in global investor risk sentiment is
leading to the reversal of the yen’s recent safe-haven driven
gains,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “The surveys are helping
to reassure investors that the economic slowdown in China at
least appears to have stabilized in the near term.”  The yen slid 1.2 percent to 99.35 per dollar at 4:42 p.m.
London time after reaching 99.43, the weakest level since Aug.
2. Japan’s currency depreciated 0.9 percent to 131 per euro. The
euro weakened 0.3 percent to $1.3186.  U.S. financial markets are closed today for a public
holiday.  Chinese Output  The yen weakened after China’s National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics said yesterday
their Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing rose to 51
last month, the highest since April 2012. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics’ PMI for China rose to 50.1 last month from
47.7 in July, final data released today showed. A reading above
50 indicates growth.  An index based on a survey of euro-region  purchasing
managers  in the manufacturing industry increased to 51.4 from
50.3 in July, London-based Markit Economics said. That’s above
an estimate of 51.3 published on Aug. 22, and the highest
reading since June 2011.  Japan’s Abe is trying to sustain an economic recovery
driven by fiscal and monetary stimulus as he moves on to
tackling changes such as deregulation needed for a longer-term
revival in Japan.  A majority of those in seven consultative panels favored
proceeding with an increase of the 5 percent sales tax in April,
Economy Minister Akira Amari told reporters on Aug. 31 after the
final group met. Members of the panels, which were set up by the
government, called for “sufficient stimulus,” he said.  Sales Tax  Abe said today he’ll make a decision on the tax this
autumn, taking the opinions of the panels into account.  “I expect a  sales-tax  hike to sustain optimism toward
Abenomics, resulting in a weaker yen,” said Kengo Suzuki, the
chief currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co., a
unit of Japan’s third-biggest bank, referring to Abe’s economic
policies. “For Japan’s monetary, fiscal and growth policies to
be properly executed, a higher levy is needed, and an increase
in the sales tax can be seen as the key to these three arrows of
Abenomics.”  Traders  increased bets  the yen will weaken, according to
data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the currency compared with
those on a gain was 78,353 on Aug. 27, compared with 71,721 a
week earlier.  The Aussie dollar advanced for the first time in six days
versus the greenback, gaining 0.9 percent to 89.78 U.S. cents,
boosted by the Chinese data. China is Australia’s biggest
trading partner.  Pound Gains  The pound climbed as Markit Economics and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said U.K. manufacturing
output, based on a survey of purchasing managers, rose to 57.2
in August from a revised 54.8 a month earlier. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists was for a reading
of 55.  The pound appreciated 0.5 percent to 84.86 pence per euro
after reaching 84.72 pence, the strongest level since June 26.
Sterling rose 0.2 percent to $1.5538.  The U.S. currency fell against most of its major
counterparts as President  Barack Obama  said he would seek
approval from Congress for military action against Syria.  The dollar will rise to 103 yen and $1.28 per euro by the
end of the year, analysts in Bloomberg surveys forecast.  “We’re pretty comfortable with dollar-yen at 105 in a
year’s time,” said Nick Verdi, a currency strategist at
Barclays Plc in  Singapore . “What everybody is pinning their
hopes on is a U.S.-led recovery.”  India ’s rupee fell as a report showed the nation’s economic
growth slowed more than analysts predicted. The currency
weakened 0.5 percent to 66.015 per dollar, according to prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia’s rupiah depreciated to the lowest level in more
than four years after the country reported a record trade
deficit for July. The rupiah slid as much 0.5 percent to 10,979
per dollar, the weakest since April 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  