-- ‘Raging Bull’ Rights Fight Gets Hearing at Top U.S. Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-01T15:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/-raging-bull-rights-fight-gets-hearing-at-top-u-s-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to hear
a dispute over the rights to the 1980 Oscar-winning movie
“Raging Bull,” accepting an appeal from the daughter of a man
who worked with boxer Jake LaMotta to write the screenplay.  The justices today said they will consider whether Paula
Petrella waited too long to press her copyright claims against
MGM Holdings Inc. units. Petrella is seeking damages for
marketing and distribution starting in 2006. She is also suing a
unit of  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) , which has distribution
rights for the film.  Petrella’s father, Frank Peter Petrella, was a longtime
friend of LaMotta, whose life story was the basis for the movie.
The two men produced a book and two screenplays, though the
litigants disagree as to how much of a role each one played.
They sold the rights to a production company in 1976 and an MGM
unit later acquired the movie rights.  The film won two Academy Awards, including Best Actor for
 Robert De Niro , who portrayed LaMotta.  Under federal copyright law, Frank Petrella’s 1981 death
meant his heirs had the right to renew the copyrights when the
original 28-year-term expired. Paula Petrella filed a renewal
application for the 1963 screenplay in 1991. Although her
attorneys exchanged letters with MGM from 1998 to 2000, she
didn’t sue until 2009.  A federal appeals court threw out the lawsuit, saying
Petrella waited too long to assert her rights. The appeals court
invoked a legal doctrine known as “laches,” which applies when
a delay deprives the other litigant of a fair chance to mount a
defense.  At the Supreme Court, Petrella says that laches shouldn’t
apply and that she is limited only by the three-year statute of
limitations in federal copyright law.  The case is Petrella v. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, 12-1315.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  