-- Abe Orders Japan’s First Sales-Tax Increase Since ’97: Economy
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   C h i k a k o   M o g i
-- 2013-10-01T10:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/abe-proceeds-with-japan-s-first-sales-tax-increase-since-1997.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
proceeded with an April sales-tax increase and a 5 trillion yen
($51 billion) stimulus plan as he tries to rein in the world’s
biggest debt burden without negating efforts to end  deflation .  The levy will rise to 8 percent from 5 percent now, Abe,
59, said in  Tokyo  today, the first increase since 1997. To
cushion the blow, he unveiled a package to be compiled in early
December, which a Cabinet Office statement showed includes
public works spending and tax breaks encouraging companies to
boost capital spending and  wages .  With households already hit by a rising cost of living and
declines in pay, proceeding with the higher levy enacted by the
previous government poses the biggest risk yet to Abe’s efforts
to end two decades of Japanese  stagnation . His next challenge in
coming weeks is following through on pledges for domestic
economic reforms that persuade companies to invest at home.  “The next focus is solely on the growth strategy,” said
Naohiko Baba, chief  Japan  economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
The planned stimulus package will help safeguard the economy
“from the risk of faltering under the weight of the sales
tax,” he said.  The economy will contract an annualized 4.5 percent in the
three months after the sales tax is increased in April before
returning to growth, according to the median calculation of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. For the 2014 calendar
year, the expansion is seen slowing to 1.6 percent from 1.9
percent this year, the median estimates show.  ‘Maintain Trust’  “I believe it is possible to quickly put Japan back on a
growth path -- because of this and to maintain trust in Japan
and to hand to the next generation a sustainable social-security
system, I have decided to raise the sales tax,” Abe said today.  Tailwinds for the world’s third-largest economy heading
toward the April increase in duties reduce the danger of Abe
following in the footsteps of Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto,
who in 1997 oversaw a 2 percentage point boost in the levy. The
move cost him his job as Japan sank into a recession with
consumption swooning against a backdrop of weakening demand
abroad due to the Asian financial crisis.  Japan’s  large businesses  now are the most confident they’ve
been since before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
The Bank of Japan’s quarterly  Tankan index for big manufacturers 
rose to 12 in September from 4 in June, exceeding the median
estimate of 7 in a Bloomberg survey.  Salaries Slide  The  Topix index  of stocks fell 0.1 percent in Tokyo today,
bringing its gains to 62 percent over the past year amid
optimism that Abe’s policies will end the economy’s malaise.  The yen’s 21 percent slide against the dollar over the past
year, propelled in part by monetary stimulus enacted by Abe’s
pick for central bank chief, has helped stoke profits for
exporters. The Japanese currency rose 0.4 percent to 97.88
against the dollar at 4:16 p.m. in Tokyo.  Abe is under pressure to keep a recovery going after the
economy grew an annualized 3.8 percent in the second quarter, a
third straight advance for gross domestic product. While
 consumer prices  rose in August the most since 2008, the gains
stemmed from higher energy costs that have squeezed households
in the absence of wage increases.  A government report today showed that salaries in August
extended the longest slide since 2010, with regular wages
excluding overtime and bonuses falling 0.4 percent from a year
earlier, a 15th straight drop. The figures underscore that
companies have yet to grow confident enough about the outlook to
start boosting compensation, even as they sit on what the BOJ
calculated was 220 trillion yen in cash at the end of June.  Three Arrows  To help unlock that money, Abe has aimed his third arrow of
economic policy at growth-inducing reforms from trade
liberalization to steps elevating the participation of women in
the workforce. Abenomics has so far relied on the first two
arrows -- of government spending and BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s unprecedented commitment to achieve 2 percent inflation
by increasing the supply of money.  “Our economy is showing signs of recovery thanks to our
three-arrows policy. We have a chance of escaping deflation
after 15 years and we must not let it slip away,” Abe said
today.  Kuroda said last month that the central bank could take
further action if its goal of engineering 2 percent inflation
within about two years were imperiled.  Second Increase  With household spending compressed by falling pay, “the
BOJ may be forced to lower its fiscal-year 2014 inflation
forecast,” Credit Suisse AG economists in Tokyo led by
 Hiromichi Shirakawa  wrote in a note last week. “The central
bank may have little option but to announce additional easing
measures in an attempt to fulfill its commitment to 2 percent
inflation by fiscal-year 2015.”  The government wants to pay for the stimulus package with
tax revenue and other means, without issuing additional bonds,
Finance Minister Taro Aso told reporters.  The decision to increase the sales tax in April is credit
positive for Japan, Thomas Byrne, senior vice president for
sovereign risk at Moody’s Investors Service, told Bloomberg News
today.  “That doesn’t mean we will upgrade Japan but we think it
improves the government’s finances,” Byrne said.  Legislation passed by Abe’s predecessor called for the
sales tax to rise to 8 percent in April and then to 10 percent
in October 2015, pending a final decision by the prime minister.
If the first step doesn’t go well, the next one would be
scrapped, Economy Minister Akira Amari said over the weekend on
Fuji Television.  Monetary Policy  “There is no next step but to wait for these policies to
bring results,” said  Hideo Kumano , chief economist at Dai-ichi
Life Research Institute, before the announcement on the sales
tax and the stimulus Abe will unveil later today. “Aggressive
monetary easing has been implemented, public works will boost
employment and tax incentives will be offered. We can only wait
and see the outcome of these measures. Stimulus measures for the
time being are sufficient.”  Abe, who took office in December after his Liberal
Democratic Party resumed its nearly unbroken dominance of
Japan’s politics in the postwar period, is trying to spur growth
while putting the country’s finances on a sustainable footing.
Public debt reached a record 1,008.6 trillion yen as of June 30,
more than the economies of  Germany ,  France  and the U.K.
combined.  Deflation has helped contain Japan’s borrowing costs even
as public debt expanded. Yields on benchmark 10-year notes are
about 0.68 percent, compared with 2.635 percent for U.S.
Treasuries and 1.78 percent for German bunds.  IMF’s Take  “Backtracking now would really put in question the ability
of the government, the ability politically of the government to
move ahead with fiscal adjustment,” Jerry Schiff, the
International Monetary Fund’s mission chief for Japan, told
reporters in August, commenting on the sales tax increase.  The Washington-based IMF has urged Japan to go beyond the
scheduled increases in the consumption levy, lifting it to “at
least 15 percent” to bring down its public debt over the medium
term.  Others advocate even stronger steps to prevent an eventual
collapse in confidence in Japanese government bonds.  “It is our responsibility as politicians to raise it,”
Takeshi Fujimaki, a former adviser to billionaire  George Soros 
who is now a member of Japan’s upper house of parliament, said
in an interview last month in Tokyo. His prescription: a rate of
35 percent to 40 percent.  Further Increases  To handle Japan’s rising welfare costs and rein in its
debt, the consumption tax rate should rise to at least 20
percent by 2020, according to Takatoshi Ito, the head of a panel
advising Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund, the world’s
biggest pension fund.  Elsewhere in Asia, a Chinese manufacturing gauge missed
economists’ forecasts for September, while an Indian
manufacturing indicator rose for the same period.  The Reserve Bank of  Australia  kept the cash rate target at
a record low 2.5 percent as forecast by all economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  The U.S. government began a partial shutdown for the first
time in 17 years, putting as many as 800,000 federal employees
out of work today, closing national parks and halting some
government services after Congress failed to break a partisan
deadlock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Chikako Mogi in Tokyo at 
 cmogi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  