-- Maersk Four Rate Rises Fail to Spread as Demand Falls: Freight
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/maersk-four-rate-rises-fail-to-spread-as-demand-falls-freight.html
Global container-shipping operators’
efforts to boost freight rates this year are failing to bring
results because of overcapacity and weak demand.  That may undermine the recent rise in container-shipping
stocks after second-quarter industry results were better than
expected, according to Robin Byde, an analyst at Cantor
Fitzgerald  Europe  in London. The industry’s traditional peak
season in the third quarter probably will disappoint, he added.  The world’s biggest container lines, including  A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , CMA CGM SA and Mediterranean Shipping Co.,
have been trying to push up freight charges after fees between
Asia and Europe fell to an 18-month low in June. Maersk, the
largest, announced four increases in five months. A proposed
multi-carrier pooling alliance, a spate of mergers and a move to
mothball older ships are all failing to bring the industry back
into balance amid subdued demand and a glut of new ships.  “I think we’ll see at least a stall in the stock rally,”
Byde, who has a hold rating on Maersk’s shares, said in a
telephone interview. “I think they’ve probably overanticipated
a big boom in global trade. There’s a lot of capacity around.
That suggests rates are going to be under some pressure.”  The industry has yet to recover from a downturn, now in its
fifth year, as carriers struggle with overcapacity after a boom
in ship orders collided with the global financial crisis,
triggering a record slump in world trade.  Rising Earnings  Investor sentiment toward ocean carriers was boosted after
earnings per share in the industry were 20 percent more on
average than analysts’ expectations in the second quarter. Seven
of the 15 companies reporting results in the Bloomberg
Industries container shipping peer group beat estimates.  At the same time, the euro area’s emergence from a record-long recession in the second quarter helped boost equities. The
MSCI World Index rose 7.6 percent in the three months through
yesterday. That compares with a 14 percent increase in the
 Bloomberg Industries container shipping index .  South Korea ’s
Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. climbed 25 percent, Maersk’s B
shares posted a 23 percent gain and Hanjin Shipping Co. rose 17
percent.  Having suffered a decline in rates during the previous 12
months, carriers orchestrated a “remarkable” turnaround at the
beginning of July even as market fundamentals remained adverse,
according to Rahul Kapoor, a Singapore-based analyst at Drewry
Maritime Equity Research. In the week ending July 4, the rate to
ship a 40-foot equivalent unit container, or FEU, from Asia to
Europe jumped 165 percent from the lowest level since December
2011, according to World Container Index data.  Asia-Europe  Since then, charges have  weakened . The average global rate
to ship an FEU fell 7.9 percent to $1,665 for the week ending
Sept. 26, the third straight weekly decline, WCI data showed.
The drop was led by the Asia-Europe route, with the fee from
 Shanghai , China’s busiest port, to Rotterdam, Europe’s biggest,
falling 19 percent to $1,703. That rate has fallen 41 percent
from $2,881 on Aug. 8, the highest in almost a year.  “I think the stocks have got ahead of the fundamentals,”
Kapoor said in a telephone interview. “The sharp up move and
early signs of weakness emerging in the sector could see the
container shipping stocks rally stall in the near term.”  Maersk, the Copenhagen-based owner of the world’s largest
shipping line, and Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. were among
companies reporting better-than-expected second quarter earnings.
 Maersk Line  reported a doubling of second-quarter net income to
2.5 billion kroner ($453 million) even as revenue declined 10
percent as cost cuts countered the decline in  freight rates . It
also raised its full-year forecast.  Rate Volatility  “The main cause of freight rate volatility stems from the
weakest of the Asian container lines, which are cutting prices
the most when they lose market share,” Maersk Chief Executive
Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen said in a Sept. 26 interview.
“There will be overcapacity in the market for a long time” and
“this market will remain very tough and very volatile.”  The spot rate to ship a 20-foot equivalent unit, or TEU, to
northern Europe from Far East  Asia  is currently $765 per box,
down from $1,501 at the beginning of August, Alphaliner said,
citing Shanghai Containerized Freight Index data. It could fall
to $500 per TEU in the next few weeks, the Paris-based industry
consultant said in an e-mailed note distributed yesterday.  Maersk said yesterday it planned to increase its rate to
ship a TEU between Far East Asia excluding  Japan  and northern
Europe and the Mediterranean by $950 on Nov. 1, compared with an
announcement last month to raise it by a minimum of $600. It
already had increased the charge on July 1, Aug. 1 and Sept. 1.  Christmas Shipments  “Maersk Line continues to face unsustainable market rates
and the rapid decline of rates in the past few weeks has made it
apparent that the previously announced increase of $600/TEU will
be insufficient to run the service at financially viable
levels,” the carrier said in an e-mailed newsletter.  The industry’s busiest season in the northern hemisphere
comes in the third quarter, when stores in the U.S. and Europe
look to stock up before the beginning of the school year and the
Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays. Also, many haulers bring
forward shipments ahead of  China ’s “Golden Week” holiday,
which extends from Oct. 1 to Oct. 7 and sees many factories in
Asia’s largest economy shuttered.  “There hasn’t been a peak season,” Drewry’s Kapoor said.
“Normally, around the Golden Week, you see wide scale capacity
restructuring, but we haven’t seen that this year. I think that
is taking its toll on rates.”  With no potential fundamental catalyst to drive charges
higher before the end of the year and capacity growth set to
exceed demand at least through 2014, there probably won’t be any
sustainable uplift in rates before 2015, Cantor’s Byde said.  Cost Cuts  Until rates improve, investors will favor shares of
shipping lines that are seeking to boost earnings by cutting
costs, according to Kapoor.  Maersk, which also owns an oil unit, a drilling division, a
port business and a supermarket chain, said on Aug. 16 that unit
costs fell 12.7 percent in the second quarter at its container
line, compared with a drop of 7.1 percent in the first quarter.  “The guys who will manage to cut costs, they’ll stay
profitable this year, and that is going to continue for the next
few years,” Kapoor said. “The rates won’t be profitable, it’ll
be the costs that will be the big leveler. Maersk will continue
to do well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  