-- Airline Merger Case to Proceed After U.S. Seeks a Delay
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-10-01T20:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/airline-merger-case-to-proceed-after-u-s-seeks-a-delay.html
The U.S. lawsuit seeking to block the
proposed merger of  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  will
proceed as scheduled after a judge denied a Justice Department
request to suspend the case because of the government shutdown.  U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly in Washington
said today a “speedy disposition” is needed, partly because of
a Jan. 18 deadline to complete the merger.  “It is essential that the Department of Justice attorneys
continue to litigate this case,” the judge wrote in an order.  The Justice Department asked the judge today to hold up the
case until Congress restores funding, saying its attorneys are
“generally prohibited” from working except in “very limited
circumstances.”  “If the court denies the request, the government will
comply with the court’s order, which would constitute express
legal authorization for the activity to continue,” the  Justice
Department  said.  Gina Talamona, a department spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the request for delay.  The U.S. sued the airlines in August seeking to block the
merger, saying the tie-up of Fort Worth, Texas-based American
and Tempe, Arizona-based  US Airways  would reduce competition and
harm consumers. The case is scheduled for trial starting Nov.
25, with both sides returning to court in January for final
arguments.  “You can see from the schedule that we are planning on a
Nov. 25 trial date, and we are working very hard toward that
end,” Rich Parker, an attorney for US Airways at  O’Melveny &
Myers LLP , said after today’s hearing.  The case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in federal court in Washington
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in federal court in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 