-- Algeria Gas, Oil Production to Double in 10 Years, Yousfi Says
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-10-01T12:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/algeria-gas-oil-production-to-double-in-10-years-yousfi-says.html
Algeria’s oil and natural gas output
should double in seven to 10 years as it brings on stream fields
in under-explored regions, Energy Minister Youcef Yousfi said.  The  North African nation  continues to find oil and gas in
the eastern region where most of its producing fields are
located, he told reporters today in London. It plans to step up
exploration in the south-western region, start offshore drilling
and develop shale and tight gas reserves, he said.  “In the mature basins in the southeast of the country,
under the existing fields of natural gas, condensates and oil,
we have made significant discoveries,” he said, mentioning the
Illizi and Berkine regions.  Algeria’s oil production tumbled in July to 1.12 million
barrels a day, the lowest level since 2003, as security
concerns, corruption probes and delays in granting exploration
licenses restrain its ability to bring new oil on stream. Yousfi
said the country’s daily oil output was 1.2 million barrels.  New finds have added at least 1 billion barrels to the
reserves of Hassi Messaoud,  Algeria ’s oldest field that supplies
about a third of its oil production, he said.  The ministry is in the process of evaluating little-explored regions in the southwest of the country, where some oil
and gas finds were made two weeks ago, he said.  An auction of onshore exploration rights, initially planned
in February, should be held in two or three months to sustain
the exploration effort, and an offshore well will be drilled for
the first time next year, he said.  “We have between 300 and 500 technically recoverable
trillion cubic feet of gas in tight gas,” he said while
attending today’s Oil & Money conference. “We are progressing
in the evaluation of shale gas in the country and it’s above 700
tcf.”  Algeria is keeping export volumes unchanged by finding new
customers to offset a drop in European fuel consumption that
hurt sales to the continent, said Yousfi. “We have accepted to
reduce our exports to these countries for a small period of time
but generally we didn’t reduce our production,” he said. “We
are exporting some quantities to new markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  