-- Alitalia Bosses Said to Meet Prime Minister on Funding Crisis
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-10-01T14:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/alitalia-bosses-said-to-meet-prime-minister-on-funding-crisis.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
met with senior management of flagship airline Alitalia SpA
today to discuss how they might avert its collapse as cash
supplies dwindle, two people familiar with the meeting said.  The gathering in  Rome  was also attended by Alitalia Chief
Executive Officer Gabriele Del Torchio and Chairman Roberto Colaninno, together with representatives from banks UniCredit
SpA and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and suppliers and shareholders
including fuel-company Eni SpA and  Atlantia SpA (ATL) , said the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  A second meeting is scheduled for this afternoon as concern
about Alitalia deepens, the people said. The board is seeking
fresh capital from shareholders including  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group,
the biggest corporate investor with a 25 percent stake. Air
France’s board met last month to assess its position, though the
company has said publicly that it needs more time to reflect.  The Italian flag carrier is seeking an injection of at
least 100 million euros ($135 million) after the first-half net
loss swelled to 294 million euros. Liquidity reserves that
include credit lines fell to 128 million euros from 159 million
euros at the end of the first quarter, it said last week.  At least some of the shareholders have said they may be
interested in getting out. Gilberto Benetton, chairman of
Autogrill SpA, told reporters today in Milan that his company
would be interested in selling if the conditions are right,
without spelling out specifics. Benetton also said he would back
an Air France buyout, depending on “the conditions.”  Rome-based Alitalia last week proposed that investors boost
funding by completing a subscription of 55 million euros through
a bond convertible into stock. Shareholders including Intesa,
 Italy ’s second-largest bank, and Atlantia were scheduled to meet
Oct. 14 to vote on the increase.  Air France members on the Alitalia board opposed the plan,
news agency Ansa reported, without saying where it got the
information. The Franco-Dutch carrier declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  