-- Amgen Suit by Alleged Professional Whistle-Blower Tossed
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-10-01T18:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/amgen-suit-by-alleged-professional-whistle-blower-tossed.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, won’t have to face a drug-marketing
lawsuit brought by a New Jersey doctor whom the U.S. describes
as a professional whistle-blower.  U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson in Brooklyn, New York,
who oversaw Amgen’s $780 million drug misbranding settlement
with the U.S. in December, issued an order yesterday throwing
out the lawsuit by physician Joseph Piacentile.  Piacentile, who was previously convicted of conspiracy to
make false statements in Medicare claims and tax evasion,
operates the website whistleblowersagainstfraud.com and has
filed at least 14 whistle-blower suits, the government said.  He and another plaintiff, former Amgen sales representative
Kevin Kilcoyne, rejected a $1.8 million offer to settle their
case as part of the government’s agreement with the company,
according to Johnson’s order.  “When relators rejected that sum, the government was
within its right to determine that further litigation was
unlikely to lead to fraud prevention or additional recovery,”
Johnson wrote.  Amgen, based in Thousand Oaks,  California , pleaded guilty
in December to a misdemeanor charge of misbranding its anemia
drug Aranesp and agreed to settle whistle-blower suits alleging
the company engaged in illegal sales practices regarding other
drugs. The company agreed to pay $150 million in criminal
penalties and $612 million in civil settlements.  Piacentile said that he declined to settle his case because
the government refused to provide specific information about his
share of the accord. Although he didn’t work at Amgen,
Piacentile claimed he conducted an undercover investigation of
the company and collected evidence from top marketing
executives.  Eric Cramer, a lawyer for Piacentile, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment on the lawsuit’s dismissal.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Piacentile v. Amgen Inc., 2:04-cv-03983, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  