-- Amplats Better Off Keeping Job Cuts Amid Strike, Coronation Says
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-10-01T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/amplats-better-off-keeping-job-cuts-amid-strike-coronation-says.html
Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the
largest producer of the metal, will do better to see out the
strike  at its South African mines than by giving in on planned
job cuts, said Coronation Asset Management Ltd.  Mines run by the Johannesburg-based company known as
Amplats have been halted since Sept. 27 because of a strike
called by the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union
over proposals to cut 3,300 jobs.  The union, the largest at Amplats, is challenging a
decision by the company to consolidate five mines into three at
its Rustenburg complex. The sites are losing more than 1 billion
rand ($99 million) every six months, Chief Executive Officer
Chris Griffith said Aug. 30. Plans to cut as many as 14,000
jobs, announced in January, were scaled back following pressure
by unions and the government.  “It is better in the long-term interest of the business to
take a strike to establish a realistic wage base and to put the
company in a profitable position,” Neill Young, an analyst at
Cape Town-based Coronation, said by phone yesterday.  The strike is continuing and Amplats remains in talks with
the AMCU union,Mpumi Sithole, a company spokeswoman, said in e-mailed comments yesterday. A spokesman for the AMCU wasn’t
available to comment when reached by phone.  Amplats has no choice other than to implement the job cuts,
according to RBC Capital Markets LLC analyst Des Kilalea.  “This is a business that in its current structure doesn’t
work,” Kilalea said by phone from  London . “They’re going to
lose money either way.”  The Johannesburg Labour Court yesterday reserved judgment
in a case brought by the  National Union of Mineworkers  in a
separate bid to halt the job cuts, union spokesman Lesiba
Seshoka said by phone. The NUM was unseated by the AMCU as
Amplats’s biggest recognized union in March.  Less than 20 percent of workers reported for duty at the
company’s operations in  South Africa ’s North West province on
the first day of the strike, the company said in a Sept. 27
statement. Operations at its processing division were not
interrupted, it company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  