-- AMR-US Airways Trial to Proceed After U.S. Seeks Halt
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-10-01T17:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/amr-us-airways-trial-to-proceed-after-u-s-seeks-halt.html
The U.S. lawsuit seeking to block the
proposed merger of  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  will
proceed as scheduled, an airline lawyer said, even after the
 Justice Department  sought to suspend the case because of the
government shutdown.  The trial is still set to begin on Nov. 25, Rich Parker, an
attorney for  US Airways , said after a hearing today in federal
court in Washington. U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly,
who is overseeing the case, will issue an order on the
government’s request, he said.  “We’re going to trial on Nov. 25,” Parker said.  The Justice Department asked the judge in a filing today to
stay the case until Congress restores funding, saying its
attorneys are “generally prohibited” from working except in
“very limited circumstances.” Kollar-Kotelly didn’t rule on
the motion or comment on it at the hearing.  “If the court denies the request, the government will
comply with the court’s order, which would constitute express
legal authorization for the activity to continue,” the Justice
Department said in its filing.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the department, declined
to comment on the request for delay.  Competition, Consumers  The U.S. sued the airlines in August, claiming the merger
would reduce competition and hurt consumers. Seven states and
the District of Columbia have joined the case.  Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott , one of the attorneys
general who have sued, and the two airlines were scheduled to
announce today an “important development related to the
merger” of the carriers. Abbott’s office declined to comment
about the announcement.  AMR is based in  Fort Worth , Texas. US Airways is based in
Tempe, Arizona. Arizona is also a plaintiff in the suit.  The case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in federal court in Washington at 
7354 or  dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in federal court in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  