-- Arctic Monkeys Fill Webster Hall for New Album: NYC Music
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2013-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/arctic-monkeys-fill-webster-hall-for-new-album-nyc-music.html
Britain’s Arctic Monkeys produced a
queue that snaked around the block outside a sold-out  Webster
Hall  on Sept. 16.  Inside, the floor quickly filled to capacity, the lights
went down and frontman Alex Turner came on stage in a glittery
brown sports coat and perfectly coifed hair. He had the Teddy
Boy down pat.  Skipping hellos, Turner played the opening notes to “Do I
Wanna Know?” and instantly the crowd’s hands went up and feet
stomped. A number that has splashes of Black Sabbath, its
balanced rift and steady beat incited call and response from the
audience.  The opening track to the band’s fifth consecutive No. 1
studio release, “AM,” captures the diverse rock sound that
fills the record: growling guitars, muscular drumming and
etching choruses, along with splashes of loose R&B.  Since they first hit the U.S. in 2005, the quartet has been
one of the few buzz-worthy bands to maintain their success and
musical heft.  Showcasing the latest record, the show offered new numbers
“Snap Out of It,” “Knee Socks?” and “Arabella.”  While the audience embraced the fresh material, it was the
blending in of older tunes that allowed the show to flow so
well. “Dancing Shoes” and “I Bet You Look Good on the
Dancefloor” delivered high energy; “Crying Lightning” and
“Old Yellow Brick” flaunted their traditional anthemic sound.  Country Code  Turner combed his hair back between tracks and loosened the
crowd with his banter. As the main set wound down, he said, “We
are yours, but the question is ...” and lurched into the
closer, “R U Mine?”  Drummer Matt Helders, whose kick drum reads 0144 -- the U.K.
telephone country code -- pounded the skins as Turner and
guitarist Jamie Cook played zigzagging guitar licks. It was
heavy and gritty and left the Monday night crowd well-drained.  The Arctic Monkeys are set to appear at both weekends of
this year’s Austin City Limits Music Festival -- Oct. 4-6 and
Oct. 11-13. The band also plays a run of southern dates before
returning to  Europe  for the remainder of the year.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in October.
Please note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows
marked (SO) are sold out, although online services such as
Craigslist often have tickets.  (Jaime Widder works in sales for  Bloomberg News . Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on
movies, Philip Boroff on Broadway.  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 