-- Markets Too Complacent on Obama-Congress Standoff, Sperling Says
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-10-01T18:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/markets-too-complacent-on-obama-congress-standoff-sperling-says.html
Financial markets are overconfident
that the fiscal stalemate in  Washington  will be resolved in time
to avoid major economic damage, White House economic adviser
Gene Sperling warned today.  “There is a false sense of complacency among some in the
market that somehow things will be always solved at midnight,”
Sperling, the director of President  Barack Obama ’s National
Economic Council, told Bloomberg News reporters and editors.  “Unless sensible people in the Republican Party are
willing to take back control of their party,” he said, “there
is a much more serious risk of a negative economic and financial
event.”  Stocks rallied today as the federal government began its
first partial shutdown in 17 years amid a deadlock in Congress
over Republican demands to delay key provisions of the
Affordable Care Act, Obama’s health-care law.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.7 percent to
1,694.01 as of 1:02 p.m. in New York after the benchmark index
retreated 2.6 percent from its last record on Sept. 18. Treasury
10-year yields rose 2.5 basis points to 2.64 percent. The
Bloomberg U.S. Dollar  Index (SPX)  recovered from a 0.4 percent earlier
decline to trade little changed.  Investors are overly optimistic that Washington will avoid
an economic crisis because a default was averted in August 2011
through a last-minute agreement, he said.  Partisan Standoff  The partisan battle on spending is being waged as the
government also approaches an Oct. 17 deadline to raise the
legal debt limit. Republicans are seeking more concessions from
Obama, who says he won’t negotiate on the debt ceiling.  Sperling said failure to approve the legislation needed to
avoid default may tip the economy back into recession.  “Every independent economist believes that if this faction
puts our economy into default they are putting us at risk of a
recession,” he said. A prolonged government shutdown by itself
would be an economically damaging “body blow” to the middle
class, he said.  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, has issued
a list of conditions to raise the $16.7 trillion legal debt
limit, including approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL
pipeline, major revisions to the tax code, a one-year delay of
the insurance mandate in Obama’s health-care law, means testing
of the Medicare insurance program for the elderly, and
reductions in government regulations.  Republicans are “deeply misguided” if they believe Obama
will bargain on the debt ceiling, Sperling said.  Obama senior adviser Dan Pfeiffer said the president
wouldn’t repeat the decision made in 2011 to make concessions to
win a debt-limit increase.  “That movie is over,” Pfeiffer said. ‘It’s never going to
happen again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 