-- Barcelona Beats Celtic in Champions League; Arsenal, Chelsea Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-01T23:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/arsenal-defeats-napoli-2-0-in-champions-league-as-chelsea-wins.html
Barcelona needed a late goal to beat
10-man Celtic 1-0 in soccer’s  Champions League  as English
Premier League clubs Arsenal and Chelsea were easy winners.  Cesc Fabregas scored in the 76th minute last night to give
Barcelona the win at Celtic, which had captain  Scott Brown  red-carded for a foul of Neymar earlier in the second half.  “Celtic are a team that demand so much from you,”
Fabregas said on the website of tournament organizer UEFA. “It
was a complete match from our point of view. Probably the most
complete in the entire season.”  Mesut Ozil scored his first goal for Arsenal in a 2-0
defeat of Napoli and Ramires got a brace as Chelsea routed
Steaua Bucharest 4-0 in Bucharest.  Last season’s runner-up  Borussia Dortmund ,  Atletico Madrid 
and Schalke also won in the second round of group games in
Europe’s elite club competition. Eight more matches are
scheduled today, when  Bayern Munich  continues its title defense
at Manchester City.  After beating Barcelona in the group stage last season in
Glasgow, Celtic held the four-time European champion scoreless
into the second half of its Group H match. The Scottish champion
went a man down in the 59th minute when Brown was red carded for
appearing to kick out at Neymar after fouling the Brazilian.  “It changed the game,” Celtic manager Neil Lennon told
 Sky Sports  when asked about the red card. “It’s hard enough
playing Barcelona with 11 men.”  Fabregas Scores  Barcelona broke through with 14 minutes remaining on the
counterattack as Neymar played a ball down the right for  Alexis Sanchez , whose cross was headed home by Fabregas.  The victory leaves Barcelona atop the group with six
points. Seven-time European champion AC Milan is two points back
after a 1-1 draw with Ajax in Amsterdam.  Stefano Denswil’s goal in the final minute looked to have
given Ajax the win, though  Mario Balotelli  scored from the
penalty spot after being fouled in stoppage time.  Arsenal needed eight minutes to score against visiting
Napoli in Group F. Aaron Ramsey cut a pass to Ozil, who fired in
a shot from just inside the area for his first goal since
completing a club-record 42.7 million-pound ($69.2 million) move
from Real  Madrid .  Ozil set up the second goal seven minutes later as he laid
off a pass for Olivier Giroud to score from close range.  “He had an outstanding first half where you had everything
you want to see from a great player,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said of Ozil in a news conference. “Individual skill,
team play, finishing, final ball -- just sit there and enjoy it.
I thought he was great in Madrid, and we are just lucky to have
got him.”  Wenger’s Anniversary  The victory, which sent Arsenal top of the group, came 17
years to the day after Wenger took over as manager.  Dortmund beat Marseille 3-0 at home as  Robert Lewandowski 
scored twice. The result left the German league leader tied with
Napoli on three points.  Chelsea picked up its first points in Group E in Romania as
Ramires scored in the 20th minute and Daniel Georgievski’s own
goal made it 2-0 at halftime. Ramires scored his second 10
minutes into the second half and  Frank Lampard  added a fourth
goal in the final minute.  “We always had control of the game,” Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho , whose team lost at home to Basel in its opener, said
on UEFA.com. “We scored four and probably could have scored six
or seven because we played really well.”  Schalke is three points ahead of Chelsea atop the group
after Julian Draxler’s half-volley secured a 1-0 win at Basel.  Atletico Madrid rallied for a 2-1 victory at Porto on Arda
Turan’s 86th-minute goal to move atop Group G. Diego Godin also
scored for Atletico, while Jackson Martinez got Porto’s goal.  Austria Vienna and 10-man Zenit St. Petersburg picked up
their first points with their scoreless draw. Zenit’s Axel
Witsel was shown a red card just before halftime for a foul on
Florian Mader.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 