-- Asian Stocks Rise as Investors Weigh Shutdown, Sales Tax
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-10-01T13:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/asian-stocks-maintain-decline-ahead-of-u-s-shutdown.html
Asian  stocks  rose, rebounding from
yesterday’s biggest slump in a month, as investors weighed the
impact of a U.S. government shutdown and  Japan ’s decision to
proceed with a  sales-tax  increase.  NSK Ltd., a Japanese bearings maker, jumped 3.3 percent
after boosting its net-income forecast by 13 percent. Ube
Industries Ltd., a chemical maker, soared 6 percent in Tokyo.
Kalbe Farma Tbk. led gains on the Asian benchmark index, with
the Indonesian drugmaker surging 7.6 percent after plunging 9.2
percent yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.4 percent to 139.05 at
9:57 p.m. in Tokyo as all but two of the 10 industry groups
advanced. The measure yesterday fell 1.6 percent, its biggest
drop since Aug. 20. Japan will raise its sales tax in April to 8
percent from 5 percent, Abe said today. U.S. lawmakers passed a
midnight deadline without reaching a compromise to keep funding
the government. Both sides of U.S. politics also are still in
dispute over raising the nation’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling.  “Abe showed his leadership with the sales-tax decision,
removing one uncertain factor,” said  Ayako Sera , Tokyo-based
market strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. “But I
don’t think the reaction will last long, as the tax increase was
expected. A bigger issue is the  U.S. Congress . The government
has started a shutdown, making it hard for investors to make a
move.”  Sales Tax  Japan’s Topix index fell 0.1 percent, after earlier rising
as Abe confirmed the first sales tax increase since 1997. The
prime minister told reporters he will unveil stimulus measures
later today to counteract the impact on the economy. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average added 0.2 percent.  The  Bank of Japan  reported today its quarterly Tankan index
for large manufacturers rose to 12 in September, the highest
since 2007, from 4 in June, exceeding the reading of 7 expected
by economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.2 percent as the
central bank kept its key  interest rate  at a record low.  South
Korea’s Kospi index  rose 0.1 percent and  Singapore ’s Straits
Times Index gained 0.4 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex index and New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index both rose 0.2 percent. Financial markets
in  Hong Kong  and  China  are closed today.  China’s official gauge of manufacturing, the  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index, climbed to 51.1 in September from 51 in August,
the National Bureau of Statistics reported today, rising less
than economists had forecast.  September Advance  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 6.4 percent in
September. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3
percent today after the gauge declined 0.6 percent yesterday.
The U.S. government began a partial shutdown at midnight
Washington time for the first time in 17 years, putting as many
as 800,000 federal employees out of work, closing national parks
and halting some public services.  “Politicians seem to believe that there’s political
capital to be gained from causing the government to shut down,
and that they’ll be able to gain more when it comes to the debt-ceiling debate,” John Baur, Boston-based portfolio manager at
Eaton Vance Management, which oversees $261 billion globally,
said in an interview in Singapore. “The debt-ceiling debate is
the real deal that we need to be worried about.”  Telcos, Tepco  The telecommunication services sector gained the most among
the 10 industry  groups  of the MSCI Asia Pacific Index while
utilities dropped. True Corp. Pcl, a Thai telecommunications
provider, gained 3.2 percent to 8 baht. SK Telecom Co. added 2.5
percent to 224,000 won in  Seoul .  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., the
owner of the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant,
declined 4.1 percent to 586 yen, leading the drop among
utilities.  NSK gained 3.3 percent to 1,034 yen after boosting
forecasts for sales, earnings and its dividend. Ube Industries
Ltd. soared 6 percent to 196 yen after Citigroup Inc. said the
company’s cut to its profit forecast was within expectations.  Kalbe Farma surged 7.6 percent to 1,270 Indonesian rupiah.
The shares plunged 9.2 percent yesterday, the biggest decline
since September 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  