-- AT&T Takes on Google With Fast Fiber Hookups in Austin
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-10-01T04:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/at-t-takes-on-google-with-fast-fiber-hookups-in-austin.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  plans to roll out fiber-optic Internet access in Austin in December that’s 30 times
faster than standard broadband, setting the stage for a showdown
with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in the Texas city.  The 300-megabit-per-second offering will be available in
selected areas in Austin, the Dallas-based carrier said today in
a statement. Called U-verse with GigaPower, the service will
eventually reach speeds of 1 gigabit -- about 100 times faster
than standard access.  By introducing 300-megabit access this year, AT&T aims to
get a jump on Google’s planned arrival in the area in 2014. The
city will be the second metropolitan area to be wired for
Google’s high-speed fiber-optic service, following Kansas City.
Both companies plan to begin customer installations for their 1-gigabit services by the middle of next year.  AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, originally announced
plans to boost speeds in Austin in April -- the same month
Google said it would be expanding there. Google, based in
Mountain View,  California , is gradually rolling out the service
to new cities, bringing fresh competition to existing broadband
providers. The project -- called Google Fiber -- is meant to be
a showcase for what people can do with dramatically faster
Internet speeds.  AT&T has been selling its U-verse fiber-optic network in
Austin since 2007. The speedier version will be rolled out using
some of the community-canvassing efforts pioneered by Google.
Both companies will ask people in Austin to sign up online if
they’re interested in service packages, which include Internet
and television.  Pricing Plans  AT&T declined to discuss pricing for the new services. In
the Kansas City metropolitan area, which straddles the states of
Kansas and Missouri, Google charges $70 a month for Internet
access at gigabit speeds and $120 with TV programming included.  It makes sense to expand AT&T’s fiber-optic network because
installation costs have fallen and sales prospects have
improved, Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson told
investors at a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. conference last week.  “I fully expect you’ll see us doing multiple markets like
this over the next few years,” Stephenson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  