-- AudioCodes Reaches 2-Year High on Sales to Microsoft
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-10-02T07:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/audiocodes-reaches-2-year-high-on-sales-israel-overnight.html
AudioCodes Ltd. (AUDC) , the Israeli company
whose Internet calling technology is used by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
jumped to a two-year high on speculation annual sales will grow
at the fastest pace in three years.  Shares of the technology company advanced 2.5 percent to
25.56 shekels, or the equivalent of $7.24, at 9:58 a.m. in  Tel
Aviv . The U.S.-traded shares yesterday closed at $7.29. The
Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the most-traded Israeli
companies in New York climbed 1.2 percent to 100.93.  AudioCodes posted the biggest quarterly gain in three years
after Microsoft said in July that its Lync business, which uses
the Israeli company’s technology,  grew  30 percent in the second
quarter from the first and is set to expand by “double
digits.” AudioCodes’  sales  will increase 7.5 percent in 2013,
the most since 2010, according to the average of two analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “They have more potential revenue for future years than
they are recognizing now,” Andrew Uerkwitz, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co., said by phone from  New York  yesterday. “They
should be able to meet management’s target long-term sustainable
sales growth rate of 15 percent.”  Skype & Yammer  Microsoft  said  on Sept. 19 that it plans to merge Lync,
which provides phone, video, and instant messaging services,
with other communications products including Skype and Yammer.  “The combination is a move to form a $3.2 billion business
that provides the best services to corporations and AudioCodes
is a key supplier for this business,” Mandeep Singh, analyst
for Bloomberg Industries in New York, said by phone yesterday.  AudioCodes, based in Lod,  Israel , expects the Lync business
to grow 30 percent in 2013, Chief Executive Officer Shabtai Adlersberg said on a July 30 conference call. The company
increased its annual  forecast  for adjusted earnings to a range
of 12 cents to 15 cents a share from a previous projection of 10
cents to 14 cents.  “Microsoft said that the Lync system is incorporated in 70
percent of Fortune 500 companies, but the majority of those are
not using voice nor have they fully implemented it across their
companies,” said Uerkwitz, who has the equivalent of a buy
recommendation on the stock. “There is room for these companies
to invest more in Lync, which would continue to be accretive to
AudioCodes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  