-- Stocks Drop on U.S. Shutdown as Yen, Treasuries Advance
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-10-02T20:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/australian-futures-rise-after-u-s-gains-as-crude-sinks.html
Stocks slid around the world and gold
rallied as the U.S. government shutdown entered a second day and
a report showed American employers added fewer jobs than
forecast. The dollar fell, while the yen and Treasuries rose.  The MSCI All-Country World Index dropped 0.1 percent at 4
p.m. in  New York  and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPA)  slipped 0.1
percent, paring an earlier drop of as much as 0.9 percent. Gold
and silver jumped more than 2 percent to lead commodities
higher, while oil rallied on speculation a pipeline expansion
will fuel demand. The 10-year Treasury yield fell three basis
points to 2.62 percent. The dollar weakened versus 11 of 16
major currencies, while the yen rose versus 14. The euro and
Italian notes rallied.  President  Barack Obama  summoned the top four leaders of
Congress to the White House today for the first high-level talks
on reopening the partially shut U.S. government amid few signs
of a resolution. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said the U.S.
has begun final extraordinary measures that will be exhausted no
later than Oct. 17 to avoid breaching its debt limit. The ECB
kept its refinancing rate at 0.5 percent, matching economists’
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “It’s all about the lack of progress out of  Washington  and
concerns about the debt ceiling and the government shutdown all
being negotiated in one package,” Paul Zemsky, chief investment
officer of multi-asset strategies for ING Investment Management,
said by phone from New York. His firm oversees $190 billion.
“If we fail to reach a debt-ceiling agreement, that could cause
a global-type of concern and cause markets to sell off
globally.”  Tesco Slides  The S&P 500 pared yesterday’s 0.8 percent gain as
telephone, industrial and health-care shares led declines in six
of the  10 main industry groups.  The benchmark index has declined
2.3 percent after last reaching a record on Sept. 18 when the
 Federal Reserve  refrained from reducing its stimulus program.  Companies that rely on government contracts helped lead
losses today, with United Technologies Corp., Lockheed Martin
Corp. and Raytheon Co. slipping at least 1.9 percent.  Monsanto Co. dropped 1 percent as the world’s largest seed
company gave a full-year earnings forecast that trailed analyst
estimates. Alcoa Inc. slumped 1.8 percent after Deutsche Bank AG
lowered its rating on the aluminum producer. Global Payments
Inc. rallied 11 percent after boosting its earnings forecast.  Companies increased payrolls by 166,000 in September,
figures from ADP Research Institute showed today. The median
forecast of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an
advance of 180,000.  Technical Watch  U.S. stocks may reach a new high before dropping by as much
as 4 percent in the next four to five weeks, as the  S&P 500 
forms a rising wedge, according to technical analysts at UBS AG.  While the S&P 500 doesn’t show any bearish divergence in
trading indicators such as the NYSE McClellan Oscillator, which
measures the moving average of net advancing shares in a market,
or the number of stocks above their 20-day moving average, the
index may reach another high by mid-October, before falling,
Michael Riesner and Marc Mueller wrote in a note dated Oct. 1.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.7 percent for the third
decline in four days.  Hochtief AG slumped 7.9 percent after the Sydney Morning
Herald reported allegations of corruption at the company’s
Australian business. KappAhl AB dropped 9.8 percent after the
clothing retailer proposed paying no dividend this financial
year. Portugal Telecom SGPS SA jumped 6.5 percent, the most in
almost four months, after agreeing to merge with  Brazil ’s Oi SA
to form a network operator with 100 million subscribers.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.2 percent, a second
straight gain. The Philippine Composite Index jumped 2.7 percent
after the  Asian Development Bank  raised its economic growth
forecast for the country, while gauges in Russia and  Turkey  fell
more than 1 percent. Markets in India and  China  were shut for
holidays.  Gold futures jumped 2.7 percent to $1,320.70 an ounce, the
first gain in three days, and silver surged 3.4 percent to
$21.88 an ounce. West Texas Intermediate oil added 2 percent to
$104.10 a barrel after TransCanada Corp. said it expects to
complete work on the southern portion of its Keystone pipeline
expansion by the end of October.  The 10-year  Treasury yield  slid as low as 2.59, within one
basis point of the lowest level since Aug. 12. The yield is down
from the high this year of 3.005 percent on Sept. 6 and compares
with the average of 3.53 percent over the past decade.  Treasury market volatility increased by the most in six
weeks yesterday. Price swings as measured by the Merrill Lynch
Option Volatility Estimate Index jumped 9 percent as the gauge
advanced for a fifth day, the longest run of increases in four
weeks. The index was at 87.37, versus the average of 69 for the
past year.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against losses on Treasuries fell,
with credit-default swaps linked to  U.S. government debt  rose
two basis points to 35.42 basis points, the highest since April.
That compares with a peak of 56 basis points in July 2011, when
a political standoff threatened to shutter programs and delay
bond payments.  The amount of debt protected by default swaps has fallen to
$3.4 billion dollars from $5.6 billion two years ago and
compares with $13 billion of outstanding insurance on German
bunds. There are 886 credit-default swaps contracts linked to
U.S debt outstanding, according to the  Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp . There were 56 trades covering a gross $2.1
billion of Treasuries in the week through Sept. 27, compared
with 10 trades the week before.  Corporate Bonds  Strategists from Bank of America Corp. to  Wells Fargo & Co .
predict dollar-denominated corporate bonds will outperform
stocks this month if political gridlock persists with the
government partially shut down this week.  Company debt in the U.S. has gained 1.1 percent since Sept.
17, the day before the Fed surprised investors with its decision
to maintain unprecedented economic stimulus. In August 2011, the
last time legislators approached a deadline to raise the debt
limit, investment grade bonds returned 0.13 percent while U.S.
stocks declined 5.4 percent.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield fell five basis points to 4.37
percent. Italian notes gained as  Silvio Berlusconi  said he’ll
back Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s government. The yield on
similar-maturity Portuguese notes jumped 18 basis points to 6.77
percent.  The yen appreciated for a second day, gaining 0.7 percent
to 97.38 per dollar, while the euro gained 0.4 percent to
$1.3586 after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
the bank is attentive to exchange-rate developments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  