-- Australian Retail Sales Increase in August on Department Stores
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-10-01T01:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/australian-retail-sales-increase-in-august-on-department-stores.html
Australian retail  sales (AURSTSA)  advanced
faster than economists forecast in August, led by a rebound in
spending at department store as interest-rate reductions
encouraged consumers.  Sales climbed 0.4 percent to A$21.9 billion ($20.4 billion)
from a month earlier, when they rose 0.1 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. The result compares with the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists for
a 0.3 percent gain.  Traders are pricing in almost no chance Reserve Bank of
Australia Governor Glenn Stevens and his board will cut rates
today after lowering borrowing costs by 2.25 percentage points
between November 2011 and August.  Consumer confidence  rose 4.7
percent last month and home prices climbed 3.7 percent across
Australia’s eight major cities in the three months through
September, according to private reports.  “Households are feeling more confident about future
economic conditions, helping loosen purse strings,” Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said before
the report. “The lively residential property market is an added
lift to discretionary spending, given that homes are typically a
household’s largest asset.”  Spending at department stores jumped 6.4 percent after
declining 7.9 percent a month earlier. Consumers spent 0.4
percent more at cafes and restaurants, today’s report showed.
They spent 0.6 percent less on household goods, it showed.  The local dollar traded at 93.32 U.S. cents at 11:34 a.m.
in Sydney from 93.21 cents before the release.  Woolworths Sales  Woolworths Ltd.,  Australia ’s largest retailer, increased
profit at the fastest pace in five years as it opened on average
one grocery store every five days. Net income rose 24 percent to
A$2.26 billion in the year ended June, it said Aug. 28.  “The easing in monetary policy since late 2011 has
supported interest-sensitive spending and asset values, and
further effects can be expected over time, including from the
declines in rates seen over recent months,” Stevens said in a
statement Sept. 3 after leaving rates unchanged at 2.5 percent.
“The pace of borrowing has remained relatively subdued, though
recently there are signs of increased demand for finance by
households.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  