-- Lawsky Sees Obamacare as Model to Simplify Home Insurance
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-01T15:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/lawsky-sees-obamacare-as-model-to-simplify-home-insurance.html
Homeowners’ insurance needs to be
more standardized because customers are confused about what
their policies protect, New York’s financial regulator said.  Few fully understand all the complexities of their
coverage,  Benjamin Lawsky , superintendent of the state’s
Department of Financial Services, said yesterday in an interview
at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. More uniformity would
help people compare offerings from competing insurers, he said.  “There’s room for greater standardization,” Lawsky said
in follow-up remarks. “We’re doing it for health insurance and
we need to ask, ‘Why not move in the same direction for
homeowners’ policies?’”  The push to simplify residential policies was inspired by
changes made to medical insurance through President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul, which set out standardized
coverage levels, said Lawsky, 43. Superstorm Sandy also
highlighted misunderstandings. Typical homeowners’ policies
exclude flood damage, which was a major source of losses from
the storm that struck the U.S. East Coast last October.  “For the average consumer, the contracts are difficult to
read,” said Tim Dodge, assistant vice president of research at
Independent Insurance Agents & Brokers of New York. “You
probably could simplify some of the language without changing
the intent. The trick is to find that right balance.”  Lawsky’s office received more than 3,700 complaints from
consumers and businesses related to Sandy through July,
according to information on the  department’s website . That’s
less than 1 percent of the more than 400,000 claims tied to the
storm.  Cuomo’s Report  Improving policyholders’ understanding of homeowners’
coverage and making sure they carry adequate protection were
among the recommendations of a report New York Governor Andrew Cuomo commissioned after Sandy. The Department of Financial
Services was created two years ago by combining New York’s
banking and insurance watchdogs.  Obama’s health law sets up exchanges where individuals can
purchase coverage. There are four levels of coverage on the
exchanges -- bronze, silver, gold and platinum. Bronze plans,
the cheapest and least generous, are designed to cover about 60
percent of medical costs and carry higher deductibles. Platinum
plans, the most expensive, cover about 90 percent of costs.  Today is the first day of enrollment in exchanges set up by
the Affordable Care Act. Enrollment will take place even as the
U.S. government begins a shutdown, after House Republicans
sought a delay of the health overhaul as a condition for funding
the government, a condition rejected by Democrats in the Senate.  Lawsky’s office has said that standardizing health plans
makes it easier for consumers to find the best options.  ‘Dizzying Array’  “New York previously had a dizzying array of thousands
upon thousands of plans,” Lawsky said in a July  statement .  Other homeowners’ coverage terms that may confuse
policyholders include deductibles that vary based on the cause
of damage, and clauses that restrict payouts if a home is harmed
at the same time by two or more risks, such as wind and
floodwaters, according to the  Consumer Federation of America .  “It’s unreasonable and unrealistic to expect consumers to
understand all this stuff,” said Birny Birnbaum, executive
director of the Center for Economic Justice. “It puts insurance
companies in a commanding position because they’re writing the
policies.”  Birnbaum’s group supports a set of minimum requirements for
homeowners’ insurance. Having that base line would help
consumers compare policies, he said.  Dodge said that excessive standardization could limit
competition by discouraging companies from developing new
features. Brokers and agents can help explain coverage, he said.  Industry Losses  U.S. home insurers haven’t posted an annual profit on the
protection since 2007 and collectively had a pretax loss
excluding investment gains of $3.1 billion last year, according
to A.M. Best data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Insurers can
cushion underwriting losses investing premium dollars until they
have to pay claims. State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co.
is the largest insurer in New York and the U.S. followed by
Allstate Corp., the data show.  “We always encourage our policyholders to talk to our
agents to understand their policies,” said Rachael Risinger, a
spokeswoman for Bloomington, Illinois-based State Farm.  Justin Herndon of Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate also
recommended such conversations with agents to ensure that
clients have “the protection they need for life’s
uncertainties.” 