-- Taxes on Severance Payments Draw U.S. High Court Review
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-01T13:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/taxes-on-severance-payments-draw-u-s-high-court-review.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to
consider whether companies and employees must pay Social
Security taxes on severance compensation, accepting a case that
may force the Treasury to give billions of dollars in refunds.  The justices today said they will hear the appeal from
President  Barack Obama ’s administration in a case involving
Quality Stores Inc., once the country’s largest agricultural
specialty retailer.  The issue has grown in importance with the  layoffs  that
have accompanied the economic slowdown over the past five years.
The administration says that more than 2,400 refund claims,
seeking more than $1 billion, are already in the pipeline and
that those figures will increase.  The question for the Supreme Court is whether severance
payments qualify as “wages,” making them subject to tax, under
the Federal Insurance Contributions Act. That law uses payroll
taxes to finance  Social Security  and part of the Medicare
health-care program for the elderly and disabled.  The administration contends the law, known as FICA, defines
“wages” broadly to include compensation for services of any
type. The Quality Stores payments “provided compensation to
employees for service that those employees had rendered,”
argued U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, the
administration’s top Supreme Court lawyer.  Stores Closed  Quality Stores, which had sales of $1.1 billion in 2000,
closed more than 300 stores in 2001 and 2002 and fired its
remaining employees. The company, which was based in Muskegon,
 Michigan , made severance payments to 3,100 people.  The company paid the disputed taxes and then sought a $1
million refund. Some of that money would go to 1,850 former
employees who paid their share of the FICA tax and authorized
Quality Stores to seek refunds on their behalf.  Employers and employees each pay 6.2 percent in Social
Security taxes on wages up to a cap, which is $113,700 this
year. Employers and employees each pay 1.45 percent of all wages
toward Medicare; high-income taxpayers are subject to additional
payroll levies.  Quality Stores contends that the payments represented
supplemental unemployment compensation, not wages. The payments
“are not made for employment but rather for the elimination of
employment,” Quality Stores argued in court papers.  Lower courts are divided on the issue. A Cincinnati-based
federal appeals court said Quality Stores was entitled to a
refund.  The court will hear arguments early next year and rule by
July. The case is  United States  v. Quality Stores, 12-1408.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  