-- Banco Popular Follows BBVA With Additional Tier 1 CoCo Bond Sale
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-10-01T16:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/banco-popular-follows-bbva-with-additional-tier-1-coco-bond-sale.html
Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  is selling
contingent convertible bonds as part of its most-junior layer of
 debt capital , becoming the second Spanish lender to issue the
securities under new rules governing how they can be used to
bolster balance sheets.  Popular, which lends mainly to  Spain ’s small- and medium-sized businesses, plans to issue 500 million euros ($676
million) of undated additional Tier 1 bonds that will convert to
stock if its  common equity Tier 1 ratio  falls below 5.125
percent, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be identified because they’re not authorized to
speak about it.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  was the first
Spanish bank to issue the new securities, selling $1.5 billion
of perpetual bonds with a 9 percent coupon in April.  “We wanted to see the market develop so it’s good they’re
issuing an innovative instrument,” said Satish Pulle, a
portfolio manager at ECM Asset Management Ltd., which manages
about $8.5 billion. “This one should appeal to a hedge-fund
type of investor base.”  European regulators endorsed the Capital Requirements
Directive in April as part of the Basel III regime being
introduced in the region. It sets out the terms they want to see
on additional Tier 1 securities, including the ability to absorb
losses in a crisis.  Popular’s bonds will also convert to equity if the Madrid-based lender’s Tier 1 ratio calculated under different standards
falls below 6 percent and the bank posts four quarters of losses
resulting in a one-third reduction in capital and reserves,
according to the person familiar with the matter.  Besides BBVA, the only other European lender that has
issued additional Tier 1 bonds is Societe Generale SA, which
sold $1.25 billion of 8.25 percent notes on Aug. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  