-- Bangladesh Opposition Lawmaker Sentenced to Death for War Crimes
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-10-01T10:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/bangladesh-opposition-lawmaker-sentenced-to-death-for-war-crimes.html
Bangladesh sentenced a senior
opposition lawmaker to death for  war crimes  in 1971, the first
conviction of a member of parliament and the seventh in the
three-year-old trials that have sparked street violence.  Lawmaker Salahuddin Quader Chowdhury, whose father led a
party that backed  Pakistan  during the country’s independence
struggle, was found guilty of nine charges of genocide,
including the killing of Hindus, prosecutor Syed Haider Ali told
reporters in Dhaka today. His Bangladesh Nationalist Party holds
32 of 300 directly elected seats in Parliament.  “Those who were affected by the war crimes 42 years ago
have received justice,” Attorney General Mahbubey Alam told
reporters after the verdict. “It was an appropriate
punishment.”  The death sentence risks a renewal of clashes that killed
more than 150 people this year following previous convictions.
The tribunal set up in 2010 has reopened wounds that led to the
country’s founding four decades ago, when about three million
people died in a nationalist uprising against Pakistani troops.  “We did not get justice,” Hummam Quader Chowdhury, son of
Salahuddin Quader Chowdhury, told reporters. The family plans to
appeal the verdict in the  Supreme Court , he said.  Chowdhury had faced 23 charges, including one in which he
was accused of leading an armed group that raided Hindu
neighborhoods and killed a group of 32 civilians in April 1971.  Death Sentences  The tribunal was created after a 14-party alliance that
campaigned for trials won national elections in 2008. Of seven
people convicted so far, six received death sentences, while
another received life in prison.  Earlier this month, Abdul Quader Mollah, Jamaat-e-Islami’s
assistant secretary-general, received a death sentence after
appealing an earlier life sentence.  Another eight people face charges, mostly members of
Jamaat-e-Islami, that had supported Pakistan’s rule. Jamaat is
aligned with Chowdury’s BNP. A court last month banned Jamaat-e-Islami from standing in next year’s election in response to a
2009 petition claiming that the party doesn’t believe in
democracy or  Bangladesh ’s sovereignty.  As British colonial rule ended in  South Asia  in 1947, East
and West Pakistan were separated by 2,000 kilometers (1,243
miles) of Indian territory. Pakistani troops in 1971 attempted
to quell a nationalist uprising in the east that was triggered
by the jailing of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who had led his Awami
League to victory in elections.  The war ended nine months later with the creation of
Bangladesh after Indian forces helped defeat Pakistan’s army.
Jamaat-e-Islami supported staying with Pakistan during the war,
and several of its leaders are being tried by the tribunal on
charges they collaborated with Pakistani forces.  More than 150 people were killed, including seven children,
and at least 2,000 others were injured in clashes between
security forces and supporters of Jamaat and another Islamic
group from February to early May amid protests over the
tribunal’s rulings,  Human Rights Watch   said . It interviewed 95
victims, witnesses, journalists, lawyers and human rights
workers. Police officers were among those who died, it found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  