-- Bank of Canada Sr. Dep. Governor Macklem Toronto Speech (Text)
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-10-01T15:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/bank-of-canada-sr-dep-governor-macklem-toronto-speech-text-.html
Following is the text of a speech
Bank of  Canada  Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem is delivering
today in Toronto. Footnotes and charts have been removed.  Global Growth and the Prospects for Canada’s Exports  Introduction  Good afternoon and thank you for the invitation to address
the Economic Club of Canada.  Canada has thrived by being open to the world, and having the
world open to us. Our citizens hail from, travel to, and work in
countries across the globe. We participate in global governance,
offer our assistance and expertise in disasters and conflict,
and, most importantly for our prosperity, we are traders.
Historically, exports have been an important driver of Canada’s
economic growth.  Today, they account for about a third of our
national income.  This is my topic today -- exports. How is global demand
likely to shape our export performance, and what should we be
doing to take full advantage of an expanding world market?  Canada’s Export Performance  To cultivate and serve international markets, our exporters
have been smart, creative and competitive. They need to be.
Canadian exporters operate in a global marketplace with
aggressive competitors and a global economy continually in flux.
Changes to the geography and composition of growth over the past
dozen years have been nothing less than transformative. Growth
in the emerging-market and developing economies is now outpacing
that of the advanced economies, creating both new markets and
new sources of competition. And the  knowledge economy  is
becoming an important source of trade in services. The financial
crisis has, in many ways, only accelerated these changes.  Our exporters are adapting but it has been gut-wrenching.  In the wake of the financial crisis, our exports were harder
hit than in any post-war recession, decreasing by about 17 per
cent over three quarters. This was more than triple the decline
experienced in the 1990-91 recession. Many Canadian exporters
either went out of business or turned inward to Canadian
markets. From the peak in 2008 to the trough in 2010, the number
of exporters fell nearly 20 per cent, dropping by almost 9,000
firms.  After a surge in the second half of 2011, exports have again
lost momentum, falling back by about 1.2 per cent. They remain
6.5 per cent or $35 billion below their pre-recession peak, and
more than $130 billion below where they would be in an average
export recovery. There is much lost ground to make up.  This weakness largely reflects anemic foreign demand -- this
is the weakest post-war U.S. recovery. But it is being
compounded by a longer-term trend: our share of world exports
has been in decline for more than a decade. Since 2000, Canada’s
share has fallen from about 4.5 per cent to about 2.5 per cent.
Part of this decline is the inevitable consequence of the entry
of  China  into global markets. But even allowing for this, Canada
has fared poorly. Our loss of global trade share has been the
second largest in the G-20.  Following the financial crisis, the Bank’s strategy for
monetary policy was to support domestic demand while the
recovery in exports took hold. The first part of the strategy
worked. Final domestic demand recovered quickly in Canada.
But a side effect has been the emergence of imbalances in the
household sector, reflected in rising household leverage,
stretched valuations in a number of housing markets, and an
increase in the incidence of highly indebted households. Today,
there is a more constructive evolution of those household
imbalances.  This is good news. It reduces the risk of an abrupt and
painful correction down the road.  But this new-found and welcome household prudence is
dampening growth. To replace this growth, we need a rotation in
demand toward exports and business investment.  Unfortunately, this rotation has proven elusive.  This is consequential -- growth in Canada has slowed. In the
year leading up to this past June, growth averaged only 1.4 per
cent, compared to 2.6 per cent the year before. With Canada’s
potential output estimated to be growing at about 2 per cent,
growth in demand has not kept pace with the expansion in
production capacity, and economic slack has increased.  To absorb the current material degree of slack in the
economy, demand needs to grow measurably faster than supply.
That means growth of at least 2 1/2 per cent.  The Bank is currently revising its forecast, and we will
publish our latest outlook in our October Monetary Policy
Report. But in broad strokes, we expect household and government
spending together to contribute about 1 1/2 percentage points of
growth. So to reach at least 2 1/2 per cent GDP growth, we will
need at least a 1 percentage point contribution to growth from
net exports and investment. That means together exports and
investment need to grow by at least about 4 per cent after
taking into account their import content.  In the past year, net exports and investment made no
contribution to growth.  Conditions are propitious for business investment to
accelerate. Corporate balance sheets are exceptionally strong,
and corporate borrowing rates remain very low, even if they are
off their troughs. But investment is unlikely to accelerate
until businesses are confident that demand is picking up.  The key is exports.  As firms see their order books filling up, they will unlock
their investment plans. The typical lag between a pick up in
exports and an acceleration in investment is about six months.
So the crucial question is: What are the prospects for our
exports?  To address this question, I will start by reviewing the
outlook for global growth and the demand for our exports of
goods and services.  Global Outlook
Advanced economies are contributing more to growth  The  U.S. economy  is reaping the benefits of bold measures to
repair its financial system and exceptionally expansionary
monetary policy. Private demand has gained momentum, despite
considerable fiscal drag imposed by tax increases and
sequestration cuts and a sluggish  labour market .  Household deleveraging in the  United States  is well advanced.
Through a combination of defaults, increased savings and gains
in asset valuation in house and equity prices, household net
worth is now back to 2007 levels.  Housing starts and resales are recovering, and  house prices 
are now up almost 18 per cent from their trough. The once mighty
U.S. consumer is coming back, albeit more prudently, and this is
underpinning growth excluding fiscal policy in the 3 1/2 to 4 per
cent range.  Headline GDP growth, however, is much weaker, owing to
significant fiscal drag, which we estimate will subtract 1 3/4
percentage points from growth this year.  While this is dampening GDP growth, our exports are more
geared to private U.S. demand, which is stronger. The recovery
in housing, in particular, is creating new demand for Canadian
exports of lumber and building supplies.  In  Japan , the Abenomics “Three Arrows” policy revolution has
so far produced impressive results. The immediate impact was to
push equity prices significantly higher, depreciate the yen by
roughly 20 per cent, generate expectations of positive inflation
and push real long-term  interest rates  into negative territory.
This is now translating into faster growth, which averaged close
to 4 per cent, at annual rates, in the first half of this year.
To sustain this momentum, bold monetary policy measures will
need to be followed by more difficult structural reforms -- the
third arrow.  In  Europe , there are early signs of recovery. The
intersecting downward spirals of fiscal austerity, bank
deleveraging, declining economic activity, increasing government
debt burdens and rising non-performing loans are abating. Euro
area growth is now positive and, encouragingly, the structural
imbalances at the root of the euro crisis are also showing signs
of improvement. The substantial current account deficits in the
peripheral countries have been largely eliminated and, more
significantly, the competitiveness of the peripheral countries
relative to  Germany  has begun to improve. This bodes well.
Nevertheless, Europe is far from being out of the woods. Growth
is likely to remain subdued and downside risks remain. Still,
the situation is better than it was six months ago, and much
better than a year ago.  Growth in China looks solid, but other  emerging markets  are
losing momentum  In China, growth has slowed to a still-solid pace of 7 1/2
per cent, and confidence is improving. Growth is being spurred
by robust investment, particularly in infrastructure, as well as
expansionary credit conditions. Supported by “consumption-friendly” structural reforms, growth is expected to rotate
toward consumption, although this process is likely to be very
gradual.  In contrast, a number of other emerging markets have
experienced increased financial volatility and weakening growth
prospects. Against the background of a steepening U.S. yield
curve, there were broad-based capital outflows across emerging
markets through June and July as investors pulled back from
risk. Since then, markets have become more discriminating,
focusing on emerging markets that appear more vulnerable owing
to a combination of current account deficits, inflation and
slower growth.  While there has been some stabilization in the financial
markets, credit spreads have widened in these emerging-market
countries, and their currencies have depreciated sharply. To
limit the depreciation, authorities in affected countries have
responded with a series of measures to stem capital outflows,
including currency interventions,  capital controls  and higher
policy interest rates. While such measures may provide temporary
relief, they are not without cost. Ultimately, the best defense
is undertaking the fundamental reforms necessary to putting
one’s own house in order.  Expectations of stable, solid growth in China will support
commodity prices, which, overall, remain high by historical
standards. However, the recent slowing in other emerging
markets, combined with some retreat from risky assets, has
exerted downward pressure on many commodity prices in recent
months, particularly base metals. In aggregate, commodity prices
are expected to remain relatively stable through 2015, with the
effects of modest expected declines in  oil prices  offset by a
gradual rise in the prices of non-energy commodities.
How will these global developments affect our exports?
To address this question, I will look at our exports from three
perspectives: our trade geography, or who we sell to; our
competitiveness in global markets; and our product mix.  Our trade geography  Over the past dozen years, our trade geography has worked
against us because our major trading partners have been growing
more slowly than the global economy. From 2001 to 2007, the rise
of China and other emerging-market countries outpaced growth in
U.S. demand. The crisis only magnified this. Emerging markets
now account for 80 per cent of global growth. But only 12 per
cent of our exports go directly to fast-growing emerging markets
while 85 per cent go to slow-growing advanced economies.
Compared with our peers, Canada’s direct exposure to emerging
markets is tiny when measured as a share of exports.  To illustrate the magnitude of this trade geography effect,
suppose Canada had the same level of exposure as the United
States to emerging markets. Foreign demand for our exports would
be $60 billion higher.  Going forward, our trade geography should improve as the
recovery in advanced economies, and particularly the United
States, gains momentum. Emerging markets are likely to remain
the principal source of growth in the next several years, but as
the United States and other advanced economies recover, they are
expected to regain at least part of the share of global growth
that they lost in recent years. This will be positive for our
exports.  At the same time, Canadian exporters are developing new
markets in the fastest growing emerging markets. One-third of
firms report they have already started exporting to new markets
in the past two years, and about half plan to expand into new
countries over the next two years. The top two destinations are
Brazil and China.  In addition to direct exports to developing economies,
Canadian exporters are also embedded in global supply chains.
Participating in supply chains means that Canadian businesses
benefit from trade with countries such as India and China not
only by selling directly to them, but also by supplying firms in
the United States and other advanced economies that are selling
to the emerging markets. As the pendulum swings from off-shoring
to on-shoring, Canadian firms need to secure and grow their
presence in global supply chains.  Our competitiveness  A second factor influencing our exports is competitiveness.
Between 2000 and 2012, the labour cost of producing a unit of
output in Canada compared with the United States, adjusted for
the  exchange rate , increased by 75 per cent. The majority of
this loss of competitiveness reflects the appreciation of the
Canadian dollar, but weak productivity growth in Canada relative
to the United States also played a significant role.  This decline in competitiveness is manifest in our shrinking
share of the U.S. market. Not only did the U.S. import market
contract relative to the rest of the world, Canada’s share of
that market shrank.  What if we hadn’t lost competitiveness? What would our
exports be had our competitiveness stayed at its 2002 level?  If Canada’s exports had grown in tandem with those of the
U.S. and global economies -- in other words, taking the weakness
of the global economy as a given and excluding oil -- our goods
exports would have been $71 billion higher.  There are many factors that affect business investment and
productivity, including access to risk capital, the regulatory
environment, infrastructure and skills mismatches. This makes
productivity particularly hard to predict. But looking ahead,
stronger exports should encourage more investment and this, in
turn, should increase productivity. As firms fully utilize
existing capital, productivity can be expected to rise. And new
investment typically embodies new technologies, so as this new
investment comes on line, workers will have more and better
capital to work with. Better tools help make workers more
productive, which should improve our competitiveness.  Our product mix  The third factor is what we export -- our product mix. Here,
there are two forces at play, which have been moving in opposite
directions.  From 2000 to 2007, strong growth in advanced and emerging
economies created strong global demand for machinery and
equipment and  consumer goods . This shift in the composition of
global demand did not play to Canada’s strengths. Machinery and
equipment and consumer goods are a smaller proportion of our
exports than in the average world export basket.  Commodities, on the other hand, have worked in the other
direction. In the last several years, the boost from the
commodity intensity of our exports has turned the product mix
effect to a net positive for Canada, with the rise in our energy
exports more than fully offsetting the drag from machinery and
equipment.  Energy commodities have become an increasingly important
share of our exports. In 2000, energy made up 11 per cent of our
exports. Today it is almost 20 per cent. And oil is now by far
our most important commodity. Its share of commodity production
roughly doubled in the past decade, to close to 50 per cent
today.  But recently, energy transportation bottlenecks in  North
America  have been limiting this positive product mix effect.
While oil sands production is rising steadily, transportation
capacity has become increasingly problematic. All realistic
scenarios for U.S. energy independence include Canadian crude
production. But we have to get it there.  In the coming years our product mix is likely to provide less
of a boost than it has over the past five years. As I mentioned
earlier, commodity prices are expected to remain relatively
stable through 2015 but some of our export sectors that
particularly suffered, such as forestry, should pick up.  Services exports: a growing opportunity  Finally, let me say a few words about our exports of
services. We tend to focus on exports of goods, but services
have the potential to become a more important source of Canadian
national income.  Services already account for 15 per cent or $75 billion of
our exports. This is more than either motor vehicles and parts
or machinery and equipment. And unlike motor vehicles and
machinery and equipment, our services exports were relatively
stable throughout the recession.  The global growth of the knowledge economy is changing the
composition of our service exports. We have been -- and are --
selling the products of our intellectual labours to the world.
This includes management services, computer services and
information, financial services and engineering services.
Services being exported range from new apps to security and
training software, data analytics, multimedia, online services,
and social media management systems.  More than 60 per cent or $46 billion of our service exports
are commercial services, some 40 per cent of which are purchased
by non-U.S. clients. About 50 per cent of financial and
insurance services, one of the largest categories of service
exports, go to markets outside the United States. And while
exports of management services to the United States and the
European Union have slowed since 2005, they have grown in other
countries. This trend underscores one of the significant
strengths of our services exports: they are more diversified
than our goods exports. More than 20 per cent are to non-OECD
countries.  Conclusion  Let me try to summarize. To put a meaningful dent in the
remaining slack in the Canadian economy, we need annual growth
of at least 2 1/2 per cent. Achieving this requires a rotation
in demand toward exports and business investment.  The conditions are in place for investment to accelerate but,
in an uncertain world, firms need to see demand pick up before
they will commit. An improving global outlook, particularly for
advanced economies, should boost our exports. To fully reap the
benefits of this lift, we must strengthen our competitiveness
while developing new markets and securing our position in global
supply chains.  As we said in our September 4 policy statement, uncertain
global conditions appear to be delaying the rotation towards
exports and investment. Near-term growth now looks a little less
choppy than initially projected. We are now expecting growth in
the third and fourth quarters of this year to be in the 2 to 2
1/2 per cent range before strengthening next year as the
rotation to exports and investment gains momentum.  There is a risk that this rotation is delayed further. At the
same time, some recent surveys and other evidence, including the
pick-up in firm creation, suggest that firms are becoming more
optimistic. And once the sequence of stronger exports, rising
confidence, increased investment and stronger productivity is
launched, it could well gain traction faster than expected. We
will be monitoring this dynamic closely.  With inflation subdued, monetary policy remains highly
stimulative to provide time for the recovery in exports and
investment to take hold.  This is not the first time we have faced the challenge of
restoring our exports against shifting global tides. From beaver
pelts to building materials, we have experienced plunges in the
markets for our goods. We recovered by developing new goods and
services and entering new markets. There can be no doubt that we
have the entrepreneurial spirit, the skills, the educated work
force and the expertise to compete successfully in the global
marketplace. But that does not make it easy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  