-- Bank of America Finishes Merger of Merrill Lynch Into Parent
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-01T16:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/bank-of-america-finishes-merger-of-merrill-lynch-into-parent-1-.html
     Oct. 1 (Bloomberg) --  Bank of America Corp. , the second-largest U.S. lender by assets, completed the merger of its
Merrill Lynch & Co. subsidiary into the parent company to
simplify the corporate structure.  The bank assumes the unit’s obligations and debt while
keeping the Merrill Lynch brand, the company said today in a
statement. The transaction completes a process first disclosed
by the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company in an Aug. 2
 filing .  Bank of America assumed all of Merrill Lynch’s commitments,
“including its outstanding U.S. and non-U.S.  debt securities ,
its obligations regarding outstanding trust-preferred
securities, and its guarantees of both outstanding non-U.S. debt
securities issued by its subsidiaries and trading contracts of
its subsidiaries,” according to the statement.  The largest U.S. banks must submit updated plans today
showing regulators how they would wind themselves down in a
crisis. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s predecessor
bought Merrill Lynch in 2009, and merging the legal entity could
help appease regulators who want to make failures at the biggest
banks easier to resolve in a crisis.  Dissolving the legal entity ends Merrill Lynch’s need to
file separate regulatory  disclosures . Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Inc., the firm’s broker-dealer unit, will
continue to exist as a subsidiary, according to the statement.  Merrill Lynch had about $62 billion in long-term  debt  as of
the second quarter, according to  David Hendler , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. The move shouldn’t affect Merrill Lynch  bonds 
because spreads have already converged with those of the parent
company, Hendler said in August.  Bank of America advanced 19 percent this year through
yesterday and rose 9 cents to $13.89 at 11:43 a.m. in  New York 
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  