-- Barclays Starts Europe Stock Gauges Based on Shiller Valuations
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-10-01T11:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/barclays-starts-europe-stock-gauges-based-on-shiller-valuations.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  introduced three indexes
to track the cheapest industries in Europe based on their 10-year earnings history, a methodology designed by Yale University
Professor  Robert Shiller .  The Shiller Barclays CAPE Europe Sector Index, which begins
operations today, is made up of the four most undervalued
industries when excluding the one with the worst momentum,
Anthony Lazanas, global head of index strategy at Barclays in
New York, said in a phone interview. Those sectors are currently
basic materials, utilities, information technology and
telecommunications, he added.  A second gauge will take underweight positions on
industries deemed overvalued, meaning it will hold fewer of
those stocks than are represented in benchmark indexes. A third
measure will add short, or negative, positions on the MSCI
Europe Index to hedge against losses.  “Earnings are too volatile year to year,” Shiller said in
a separate phone interview. “The thing we are worried about is
overstating” valuations based on measures such as profit over
the past 12 months, he said.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index has risen 11 percent this year,
as the euro area emerged from a recession and the  European
Central Bank  pledged to keep  interest rates  at record lows to
nurture the economic recovery. The index has climbed to 14.3
times this year’s estimated earnings, near the highest since
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Barclays  index  has returned 133 percent including
dividends since its data starts in December 2008, Bloomberg data
show, trumping the 90 percent gain for the Stoxx 600.  Irrational Exuberance  Shiller’s March 2000 book  Irrational Exuberance  described
the U.S. stock market as a bubble and used decade-long average
earnings data since 1881 to smooth out temporary swings in
profits that distort share prices. The book coincided with a
peak in the  S&P 500  that was followed by a 49 percent slump.  The CAPE, or cyclically-adjusted price-to-earnings ratio,
for  Europe  was 14.8 as of the end of August, according to
Barclays research.  “Value investing has been a very valuable technique,”
Shiller added. “The idea of looking at price-to-book and price-to-earnings is one idea, but we are looking at long-term
fundamental value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  