-- OGX Misses Debt Payment as Record Regional Default Looms
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-10-01T21:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/batista-s-ogx-to-miss-45-million-payment-on-dollar-bonds-today.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
defaulted on $1 billion of bonds after missing an interest
payment, accelerating former billionaire  Eike Batista ’s slide
toward Latin America’s largest-ever corporate debt debacle.  The oil company missed a $45 million payment on dollar
notes due 2022, Rio de Janeiro-based OGX said in a regulatory
filing today. The decision prompted Standard & Poor’s to assign
its default rating to the company and the bonds while Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings said they’d give OGX the 30-day grace period before calling it a default.  Batista, once Brazil’s richest person, is seeking to
renegotiate debt and avoid bankruptcy after some offshore
deposits he’d valued at $1 trillion turned out to be duds. That
triggered a selloff that wiped out $30 billion of his fortune
and pushed down bond prices to 16.5 cents on the dollar.  “We do not expect the company to pay the interest due
within the five-business-day cure period established by our
criteria, and we believe this indicates a general default and
that the company will restructure its debt,” S&P analysts
Renata Lofti and Luciano Gremone said in a statement today.
“This is based on OGX’s virtually null cash flow.”  S&P cut OGX’s corporate rating and the 2022 notes to D from
CCC- and lowered $2.56 billion in bonds due 2018 to CCC- from C,
saying a December payment probably won’t be made.  Relief Unlikely  Batista fired his chief financial officer and hired his
fifth restructuring adviser in the past two weeks. The 2018
notes have tumbled 5 cents since Sept. 20, when it announced the
departure of Roberto Monteiro, who had led negotiations with
creditors. Four days later, the company hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to
work alongside advisers including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in the
talks.  If OGX can’t convince creditors or other partners to
provide debt relief and an immediate infusion of funds,
bondholders may end up with nothing, JPMorgan Chase & Co said.  Chief Executive Officer Luiz Carneiro said Sept. 13 that
the company was considering asking bondholders for more cash as
it seeks to avoid having to file for bankruptcy protection.  As of June 30, OGX had 722 million reais ($327 million) in
cash and equivalents and 8.7 billion reais in total debt,
including $2.6 billion of notes due 2018. A default of the $3.6
billion international bonds would be the region’s biggest
corporate default, according to data compiled by Moody’s. OGX
would enter default on the last day of the grace period if no
payment is made, Moody’s analyst Gretchen French said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  Local Bonds  The producer was set to  run out  of money by early September
based on its burn rate through the end of the second quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’ll be challenging to convince anyone to come in at a
debt level and put more money into this,” Daniel Kastholm, a
managing director at Fitch Ratings in  Chicago , said by phone
today.  OGX precipitated today’s decision last week when it said it
would postpone payments on 2.1 billion reais of local bonds held
by its OGX Austria unit. The unit agreed to delay a Sept. 25
payment for an undisclosed amount until March 25, OGX said in a
regulatory filing.  “According to the bond indenture, OGX has a 30-day period
to make such a payment without causing debt acceleration,” the
company said in today’s statement.  Fitch probably won’t downgrade OGX to a D, or default
rating, until the 30-day grace period expires or it files for
bankruptcy protection, Kastholm said. He expects negotiations
with bondholders to continue during the grace period.  Creditor Talks  “There’s going to be an ongoing discussion and, as has
traditionally been the case in many of these scenarios, the
likely way to restructure has typically been an out of court
settlement,” he said.  It would be detrimental for bondholders if OGX seeks
bankruptcy protection in  Brazil  because the process will be
prolonged and the government could take away exploration and
production licenses, leaving the company with no assets, said
Omar Zeolla, a corporate credit analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in
New York.  “Hopefully it can be settled out of court,” Zeolla said
by telephone. “It depends on how negotiations have been going
between the company and creditors.”  Brazilian officials have said the government doesn’t plan
to bail out OGX.  “The solution has to come from the market,” Finance
Minister Guido Mantega told reporters in Sao Paulo yesterday.
“I hope they manage to stop the bleeding. The OGX situation has
already caused a problem for the country’s image.”  Bad Bets  If OGX goes into bankruptcy proceedings, the country’s oil
regulator could revoke its exploration and production
concessions, according to information on the National Petroleum
Agency’s website. Talks with bondholders have been complicated
because the explorer needs money to test production at its most
promising field, Tubarao Martelo.  OGX made bad bets on carbonate reservoirs off the coast of
Rio state that are formed from ancient reefs deeper in the
earth’s crust than the traditional sandstone reservoirs where
state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3)  has been producing for decades.
The geology proved more compartmentalized than expected,
hindering the flow of oil and prompting OGX to announce in July
it would abandon a group of fields it had previously declared
commercially viable.  The company expects better results at Martelo, also a
carbonate reservoir, where it has drilled six wells and plans to
start producing before the end of the year, according to
information on its website.  Petronas Deal  CEO Carneiro said last month that OGX is trying to convince
Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the Malaysian company that agreed to
buy a 40 percent stake in Martelo in May, to begin payments on
the deal worth $850 million before restructuring is completed.  OGX’s concessions are worth $1.9 billion, of which Martelo
is worth $1.1 billion, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a Sept. 6
note to clients. OGX moved a production vessel to Martelo,
sister company OSX Brasil SA said in an e-mailed reply to
questions today.  “Any lender would have to be extremely confident to be
willing to pony up,” Fitch’s Kastholm said. “The only reason
they would do it is if they are confident the company could
monetize Martelo and reduce their economic losses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  