-- Berlusconi’s Latest Manufactured Crisis
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-01T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/berlusconi-s-latest-manufactured-crisis.html
Italian political dysfunction sets a
standard of consistency that even the U.S. struggles to match.
Governments in  Rome  come and go with bewildering speed.
Nonetheless, the latest lurch toward  breakdown  is notable. In
seeking to pull his party out of the ruling coalition and bring
down the government, former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is
putting his country’s struggling economy at risk -- and for the
most cynical and self-serving of reasons.  Berlusconi has been found guilty of  tax fraud , and a
committee of the upper house of the Italian parliament is about
to vote on his expulsion. He may be calculating that a
manufactured crisis can deflect that action and strengthen his
political standing.  Members of Berlusconi’s own party are asking whether he has
finally gone too far. The answer is clear: Yes.  They should call a halt to his antics, even if it splits
their People of Liberty, or PDL, party. The PDL ministers who
serve in the coalition, led by Prime Minister Enrico Letta,
ought to reject Berlusconi’s instructions, reverse their
decision to step down, and consign their discredited leader to
his rightful place -- as the subject of the most sordid chapter
in modern Italian politics.  Berlusconi’s excuse for attempting to plunge  Italy  back
into political crisis is that he opposes a small increase in the
country’s value-added tax. In some ways, that’s a shrewd move,
as one would expect from Berlusconi, a remarkable survivor of
serial scandals. He might reckon to do well in an election
fought on this issue. Italy needs to hit European Union deficit
targets that it agreed to and reassure financial markets that
public borrowing is under control, but cuts in public spending
might have been easier to sell than a hike in the unpopular VAT.  Be that as it may, the last thing Italy needs right now is
a period of political paralysis followed by yet another possibly
inconclusive election. The sudden rift in a coalition formed
only five months ago has already alarmed financial markets,
pushing  Italian 10-year bond yields  toward 4.5 percent and
widening the premium over German bunds to more than 260 basis
points. Italian equities fell as well.  If the sense that Italy is once again spinning out of
control gains a foothold, the repercussions could go much wider.
Italy is the third-biggest economy in the euro area. Lately
there have been tentative signs that the EU may be emerging from
its long and painful recession. A new setback in Italy could put
that in jeopardy.  It would fall to Italy’s president, Giorgio Napolitano, to
dissolve parliament and call new elections if Letta’s
administration fails to win a vote of confidence, which could
happen this week. New elections, Napolitano rightly says, should
be a last resort. Letta may be able to repair the coalition. He
can hope to attract support both from PDL lawmakers disenchanted
with Berlusconi’s latest excess and from previous PDL defectors
now aligned with Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement.  Building a working coalition in Italy’s fractured
parliament is never easy -- and Berlusconi has just made it
especially difficult. Yet it will have to be done, with or
without new elections. A rudderless Italy is a grave danger not
only to itself but also to the European Union.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 