-- Best Rally Seen Defying October’s History of Losses: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-10-01T14:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/best-rally-seen-defying-october-s-history-of-losses-muni-credit.html
The $3.7 trillion municipal-bond
market is poised to extend its biggest rally in 21 months as
slowing withdrawals from mutual funds and dwindling supply defy
October’s history as the worst period for total returns.  As benchmark  yields  fell in September at the fastest pace
since 2011, individual investors’ exodus from mutual funds
focusing on local debt has diminished. They’re owning munis even
though the securities have lost 0.2 percent on average in
October since 2000, the worst performance of any month, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  This year has already defied historical trends, said Chris Alwine at Vanguard Group Inc. Municipal bonds declined in both
July and August for just the second time since 1989 after
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank
may curb its bond buying. Bernanke unexpectedly decided last
month to hold off on tapering the monthly purchases of
Treasuries and mortgage securities.  “The seasonal patterns as of late have not been following
through,” said Alwine, head of munis at Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard, which oversees about $127 billion
in local debt. “The tapering talk that started in May and
intensified in June threw that off. Now we’ve had a complete
reversal.”  Shutdown Reaction  Local-government bonds gained 2.3 percent last month,
halting four straight months of declines and outpacing
Treasuries and corporate securities. Municipal yields were
little changed today as the U.S. government began its first
partial shutdown in 17 years.  Top-rated 10-year munis yield about  2.71 percent , near the
lowest since June. The interest rate compares with  2.63 percent 
for similar-maturity Treasuries.  In addition to Bernanke’s decision, munis were buoyed in
September by the slowest issuance month since January 2012.  Municipalities sold  $17 billion  last month as interest
rates touched the  highest  since April 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The borrowing slowdown is continuing even after
yields fell the past three weeks. States and cities are set to
sell $3.6 billion of bonds this week, the least for a non-holiday period since July.  October Optimism  At the same time, investors are unloading local debt at a
slower pace. Individuals pulled $159 million from muni mutual
funds last week, the smallest withdrawal since May, Lipper US
Fund Flows data show.  “If we maintain this manageable level of supply and the
fund-flow trend continues the way it has been going the last
several weeks, we should be shaping up for a reasonably good
October,” said Chris Mauro, head of municipal strategy at RBC
Capital Markets in New York.  The latest gains also show that the municipal market was
punished broadly in the days after  Detroit ’s record bankruptcy
filing, said Gene Gard, who oversees $1.3 billion of munis at
Dupree & Co. in Lexington,  Kentucky .  The ratio of benchmark 10-year local-debt yields to the
interest rate on Treasuries reached about  115 percent  in August,
the month after  Michigan ’s most-populous city sought court
protection. That was the highest since June, indicating munis
were cheap relative to their federal counterparts.  The ratio has since tumbled to about 103 percent. The lower
the figure, the more expensive munis are compared with federal
debt.  Beating Treasuries  The gain for munis last month compared with a return of
about 0.8 percent for Treasuries, the biggest local-debt
outperformance since January, Bank of America data show.  “We’ve had a strong rally off of cheap levels and light
supply,” Alwine said. Munis are still “vulnerable to a
reversal” if localities ramp up borrowing after the decline in
interest rates, he said.  States and cities have scaled back offerings to refinance
debt in 2013 by the most in seven years, forgoing the chance to
achieve debt-service savings.  Municipal issuers have scheduled about  $6.8 billion  in
sales over the next 30 days, compared with an average visible
supply of $9.5 billion over the past year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. History suggests the pace will increase --
October volume has been higher than September’s every year since
2006, the data show.  Last month’s gains shrank third-quarter losses to about 0.4
percent. It still marked the first back-to-back quarterly
declines in local debt since 2008. Munis have dropped 3.2
percent in 2013, on pace for the worst return in five years.  “October isn’t a friendly month for munis typically, but
at this point we know it’s coming,” said Chip Peebles, head of
retail trading at Raymond James & Associates in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee . “We’ve seen demand increase with retail, and there
aren’t a lot of bonds around. It might be less volatile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  