-- Bill Ford Praises Deep Bench, Reiterates Mulally CEO Plan
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M i l l e r   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-10-02T04:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/bill-ford-praises-deep-bench-reiterates-mulally-ceo-plan.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  Executive Chairman
Bill Ford emphasized the abilities of his company’s top
executives while reiterating that Alan Mulally will continue
leading Ford Motor Co. for now.  “The plan is he’s going to stick around,” Ford, 56, said
of Mulally in an interview yesterday with Bloomberg Television.
“I’m happy he’s sticking around. But we also feel really good
about where we are in terms of succession.”  While Ford is moving to quell speculation about an imminent
departure by Mulally, 68, its chairman’s comments show that the
No. 2 U.S. automaker has planned ahead for a post-Mulally era.
The CEO and Chief Operating Officer Mark Fields, the top
candidate to next lead Ford, have reiterated the company’s plan
for Mulally to stay through at least 2014 in response to reports
that he is a candidate to become the next CEO of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   After his arrival from Boeing Co. in 2006, Mulally’s
efforts and the $23.4 billion that Ford borrowed late that year
led the company to avoid bankruptcy in 2009, when  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC’s predecessors failed and needed U.S.
rescues. Ford earned  $35.2 billion  from 2009 through 2012 after
losing $30.1 billion in the previous three years.  “Every corporation in the world should want Alan,” Bill
Ford said in an interview related to the 100th anniversary of
Henry Ford’s moving assembly line.  Bill Ford recruited Mulally away from Boeing after a 37-year career at the Chicago-based aircraft manufacturer. In doing
so, Bill Ford yielded the CEO post he had held from late 2001.
There was “tremendous skepticism” about the hire, Bill Ford
said yesterday.  ‘Death Warrant’  “I remember one reporter on the day that I introduced him
said to me well, you just signed the death warrant of the Ford
Motor Company by bringing in a non-car guy,” he said.  While Bill Ford reiterated a plan for Mulally to remain
CEO, he said the executive doesn’t have a contract with the
Dearborn, Michigan-based company. When the company announced in
November its plan for Mulally to stay through 2014, the CEO said
his contract was “a very firm handshake with the chairman.”  “He’s here as long as he and I would like it to happen,”
the chairman said. “We’re also cognizant of training the next
generation and getting them ready to go as well.”  Fields, 52, was promoted to COO in December after he
revamped the company’s North American operations to record
profits from its worst losses five years ago. He spoke to
reporters last week at an event for the United Way, where he
insisted that the reports about Mulally going to Microsoft
haven’t distracted the automaker.  “As good as Alan is, we knew that he wasn’t going to last
forever,” Bill Ford said yesterday. “Nobody does. We have the
best  team  today that we’ve had in my working career. I feel
really good, as does Alan, about where we are going forward.”  Ballmer’s Plan  Steve Ballmer  said in August he planned to step down as CEO
at Microsoft within 12 months. The 57-year-old chief unveiled a
reorganization in July that his company called  One Microsoft  and
was influenced by Mulally’s One Ford plan that weaned the
automaker away from designing different cars for various
regional markets around the world.  Bill Ford predicted a “seamless” transition to his
company’s next CEO.  “If you look at the next generation of management, I’ve
worked with all of them for many, many years,” he said, without
identifying specific executives. “They’ve loved working in this
style with this vision since 2006. There is no appetite within
the management team for deviating. We always adapt to business
conditions, but the basic vision will remain the same.”  Ford rose 1.9 percent to $17.19 at the close yesterday in
New York. The shares have surged 33 percent this year, compared
with a 19 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Miller in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 mtmiller@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  