-- BNP Paribas Hires Six, Brings Tokyo Equity Desk to 100
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2013-10-01T05:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/bnp-paribas-hires-six-brings-tokyo-equity-desk-to-100.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  has hired six people
since July to strengthen its Japanese equity coverage, signaling
bullishness about the nation’s stocks.  With five of the appointments in Japan, the  Tokyo  equity
desk at  France ’s biggest bank now has about 100 staff,
completing a hiring plan two years ahead of schedule, Kyoya Okazawa, local head of global equities and commodity
derivatives, said in an interview yesterday.  Japan’s Topix index surged 39 percent this year through
yesterday, more than any other developed market, as Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe sought to end deflation with his stimulus
program known as Abenomics. BNP Paribas expects the  gauge  to
climb to 1,350 by the end of this year, 13 percent higher than
yesterday’s close, and reach 1,500 by the end of March 2014.  “ Japan  used to be a forgotten country, but Abenomics
pushed it to the center of attention completely,” Okazawa said.
“We want to ramp up our coverage on companies that rely on
domestic demand.”  Tsukasa Odawara is scheduled to start today on BNP Paribas’
sales desk in Tokyo, selling structured products linked to the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average, known as Nikkei uridashi bonds, after
leaving Bank of America Merrill Lynch, according to Okazawa.
Three analysts and one trader were hired in Tokyo in July and
August, he said, while another trader was added in  Hong Kong .  Other Hires  Masahiro Wakasugi joined from Jefferies LLC. to cover
 information technology , Okazawa said. Masashi Mori, formerly of
Deutsche Bank AG, was appointed as a consumer analyst, and
Yasuharu Sugimura came from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to handle
transportation and real estate, Okazawa said.  Kentaro Kawabe, previously at JPMorgan Chase & Co., will
work in algorithmic trading and direct  market access  in Tokyo,
while Carrie Cheung will do so from Hong Kong, he said.  Okazawa said he has hired about 35 staff in Japan since
joining the bank from Credit Suisse Group AG in March 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  