-- BOE May Seek Management Change at Banks Failing Stress Tests
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-10-01T08:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/boe-may-seek-management-change-at-banks-failing-stress-tests-1-.html
The Bank of England said regulators
may take steps to remove bank executives if stress tests reveal
weaknesses in their governance and capital-planning processes.  In a discussion paper on planned tests, the BOE said
financial institutions should have at least enough capital to
absorb losses in a stressed scenario, and that this could be
higher than international minimums. Banks that fail may be
forced to limit bonuses and dividend payments, issue equity or
other capital instruments, or reduce certain risk exposures.  “From a bank-specific perspective, the exercise might
reveal weaknesses” in governance, the BOE said in the paper. In
such cases, options include “changing banks’ management and
requiring specific actions to improve stress testing, risk
management or capital planning processes.”  The BOE’s Financial Policy Committee, set up as part of an
overhaul of banking regulation, recommended earlier this year
that banks be tested for resilience to shocks. The first tests
will take place next year and cover Britain’s  eight biggest
lenders . The central bank said today that institutions are
making progress toward meeting regulators’ capital requirements
and that it will continue to monitor the situation.  “The new stress tests will bring together expertise from
the bank, including macro economists, financial-stability
experts and supervisors,” Governor Mark Carney said in a
statement. “This will materially strengthen the banks’
analytical capability to assess risks to resilience. Our
intention is that stress testing evolves into an essential
component of our prudential framework.”  Management Issues  In the discussion paper, the BOE said during previous
stress tests, the Prudential Regulation Authority noted
“insufficient engagement” by banks’ boards and senior
management as well as evidence that the scenarios set by lenders
were too weak.  “Such practices, where they occur, are at odds with the
importance that the PRA will expect banks to attach to this
stress-testing framework,” the BOE said.  The BOE in June ordered the five largest U.K. lenders,
including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , to plug a 13.4 billion-pound capital
shortfall by the end of the year.  It revealed today that in a discussion about banks’
vulnerabilities, it withheld a paragraph from a November 2012
statement because it would have been “contrary to the public
interest” to reveal regulators’ judgment of the capital
position of banks.  Confidence Concern  “There was a risk that if these factors were highlighted
by the committee in public, without there being clear
accompanying action, confidence in U.K. banks -- and hence
financial stability -- could be adversely affected,” the FPC
said in the paragraph.  In the discussion paper, the BOE said it expects the stress
tests to take place on an annual basis. A more frequent program
would “entail material resource costs” and could compromise
the quality of the process. It also said there are both
“benefits and costs” to publishing the detailed results of
stress tests. It is seeking responses to its paper by January
2014.  Stress testing “can help to calibrate macro and micro
prudential policy,” BOE Deputy Governor Paul Tucker said in a
speech in  London  today. “And a good stress-testing regime
will make it easier to explain and defend the standard of
resilience that the bank requires. And for that, the bank can be
held to account.”  FPC Record  The BOE also published the record of the FPC’s Sept. 18
meeting, which showed the panel split on the reasons for the
recent increase in market interest rates.  “There was a range of views about the precise extent to
which the recent asset-price movements had reflected changes in
underlying economic conditions,” it said.  In the record, the FPC noted that while preliminary work
suggested that a “moderate rise” in long-term interest rates
did not pose an immediate threat to financial stability, “it
should not draw too much comfort from this.” The FPC said there
was a possibility that rates “might overshoot” the improvement
in economic conditions, “with potentially greater
consequences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  