-- BOE’s Dale Says Investors May Need to ‘Think Again’ on Rate Bets
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/boe-s-dale-says-investors-may-need-to-think-again-on-rate-bets.html
Bank of England Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said policy tightening will probably be slower
than after previous recessions and investors may have failed to
heed the message of policy makers’ forward guidance.  “If the financial markets are pricing in a sharp rise
because they think in the past, every time the economy’s growing
quickly the bank’s raised interest rates, I think they should
think again,” Dale said at an event in  London  yesterday. “Our
forward guidance says clearly that’s not the case.”  BOE Governor  Mark Carney  introduced guidance in August,
saying policy makers will keep the  key interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent at least until unemployment, now at 7.7
percent, drops to 7 percent. While the central bank forecasts
that  the threshold  won’t be reached until late 2016, investors
are betting on a rate increase before then.  Dale also said investors are wrong to link the current
policy outlook in the U.K. with that of the U.S. Federal Reserve
just because they have “synchronized” in the past.  “The U.S. is about two to three years ahead of us in terms
of the state of their recovery,” he said at the event, hosted
by the  Milken Institute .  Dale said the BOE’s guidance structure reflects uncertainty
on the Monetary Policy Committee on the path of recovery and a
“best guess that it’s as likely as not” to reach the threshold
before the end of 2016.  “What the MPC has said is we don’t know how quickly and
the extent to which productivity will come back, so we’re
relatively uncertain about how long interest rates will be kept
low,” he said. “For that reason I don’t know how big the
implicit effective output gap is. By feeding off of unemployment
I can remain agnostic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  