-- BP Wasn’t Prepared for Deepwater Blowout, Witness Says
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-10-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/bp-wasn-t-prepared-for-deepwater-blowout-witness-says.html
BP Plc (BP/)  wasn’t prepared for a blowout
at its deep-water Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico , a safety
expert who studied the 2010  oil spill  told a judge who is
assessing how well the company reacted to the disaster.  BP didn’t spend money on deepwater source control before
the April 20, 2010, blowout and neglected process safety
management,  Robert Bea , a retired engineering professor from the
 University of California , Berkeley, who was called as a
plaintiffs’ witness testified yesterday at the nonjury trial
over the efforts to contain the spill.  “You can never forecast and predict everything that is
important,” Bea told U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New
Orleans. “‘I don’t know what to do’ is never an excuse in
mature process safety management.”  Plaintiffs suing BP over the disaster are asking Barbier to
find the company failed to properly prepare for a deepwater
blowout or respond quickly enough once it occurred. His
decisions in this phase of the case, over the size of the spill
and efforts to contain it may add or subtract billions of
dollars from BP’s ultimate bill for the incident.  The company didn’t vary from industry standards in
preparing for source control of a deepwater blowout, Bea
acknowledged under cross examination from a BP lawyer yesterday.
Bea said in a pretrial report that BP’s pre-disaster plans to
mitigate a failure were inadequate.  Mike Brock, a lawyer for London-based BP, asked Bea
yesterday if the company’s source control plan was the same as
those by rivals Shell Oil Co. and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  Bea had
earlier praised plans by BP’s competitors.  ‘Cut-and-Paste’  “It looks like they were all written by the same group
using cut-and-paste technology,” Bea replied. The industry
seemed to handle blowouts on a “case-by-case basis,” he said.  The blowout of BP’s Macondo well off the coast of  Louisiana 
in April 2010 killed 11 people aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig and set off the largest offshore oil spill in U.S.
history. The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits against BP,
as well as Transocean Ltd., owner of the rig that burned and
sank, and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cement services for
the project.  In the first phase of the case, also heard by Barbier
without a jury, the judge considered evidence of fault for the
disaster and whether any of the companies’ actions in causing
the blowout and subsequent spill reached the level of gross
negligence. A finding of gross negligence would trigger higher
fines for BP and punitive damages for all three defendants.  Phase two, which began Sept. 30, covers the size of the
spill and BP’s efforts to contain it. Decisions in phase two of
the trial would mean billions of dollars to BP.  40 Percent  A finding by Barbier supporting BP’s assessment that the
spill was 40 percent smaller than the government’s estimate
might shave as much as $7.5 billion from the $18 billion in
maximum fines the company faces under the U.S. Clean Water Act.  A finding that BP’s actions let the spill continue longer
than it might have may save its co-defendants,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) 
and Halliburton Co., as much as 70 percent of any judgments
against them.  Plaintiffs suing BP, including the states of Alabama and
Louisiana, claim that the company wasn’t ready for the blowout.
The well was finally capped on July 15, 2010, through the use of
a device called a capping stack. The plaintiffs claim BP should
have had this device available before the blowout.  The co-defendants, Transocean and Halliburton, have aligned
with the plaintiffs in alleging that BP delayed capping the well
by misrepresenting the size of the spill. An early attempt to
cap the well, called Top Kill, was doomed to failure because the
flow rate was too high, the co-defendants and plaintiffs
contend.  Monday ‘Quarterbacking’  BP has countered that it did everything it could to stop
the flow of oil as quickly as possible. Critics who suggest
otherwise are engaging in “Monday morning quarterbacking at its
worst,” Brock said in his opening statement Sept. 30.  BP was attempting to balance its desire to cap the well
with the “guiding principle” not to make the situation worse,
company executive James Dupree testified yesterday. Dupree,
chief operating officer of resource development, led BP’s source
control efforts after the well blew.  “We were very intent on not making the situation worse,”
Dupree said.  “What do you mean by, ‘Do not make things worse?’” BP
lawyer Hariklia Karis asked him.  “We didn’t want to lose options to kill the well,” he
said.  Rejected Method  BP rejected a proposed method, called BOP-on-BOP, which
would have landed a second blowout preventer onto the lower
portion of the failed Deepwater Horizon blowout preventer,
because it would have precluded using an alternate solution if
that effort failed, the company said in court papers. BP instead
tried the Top Kill approach.  “BOP on BOP was not ready,” Dupree testified yesterday.
There were “several engineering issues” with the Macondo well
that made the BOP on BOP a problematic method, he said.  He was worried about the impact of lowering a massive
blowout preventer weighing several hundred tons onto the
disabled BOP, he said.  “I was concerned about the weight of the BOP on top of the
BOP,” he said, adding later: “There were particulars and
unknowns down at the bottom of the well.” BP worried about
fracturing pathways to the sea floor, he said.  Spill Response  The length of the spill response shows BP wasn’t prepared
for source control, plaintiffs’ witness Ed Ziegler, a veteran
oil and gas operator, testified yesterday. Ziegler, a consultant
with Safety United Inc. in Houston, said he had drilled
thousands of wells worldwide.  “The requirement is that the source flow be abated as soon
as possible,” Ziegler said under questioning by Halliburton
lawyer Prescott W. Smith. “BP had a well that flowed for 87
days,” Ziegler said.  The well could have been capped in seven days if the
company had invested in a source control plan, Ziegler said.
“They spent zero dollars on source control.”  A blowout preventer, or BOP, could have been assembled
“with off-the-shelf” equipment in several days and the cap
installed during a week’s time with one day to spare for
“contingency,” he said.  BP kept changing plans to stanch the Macondo well and even
changed drilling ships as staging areas, Ziegler testified. “By
the time they capped the well in mid-July it was their sixth
different plan.”  ‘Changing Plans’  He said none of the previous plans -- such as Top Kill --
were ever finished. “They kept changing plans in mid-stream.”  On cross examination, BP lawyer Karis expressed
incredulity, starting with Ziegler’s credentials.  “You hold yourself out in many fields,” Karis told the
witness, including ergonomics,  road construction , lightning on
oil rigs, hospital safety, accident reconstruction, ventilation
systems and circular saws.  Ziegler said he was an expert in oil-field safety and that
weather-permitting, he could have capped the well in a week.  BP asked Barbier after the trial adjourned today to throw 
out the claims that the company's preparations for a spill 
were inadequate and its response afterward extended the 
flow of oil.  ``The aligned parties have not proven that any BP conduct 
was negligent, let alone grossly so,'' the company's lawyers 
said in a court filing, seeking judgment for BP as a matter 
of law.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans
at   ajohnson182@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 