-- Brazil’s President Nominates Army Officer to Lead Olympic Body
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-01T16:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/brazil-s-president-nominates-army-officer-to-lead-olympic-body.html
Brazil  President Dilma Rousseff
nominated a senior army officer to fill one of the top roles in
organizing the 2016 summer Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro.  Major General Fernando Azevedo e Silva’s appointment to
head the Olympic Public Authority, which coordinates the work of
state and local governments, has gone to Brazil’s senate to be
ratified, the nation’s official gazette said.  Rio’s faltering Olympic program was hurt in August when the
former head of the authority, ex-cities minister Marcio Fortes,
quit amid claims the organization was being sidelined. The
appointment of a new head for the body, known as the APO, is
among several issues faced by organizers of South America’s 
first Olympic Games.  Last week Brazil’s national auditor raised concerns about
the possibility of delays when it reported that just 5.5 percent
of the 1.67 billion reais ($752 million) estimated to be spent
on the games between 2010 and 2012 had actually been used.  International Olympic Committee inspectors visited Rio at
the end of August and left telling organizers they were worried
about progress on some of the planned projects. Brazil, which
also hosts next year’s soccer World Cup, said it would spend
$11.6 billion on Olympic-related infrastructure and about $3
billion on the event itself, according to its 2009 bid.  Azevedo e Silva has been chairman of the Military Sports
Commission of Brazil since 2012. His role at the APO will be to
ensure that work is rolled out efficiently.  Roles and Duties  Rio Mayor Eduardo Paes has said the games could be carried
out without the APO, a body created by Rousseff following an IOC
request. Defining responsibilities has proved to be a challenge
and delayed the publication of an up-to-date budget for the
games.  “The conclusion of the negotiations regarding the matrix
of responsibility, a vital element in confirming the roles and
duties of each of our partners, must be completed before the
disclosure of the budget,” games organizer Rio 2016 said in a
statement last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  