-- Brazil’s Real Gains on Limited U.S. Government Shutdown Effect
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-10-01T14:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/brazil-s-swap-rates-rise-on-inflation-outlook-as-real-advances.html
Brazil ’s real gained on speculation
the slowdown in the global economy caused by the U.S. government
shutdown will be limited.  The real climbed 0.4 percent to 2.2084 per dollar at 11:17
a.m. in Sao Paulo after advancing 1.6 percent yesterday, the
most since Sept. 18. Swap rates on the contract due in January
2015 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 10.26
percent, a two-week high.  Brazil’s currency capped its biggest monthly gain in almost
two years yesterday after the central bank raised its forecast
for inflation next year, adding to speculation that policy
makers will maintain intervention to shore up the  exchange rate .
The real strengthened today along with most of the 16 major
dollar counterparts after political wrangling on spending
legislation led to the partial shutdown of the U.S. government.  “For markets, this paralysis in the U.S. may already be
priced in,” Daniel Cunha, the chief economist at XP
Investimentos, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The market wants
to believe that the problem will be small and its economic
effects limited.”  Brazil’s central bank sold $498 million of currency swap
contracts today, part of a $60 billion intervention program
announced in August to stem the currency’s declines.  The real has gained 10 percent since the program was
announced Aug. 22, the best performance among all the world’s
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The real climbed 7.6 percent in
September, the most since October 2011.  Inflation Outlook  Policy makers said in their quarterly inflation report
yesterday that consumer prices will rise 5.7 percent next year
even if they raise the target lending rate to 9.75 percent by
year-end. The projection three months earlier was for annual
inflation of 5.2 percent. Carlos Hamilton, the central bank
director for economic policy, said yesterday that inflation
remains at an “uncomfortable” level and that projections show
a slow retreat.  “The market read the central bank inflation report and saw
that the message was not relaxed,” Cunha said.  Traders are wagering that policy makers will increase the
benchmark lending rate to 10 percent by the end of 2013, swap
rates show. The central bank will lift borrowing costs by a
half-percentage point for a fourth straight meeting in October
to 9.5 percent, and an additional 50 basis points to 10 percent
in November, trading shows.  As recently as Sept. 27, traders were forecasting a 25
basis-point increase in November.  The central bank has raised borrowing costs by 175 basis
points since April to 9 percent, the biggest jump in the world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  