-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise on Inflation Outlook; Real Little Changed
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-10-01T21:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/brazil-swap-rates-increase-on-inflation-outlook-as-real-weakens.html
Brazilian swap rates climbed to a
two-week high on speculation policy makers will extend
borrowing-cost increases after raising inflation estimates.  Swap rates due in January 2015 rose seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 10.31 percent, the highest since Sept.
17. The real was little changed at 2.2165 per dollar.  Brazil  must use monetary policy to control inflation that
remains at an “uncomfortable” level, central bank director of
economic policy Carlos Hamilton told reporters in Brasilia
yesterday. The comments are a sign that the bank will raise the
target rate to 10 percent by year-end, according to Alvise Marino, a currency strategist at Credit Suisse Securities.  “We’ve had hawkish comments from the central bank,”
Marino said in a telephone interview from New York.  The real gained the most among 16 major currencies
yesterday after central bankers said in their quarterly
inflation report that consumer prices will rise 5.7 percent next
year even if they raise the target lending rate to 9.75 percent
by year-end. The projection three months earlier was for annual
inflation of 5.2 percent.  Brazil’s central bank sold $498 million of currency swap
contracts today, part of a $60 billion intervention announced in
August to stem the currency’s declines.  The real has gained 9.9 percent since the program was
announced Aug. 22, the best performance among dollar
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. The real climbed 7.6 percent
in September, the most since October 2011.  Policy Outlook  Traders are wagering that policy makers will increase the
benchmark lending rate to 10 percent by the end of 2013, swap
rates show. The central bank will lift borrowing costs by a
half-percentage point for a fourth straight meeting in October
to 9.5 percent, and an additional 50 basis points to 10 percent
in November, trading shows.  As recently as Sept. 27, traders were forecasting a 25
basis point increase in November.  The central bank has raised borrowing costs by 175 basis
points since April to 9 percent, the biggest jump in the world.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA said it will miss a $45
million payment on dollar bonds today, moving former billionaire
 Eike Batista ’s oil and natural gas producer to the brink of the
biggest corporate default in Latin America.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  