-- Broncos’ Point Spread Against Jaguars Seen Being NFL Record
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-01T12:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/broncos-point-spread-oct-13-against-jaguars-may-set-nfl-record.html
Peyton Manning ’s record-setting start
to the season -- 16 touchdown passes as the  Denver Broncos  have
marched to 4-0 -- has oddsmakers eyeing what may be the highest
point spread in National Football League history.  The Broncos, after visiting the  Dallas Cowboys  this week,
could be favored by almost 28 points when they host the now-winless  Jacksonville Jaguars  on Oct. 13.  Denver is averaging 44.8 points a game behind Manning and
has covered the point spread in all four of its wins so far,
earning heavy support from bettors. The Jaguars, who play at the
 St. Louis Rams  on Oct. 6, have scored a league-low 31 points in
their 0-4 start while surrendering the third-most points in the
NFL.  “My initial reaction says as high as possible,” Jay Rood,
the sports book director at the MGM Mirage in  Las Vegas , said of
the Broncos-Jaguars point spread. “If I had to hang that number
right now and let it sit for two weeks, I’d probably put it
somewhere around 27 or 27 1/2.”  There have been 11 NFL teams favored by 20 or more points
since 1978, according to Las Vegas-based handicapping
information website  Pregame.com . The  New England Patriots  were
favored by more than 20 points four times when they went 16-0
during the 2007 regular season, with a 24 1/2-point spread in a
game against the  Philadelphia Eagles , Rood said.  The  Seattle Seahawks  were favored by as many as 20 points
in their Week 3 game this season against the Jaguars, tying the
record for the earliest the NFL has had such an overwhelming
pick.  Seattle  won 45-17.  ‘Pounding Denver’  The Broncos have won their first four games by an average
of 22 points and last week had their highest point total of the
season in a 52-20 rout of the Eagles. The Jaguars have been
outscored by an average of 24.5 points a game and are coming off
a 37-3 home loss to the  Indianapolis Colts .  Kevin Bradley, the sports book manager for  Bovada.lv , said
he would have considered a Broncos-Jaguars point spread of about
21 points before this past weekend’s results.  “With how our bettors have been pounding Denver every week
and betting against the Jags like it’s free money, this spread
is looking closer to four touchdowns,” Bradley said by e-mail.
“Barring any injuries or something very dramatic occurring, I
would expect this to be the biggest spread we have ever
posted.”  Bradley said Bovada also had the Patriots favored by 24 1/2
points in a Nov. 25, 2007, game against the Eagles, a game that
 New England  won 31-28 and failed to cover the spread.  Rood said he can’t envision any way the point spread for
the Broncos’ home game against Jacksonville is less than the
previous record. The MGM Mirage will put out its opening betting
line for that game on Oct. 7.  Money ‘Avalanche’  “If you hang anything short of 24, it’s going to be an
avalanche of money on the Broncos,” Rood said.  “If you hang anything above 28, you’re going to get an
avalanche of sharp money,” he added, referring to big wagers
made by professional gamblers. “The answer falls somewhere in
the middle there. Probably closer to the 28 than the 24.”  The Broncos and Seahawks have been the most popular NFL
teams with the betting public this season, according to
oddsmakers. There’s also been significant money bet on Jaguars
games, Rood said, though it’s mostly been wagered on their
opponents to win.  “Money going against the Jags is where things are,” Rood
said. “It’s not necessarily who they’re playing against, it’s
just a play against the Jags at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  