-- U.K.’s Cameron Cites Economic Risks of U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-01T10:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/cameron-says-u-s-government-shutdown-is-risk-to-world-economy.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
underscored the dangers stemming from the first partial U.S.
government shutdown in 17 years as Pentagon chief Chuck Hagel
told allies the U.S. would fulfill its overseas duties.  “It is a risk to the world economy if the U.S. can’t
properly sort out its spending plans,” Cameron told BBC Radio
4’s “Today” program in Manchester, where his  Conservative
Party  is holding its annual conference.  As many as 800,000 U.S. federal employees have been idled,
national parks closed and some services halted after Congress
failed to break a partisan deadlock before a midnight deadline.
Congressional leaders have scheduled no further negotiations,
raising concerns among some lawmakers that the shutdown could
bleed into the fight over how to raise the U.S. debt limit to
avoid a first-ever default after Oct. 17.  A shutdown that lasts at least a month could knock 1 to 2
percentage points off of fourth-quarter GDP growth in the
world’s largest economy, said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Given how
high the stakes are, as we’ve seen a couple of times in the
recent past, it will be resolved, or at least the can will be
kicked down the road once more,” he said.  A one-week shutdown of some government services should have
a less-than 0.1 percent impact on U.S. gross domestic product,
said Tomo Kinoshita, chief economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
 Tokyo .  No Panic  The MSCI World Index of developed nations’ stocks rose 0.2
percent at 11:35 a.m. in  London , illustrating how that “the
market is not panicked about this,”  Alexander Friedman , chief
investment officer at UBS AG’s wealth-management unit.  The shutdown “sets up the political wrangling to take
place now as opposed to in two weeks, making a debt default less
likely,” Friedman, told Anna Edwards and  Mark Barton  on
Bloomberg Television in London. “Between now and Oct. 17 is
more of a buying opportunity. We haven’t reached any inflection
point where investors should give up confidence.”  Cameron said the shutdown was a warning to other countries.
It’s “a reminder to all of us that we need to have properly
planned public-expenditure systems, properly planned tax,
properly planned arrangements for getting our deficit down,”
Cameron told Sky News television today. “Some people want to
get away from the subject of deficit reduction and sorting our
economy out and turning it around, but I think we will have lots
of reminders over the coming months, like what’s happening in
America, that it’s absolutely vital.”  Concern in Asia  Asian policy makers signaled they are bracing for increased
volatility. Officials in  South Korea  and the  Philippines 
said they were prepared to take steps to stabilize financial
markets if needed.  They highlighted the importance of a quick resolution, with
South Korea and Sri Lanka warning that a prolonged shutdown
would hurt their economies. The risk of the U.S. defaulting on
its debt due to the political stalemate is more worrisome as it
would lead to unprecedented chaos in global markets, Philippine
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said.  The Pentagon’s lawyers are reviewing how many of the
military’s roughly 400,000 civilians employees expected to be
furloughed -- or about half the civilian workforce -- can be
considered “exempt” from shutdown provisions and stay on the
job, Hagel, the U.S. defense secretary, said today in  Seoul .  “We will fulfill our mission of maintaining the the
alliances we have,” Hagel said. “But it does cast a very
significant pall over America’s credibility with our allies.”
The shutdown “is nonsensical,” and “completely
irresponsible,” he said. “It’s needless. It didn’t have to
happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Seoul at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  