-- Cameron Attacks Miliband as He Asks U.K. Voters to Stick by Him
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-10-02T13:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/cameron-to-hit-back-at-miliband-in-speech-ending-tory-conference.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  closed
the U.K.’s political conference season with a speech that
focused on attacking his Labour Party opponent,  Ed Miliband ,
while appealing to voters to stick with his economic program.  It was a rare success for an opposition leader that
Miliband forced Cameron to engage with him. The prime minister
mentioned Labour 25 times in his 49-minute speech to the
Conservative Party convention in Manchester, attacking Miliband
as anti-business. He called the Labour leader’s plan, announced
last week, to shift some of the tax burden to large companies
from small firms as “the most damaging, nonsensical, twisted
economic policy you could possibly come up with.”  Cameron also took swipes at his coalition partners,  Nick Clegg ’s Liberal Democrats, as he made the case for a single-party Conservative government after the 2015 general election.  “What people want to know now is: was the struggle worth
it?” Cameron said. “The struggle will only be worth it if we
as a country finish the job we’ve started. Our economy may be
turning the corner -- and of course that’s great. But we still
haven’t finished paying for Labour’s debt crisis. If anyone
thinks that’s over, done, dealt with -- they’re living in a
fantasy land.”  The Conservatives have attempted to use the conference to
portray themselves as the champions of “hard-working people,”
with policy announcements on providing mortgage guarantees and
making the long-term jobless take part in community work.  Labour Pledges  Cameron used his speech to paint the party as the friend of
enterprise and business in contrast to Miliband. At the
opposition party’s conference in Brighton last week, Miliband
used his keynote speech to promise to cap energy prices, seize
land from developers who don’t use it and pay for a cut in local
taxes for small businesses by reversing a corporation-tax
reduction for Britain’s largest companies, if Labour wins the
2015 election.  “Profit, wealth creation, tax cuts, enterprise, these are
not dirty, elitist words,” Cameron said. “They are the
solution because it’s not government that creates jobs, it’s
businesses. It’s businesses that get wages in people’s pockets,
food on their tables, hope for their families and success for
our country.”  Tim Bale, professor of politics at Queen Mary University in
 London , said the prime minister’s speech carried “a real risk
of fighting on the other guy’s terrain, and of backing business
so much that he risks coming over as their champion, if not
their creature.”  Poll Bounce  Labour has enjoyed a bounce in the polls after its
conference last week, reversing a trend that saw the Tories
making up ground as the  economy strengthened  in recent months.  In a  YouGov Plc poll  published today, Labour was at 41
percent support, 10 points ahead of the Conservatives. The
survey of 1,914 adults was conducted Sept. 30 and yesterday.
YouGov didn’t specify a margin of error.  The opposition party also managed to dominate the headlines
during the Tory conference after Miliband challenged the Daily
Mail newspaper over an article it ran describing his father
Ralph, a Marxist academic who died in 1994, as “The Man Who
Hated Britain.”  Cameron concentrated his fire on Labour, without addressing
the threat to the Tories from the U.K. Independence Party, which
had 12 percent backing in the YouGov poll. The increase in
support for UKIP has been discussed this week by activists
concerned that it will take support from the Conservatives in
voting for the European Parliament next year and cost them seats
in the 2015 general election.  ‘Right Values’  “Wishing for something, caring about something, that’s not
enough,” Cameron said. “You can’t conjure up a dynamic
economy, a strong society, fantastic schools, all with the
stroke of a minister’s pen. It takes a mixture of hard work,
common sense and above all the right values.”  Cameron praised a series of senior ministers by name,
including Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , Home
Secretary Theresa May, Education Secretary Michael Gove and Work
and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith, suggesting that a
reorganization of his ministers scheduled for the coming weeks
will be confined to the lower ranks.  The prime minister reprised the theme of his conference
speech last year, that Britain is in a “global race.” Miliband
attacked this last week, saying that Cameron “thinks for
Britain to win the global race, you have to lose: lower wages,
worse terms and conditions, fewer rights at work.”  Cameron said this was a misunderstanding of his argument,
and that he sees the U.K. as competing with places such as
 California  and  South Korea , with a focus on higher skills rather
than lower wages.  Rail Case  The Tory leader also made the case for the proposed 50
billion-pound ($80 billion) high-speed rail line between London
and the north of England, which is opposed by some in his party
as it runs through traditionally Tory rural districts.  Ed Balls ,
Labour’s Treasury spokesman, hinted last week that a future
Labour government might back out of the project.  Cameron didn’t make any policy announcements in the speech,
preferring to use it to outline his political aspirations and
goals for a single-party Conservative government, while
returning to his theme of the “big society.”  He underscored a pledge made by Osborne two days ago to get
rid of the  budget deficit  and run a surplus by 2020 if the
Conservatives are re-elected in 2015. That, Cameron said, will
aid the economy and lift living standards by keeping  interest
rates  low. He also held out the prospect of tax cuts for “hard-working people,” a signal he will carry on squeezing welfare
and day-to-day spending to meet the new fiscal objective.  A majority Tory government would aim to restrict welfare
benefits to people under the age of 25 who are not in education
or work. The idea will be formed into a policy which will appear
in the party’s manifesto, Cameron’s office said.  “Our society, welfare, schools, all reformed, all rebuilt
with one aim, one mission in mind,” Cameron said. “To make
this country, at long last and for the first time ever, a land
of opportunity for all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Manchester,  England , at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Manchester, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  