-- Canada’s Dollar Drops Against Australia’s as U.S. Shuts Down
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-10-01T21:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/canada-s-dollar-falls-against-australia-s-as-u-s-shuts-down.html
The Canadian dollar fell against its
so-called commodity-currency counterpart in  Australia  as the
U.S. government began its first partial shutdown in 17 years,
imperiling growth in  Canada ’s biggest trading partner.  The currency, called the loonie, weakened against the
majority of its 16 most-traded peers as debate looms on raising
the U.S. debt ceiling within three weeks. Australia’s dollar
climbed after the nation’s  Reserve Bank  left borrowing costs
unchanged today. The  U.S. dollar  fell versus most major
counterparts. A partial shutdown of the federal government would
cost the U.S. at least $300 million a day in lost economic
output at the start, according to  IHS Inc. (IHS)   “We’ve got uncertainty whether or not Canadian exports to
the U.S. are going to rebound sharply over the next several
months with this uncertainty over the government shutdown and
the U.S. economic outlook,”  David Watt , chief economist at the
Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a phone interview.
“It makes sense the Canadian dollar would lag its commodity
peers during an episode such as this. It will behave more like
the U.S. dollar because of the close ties.”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, weakened 1 percent to 97.02 cents per Australian
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto.  Canada’s currency depreciated 0.1 percent to C$1.0322 per
U.S. dollar. One Canadian dollar buys 96.88 U.S. cents.  Benchmark Bonds  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bond  fell, pushing
the yield up two basis points to 2.56 percent. The price of the
1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 slipped 14 cents to
C$90.97.  Implied volatility for one-year options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart rose to 7.1 percent, the
highest on a closing basis since Sept. 16. Implied volatility is
used to set option prices and gauge the expected pace of
currency swings. The average for this year is 7.39 percent.  Options traders touched the most bearish level on the
Canadian dollar versus its U.S. peer in three weeks. The three-month so-called 25 delta risk-reversal rate, which measures the
premium charged for the right to buy the U.S. dollar against its
Canadian peer versus contracts to sell, reached 1.375 percent,
matching yesterday’s high, the most since Sept. 6.  The Canadian dollar lost 0.9 percent in the past month
against nine developed-market peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar dropped 3.2 percent,
while the Australian currency gained 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  