-- Canada’s Macklem Curbs Growth Forecast on Elusive Exports
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-10-01T17:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/canada-s-macklem-curbs-growth-forecast-on-elusive-exports.html
Bank of Canada  Senior Deputy Governor
Tiff Macklem said the nation’s economy will expand more slowly
this year than the central bank forecast as stronger exports and
business investment remain elusive.  Growth in the third and fourth quarters is expected to
range between 2 percent to 2.5 percent, below the Bank of
 Canada ’s July forecasts of 3.8 percent and 2.5 percent for the
two periods, Macklem said in a speech to the Economic Club of
Canada in Toronto.  “We need a rotation in demand toward exports and business
investment,” Macklem said. “Unfortunately, this rotation has
proven elusive.”  After an initial burst following the recession, Canada’s
economy began to slow last year amid weak global demand for its
goods and a slump in business  capital spending . Until today, the
central bank had predicted a recovery in exports would help fuel
a rebound starting in the second half of this year, which would
eliminate slack in the nation’s economy by 2015 and lead to
higher policy interest rates.  Investors are betting Governor Stephen Poloz will extend a
three-year pause, the longest since the 1950s, by keeping his 1
percent benchmark  interest rate  unchanged until at least the end
of next year.  “ Monetary policy  remains highly stimulative to provide
time for the recovery in exports and investment to take hold,”
Macklem said today.  Dollar Weakens  The Canadian dollar extended declines following release of
the speech, dropping as far as 0.3 percent to C$1.0337 per  U.S.
dollar . It traded at 1.0328 per U.S. dollar at 1:21 p.m. in
Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 96.82 U.S. cents.  Macklem declined to forecast the exchange rate during a
question-and-answer session after the speech, saying policy
makers have monitored its appreciation in recent years, which
was triggered by a relatively robust economy and by foreign
investors buying Canadian securities.  “Clearly Canada is in a privileged global position --
strong fiscal policy, sound monetary framework, we have abundant
commodities,” he said.  “We have from time to time seen capital flows and there’s
no doubt that they also tend to boost” the currency, Macklem
said. “From a monetary policy perspective, we certainly have
been taking into account where the  exchange rate  is, and that’s
an important reason why monetary conditions in this country have
remained highly stimulative.”  Revised Projections  The bank’s revised projections come after Statistics Canada
reported Aug. 30 second-quarter  growth  at a 1.7 percent
annualized pace, above the 1 percent the central bank had
forecast. Today’s update brings the bank more in line with
forecasts by private-sector economists, who are predicting a 2.1
growth rate this quarter, and an average of 2.4 percent over the
next six quarters, according to Bloomberg surveys.  Macklem’s speech didn’t refer to the economy nearing a
“tipping point,” which was the major theme of a Sept. 18
 speech  by Poloz in  Vancouver . Poloz said the Bank of Canada was
projecting a “solid pace” of export growth that will lead to a
“broadly based” increase in investment and provide incentives
for new businesses to form.  Growth is expected to accelerate in 2014 as demand for
exports and investment spending gain momentum, Macklem said,
while cautioning that “there is a risk that this rotation is
delayed further.”  With potential output growth estimated to be about 2
percent, the nation’s economy needs to expand by at least 2.5
percent in order to begin absorbing the “current material
degree” of slack, Macklem said.  Slower Growth  Canada has averaged annualized quarterly growth rates of
1.3 percent since the start of 2012, down from 3 percent in 2010
and 2011, according to  Statistics Canada  data.  Because the central bank anticipates household and
government spending together to contribute about 1.5 percentage
points of growth, net exports and business investment will need
to add at least 1 percentage point to the nation’s expansion, he
said.  “That means together exports and investment need to grow
by at least about 4 percent after taking into account their
import content,” Macklem said. “In the past year, next exports
and investment made no contribution to growth.”  Stronger exports will bolster confidence and foster new
capacity-building investment, reversing a trend of low capital
spending, Macklem said.  Investment Pick-up  “Investment is unlikely to accelerate until businesses are
confident that demand is picking up,” Macklem said in the
speech, which also outlined the global economic outlook.  Macklem said the recovery in U.S. private demand is helping
to bolster exports of lumber and building supplies, that  Japan ’s
policies to stimulate its economy are producing “impressive
results,” and that there are “early signs of recovery” in
 Europe .  While  China  is still experiencing “solid” growth, other
 emerging markets  are experiencing “increased financial
volatility and weakening growth prospects” that could exert
“downward pressure” on commodity prices, he said.  “In aggregate, commodity prices are expected to remain
relatively stable through 2015, with the effects of modest
expected declines in  oil prices  offset by a gradual rise in the
prices of non-energy commodities,” Macklem said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Toronto at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  