-- Carlyle Cuts Apartment Holdings After Rent Growth Slows
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-10-01T15:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/carlyle-cuts-apartment-holdings-after-rent-growth-slows.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the private-equity
firm with more than a third of its $2.3 billion U.S. real estate
fund in apartments, is reducing holdings of multifamily housing
as rent growth slows from a post-recession surge.  The company is considering apartment sales as rising
construction reduces multifamily shortages and price gains for
rental properties make them less attractive for private-equity
firms that seek returns of 20 percent or more, said Robert Stuckey, the Washington-based firm’s head of U.S. real estate
investing. Carlyle has invested or committed about $800 million
of equity in 61 multifamily properties since the start of 2011,
he said.  “We went from an unusually high-growth market to a market
that is growing and attractive but more stable,” Stuckey said
in an interview. “Our capital was useful at the front edge of
the recovery.”  Apartment-rent growth is slowing as the U.S. homebuying
market  rebounds  and a wave of multifamily  building  adds to
supply. In the third quarter, tenants on average paid 3 percent
more than a year earlier after landlord concessions, down from
3.9 percent annual growth in effective rents in 2012, research
firm  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said in a report today.  Effective rents averaged $1,073 in the three months ended
Sept. 30, up from $1,042 a year earlier, and a 1 percent
increase from the second quarter’s $1,063, data from New York-based Reis show.  Low Vacancy  “This remains well below what one would usually expect
given such a low national vacancy rate,” Ryan Severino, senior
economist at Reis, said in the report. “This reflects continued
modest employment and income growth.”  The vacancy rate fell to a 12-year low of 4.2 percent from
4.3 percent in the previous three months, indicating demand
remains strong even as new apartments enter the market.
Completions of new units rose 64 percent from a year earlier to
34,834, the most since 39,007 units became available in 2009’s
fourth quarter. New apartment units are 85 percent occupied or
more, Reis said.  The low vacancies and occupancy gains are drawing
institutional investors who are more focused on steady returns,
Stuckey said. Potential buyers of Carlyle’s holdings include
pensions, life-insurance companies and real estate investment
trusts, he said.  “Investors really want the new Class A properties so we’re
selling into that demand,” Stuckey said.  Apartment Sales  Carlyle was part of a group that last month sold an eight-story apartment building near Northwestern University in
Evanston,  Illinois , to Invesco Real Estate for $70 million. The
property, 1717 Ridge Ave., opened for leasing in April. In July,
a Carlyle venture sold a 280-unit garden-style apartment complex
about one mile from North Carolina’s Research Triangle Park
employment hub to  Irvine , California-based real estate investor
Passco Cos. for $28 million.  Recently finished apartments are commanding higher rents
than older buildings in cities including Houston and Seattle,
where multifamily construction has soared, particularly in the
urban core, according to Dallas-based apartment research firm
Axiometrics Inc. In Houston, tenants in properties built this
year and last were paying 51 percent higher rents than the
market average in August, the firm’s data show. In Seattle,
leases in new buildings are 30 percent more than the market
average and in  Washington , 28 percent higher. The figures are
for rents after any landlord discounting.  New Units  This year, about 125,000 new units are scheduled to open
for leasing, increasing U.S.  inventory  by 1.3 percent, according
to Reis. That jump is almost double the 0.7 percent rise last
year and triple the 0.4 percent gain in 2011. The average
increase in annual  supply  from 2000 to 2012 was 0.9 percent.  This year’s estimated completions remain below the average
of 141,800 units that came to market in the five years through
2004, before construction dipped, according to Reis data.  Shares of apartment owners are reflecting concern about the
outlook. A Bloomberg  index  of 19 multifamily real estate
investment trusts is down about 13 percent from a May high and
is the  worst-performing  in the past 12 months of all REIT
property types.  Carlyle shares were little changed at $25.79 at 11:13 a.m.
 New York  time. They have declined 1.3 percent in the past year.  As it sells apartments, Carlyle is focusing investments in
areas such as senior housing, self-storage units and
manufactured homes, where demand tends to be driven by life
changes such as retirement or marriages, and isn’t so closely
tied to changes in  employment  and gross domestic product,
Stuckey said.  Low Growth  About one-third of the firm’s real estate investments are
in properties that are more directly affected by the economy,
such as office and retail.  “Our basic view is we’re in a low-growth environment,”
Stuckey said.  Carlyle remains an active investor in New York real estate,
including residential developments and office buildings with
ground-floor retail, Stuckey said.  In February, Carlyle and ClearRock Properties acquired 920
Broadway, a 17-story office building in the city’s midtown south
neighborhood, and are renovating the property. Office rents in
the area, a popular district with technology tenants, have grown
faster than Carlyle expected, Stuckey said.  Carlyle has two residential projects overlooking the High
Line Park in Chelsea, on the far west side of  Manhattan .  “With condos, our style is to build smaller projects that
benefit from local demand,” he said.  Plaza District  The company has also made profitable exits from investments
in the city. Carlyle in June agreed to sell 650 Madison Ave., an
office and retail tower in Manhattan’s Plaza District, for $1.3
billion, setting a record per square foot for a U.S. office
building.  Manhattan has widened its lead over other U.S. cities in
its appeal to international investors, Stuckey said. Wealthy
foreigners have flocked to New York trophy real estate after the
worst recession since the Great Depression increased the appeal
of dollar-based assets.  “It scared people and they want to put their money in safe
places,” Stuckey said. “Right now, Manhattan is head and
shoulders above the others.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in  Seattle  at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  