-- Cashman Says Yankees' $189 Million Payroll Goal Is Not a Mandate
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-10-01T18:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/cashman-says-yankees-189-million-payroll-goal-is-not-a-mandate.html
New York Yankees General Manager
Brian Cashman said the organization’s goal to bring 2014 payroll
below $189 million won’t get in the way of fielding a World
Series-quality team.  “It’s a goal, not a mandate,” Cashman said today at a
Yankee Stadium news conference. “Every option, every
opportunity that comes my way via trade or free agency, I will
always present to my owner and team president for evaluation.”  New York had an opening-day payroll of $228.8 million in
2013, according to CBS Sports. Both Cashman and Managing General
Partner Hal Steinbrenner have said the team would like to be
below $189 million next year to save luxury tax payments that
can be as high as 50 percent of any amount over that threshold
and is distributed to other Major League Baseball teams.  Reducing payroll could be difficult if the team plans to
re-sign All-Star second baseman Robinson Cano, a free-agent
after nine seasons with the Yankees. Cano, 30, is seeking a deal
worth about $305 million over 10 years, ESPN reported last week.  Cashman said the team would make Cano a “significant”
offer to stay.  “He’s been a great Yankee,” the general manager said.
“At the same time it’s a business and he has comported himself
in a tremendous way both on and off the field. We’ve been
extremely happy to have him and we hope to extend that
relationship.”  Injured List  The Yankees finished the season 85-77, 6 1/2 games out of
the final American League playoff spot. The team battled
injuries to many of its highest-paid hitters, including Alex Rodriguez, Derek Jeter, Mark Teixeira, Curtis Granderson and
Kevin Youkilis, and was eliminated from postseason contention
with three games remaining. Pitching ace C.C. Sabathia had
career highs in losses (13) and home runs allowed (28), and gave
up 112 earned runs, the most in baseball.  Rodriguez, a third baseman, received a 211-game drug ban by
MLB in August and was allowed to play pending an arbitration
hearing that began yesterday in New York. If upheld, the ban
would keep Rodriguez, MLB’s highest-paid player and a three-time
Most Valuable Player, off the field until midway through the
2015 season.  Uncertainty surrounding Cano, Rodriguez and Derek Jeter,
the Yankees’ 39-year shortstop and captain who missed all but 17
games this year with leg injuries, may force the team to address
its infield makeup during free agency, Cashman said. He also
said the starting rotation is a priority.  “There are a lot of areas to focus on, this winter more
than previous winters,” he said.  Girardi Talks  The team has begun negotiations with Joe Girardi, who was a
catcher in New York from 1996 to 1999 and has managed the team
for the last six years. While he led the team to the World
Series championship in 2009, Girardi also has managed the only
two Yankee squads in the last 19 years that failed to reach the
postseason.  Cashman said he met yesterday with Girardi, who is under
contract until the end of the month, and will meet with his
agent tomorrow in New York. He said the team would “give him a
real good reason to stay, and he’s earned that.”  “Obviously the talent that he had to work with this year
was significantly less than other years,” Cashman said. “The
job of the manager is to make sure these guys fight, compete on
a daily basis and stay motivated and he was able to provide
that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  