-- CBOE Introduces Nine-Day VIX Amid Growing Investor Demand
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r ,   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-10-01T15:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/cboe-introduces-nine-day-vix-amid-growing-investor-demand.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  already runs the
dominant gauge of U.S. options prices. Amid record trading of
volatility products, the exchange operator is expanding the
franchise with a version tracking shorter-term contracts.  The owner of the biggest U.S. options market today
introduced the CBOE S&P 500 Short-Term Volatility Index that
tracks nine-day options on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The
company’s most famous gauge, the CBOE Volatility Index, or VIX,
measures 30-day options on the S&P 500.  CBOE controls exclusive rights to the VIX and leverages
that position by offering options and futures on the benchmark
gauge of U.S. equity derivatives. The Chicago-based company
plans to do likewise with the latest product, which was
announced a day after CBOE said it will expand VIX futures
trading hours to help lure more investors from outside America.  “These things cater to a wide array of investors,” Scott Maidel, who helps oversee more than $237 billion as an equity-derivatives money manager at Russell Investments in  Seattle ,
said in an interview from Sintra,  Portugal , referring to the
surge in trading for volatility products. “By having a variety
of expiration dates available, investors can customize their
trades to hedge or speculate around a certain event. That’s why
they’re so popular.”  Expanded Hours  Starting this month, VIX futures will be available for
trading from 3 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. New York time every weekday,
with an additional session from 4:30 p.m. to 5:15 p.m. on Monday
through Thursday, CBOE said yesterday. A software update to
prepare for the shift caused a malfunction that shut CBOE’s main
market for 3 1/2 hours in April, prompting the company to delay
the trading-time changes.  The price of the short-term index announced today will be
revealed once daily at 4:15 p.m. New York time, with updates
every 15 seconds beginning later this year, CBOE said.  The company created the nine-day VIX, based on  weekly   S&P
500  options that expire every Friday, amid surging demand for
volatility products as U.S. stocks  climb  to record highs. Once
options and futures linked to the index are made available,
traders will gain another way to speculate on -- or hedge their
assets in advance of -- short-term events.  The new gauge “will enable traders to fine tune the timing
of their volatility trades,” Edward Tilly, chief executive
officer of CBOE, told investors at the exchange’s Risk
Management Conference in Sintra today. “We envision investors
using these products to pinpoint and hedge against event-driven
market moves, such as earnings and Fed announcements.”  Record Volume  Trading of VIX futures has averaged nearly 160,000 per day
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the most ever
and 68 percent more than the average volume in 2012. There are
367,365 futures outstanding, and the  open interest  reached a
record high of 481,794 in March, the data show.  The volume of S&P 500 weekly options has more than doubled
this year and one-week contracts will account for 25 percent of
total trading by the end of 2013, Tilly said, citing forecasts
from Tabb Group LLC. CBOE introduced S&P 500 weekly options in
2005, and one-week contracts on individual equities started in
June 2010.  Shares outstanding  on the iPath S&P 500 VIX Short-Term
Futures ETN more than tripled this year to 100 million as of
Sept. 27 and reached a record 107 million on Sept. 16, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Its 30-day average trading volume is
the fourth-highest among U.S. exchange-traded funds and notes,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Protect, Speculate  Options volume in the U.S. has surged fivefold in the last
decade to an average of 16.4 million contracts a day this year
as demand grew for securities that protect against losses and
speculate on the direction of stocks, according to  data  compiled
by the Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp.  The VIX rose 7.4 percent to a  one-month high  of 16.60
yesterday amid concern that a stalemate over the U.S.  federal
budget  would shut the government. Today, the index declined 5
percent to 15.77 at 11:18 a.m. New York time as the U.S. began
its first partial shutdown in 17 years, idling as many as
800,000 employees.  “The main driver in the growth of VIX futures has been
associated with the 2008 crisis and the search as well as need
for tail-risk hedges,” Ramon Verastegui, head of engineering
and strategy at Societe Generale SA in New York, said yesterday
during an interview. “Weekly options are efficient in
expressing any short views. Investors are using those more and
more due to the large amount of macro news.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in London at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  