-- Ceres May Seek 20% of KD Navien Fuel-Cell Boiler Market Sales
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-01T14:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/ceres-may-seek-20-of-kd-navien-fuel-cell-boiler-market-sales.html
Ceres Power Holdings Plc (CWR)  will supply
fuel-cell technology to Kyung Dong Navien Co. for their combined
heat and power boilers in a deal that may bring it as much as 20
percent of revenue from South Korea’s biggest boiler maker.  Ceres is also forging partnerships with equipment makers in
Japan, Chief Executive Officer Philip Caldwell said today by
phone. The company, based in Horsham,  England , has already
shipped its fuel cells, which like batteries produce power from
a chemical reaction, for testing in the nation, he said.  Businesses and homes are installing fuel cells used in so-called CHP units to produce cleaner energy on site, eliminating
losses from shipping the power through the grid. South Korea is
subsidizing the devices while  Japan  wants more power produced
outside the grid, known as distributed generation, as it
recovers from the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster.  Ceres may seek as much as 20 percent of KD Navien’s CHP
sales, though details of the accord are yet to be completed,
Caldwell said. South Korea sells about 1 million domestic
boilers a year.  Fuel cells convert fuel such as hydrogen into power and
heat, expelling non-polluting byproducts such as heat and water
in the process.  “The point of this technology is how can we utilize more
efficient lower carbon technologies that can run on everyday
fuels that we have today,” Caldwell said.  Ceres in July agreed with  KD Navien  to develop fuel cells
in its CHP boilers after shifting its business to a model where
equipment makers embed its technology under license in their
products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  