-- CFTC’s Enforcement Chief David Meister Plans Departure
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-10-01T04:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/cftc-s-enforcement-chief-meister-said-to-plan-departure.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s  David Meister , the enforcement chief who pursued
investigations of MF Global Holdings Ltd. and interest-rate
manipulations, plans to step down this month.  Gretchen Lowe, the enforcement division’s chief counsel,
will serve as acting director after he departs, the CFTC said
today in a statement. Meister, who previously worked as a
federal prosecutor and attorney in private practice, hasn’t
announced other plans, said  Steve Adamske , an agency spokesman.  The probe into manipulation of the  London  interbank offered
rate and other benchmarks was among the widest-ranging in CFTC
history. The agency began the investigation in 2008, and, on
Meister’s watch, was among regulators that reached more than
$2.5 billion in settlements with  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, UBS AG and ICAP Plc.  “David has brought energy, talent and experience to our
critical mission to protect the public from fraud and abuse and
ensure market integrity,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a
separate statement. “He is a tough but fair former federal
prosecutor who will be missed by all at the CFTC.”  Meister said in the release that the time had come to
return full time to his family in  New York . He called Lowe “a
gifted attorney with superior judgment, who has the respect of
the staff, and who is strongly committed to executing the
enforcement mission.”  JPMorgan, Corzine  Under Meister’s watch, the CFTC also joined other
regulators in examining  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $6.2 billion
trading loss in London last year. The regulator is looking into
whether the company manipulated trading in  credit derivatives ,
people familiar with the matter said last month. The agency
hasn’t yet brought claims in that case.  He was  picked to run  the CFTC division in November 2010
from the  law firm  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP,
where he was a partner specializing in white-collar criminal
cases. He previously was an assistant U.S. attorney in
Manhattan, serving on that office’s securities and commodities
fraud task force.  During his first year at the CFTC, the regulator came under
pressure to pursue MF Global, the brokerage that failed in 2011
and initially left a $1.6 billion gap in client funds. The
agency sued Jon S. Corzine in June for failing to adequately
supervise employees while he was chairman and chief executive
officer of the firm. Corzine is seeking dismissal of the suit.  The CFTC’s complaint “relies on irrelevant allegations
calculated to sully Mr. Corzine’s character, as well as rambling
hindsight criticisms of complex management decisions, many of
which were made during times of extreme stress,” Corzine said
in a Sept. 10 filing in federal court in New York.  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. MF
Global Inc., 13-cv-04463 and 11-cv-07866, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Reichl in  San Francisco  at 
 dreichl@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  