-- Cheapest Stocks in Egypt Post Best Rally on Military Control
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-10-02T13:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/cheapest-stocks-in-egypt-post-best-rally-in-year-on-army-control.html
Egyptian stocks posted their best
quarter in a year as increased political stability combined with
the world’s cheapest equities lured investors.  The benchmark EGX 30 Index gained 18 percent in the three
months ending Sept. 30, the biggest advance since the 24 percent
increase in the third quarter of 2012 and among the top 10
returns of 94 benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg. Cairo-based Ezz
Steel, the country’s largest publicly traded manufacturer of the
metal, soared 47 percent in the period, and  Six of October
Development & Investment , a luxury real-estate developer based
in Giza, climbed 46 percent.  Investment Minister Osama Saleh says buyers are mostly
Egyptians and trading volumes remain low after the military took
over July 3 from President Mohamed Mursi. The EGX 30 is still
down 16 percent since Arab Spring protests in January 2011 and
the measure fetches 0.6 times estimated 2014 book value, the
cheapest among the 45 largest equity markets tracked by
Bloomberg. Dividend yield for companies on the EGX 30 is
projected to jump 34 percent next year, second to  Russia ’s Micex
Index, to 4.5 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The military’s action was viewed as bringing more
stability,” Dubai-based Walid Mourad, who helps manage about
$400 million of  Middle East  and North Africa equities at ING
Investment Management Middle East Ltd., said Sept. 29 by phone.
“There are buying opportunities if investors are selective.”  Shutdown  The EGX 30’s gain last quarter compares with advances of 5
percent and 7.7 percent for MSCI’s  emerging markets  and  world 
indexes. The measure advanced 0.3 percent in Cairo today.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 5.75 percent
Eurobonds due in April 2020 tumbled 294 basis points, or 2.94
percentage points, to 7.21 percent last quarter, as  Egypt 
received $12 billion in aid from  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab
Emirates  and  Kuwait . The funds helped the central bank halt
seven months of  currency depreciation , sending the pound 1.8
percent higher since the end of June to 6.8916 a dollar.  The Egyptian Exchange closed for almost two months in the
first quarter of 2011 as a popular uprising forced President
 Hosni Mubarak  out of power. During Mursi’s presidency, which
started in June 2012, the EGX 30 increased 5.6 percent. The
military-backed government of Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawy,
which came to power after Mursi’s ouster, is overseeing
constitutional amendments that will lead to parliamentary
elections in the first quarter of next year.  ‘More Confident’  “There has been local demand seen in the stock market,
which will attract foreign buyers,” Investment Minister Saleh
said in an interview last week at Bloomberg’s headquarters in
 New York . “Investors are becoming more confident in the new
cabinet and new administration expectations, which is partly
responsible for the rise in assets.”  Telecom Egypt, the Cairo-based state-controlled company
that rose 18 percent since the end of June, will make a dividend
payout next year equal to 9.6 percent of today’s price, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Eastern Tobacco, the country’s
monopoly cigarettes maker, will pay an 8-pound dividend for the
year that ended in June, up from 7 pounds last year, according
to  projections  on Bloomberg.  The relatively high dividends are tied to benchmark
 interest rates  that are more than twice the level of other North
African countries, said Simon Kitchen, strategist at Cairo-based
investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. Egypt’s benchmark
overnight deposit rate of 8.75 percent compares with 3 percent
in  Morocco  and and 4 percent in  Tunisia .  Deceiving Looks  Inflation accelerated to about 10 percent in the last three
months, up from 4.3 percent in November. The economy is stuck in
the  worst slump  in two decades after the popular uprising in
2011, with growth remaining around 2 percent for a third year,
according to the median of 16 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “You may get what looks like a really nice yield on
Egyptian stocks, but there’s a good chance you’ll lose part of
that either through devaluation or inflation,” Kitchen said by
phone Sept. 26. “The political situation is far from clear and
the economy is still weak so it’s hard to make the argument that
Egyptian stocks are attractive at the moment.”  Average daily  trading volume  over the past year has slumped
about 60 percent to 345 million pounds ($50 million) compared
with the year leading up to the 2011 revolution.  Trading Tumbles  Foreign investors have been hesitant to return to the North
African country. Non-Arab foreigners, as classified by the
bourse, were  net sellers  on about 75 percent of trading days
since the end of June. That month, index provider  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  said
it may consider excluding Egypt from its emerging-market gauges
should a foreign currency shortage prevent investors from taking
their money out of the country.  The economy is showing signs of improvement. The balance of
payments recorded a surplus of $237 million in the year to June
compared with a $11.3 billion deficit a year earlier, the
central bank said last week. Foreign direct investment is
starting to return with  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  among companies looking to invest, Saleh said in the
interview. Egypt will try to attract $6 billion of foreign
direct investment in the next 12 months, or about 75 percent of
pre-crisis levels, he said.  Volatility on the benchmark  stock index  is also decreasing.
The stock gauge’s 30-day volatility, a measure of price swings,
declined to 17 on Sept. 30 from a six-month high of 41 in July.
That compares with 44 for Dubai’s benchmark, 28 for  Greece ’s and
14 for  Germany ’s, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Dividend-paying stocks are definitely providing an
attractive entry point for some investors now,” Hany Genena,
head of research at Cairo-based Pharos Holding, said Sept. 26 by
phone. “The absence of investments over the last three years
has forced companies to settle debt and return cash to their
shareholders until the political and economic outlook becomes
clear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  