-- Chico’s Luring Activist Seen as LBO Target: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-10-01T13:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/chico-s-luring-activist-seen-as-lbo-target-real-m-a.html
Chico’s FAS Inc. (CHS)  stands to hand
shareholders a gain of at least 38 percent should activist
investor Blue Harbour Group LP’s efforts to unlock value at the
women’s clothing chain spark takeover interest.  Blue Harbour, led by former KKR & Co. general partner
Clifton S. Robbins, disclosed a 5.6 percent stake in Chico’s
last month and said talks with management could lead it to
propose changes at the operator of chains including White House
Black Market and Soma Intimates. While the  shareholder  didn’t
specify what steps it could take, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said some
investors are speculating there’s an increased chance Chico’s
may become a buyout target.  Chico’s Chief Executive Officer David Dyer previously
headed  Tommy Hilfiger  Corp. and Lands’ End Inc., both of which
were sold. Chico’s free cash flow and growth prospects may
appeal to private-equity firms, said Maxim Group LLC, which
estimates the $2.7 billion clothing retailer could fetch $23 a
share in a takeover. The  Fort Myers , Florida-based company
trades at a lower multiple of revenue than more than two-thirds
of similar-sized peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “David Dyer was CEO at two companies that were sold,”
 Rick Snyder , a New York-based analyst at Maxim Group, said in a
phone interview. “People connect those dots and say Chico’s
could be a takeout candidate. Chico’s has strong cash flow. They
have a growth vehicle and those things are almost always
attractive to private equity.”  Activist Approach  Representatives for Chico’s didn’t respond to e-mails or
phone calls seeking comment about whether the company would be
open to a sale. A representative for Blue Harbour said the firm
declined to comment.  Blue Harbour already held a position in Chico’s before
increasing its stake with its recent purchases to become its
 third-largest  investor, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It said in a Sept. 9 filing that it has had and may continue to
have talks with management that could result in actions
including proposing changes in the company’s operations.  The Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund takes positions
in companies whose management teams may be open to new ideas,
and works collaboratively with them to unlock value over two to
three years, avoiding hostile tactics such as proxy fights. Its
investments also include government contractor CACI
International Inc. and Canadian trash hauler Progressive Waste
Solutions Ltd., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Clear Goals  Chico’s stock is down 9.8 percent  this year  after the
company  missed  analysts’ earnings estimates for three straight
quarters. The retailer trades at about 1 times its projected
 revenue  this year of $2.66 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with an average multiple of 2 among
specialty-apparel stores valued at more than $1 billion, the
data show.  “Blue Harbour’s goals are very clear -- to have the share
price reflect the best possible value for the company,”  Richard Jaffe , a New York-based analyst at Stifel Financial Corp., said
in a phone interview. “If it’s a sale or whatever possibility
they can dream up, I don’t think Blue Harbour would object.”  Chico’s shares have  climbed  more than 3 percent since the
Sept. 9 filing by the activist. Some of that gain may be from
investors speculating a deal may be in Chico’s future, said
Brian Tunick, a New York-based analyst at JPMorgan.  Today, Chico’s climbed 1.9 percent to $16.97 at 9:55 a.m.
New York time.  CEO Dyer sold Lands’ End to Sears Roebuck & Co. in 2002 and
then agreed to sell Tommy Hilfiger to private-equity firm Apax
Partners LLP in 2005.  Deal History  Blue Harbour has also been involved in retail takeovers.
The firm held about a 10 percent stake in Yankee Candle Co. and
was working with the company on alternatives including a
possible sale when it agreed to be bought by private-equity firm
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC in 2006.  As a shareholder of Warnaco Group Inc. and a prior
shareholder of PVH Corp., Blue Harbour also said it advocated
for a “strategically compelling” combination before the two
clothing companies merged this year.  “There’s a history that Blue Harbour has been pushing
sales of companies,” Tunick said in a phone interview. “Then
you throw in Dave Dyer and his history of selling companies.
Private equity are willing buyers of companies.”  Some investors may be betting on “an increased chance now
that Chico’s can consider exploring things,” he said.  Tunick estimated Chico’s could be valued at $25 to $27 a
share in a takeover, or as much as a 62 percent premium.  Buyout Appeal  Chico’s has strong  free cash flow  and growth opportunities
through its Soma lingerie and White House Black Market  chains ,
said Snyder of Maxim.  Sales at Soma are expected to more than double over the
next four years as the chain’s store base grows,Simeon Siegel,
an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a Sept. 9 report.
Analysts  estimate  Chico’s total revenue will grow 31 percent to
$3.4 billion through the year ending January 2017.  The company last year generated record free  cash flow  of
$204 million.  “Those are things that private equity generally
appreciates,” Snyder said. Private-equity firms also could see
an opportunity to close some Chico’s stores, he said.  While Chico’s trades at a discount to some of its peers,
its current valuation may not be cheap enough to entice bidders,
said Susan Anderson, an Arlington, Virginia-based analyst at FBR
& Co. Even so, Chico’s meets many of the criteria of an
attractive LBO target, including having no debt, Anderson said.  “I wouldn’t put it out of the question,” she said in a
phone interview. “Definitely they have some great brands. They
do have a great niche” and there’s still opportunity for
square-footage growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  