-- Chile Central Bank Signals Possible Rate Cuts Before Year-End
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-10-01T17:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/chile-central-bank-signals-possible-rate-cuts-before-year-end.html
Chilean central bank President
Rodrigo Vergara said policy makers don’t have to wait for a
slowdown in  consumer spending  before cutting rates, a day after
a report showed retail sales soaring.  Weaker real wage growth and a decline in consumer optimism
indicate that demand will ease in coming months, allowing a
possible reduction in borrowing costs, Vergara said at an event
in Santiago today. Policy makers have kept the key rate at 5
percent for 20 consecutive months as they wait for a consumer
spending boom to ease.  “If we have evidence of a relatively strong slowdown in
coming months, we could take monetary policy decisions even if
the current information isn’t showing the symptoms,” Vergara
said. The debate on consumer demand shouldn’t dominate rate
decisions, he said.  The comments came a day after the National Statistics
Institute said retail sales leaped 12 percent in August from the
year earlier, bringing year-to-date growth to 10.2 percent. It
was the fifth time in the past six months that sales growth beat
the median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “What is relevant for our policy decisions is how we see
the future, not what we have seen in the past,” Vergara said.  Two-year Chilean swap rates fell 2 basis points to 4.74
percent today, after climbing 3 basis points Sept. 30 when the
retail sales report was released. Swap rates are an indication
of expectations for the average future  interest rate .  Weaker internal demand, led by a slowdown in investment in
the  mining industry , may provide a “positive surprise” for the
current account deficit, which is forecast to end the year at
about 4 percent of gross domestic product, Vergara said.  “The current account deficit could be inferior to our
forecast, but we still need more information in order to modify
it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 