-- Chinese Dissident Chen Joins Witherspoon Institute
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-10-01T19:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/chinese-dissident-chen-joins-witherspoon-institute.html
Chen Guangcheng , a blind Chinese
lawyer and human-rights activist, is joining the  Witherspoon
Institute , a research center that says it works to enhance
public understanding of the moral foundations of free and
democratic societies.  Chen, who fled China last year with the diplomatic
intervention of then-Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , will be
a distinguished fellow with the Princeton, New Jersey-based
group, according to institute official Matthew Franck.  Chen also will be affiliated with the  Catholic University 
of America in Washington and the Lantos Foundation for Human
Rights & Justice based in Concord, New Hampshire, Franck, who is
director of the institute’s William E. and Carol G. Simon Center
on Religion and the Constitution, said in a phone interview
ahead of a press conference tomorrow in Washington.  The Lantos Foundation, named after California
Representative Tom Lantos, who died in 2008, advocates for human
rights, according to its  website . Earlier this year, Chen was
awarded the 2012 Tom Lantos Human Rights Prize for his work
promoting the rule of law in China.  Chen, a self-trained lawyer, ran into trouble with the
Chinese government by representing villagers opposed to forced
abortions and sterilizations. He was imprisoned for four years
and then kept under house arrest in Shandong province after
initiating a class-action lawsuit on behalf of village women.  His departure from  China , arranged with Clinton’s help,
resolved a U.S.-China dispute after he was given refuge at the
American embassy in Beijing in April 2012 following his escape
from home detention.  Chen arrived at  New York  University in May 2012 to study
law under a fellowship arranged by NYU law professor Jerome
Cohen, a friend and supporter.  That arrangement ended after a year, and Chen said in a
statement at the time that NYU —- which is opening a campus in
 Shanghai  —- was under pressure from the Chinese government to
force him out. Both NYU and Cohen said that wasn’t the case and
that his fellowship was intended to last a for a limited period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in  Washington  at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  