-- CIBC Issues New Card as Lender Seeks to Expand in Travel Market
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-01T19:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/cibc-issues-new-card-as-lender-seeks-to-expand-in-travel-market.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  is
offering a new travel rewards credit card designed to help the
country’s fifth-biggest bank regain market growth lost to other
card issuers.  Canadian Imperial unveiled the Aventura rewards card today,
offering customers points that can be redeemed for travel on any
airline. Two weeks ago, the Toronto-based lender struck a deal
with Aeroplan rewards program owner  Aimia Inc. (AIM)  to continue
offering the CIBC Aerogold Visa card for 10 more years, even as
Toronto-Dominion Bank becomes Aimia’s primary card issuer.  “The travel market is an important one in  Canada  and it
has a good growth rate,” David Williamson, CIBC’s group head of
retail and business banking, said in an interview. “We were
growing slower than the market because the Aimia product needed
to be renewed. It’s now being renewed, and now we’re coming out
with a leading fly-any-airline. So we’re here to grow.”  Canadian Imperial on Sept. 16 agreed to sell about half its
Aerogold Visa card portfolio to Toronto-Dominion, which is
starting its own Aeroplan card program in January. Toronto-Dominion gains about 550,000 cardholder accounts, primarily
those without a CIBC banking relationship, and Canadian Imperial
gets to extend its 22-year relationship with the  loyalty
program .  The bank will shift mass-marketing to the Aventura card,
promoting features such as trip-cancellation insurance and the
ability to pay for flight taxes and fees with points, Williamson
said. CIBC will still promote its Aerogold card to its
customers, he said.  “It’s all about choice,” Williamson said. “If you’re
happy with Aeroplan, we’ve got you covered. If you prefer a fly-any-airline, we have a market-leading card.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  