-- Cisco CEO Compensation Almost Doubles to $21.1 Million
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/cisco-ceo-compensation-almost-doubles-to-21-1-million.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Chambers  received $21.1 million in compensation for
the company’s latest fiscal year, almost twice the amount from
the previous period.  Chambers, 64, saw his base salary raised to $1.1 million
for the year ending in July, from $375,000, according to a
filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. His previous salary was “historically low,” and
the increase brings his compensation in line with peers, the
company said.  While Cisco’s global reach and new products are helping to
bolster results, the world’s biggest maker of computer-networking equipment is eliminating jobs as profit margins
come under pressure from lower-cost rivals, as well as an
expansion into less-profitable business such as servers. Cisco
climbed 62 percent during its latest fiscal year, making it the
sixth  best-performing stock  in the 67-member Standard & Poor’s
500 Information Technology Sector Index during that period.  Chambers received a $4.7 million cash bonus, up from $3.95
million, and restricted stock valued at $15.2 million, versus
$7.35 million in fiscal 2012, according to the filing.
Chambers’s package was $11.7 million in the previous period.  Cisco’s $48.6 billion in  revenue  and other financial
metrics for the latest fiscal year exceeded the company’s
targets, boosting the amount of the awards, the company said.
Net income rose 24 percent to $9.98 billion in the latest fiscal
year, which ended July 27.  Chambers, who has been CEO of the San Jose, California-based company since 1995, indicated in an interview with
Bloomberg News last year that he may retire as soon as 2014.  Succession Planning  He identified as possible successors Robert Lloyd,
executive vice president of worldwide operations;  Gary Moore ,
chief operating officer; and as many as eight others who are
among a list that directors review quarterly.  The company’s turnaround effort is under pressure amid
weaker sales outside the U.S. amid a global economic downturn
and heightened rivalry from  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , Huawei
Technologies Co. and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Cisco announced plans
in August to cut 4,000 jobs, or 5 percent of its workforce.  With the new cuts, Cisco will have eliminated 12,300 jobs
over the past two years as it has exited consumer businesses and
focused more on technology services and corporate software.
Cisco agreed in July to buy security software maker Sourcefire
Inc. for $2.7 billion, stepping up competition with  Palo Alto
Networks Inc. (PANW)  and  Fortinet Inc. (FTNT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  