-- Colombia Probes Petrominerales Trades Before Pacific Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-10-01T12:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/colombia-probes-petrominerales-trades-before-pacific-deal.html
Colombia opened an investigation into
 Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG) ’s record share price gain before the
announcement of a takeover by  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE)   The Superintendencia Financiera, as the country’s
securities regulator is known, is seeking information from
Calgary-based Petrominerales and its prospective buyer Pacific,
as well as exchanges in Bogota and Toronto, the agency said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.  Petrominerales rose a record 18 percent Sept. 27, while
Pacific fell in Bogota as the two crude producers were put on
trading halt in Toronto pending news. They disclosed the C$935
million ($909 million) acquisition agreement two days later.  The probe aims to “clarify the circumstances in which
transactions were carried out on the exchange,” the regulator
said yesterday.  Pacific said it would answer any questions from the
regulator, and the Toronto stock exchange declined to comment,
in e-mailed responses to questions. Petrominerales and the
Bogota stock exchange didn’t immediately reply to requests for
comment.  Under the deal, Pacific has agreed to buy light-oil
producer Petrominerales for C$935 million in cash as the world’s
fastest-growing major crude producer seeks to reduce transport
costs in Colombia. The total value of the deal, including net
debt, is about C$1.6 billion, Petrominerales said.  Petrominerales stockholders will receive C$11 a share and
one share in a newly formed exploration and production company.  Pacific shares fell 3.4 percent to 37,460 pesos in Bogota
yesterday, while Petrominerales surged another 36 percent to
21,500 pesos. In Toronto, Petrominerales closed at C$11.70.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  