-- Commodity Assets Increase to a Four-Month High, Barclays Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-10-01T15:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/commodity-assets-increase-to-a-four-month-high-barclays-says.html
Commodity assets under management
rose to a four-month high in August as prices of raw materials
increased and investors slowed the pace of selling precious
metals, Barclays Plc said.  The value of commodity assets under management rose to $363
billion in August, up $13 billion from the prior month,
according to an e-mailed report from the bank, which tracks
index and exchange-traded products and medium-term notes. Assets
were still below a peak of $458 billion in June, the bank said.  Net-outflows from precious metals ETPs slowed to $423
million in August, less than 10 percent of the average monthly
exit so far this year, Barclays said. Commodity prices rose in
August, with the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw
materials posting a 2.9 percent gain, led by silver, gas oil and
gold. The index declined 3.8 percent in September, leaving a
third-quarter gain of 3.5 percent.  “Commodity markets look in better shape than for some
time, but we caution against becoming too optimistic just yet,”
Barclays analysts including Kevin Norrish said in the e-mailed
report. “Despite some promising signs, there is little evidence
that the global economy is anywhere near embarking on a period
of sustained recovery and returns to long-only investors are
likely to remain choppy for some time.”  The energy sector saw a net-inflow of $1 billion in August,
while new investments in agriculture totaled $400 million, the
first increase since March, Barclays said. Industrial metals
attracted $200 million in investments, and the total outflow in
precious metals was worth $300 million, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  