-- MTA Board Approves Refunds for Metro-North Power Failure
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-10-02T00:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/connecticut-says-con-edison-should-pay-metro-north-train-refunds.html
The Metropolitan Transportation
Authority today approved rider refunds for the disruption on
Metro-North trains that has snarled commutes since a  power
failure  on Sept. 25.  The board of the rail service authorized credits for New
Haven line customers who hold monthly or weekly tickets during
the disruption of service, the transportation agency said in a
statement on its website. Trains were limited after a
Consolidated Edison Inc. feeder cable failed.  “Because of the unprecedented magnitude and duration of
this disruption, the MTA Board has concluded that a credit for
our customers is simply the right thing to do,” MTA Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Thomas Prendergast said in the
statement.  The MTA is working on a plan on how credits will be
received. Refunds will come from Metro-North’s operating budget,
 Marjorie Anders , an MTA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
statement. The cost could be as much as $2 million if the power
failure lasts a week and as much as $4 million if it lasts for
two weeks, Anders said.  Metro-North New Haven’s line serves about 130,000 commuters
daily in  Connecticut  and suburban Westchester County in  New
York .  Temporary Feeders  Con Edison said yesterday that the electrical failure on
the cable was probably caused by work done to disconnect a
second line for Metro-North’s upgrade of a substation. The
utility expects to completely restore power to the train line by
Oct. 7. It built temporary feeders that have allowed for more
electric trains to operate.  Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy said  Con Edison (ED)  is
“ultimately responsible” and should pay passenger refunds for
the disruption on Metro-North trains.  Con Edison also should be responsible for interim service
and restoration costs stemming from the “power-supply
debacle,” the governor wrote in a  letter  to the New York-owned
MTA today.  “Connecticut commuters should never have been put in this
situation in the first place, but the unprecedented action taken
by the board today is the first step in making things right,”
Malloy said in a statement after the MTA decision.  Con Edison’s “first priority is restoring full service to
Metro-North customers,” Michael Clendenin, a spokesman for the
New York-based utility owner, said in an e-mailed statement.
“There will be many issues to discuss once power is restored.”  With diesel and electric trains, the line operated at more
than 50 percent of capacity yesterday, up from a third last
week, Malloy said during a news conference.  Metro-North’s New Haven line will operate at 65 percent
capacity tomorrow due to an increase in power capacity from Con
Edison’s temporary power supply, the train operator said on its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  