-- Copper Falls on Concern U.S. Government Shutdown to Sap Demand
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-10-01T14:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/copper-drops-first-time-in-five-days-on-u-s-budget-stalemate.html
Copper futures fell the most in
almost four weeks in New York on concern that a government
shutdown will slow U.S. economic growth and hinder a global
recovery in manufacturing.  U.S. lawmakers passed a deadline without reaching a
compromise to keep funding the government. A partial federal
government shutdown would cost the U.S. at least $300 million a
day in lost economic output, and that amount may accelerate as
confidences ebbs,  IHS Inc. (IHS)  said. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index of 24 commodities dropped to a seven-week low.  “There’s a general selling of industrial commodities with
the fear that a shutdown will hurt growth,”  Bill O’Neill , a
partner at Logic Advisors in  Upper Saddle River ,  New Jersey ,
said in a telephone interview. “These markets don’t have the
traditional supply-and-demand fundamentals to give a lot of
support right now, so people are focusing on the budget issue.”  Copper futures for delivery in December lost 1.8 percent to
$3.2635 a pound at 10:48 a.m. on the Comex in New York, heading
for the biggest drop since Sept. 4. Through yesterday, the
commodity fell 9 percent this year amid concern that output will
exceed demand.  Budget concerns overwhelmed figures showing expansion in
U.S., Chinese and European manufacturing and a drop in copper
inventories.  China  is the world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  Stockpiles monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange slid for
a 19th session, to 533,325 metric tons. In the third quarter,
inventories tumbled 19 percent, the most in 18 months.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months slid 1.7
percent to $7,174.75 a ton ($3.25 a pound).  Nickel, tin, lead, zinc and aluminum also declined in
London.  Markets in China are closed from today through Oct. 7 for
National Day holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  