-- Cuban Sold Company’s Shares to Win, SEC Lawyer Tells Jury
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/cuban-sold-company-s-shares-to-win-sec-lawyer-tells-jury.html
Mark Cuban  sold his stock in a
Canadian Internet search business because he didn’t want to be a
loser, a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawyer told a
jury at the start of the billionaire’s insider-trading trial.  Cuban sold that stake in the company, then known as
Mamma.com, in 2004 after he learned confidentially from its
chief executive officer of a private placement plan that would
dilute its shares by 8.5 percent, according to the SEC.  “‘Now I’m screwed, I can’t sell.’ The evidence in this
case will show those are the words of Mark Cuban,” SEC lawyer
Jan Folena said yesterday in her opening remarks in federal
court in  Dallas . “Mark Cuban made that statement just hours
before he began to sell 600,000 shares of a company he owned
named Mamma.com. The evidence will show that was  insider
trading .”  In liquidating those shares for $7.9 million before the
private investment in public equity, or PIPE, plan became
public, Cuban avoided a $750,000 loss, according to the SEC.  Cuban, who owns the  National Basketball Association ’s 2011
champion  Dallas Mavericks , couldn’t wait for the information
imparted to him by then-Mamma.com CEO Guy Faure to become
public, Folena said.  “In his mind that’s losing,” she said during her hour-long opening. “Mark Cuban is a winner.”  TV Appearances  Cuban, 55, is chairman of the high-definition television
network HDNet, and has owned the Mavericks since 2000. He also
owns the Landmark Theatres chain, has been a contestant on the
television program “Dancing with the Stars” and appears
regularly on the TV show “Shark Tank.”  In 1999, he sold Broadcast.com, a multimedia web service he
founded, to Yahoo! Inc. for $4.7 billion.  Cuban claims what he learned from Faure was no secret.
There was no confidentiality agreement, defense attorney Thomas Melsheimer told the panel of seven women and three men
yesterday.  “He never broke any promise,” Melsheimer said. “He did
exactly what he said he’d do. He didn’t deceive Mamma.”  The jury was selected Sept. 30. The parties’ lawyers have
told U.S. District Judge Sidney A. Fitzwater they expect the
trial to last eight to 10 days.  Possible Acquisitions  Fitzwater said that that schedule may be disrupted by the
shutdown of non-essential federal government services due to the
budget impasse between U.S. Senate Democrats and Republicans
controlling the  House of Representatives .  Cuban was the biggest stockholder of Montreal-based company
now known as Copernic Inc., holding 6.3 percent of its shares,
and had offered to use his fame to promote the company and
assist it with possible acquisitions, according to a Sept. 25
pretrial filing by Fitzwater summarizing each side’s claims.  Mamma.com fell 8.5 percent on June 30, 2004, the first
trading day after the private placement was announced, and 15
percent the day after his sale was disclosed in a regulatory
filing made public on July 2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The SEC opened the evidentiary portion of its case by
playing videotaped 2011 testimony from David Goldman, who served
as chairman of Mamma.com when it made the private placement.  Blog Flogging  Goldman testified the company’s board was concerned about
how Cuban would react when told of their PIPE plan as it was
known their biggest shareholder didn’t like such transactions.  The board was worried Cuban might “flog us on his blog,”
the chairman said.  Goldman acknowledged writing an e-mail message to the board
on June 28, 2004, summarizing, among other things, what he knew
of the phone call between Cuban and Faure earlier that day.  “As anticipated he initially ‘flew off the handle’ and
said he would sell his shares (recognizing that he was not able
to do so until we announced the equity.),” he wrote of Cuban.  Goldman said yesterday, “I had not anticipated he would
sell before release of the information.”  On cross-examination, Goldman said he never asked Faure to
obtain a non-disclosure agreement from Cuban. The chairman also
testified Faure didn’t tell him Cuban had agreed to keep the
June 28 conversation confidential.  Testifying live for the SEC after Goldman was Arnold Owen,
who had been a managing director at Mamma.com’s investment
banker, Merriman Curhan & Ford Inc.  Owen said yesterday he had difficulty recalling details of
the telephone conversation he’d had with Cuban about the private
placement before Cuban sold his shares.  Details Forgotten  Owen told SEC lawyer Duane Thompson he couldn’t remember
specific details about the conversation.  Thompson then read excerpts from investigative testimony
Owen gave in 2007, in which he said he believed that learning
the timing of the PIPE was the point of Cuban’s call and that
Owen had told Cuban it would be announced the next day.  Owen said he still couldn’t recall. His testimony will
continue today.  Owen also appears on Cuban’s list of trial witnesses filed
with the court. He told Thompson he had met with the investor’s
attorneys three times and as recently as the night before last.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-02050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in federal court in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  