-- Czech CTU Says Lawsuits Won’t Derail Landmark Mobile Tender
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-10-01T10:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/czech-ctu-says-lawsuits-won-t-derail-landmark-mobile-tender.html
The Czech mobile phone frequency
tender aimed at bringing a new competitor to the market and
boosting services will continue as planned even as existing
operators raise legal challenges, the country’s regulator said.  The three main operators and two newcomers linked to Czech
billionaires applied in the tender. Incumbent Telefonica Czech
AS filed a lawsuit contesting some conditions as “unauthorized
state aid,” while the Czech unit of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  said it
had also taken legal measures. The regulator wants at least 8.72
billion koruna ($460 million) from the sale and doesn’t expect a
delay.  “The conditions are rational and evenly balanced so that
the sale would fulfill its aim to boost competitiveness and
bring new networks,” Czech Telecommunication Office head
Jaromir Novak said in an interview in Bloomberg’s office in
 Prague  today. “We don’t expect to change the timeline of the
sale and bidding will start around Nov. 11.”  The tender is a repeat of one that failed in May when the
regulator, known as CTU, ruled that bids exceeding 20 billion
koruna could trigger an unwanted jump in prices for users. Weeks
later, the existing operators cut tariffs that, according to
Finnish consultancy Rewheel, had been the second highest in the
European Union.  The other participants include T-Mobile Czech Republic AS
and newcomers Revolution Mobile AS -- a former unit of Czech
financial group PPF Group NV owned by billionaire  Petr Kellner  -
- and Tasciane AS, controlled by Czech energy magnate Karel
Komarek.  Tender Conditions  PPF Group NV said yesterday it wouldn’t take part because
the tender banned any new entrant from merging with another
participant for 15 years. Instead, the company sold its unit PPF
Mobile Services AS to its chief executive officer, Tomas Budnik.
The subsidiary changed its name to Revolution Mobile and
applied.  The winners of spectrum will be obliged to hold the
frequencies for at least seven years before being able to sell
them, according to the conditions. Even after that, no single
company can exceed a cap in the 800 MHz bandwidth stated in the
auction conditions.  CTU opened the tender envelopes today and has two weeks to
asses the applications. It will also check financial links
between the companies that want to take part in the sale.  The regulator is also communicating with the European
Commission about complaints filed there by  T-Mobile Czech (DTE) 
against the auction rules. CTU received a second set of
questions from the officials in August and will answer them
according to set deadlines.  “Such procedures are very lengthy and complicated and
again, I believe that it won’t have any impact on the sale,”
Novak said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  