-- Dark Pools Face New Finra Disclosure Requirements
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-10-01T16:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/dark-pools-face-new-finra-disclosure-requirements.html
U.S. securities regulators issued a
proposal requiring private venues including dark pools to
release more data, including weekly volume reports and
disclosures on how much trading of each stock they handle.  The rules, if approved by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, would shed light on operators that have historically
faced no obligation to publicly report their market share, so
information has either been self-reported or estimated by
analysts. The shift applies to dark pools and venues known as
alternative trading systems, not the transactions broker-dealers
handle within their walls via a process called internalization.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the private-sector overseer of U.S. brokerages, announced the proposed rules
in a  filing  dated yesterday. If approved, Finra would start
releasing data to the public on a two- or four-week delay
depending on the stock. The decision comes as the SEC prepares
to publicly release its reports on U.S. trading amid criticism
regulators haven’t kept up with changes in modern markets.  “The proposed rule change will enhance Finra’s regulatory
and automated surveillance efforts by enabling it to obtain more
granular information regarding activity conducted on or
through” alternative trading systems, Finra said in the filing.  Finra’s board authorized requiring more disclosure in July.
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP runs an alternative trading
system called  Bloomberg Tradebook .  Trading Disclosure  As U.S. exchanges lose business to private venues, owners
of public markets have sought help reversing the shift.  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  have asked the SEC to
consider rules keeping orders off dark pools unless those venues
offer a better price than exchanges at a given moment.  Under existing rules, Finra can’t be sure which private
venue handled a given trade. The new system would introduce
unique identifier codes for each market.  Finra said it may consider expanding disclosure. Almost 40
percent of  stock trading  in the U.S. happens off exchanges,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Broader coverage “could include broker-dealer internalized
executions, trades executed in the over-the-counter market by
wholesale market makers trading with order entry brokers, and
executions on broker crossing systems that have not filed a Form
ATS with the Commission,” Finra said in the filing.  The proposed rules would take effect 90 days after
publication of a notice announcing SEC approval.  Finra’s decision comes with the SEC poised to issue
research from its new system for monitoring markets, including a
look at practices that some blame for giving high-speed traders
an unfair edge.  The reports will use data from the SEC’s Midas market-surveillance system, according to two people briefed on the
plans. The findings could help inform whether new regulations
are needed to address strategies such as canceling a high
percentage of orders, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plan isn’t ready to be announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  