-- Delta Set to Battle United for New Flights at Tokyo’s Haneda
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r ,   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-01T14:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/delta-aims-to-snatch-more-flights-to-tokyo-s-downtown-airport.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the only major
U.S. carrier without a Japanese partner, is pushing for more
landing slots at Haneda airport near central Tokyo as  United (UAL) 
Continental Holdings Inc. seeks its first foothold there.  The two are among airlines vying for about 40 new daytime
landing slots that Japan’s transport ministry is negotiating to
divide between domestic and international carriers.  Delta has said it wants 25 slot pairs so it can return most
of its flights to Haneda after having to shift to Tokyo’s more-distant Narita airport in 1978 to ease overcrowding. Haneda,
which opened a new international terminal three years ago, is
favored by business travelers who will pay a premium to land
near the middle of the city.  “Access to those slots is considered very important by the
U.S. carriers,” said  Peter Harbison , executive chairman at
Sydney-based CAPA Centre for Aviation. “It creates the obvious
competitive advantages being close to the city and having
desirable arrival and departure times. Delta feels entitled to
slots.”  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  and  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202)  also are competing
for the new Haneda slots that Akihiro Ohta, Japan’s transport
minister, has said would allow flights starting in March.  United, which has teamed up with ANA, is seeking its first
slot on its own while  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines , a partner
with Japan Airlines, is seeking a better flight time for its
existing New York-Tokyo round trip. Both United and American
benefit from flight slots held by their Japanese partners.  In a 2010 round of slot awards, Delta won two nighttime
flights to Haneda, while American and  Hawaiian Holdings Inc. (HA) 
each got one. United didn’t receive any.  ‘Piecemeal Offers’  The ability of U.S. carriers to win slots at Haneda is
hampered by Japanese government favoritism toward domestic
carriers, Delta Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said at
a press conference in Tokyo on July 31.  “The U.S. should reject these unsatisfactory and piecemeal
offers -- and permit no changes until Japan is ready to fully
open Haneda and allow Delta to move its hub,”  Anthony Black , a
spokesman for the Atlanta-based carrier, said in an e-mail.  The allocation of daytime slots may also prove more
competitive than the nighttime rights three years ago, because
the flight times are more attractive to U.S. carriers.  ‘Operational Restrictions’  “American has consistently raised concerns about the
operational restrictions under which we fly between  John F.
Kennedy  and Haneda, and that remains our focus,” said Mary Frances Fagan, a spokeswoman for the Fort Worth, Texas-based
carrier.  American’s one flight between Haneda and New York, which
leaves Tokyo at 6:55 a.m., isn’t attractive to business
travelers, she said.  United wants to fly between Haneda and San Francisco, a
route that “would clearly provide the greatest level of
consumer benefit of any service between Haneda and the  United
States ,” Rahsaan Johnson, a spokesman for the Chicago-based
airline, said on Sept. 25. “United has more flights out of San
Francisco than any other airline’s western hub.”  ANA, Japan’s largest airline, is vying for a lion’s share
of the roughly 20 new international slots to be distributed
among local carriers, saying government support of  Japan 
Airlines’ financial restructuring tipped the balance in favor of
its rival.  “We can’t catch up with Japan Airlines’ finances and
profitability by ourselves after the support it had under
restructuring,” ANA President Shinichiro Ito said in an
interview. “One of the few ways the government could help
correct that imbalance would be to give priority over the new
slots to us.”  ‘Divided Equally’  Japan Airlines, the only other local airline that flies
overseas from Haneda, was relisted on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
last year after it wiped out shareholders and debts during
bankruptcy as it was supported by 350 billion yen ($3.6 billion)
of government-backed financing.  “The slots are the property of the nation’s citizens,”
JAL President Yoshiharu Ueki said in an interview last month.
“They should be divided equally.”  Japan has been gradually increasing landing and takeoff
slots at Haneda since the opening of a new runway in 2010. It
will add 30,000 international slots in the year ending March 31,
bringing the total to 447,000 annually, according to the
 transport ministry .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  