-- Diageo Kenya Beating Nigerian Unit on East Africa Push
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-10-02T16:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/diageo-kenya-outperforming-nigeria-unit-on-push-into-east-africa.html
The push by  Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s Kenyan unit
into the rest of East  Africa  is helping the company beat the
London-based brewer’s Nigerian business in the stock market for
a second year.  East African Breweries Ltd., or EABL, has gained 28 percent
this year following a 54 percent advance in 2012. Guinness
 Nigeria  Plc is down 3 percent after increasing 10 percent last
year. EABL trades at 27.4 times estimated earnings compared with
27.2 times for its West African peer, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The outperformance will continue in 2014 as the
East African market develops, said Esili Eigbe, an analyst at
Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s Stanbic IBTC.  EABL is benefiting from its dominance in the beer industry
in  Kenya , where it controls 95 percent of the market, and an
expansion into  Uganda ,  Tanzania , the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo and  South Sudan . Guinness, which holds about a third of
the nation’s beer market and unlike EABL doesn’t sell spirits,
is trying to stem falling profit by adding brands to catch
larger competitor  Nigerian Breweries Plc. (NB)   “There is a lot of headroom for EABL to accelerate
earnings growth relative to Guinness,” Eigbe, who has a buy
 rating  on EABL and a sell on Guinness, said by phone yesterday
from Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital. The Kenyan unit “is
the most dominant player in East Africa” and “very attractive
because the market it’s exposed to is pretty wide,” he said.  Militant Attacks  Kenya suffered its worst attack in 15 years on Sept. 21
when at least 61 civilians and six soldiers died after gunmen
from Somalia’s al-Qaeda-linked al-Shabaab militia entered the
upscale Westgate shopping mall in the capital. In Nigeria,
thousands of people have died in regular gun and bomb attacks by
Islamist militants since 2009 in the north of the country and
the capital, Abuja.  “Consumption will not be affected” at EABL because of the
assault, Eric Munywoki, a research analyst at Nairobi-based Old
Mutual Securities Ltd., said by phone yesterday. The company has
multiple brands across Kenya and the region so an attack on a
single mall will not have much impact, he said.  The  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index (NGSEINDX)  rallied 30
percent this year and Kenya’s main equities gauge increased 36
percent, the best in Africa after  Ghana . That compares with a 15
percent increase in the MSCI Frontier Market index. Guinness
closed unchanged at 266.70 naira in Lagos. EABL advanced 4
percent to 339 shillings in Nairobi, the highest level since
Aug. 7 with volumes 3.1 times the three-month daily average.  Sales Increase  Revenue at EABL increased 6.4 percent in the fiscal year
through June with sales in Kenya and Tanzania rising 10 percent
and export markets jumping 20 percent, the Nairobi-based company
said Aug. 23. At Guinness, annual  sales  increased 4 percent, the
Lagos-based company said Sept. 16. Diageo, the world’s biggest
distiller, declined to comment on valuations, James Crampton, a
London-based spokesman, said by e-mail Sept. 16 on behalf of all
the companies.  Guinness is the West African nation’s largest brewer after
 Heineken NV (HEIA) ’s Nigerian Breweries. EABL’s spirit business
accounts for about 20 percent of sales, providing potential for
further growth, Andy Gboka, an equity analyst at Exotix Ltd. in
 London , who has a hold on the Kenyan unit and sell on the
Nigerian company, said.  Net income at EABL dropped 38 percent in fiscal 2013 after
a one-time gain last year wasn’t repeated. Profit at Guinness
slid 17 percent as input and operating costs increased.  ‘Well Ahead’  The valuation on EABL “has run well ahead” and the stock
may start falling, Munywoki, who has an underweight rating on
the brewer, said in an Aug. 27 note. Expenses in fiscal 2012
increased faster than revenue growth, narrowing profit margins,
with rising raw material and imports adding to costs, he said.  Nigerian beer volumes may increase 19 percent to 24.7
million hectoliters in 2015, while consumption in  East Africa 
will climb 18 percent to 17.5 million hectoliters, Stanbic
IBTC’s Eigbe said by phone on Sept. 17.  EABL “can catch a beverage consumer at many points,”
Fungai Tarirah, the head of Africa Investments at Momentum Asset
Management who oversees $105 million in pan-African listed
equity funds, said Sept. 5 in an interview in London. “Guinness
in Nigeria appears to have a more focused, narrower high-end
product range, which allows less flexibility in tougher economic
environments.”  Nigeria’s economy, the second largest on the continent and
home to more than 160 million people, will probably expand 7.2
percent this year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .
That compares with 4.5 percent to 7.6 percent in East African
Community member countries of Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda
and Burundi, with a combined 148 million people.  Under Pressure  Nigerian consumers are under pressure after the government
reduced fuel subsidies last year and inflation reached 8.2
percent in August. The central bank kept  interest rates  at a
record 12 percent after its Sept. 24 meeting. In Kenya, the
central bank held rates at 8.5 percent on Sept. 3, pausing for a
second meeting. Inflation accelerated to 8.3 percent in
September compared with 6.7 percent in August.  Conditions for Nigerian consumers have been “eroded” by
the high cost of loans and removal of fuel subsidies, Guinness
Nigeria Chief Executive Officer Seni Adetu said on a conference
call Sept. 18. Attacks in the north of the country have impeded
the business and hindered the transportation of goods, he said
in a June 7 interview  “Nigeria is dominated by  Nigerian Breweries ,” Exotix’s
Gboka said “People feel a bit more comfortable with the
business model of EABL than Guinness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  