-- Dish Extends Disney Deadline to Avoid ESPN, ABC Blackout
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-10-01T15:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/dish-reaches-extension-with-disney-avoiding-espn-abc-blackout.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS)  reached a short-term extension of their programming
agreement, averting a blackout of Disney channels including ESPN
and ABC while the parties negotiate a long-term deal.  Details of the extension weren’t disclosed, Englewood,
Colorado-based Dish, the third-largest U.S. pay-TV service in
total subscribers, said yesterday in a joint statement with
Burbank, California-based Disney.  The extension temporarily prevents a blackout of ESPN, the
Disney Channel and some ABC stations for millions of pay-TV
subscribers. More than 3 million  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) 
customers lost  CBS Corp. (CBS)  programming for a month before those
two companies agreed to a new retransmission contract on Sept.
2. Dish has about 14 million subscribers.  Dish Chairman and co-founder  Charlie Ergen  has lamented the
rising cost of sports programming for several years. He
suggested last month a pay-TV company may one day choose to go
without the top-rated all-sports channel -- a strategy that
would lower prices to consumers.  ESPN charges pay-TV operators about $5.54 a month per
subscriber, according to research firm SNL Kagan.  “Somebody, sometime may decide that sports isn’t something
they have to have,” Ergen said on a conference call in August.
“There could be a day when, strategically, companies just can’t
get together, where they go opposite directions and they both
have strategies that work for them, and we’re prepared to go
either way.”  SEC Network  The extension affects ESPN, Disney Channel and ABC stations
owned by Disney in markets including New York,  Los Angeles  and
 Chicago . Disney also is trying to build distribution for a new
channel, the SEC Network, that will feature Southeastern
Conference college sports in 2014.  Dish rose 1.1 percent to $45.50 at 11:28 a.m. in New York.
The shares had gained 24 percent this year through yesterday.
Disney,  up 30 percent  in 2013, climbed 1 percent to $65.14
today.  Broadcast networks have been raising prices for so-called
retransmission rights -- fees paid by pay-TV services to carry
signals that are available free over government airwaves.
Content owners are also seeking to boost revenue from mobile
devices that extend delivery of their shows beyond the home.  In the earlier dispute, New York-based Time Warner Cable
agreed to pay a significant increase for the right to carry CBS,
approaching $2 per subscriber per month, people with knowledge
of the situation said in early September. Time Warner Cable
failed to obtain out-of-home rights for mobile devices, except
for CBS’s Showtime Anytime, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  