-- Disney-Dish Talks Said to Hinge on Ad Skipping, New Nets
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-10-01T20:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/disney-dish-talks-said-to-hinge-on-ad-skipping-new-nets.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s contract renewal
talks with  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  are hung up on Dish’s ad-skipping
technology and terms for two new Disney cable channels,
according to people familiar with the discussions.  Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV service, and
Disney, owner of ABC, ESPN and Disney Channel, gave themselves
one to two days beyond yesterday’s deadline to hammer out an
accord, said the people, who sought anonymity because the
discussions are private. Talks may last longer, they said.  Dish’s AutoHop technology, introduced in May 2012, presents
a obstacle to a deal. The one-button feature allows subscribers
to skip commercials on recorded broadcast TV shows, undermining
the effectiveness of network ads. Dish is embroiled in
litigation with ABC,  CBS Corp. (CBS) , Comcast Corp.’s NBC and 21st
Century Fox Inc.’s Fox over the feature.  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , is also trying to
build distribution for two new channels -- Fusion, a venture
with Univision Communications Inc. aimed at Hispanics, and the
SEC Network, which will feature Southeastern Conference college
sports beginning next year. Terms for both are being negotiated,
the people said.  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , and Disney said
yesterday they agreed to a “short-term” extension of their
agreement, which was due to expire Sept. 30. The deal prevented
a blackout of ESPN and the Disney Channel for Dish subscribers,
including ABC viewers in markets where Disney owns the stations,
such as New York, Los Angeles and  Chicago .  Sports Costs  Dish Chairman and co-founder Charlie Ergen has lamented the
rising cost of sports programming for several years. He
suggested in August a pay-TV company may one day choose to go
without the top-rated all-sports channel -- a strategy that
would lower prices to consumers.  ESPN charges pay-TV operators about $5.54 a month per
subscriber, according to research firm SNL Kagan.  “Somebody, sometime may decide that sports isn’t something
they have to have,” Ergen said on the Aug. 6 call. “There
could be a day when, strategically, companies just can’t get
together, where they go opposite directions and they both have
strategies that work for them, and we’re prepared to go either
way.”  Dish, with 14 million subscribers, added 1.5 percent to
$45.68 at the close in New York. Disney, the world’s largest
entertainment company, advanced 0.5 percent to $64.83.  Pay-TV Rights  Broadcast networks have been raising prices for so-called
retransmission rights -- fees paid by pay-TV services to carry
signals that are available free over government airwaves.
Content owners are also seeking to boost revenue from mobile
devices that extend delivery of their shows beyond the home.  In an earlier dispute, New York-based  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC)  agreed to pay a significant increase for the right to carry
CBS, approaching $2 a subscriber per month, people with
knowledge of the situation said in early September. Time Warner
Cable failed to obtain out-of-home rights for mobile devices,
except for CBS’s Showtime Anytime, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  