-- Vipshop to Renren Jump as Gains Spur Buy: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-10-01T20:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/ldk-jumps-as-policy-fuels-solar-rally-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities rose for the first
time in three days in New York, led by  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  and
 Renren Inc. (RENN) , on speculation the gauge will extend best quarterly
performance in three years.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 1.4 percent to 102.91
yesterday, increasing for the first time in three days. Online
retailer Vipshop jumped to a record and social media company
Renren gained 8 percent.  Bona Film Group Ltd. (BONA)  surged to a one-year high and  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  advanced.  The China-US gauge  rallied  18 percent last quarter, the
most in three years. Investors have increased their asset
allocation in Chinese stocks, with the exposure rising to about
60 percent from as much as 20 percent a year ago, 86Research
Ltd. wrote in a note dated Sept. 30, citing analysts’ recent
client visits. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said this week the
nation can meet its main economic targets this year.  “Interest in Chinese Internet companies has picked up
substantially,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which manages $700 million of assets, said in a
telephone interview from Lisle,  Illinois  yesterday. “Some of
the easy performance has been made and now some people late to
the game are probably chasing and trying to find
opportunities.”  ETF Advances  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 1.4 percent to $37.60
in New York, rallying for the first time in a week. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index added 0.8 percent in the first gain in three
days, as investors assessed the potential economic impact from
the shutdown of the U.S. government.  Vipshop, an online clothing retailer based in Guangzhou,
jumped 7.1 percent to $60.85, the highest level since its U.S.
listing in March 2012.  Renren, a social media platform based in Beijing, climbed
to $3.64, rallying the most since Aug. 13. Trading volume was
twice the daily average over the past three months, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Baidu,  China ’s most-used online search engine, bought about
59 percent of social commerce website Nuomi.com from Renren for
about $160 million in August.  “There is market speculation that Baidu may buy the whole
Nuomi.com unit if its business improves,” Papp said.  Sina, Youku  Sina Corp. (SINA) , owner of the Twitter-like Weibo service in
China, added 4.6 percent to $84.92 in New York, rising the most
in two months. Youku, the nation’s biggest video website
operator, jumped 4.6 percent to $28.66, the highest level since
Sept. 19.  Bona climbed 5.7 percent to $5.55 in New York, the highest
price in a year.  The Beijing-based company said Sept. 30 that  Fosun
International Ltd. (656) , the investment arm of China’s biggest
closely held industrial group, agreed to purchase a 6.4 percent
stake in the movie production company from existing
shareholders.  Markets in  Shanghai  and Hong Kong were closed yesterday for
the National Day holiday. The Hang Seng China Enterprises  Index (HSCEI) 
increased 11 percent in the third quarter, while the Shanghai
Composite Index advanced 9.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  