-- Dollar Slides as U.S. Shutdown Boosts Fed QE Bets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-10-01T21:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/dollar-weakens-versus-swiss-franc-on-u-s-shutdown-krona-jumps.html
The dollar traded at almost the
lowest since February as a partial shutdown of the U.S.
government boosted speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
persevere with asset purchases that tend to weaken the currency.  The euro touched its highest level against the greenback in
almost eight months as political wrangling threatened to curb
U.S. growth. Lawmakers still need to agree on raising the U.S.
debt limit to avoid a default after Oct. 17. The yen rose as
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe proceeded with a sales-tax
increase and stimulus measures. Sweden’s krona jumped as a
report showed manufacturing expanded faster than economists
predicted.  “The dollar is trading with a very slight or mildly weaker
bias,”  Nick Bennenbroek , the head of currency strategy at Wells
Fargo Securities in  New York , said in a phone interview. “The
market is in a bit of wait-and-see mode. The recent experience
in terms of political battles, shall we say, has been that the
impact on markets has been limited.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the
performance of a basket of 10 leading global currencies against
the dollar, dropped 0.1 percent to 1,011.10 at 5 p.m. New York
time, after losing 2.8 percent last quarter, the most since
2010.  Market Levels  The U.S. currency was little changed at $1.3526 per euro
after depreciating to $1.3588, the weakest since Feb. 6. The yen
gained 0.3 percent to 98 per dollar and climbed 0.3 percent to
132.55 per euro.  The forint gained for a fourth day as data showed Hungary’s
manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in six months. The
currency appreciated 0.5 percent to 296.02 per euro.  Sweden’s krona climbed 1.1 percent to 8.6034 per euro and
was 1.1 percent stronger at 6.3604 against the dollar.  An index based on responses from about 200  purchasing
managers  rose to a seasonally adjusted 56 last month, the
highest since May 2011, from 52.2 the previous month, Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , which compiles the data, said today. A
reading above 50 indicates an expansion. It was seen declining
to 52.1, according to the median estimate of eight economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  ECB Stance  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said Sept. 23
he’s ready to deploy another long-term refinancing operation to
fund banks. The central bank is scheduled to announce its next
policy decision tomorrow.  The Australian dollar rose after the central bank left
 interest rates  unchanged and said earlier cuts are still
filtering through the economy and boosting asset prices.  The Aussie jumped 0.9 percent to 93.98 U.S. cents, after
reaching the biggest one-day advance on a closing basis since
Sept. 18.  The U.S. current account deficit is forecast to narrow to
2.5 percent of gross domestic product next year from 2.6 percent
in 2013, according to a Bloomberg survey. The euro area’s 2
percent surplus is estimated to be unchanged in 2014, a separate
survey shows.  “The fact that the Fed’s going to continue to expand its
balance sheet and add to the U.S. monetary base relative to the
rest of the world would tend to the be a negative for the
dollar,” Robert Sinche, global strategist at Pierpont
Securities Holdings LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut, said in a
phone interview. “You don’t have a capital-flow story, you do
have a relative-balance-sheet story working against the dollar.
You look around and have to say, ’why would I take incremental
positions in the dollar here?’”  Government Closure  This is the first U.S. shutdown in 17 years as House and
Senate lawmakers failed to agree on a spending plan for the new
fiscal year that started today. Chances of a last-minute deal
evaporated as the House stood firm on its call to delay major
parts of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law for a year.
 Senate Democrats  were equally firm in refusing.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues at the
 Federal Open Market Committee  decided last month to maintain
their $85 billion-a-month bond buying program. Fed Bank of New
York President William C. Dudley said on Sept. 27 that budget
battles in  Washington  were among the risks to the outlook and he
wanted to see more momentum in the economy before paring the
pace of quantitative easing.  The Fed’s  balance sheet  has ballooned to $3.7 trillion from
$1.6 trillion five years ago.  “The market is anticipating that a shutdown means the Fed
will also maintain its easy policy stance for longer because of
the risks to the  U.S. economy ,” said Greg Gibbs, a senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 Singapore . “We are seeing some strength in the European
currencies and a bit of weakness in the  U.S. dollar .”  Abe Plan  Japan ’s sales tax will be raised to 8 percent in April from
5 percent, Abe said in  Tokyo  today. He said a 5 trillion-yen
($50 billion) economic support package would reduce the negative
impact of the increase. The  Bank of Japan  is scheduled to
announce its next policy decision on Oct. 4.  The yen has tumbled 10.6 percent this year, the worst
performer of 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro appreciated 5.3 percent
and the dollar gained 2.4 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $22.3 billion, compared with $20 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $4.5 billion, the
largest share of trades at 20 percent. Options on the dollar-yuan rate totaled $3.7 billion, or 17 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 8 percent more than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yuan options trading was
29 percent more than average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  