-- Dollar Libor Slides to More Than Two-Year Low on Bank Cash Glut
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-10-01T14:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/dollar-libor-slides-to-more-than-two-year-low-on-bank-cash-glut.html
Money-market rates slid, with the
rate banks say it would cost them to borrow from one another for
three months dropping to a 27-month low, as banks flush with
cash search for a safe place to invest.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor,  fell 
to 0.24585 percent, the lowest since July 6, 2011, according to
the British Bankers’ Association. Another short-term rate, at
which dealers borrow and lend securities in exchange for cash in
the repurchase agreement, has also fallen this year, touching in
May the lowest December 2011.  “There is lots of cash out there looking for homes given
that the Fed has been printing money for so long,” said  David Keeble , head of fixed-income strategy at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in New York. “This is not so much a
credit play here, it’s simply the fact that the risk-free rates
are dropping quite rapidly. Investing for three months seems
safe enough and investors are trying to chase that little bit of
incremental yield.”  Three-month dollar Libor has been converging this year
closer to the one-month rate, which was set today at 0.178
percent, as investors extend maturity on money-market
investments. The gap between the two, at 6.8 basis points today,
is down from about 10 basis points at the end of last year.  Fed Reserves  Excess reserves  banks have at the  Federal Reserve  have
mushroomed as the Fed bought more than $3 trillion in securities
through its quantitative easing as it aimed to lower long-term
interest rates. The amount of such reserves at the Fed was $1.9
trillion at the end of the first half of the year, up from $2.4
billion in December 2007, Fed data show. The central bank has
been paying interest on those deposits at a rate of 25 basis
points, or 0.25 percent, since 2008.  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.08 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.101 percent yesterday,
according to a GCF repo index provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. The rate averaged 0.06 percent
since June, compared with an average of 0.14 percent for the
first five months of the year.  Repo Trade  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.06 percent yesterday. The rate opened
today at 0.09 percent. The effective rate is a volume-weighted
average of trades between major brokers for overnight funds,
reported on a day lag by the Fed Bank of New York.  Demand by investors to leave cash with the Fed overnight
through its ongoing tests of a proposed full-allotment fixed-rate reverse repo facility has been rising amid access cash and
the search for safe alternatives to invest funds. The Fed’s
reverse repos are at a fixed rate of 0.01 percent.  The Fed Bank of  New York  yesterday drained $58.2 billion
from the banking system, the largest amount yet in a test of a
fixed-rate reverse repo facility that began operation last week.
Participation also rose to the most yet with 87 possible of a
total of 139 possible counterparties allotted the agreements.  Credit Gauges  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend,
was little changed at 14.7 basis points. Overnight index swaps,
or OIS, give traders predictions on what the Fed’s effective
funds rate will average for the term of the swap. The central
bank’s target rate is set in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, held at 18.8 basis points, according to the
second rolling three month contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, was little changed at 13.88 basis points. The gap is a
gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking-sector credit
risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for dollar
Libor.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $17.2 billion to $1.064 trillion in the week ended Sept.
25, according to Fed data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 liedtka@bloomberg.net  