-- Dollar at 9-Month Low Versus Pound on Shutdown; Aussie Rallies
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-10-01T06:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/dollar-lower-after-two-day-drop-versus-pound-as-shutdown-looms.html
The dollar slid to the lowest since
Jan. 3 versus the pound after a partial shutdown of the U.S.
government began with Congress in partisan dead-lock.  The U.S. currency dropped against most major peers as the
wrangling between Senate Democrats and House Republicans
threatened to stunt growth at a time when the central bank is
weighing a tapering of stimulus. The yen fell briefly after the
Bank of  Japan ’s Tankan survey beat economists’ estimates, and
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said he will proceed with the first
 sales-tax  increase since 1997. Australia’s dollar rallied after
the  Reserve Bank  refrained from cutting  interest rates .  “The market is anticipating that a shutdown means the
 Federal Reserve  will also maintain its easy policy stance for
longer because of the risks to the  U.S. economy ,” said Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in  Singapore . “We are seeing some strength in the
European currencies and a bit of weakness in the  U.S. dollar .”  The dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.6233 versus the pound as
of 7:03 a.m. in  London  and touched as low as $1.6247, declining
for a third day. The U.S. currency fell 0.1 percent to $1.3541
per euro. The yen rallied 0.1 percent to 98.16 per dollar after
falling as much as 0.5 percent. It was little changed at 132.92
per euro.  This is the first shutdown in 17 years as House and Senate
lawmakers failed to agree on a spending plan for the new fiscal
year that started today.  No Deal  Chances of a last-minute deal -- seen so often in past
fiscal fights -- evaporated shortly before midnight as the House
stood firm on its call to delay major parts of President  Barack
Obama ’s health-care law for a year. Senate Democrats were
equally firm in refusing.  President Barack Obama said Sept. 27 that failure to
approve funding to keep the government open and to raise the
debt ceiling would have a destabilizing effect on the economy.
Closing the government would cut fourth-quarter economic growth
by as much as 1.4 percentage points depending on the length of
the shutdown, according to economists from Moody’s Analytics
Inc. to Economic Outlook Group LLC.  The Treasury has said measures to avoid breaching the debt
ceiling will be exhausted on Oct. 17.  “The yen, the pound and, to a lesser extent, the euro have
all benefited from the uncertainty,” said  Andrew Salter , a
foreign-exchange strategist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Sydney. “Those currencies are reserve currencies
with financial markets that can accommodate a flight to
quality.”  Abenomics Expectations  The yen slid after a report showed confidence among Japan’s
large manufacturers rose to the highest since the early stages
of the global credit crisis in 2007, as Prime Minister Abe
judged the economy is strong enough to withstand a sales tax
increase.  The quarterly Tankan  index  for big manufacturers climbed to
12 in September from 4 in June, the BOJ said today. That
exceeded the 7 median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  The sales tax will be raised to 8 percent in April from 5
percent currently, Abe said in  Tokyo  today. He said an economic
package can reduce the negative impact of the increase. He will
give a press conference at 6 p.m. in Tokyo.  “The focus now shifts to the size and effectiveness of an
economic package that is expected to be announced,” said  Yuji Saito , the director of foreign-exchange at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in Tokyo. “Depending on the content
of the package, it may help sustain overseas investors’
expectations for Abenomics, and a continued rise in Japanese
stocks and weakness in the yen.”  Entrenched Deflation  Abe and the BOJ are trying to revitalize the economy and
end 15 years of entrenched deflation through an unprecedented
stimulus program that has weakened the yen 21 percent against
the dollar in the past 12 months, the most among 15 major peers.  Australia’s dollar gained against all its major peers after
the central held the cash rate target at 2.5 percent following a
policy meeting today. The decision was predicted by all 33
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “The easing in monetary policy since late 2011 has
supported interest-sensitive spending and asset values,”
Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a statement. “The
full effects of these decisions are still coming through, and
will be for a while yet.”  “The RBA statement looks very neutral, which will
disappoint those looking for further easing,” Kit Juckes, the
global strategist at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in a
note to clients. Australia’s dollar is a winner, he wrote.  The Aussie jumped 0.8 percent to 93.92 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  