-- E-Verify Goes Dark as Shutdown Cuts Links to Companies
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-10-01T21:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/e-verify-dark-as-u-s-shutoff-cuts-business-services.html
The Internet-based system that
employers use to check whether job applicants may legally work
went dark as U.S. agencies limited or cut off electronic
communications companies use in everyday tasks.  Websites that shut down included the E-Verify site run by
the Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, and the agency sites of the Census Bureau,
Agriculture Department, National Aeronautics and Space
Administration,  Library of Congress  and the federal and
international trade commissions.  Closing  of the E-Verify system, which checks information
provided by employees against millions of government records,
was one result as the government went into its first shutdown in
17 years.  “Business people are making decisions,” said Agriculture
Secretary Tom Vilsack, whose department will stop issuing crop
reports and processing loans for small rural businesses.  “They have to make decisions today, and the reality is
that they are faced with this enormous uncertainty,” Vilsack
said. “The fact is, when you’re faced with uncertainty, you
pull back. You don’t make decisions you might otherwise make.
You don’t expand, you don’t invest.”  Builders’ Hiring  More than 409,000 employers use E-Verify to check
eligibility, according to the government  website  for the program
aimed at stopping employment of undocumented immigrants.
Participation is voluntary for most companies, though some must
use it by state law or federal regulation.  In some states that require employers to use E-Verify --
such as Utah and  Arizona  -- builders won’t hire help as long as
the system is down, Jerry Howard, chief executive officer of the
 National Association of Home Builders , said in an interview.  “It’s a problem for businesses, which slows down their
ability to build a house, and therefore it’s a problem for
manufacturers” and a “drag on the financial sector” as homes
aren’t completed, Howard said.  The  Small Business Administration  shuttered its most widely
used loan program, according to the agency’s  shutdown plan .  Imports Slowed  Consequences will be felt immediately, Robert Tobias,
director of the Key Executive Leadership Programs at American
University in  Washington , said in an interview.  “If I need a loan I need it now, or I wouldn’t be applying
for it,” Tobias said.  Import and export permits from the Commerce Department also
may be slowed, Tobias said. “If I have stuff on a dock in
 Shanghai  and I need permits to bring it in -- I need it today, I
don’t need it tomorrow,” he said.  A prolonged shutdown would mean some home loans won’t be
completed, because lenders won’t be able to verify borrowers’
income and other data with the  Internal Revenue Service  and the
 Social Security Administration .  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  require proof of borrowers’
income for the mortgages they buy and package into securities,
and direct verification from the IRS is considered the safest
way to do it, Pete Mills, senior vice president of the  Mortgage
Bankers Association .  “If we go beyond a week, it’ll start to get dicey,” Mills
said in an interview today.  Airwaves Licenses  The Federal Communications Commission said it  would suspend
consideration  of deals involving purchases of airwaves licenses
and television stations -- transactions affecting  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
Gannett Co. Inc.,  Tribune Co. (TRBAA)  and  Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc. (SBGI)   The Interior Department said it will stop issuing new
onshore oil and gas leases, as well as permits for drilling and
renewable energy projects. New permits for offshore leases will
continue.  Work on federal construction projects will slow because
contractors can’t reach government employees with questions or
get changes to work orders approved, according to officials with
Associated General Contractors of America, a Washington-based
trade group.  The group today said it couldn’t publish its monthly report
on U.S. construction spending because the Census Bureau stopped
release of the data it analyzes.  “Depending on how long the government is closed,
construction workers are likely to miss out on new job
opportunities,” Stephen E. Sandherr, the association’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement. “This shutdown poses a
real risk of undermining the industry’s long-awaited recovery.”  Patent Disputes  The shutdown of the International Trade Commission’s
website means companies, attorneys and the public can’t gain
access to documents in pending cases, including patent disputes
between companies like Ericsson AB and Samsung Electronics Co.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the largest U.S. defense contractor,
will keep its facilities open and pay its workers unless
directed to do otherwise, said Jennifer Allen, a spokeswoman.  Federal contractors who continue working even though they
haven’t been told to stay on the job are doing so “at their own
risk,” said Dan Gordon, an associate dean for procurement law
at George Washington University Law School in Washington. Gordon
previously served as President  Barack Obama ’s top procurement
official.  Airline Inspectors  Vendors that are told not to work probably won’t get paid,
he said. Companies directed to keep working are “absolutely,
positively guaranteed to be paid. They just might be paid
late,” Gordon said in a phone interview.  Federal contractors will be able to file protests of lost
awards by e-mail during the shutdown -- only nobody will be
around to read them. The Government Accountability Office’s
protest unit, which arbitrates contracting disputes, is closed.  Airline safety inspectors who check aircraft after flights
and oversee repair shops were sent off the job. Those furloughed
at the  Federal Aviation Administration  included 2,490 from its
Office of Aviation Safety, the agency said in  its plan  for the
partial shutdown.  “We’re pretty outraged and our members just can’t
understand,” Kori Blalock Keller, a spokeswoman for the
Professional Aviation Safety Specialists union that represents
the workers, said in an interview. “They don’t understand how
you can take a critical workforce like this, and just bench
them.”  The safety workers are to be recalled incrementally over
two weeks, the Transportation Department, which houses the FAA,
said in a planning document.  “We do not expect airline operations to be impacted”
because “front-line employees” aren’t subject to the
furloughs, Vaughn Jennings, an FAA spokesman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  