-- Meda Declines as CEO Change Damps Takeover Talk: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-10-01T09:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/meda-declines-as-ceo-change-damps-takeover-talk-stockholm-mover.html
Meda AB (MEDAA) , the maker of the Dymista
allergy medicine, fell the most in two months in  Stockholm 
trading after promoting Joerg-Thomas Dierks to chief executive
officer, reducing speculation that there will be a takeover.  The stock declined as much as 4 percent to 74.25 Swedish
kronor, the biggest drop since Aug. 2. Chief Operating Officer
Dierks, 53, who previously worked at  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  and
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, will succeed Anders Loenner as CEO,
Meda said in a statement today.  The stock reached the highest level in more than two years
in June on speculation about a takeover. The Wall Street Journal
reported on May 31 that the Solna, Sweden-based company was in
talks to be acquired by  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP)  for
almost $5 billion. Meda denied it was in talks at the time.  “The market may be viewing that with internal succession,
it’s less likely that the company would consider a takeover
bid,” Johan Unnerus, an analyst at Swedbank Markets in
Stockholm, said in a telephone interview.  Meda shares fell 3.1 percent to 74.90 kronor at 11 a.m. in
Stockholm trading, paring their advance to 12 percent this year
and giving the company a market value of 22.6 billion kronor
($3.5 billion).  Loenner’s tenure was extended a few times, signalling that
the company and major shareholder Stena Sessan AB were
considering strategic alternatives such as a takeover, Unnerus
said. Now that an internal successor has been announced, the
company is less likely to agree to a takeover, he said.  ‘Strong Portfolio’  “Meda has a strong portfolio of new products, and its
focus now will be to optimize the marketing of these products as
opposed to acquisition of new products,” Loenner said in the
statement.  “As a result, this is a good time to make this
transition.”  Sun,  India ’s biggest drugmaker by market value, is looking
to expand in the U.S. and  Europe  and last year considered a
purchase of German generic-drug maker  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ) ,
people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Meda’s Dymista allergy medicine was approved in the U.S.
last year. The company’s products, focused on respiratory,
cardiology, dermatology, central-nervous-system, pain and
inflammation treatments, generated sales of 12.99 billion kronor
in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  