-- EDF Union Directors Walk Out of Board Meeting Over Fessenheim
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-01T16:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/edf-union-directors-walk-out-of-board-meeting-over-fessenheim.html
Electricite de France SA  board
members belonging to the CGT union walked out of a meeting to
protest the planned shutdown of a nuclear plant.  The four members walked out after the permanent halt of the
Fessenheim plant in eastern France, with two 900-megawatt
reactors, was added to the agenda for today’s discussion. The
move would be an “economic, social and environmental blow,”
the union said in a statement.  President Francois Hollande made an election pledge to
close Fessenheim by the end of 2016 amid safety fears following
the 2011 meltdown of the Fukushima power plant in  Japan . The
reactors’ concrete base is thinner than ones at other sites. The
utility is planning to start a 1,650-megawatt reactor at
Flamanville in Normandy that same year.  “It is nonsensical” to shut Fessenheim because nuclear
energy is low carbon, the CGT said today. The union is the
largest among French energy workers and has traditionally been a
supporter of the country’s atomic industry.  “You can be sure” the plant will be closed, Energy
Minister Philippe Martin told a Senate hearing today.  Renewable energy capacity will be increased to a point
where atomic output will make up about half of all electricity
generation, he said.  France  gets about three-quarters of its power from EDF’s 58
nuclear reactors, a bigger proportion than any country.  Hollande vowed during his election campaign to reduce
reliance on nuclear to half of total electricity output by about
2025. So far, he has promised the Fessenheim shutdown, an
increase in renewables and a law next year that will address the
future energy mix.  The law will cap nuclear-power capacity and provide the
legal means to close reactors, the government has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  