-- Empire State Realty Raises $929.5 Million in U.S. IPO
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-10-02T14:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/empire-state-realty-raises-929-5-million-in-u-s-ipo.html
Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESRT) , whose
properties include  Manhattan ’s Empire State Building, rose in
its first day of trading after raising $929.5 million in its
initial public offering.  The real estate investment trust  sold  71.5 million shares
for $13 each, the low end of the projected range of $13 to $15,
according to a statement yesterday by the New York-based
company. The stock climbed 2.5 percent to $13.33 at 10:05 a.m.
in New York.  The sale culminates an almost two-year quest by the Empire
State Building’s supervisors,  Peter Malkin  and his son Anthony Malkin, to take Manhattan’s signature skyscraper and 20 other
New York-area properties public, a process marked by battles
with some of the tower’s longtime investors. While rising
interest rates are now tempering demand for real estate, office
companies have performed better than U.S. REITs in general.  “The climate isn’t ideal, but if you’re going to do a REIT
IPO, being in the office space is probably a better place to be
than apartments or health care, based on where those stocks have
moved of late,” Jeffrey Langbaum, a Bloomberg Industries
analyst, said in an interview before the pricing. “And if
you’re going to be in the  office space , New York is a better
place to be than the broader market.”  The Bloomberg REIT Index dropped 14 percent through
yesterday from a peak on May 21, while a narrower gauge of
 office-property trusts  lost 9.7 percent.  Biggest IPOs  The IPO was the second-biggest for a U.S. REIT, excluding
an overallotment. Douglas Emmett Inc. raised almost $1.4 billion
in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Empire State Realty joins such competitors as SL Green
Realty Corp., Vornado Realty Trust and Boston Properties Inc. as
REITs with large Manhattan office portfolios. It has 5.9 million
square feet (548,000 square meters) in New York, making it the
smallest of the city’s publicly traded office landlords,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company also
controls six retail properties in Manhattan and Westport,
 Connecticut , and five office buildings north of the city.  At the midpoint of the range set last month, the stock
would trade at about a 12 percent discount to value of its
buildings excluding debt, Green Street Advisors Inc. said in a
report. Office REITs on average are trading at about 2 percent
less than the value of their assets, while Boston Properties is
at about a 2 percent premium, according to the research firm.
Empire State Realty’s discount is similar to that of Edison, New
Jersey-based Mack-Cali Realty Corp., which specializes in
suburban offices in the U.S. Northeast.  Tourist Magnet  Investors aren’t sure how to value the  cash flow  from the
 Empire State Building ’s observatory, a tourist magnet, and how
much they should pay for potential leasing gains among the
office buildings,  Michael Knott , an analyst with  Newport Beach ,
California-based Green Street, said in an interview before the
pricing.  The company’s offices are about 84 percent leased, compared
with New York-area occupancy rates of 92 percent for SL Green,
96 percent for Vornado and 95 percent for Boston Properties,
according to Green Street.  “If you believe that they can fill that up, that’s a
source of growth that doesn’t exist with these other
portfolios,” Knott said.  Revenue has more than doubled on space that has been
renovated in the 82-year-old Empire State Building, a cause for
optimism among investors, he said.  Hugh Burns, a spokesman for the Malkins with Sard Verbinnen
& Co., declined to comment on Green Street’s analysis.  IPO Proceeds  Anthony Malkin is Empire State Realty’s president, chairman
and chief executive officer. Most of the funds raised in the IPO
would go toward buying out the estate of Harry Helmsley, which
still has a majority stake in the tower’s sublease, according to
the prospectus. Proceeds also would be used to cover transaction
costs and pay debt.  A minority of the skyscraper’s roughly 2,800 unitholders
challenged the REIT proposal, favoring to keep a steady income
stream and the bragging rights that come with owning a piece of
such an iconic property. In May, the Malkins received the
necessary approvals from investors to proceed with the IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  