-- Mercedes Plans $230 Million Brazil Car Plant to Match BMW
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-10-01T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/mercedes-said-to-announce-brazil-plant-for-c-class-gla.html
Mercedes-Benz, the world’s third-biggest maker of luxury cars, will spend about 170 million euros
($230 million) on a new auto plant in Brazil amid expansions by
larger competitors  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Audi AG. (NSU)   The Mercedes factory will be built in Iracemapolis, about
170 kilometers (105 miles) northwest of Brazil’s financial hub
of  Sao Paulo  and be completed in 2016, the division of  Daimler
AG (DAI)  said in a statement today. It will assemble the next versions
of the C-Class sedan and GLA compact sport-utility vehicle.  “Brazil is an important future market,”  Andreas Renschler , Daimler’s head of car and van production, said in the
statement released after he and Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  signed a framework contract. “With our local
production we accept the challenge and take on the
competition.”  Mercedes and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi are restoring car
production in Brazil, and BMW is starting assembly there, as the
three German manufacturers seek to bypass high  import taxes 
limiting delivery growth. The agreement with Stuttgart-based
Daimler is part of Rousseff’s strategy to boost manufacturing in
Brazil, South America’s biggest economy, to bolster gross
domestic product in advance of elections in 2014.  “The political and economic environment seems to be
stabilizing in Brazil,” Frank Biller, a Stuttgart-based analyst
at LBBW, said by phone. “With the more positive circumstances,
it seems that the carmakers can make good business with a local
production. The 2014 soccer  World Cup  and 2016  Olympic Games 
will add to a positive sentiment” among consumers in the
country, which is hosting the sporting events.  Market Prospects  The light-vehicle market in Brazil will grow 4.5 percent on
average from 2012 to 2016, with higher growth rates starting in
2014 after weaker demand this year, according to Biller’s
estimates.  Daimler Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  has vowed
that Mercedes will reclaim the No. 1 position in global luxury-auto sales by the end of the decade after losing the top spot to
Munich-based BMW in 2005 and second place to Audi in 2011.
Expansion includes a 2 billion-euro project to double Mercedes
production in China to exceed 200,000 vehicles.  The Brazilian plant will have capacity to make as many as
20,000 cars and SUVs a year, Daimler said today. About 1,000
 jobs  will be created at the site, in addition to 3,000 new posts
at suppliers.  Truck Shift  Daimler, also the world’s largest truckmaker, converted its
sole Brazilian car plant, located in Juiz de Fora in the state
of  Minas Gerais , to assemble commercial vehicles starting about
two years ago, adding capacity for the Mercedes heavy-duty truck
Actros. Audi halted car production in Brazil in 2006.  The proximity of the Iracemapolis plant to Daimler’s truck
factories in Sao Paulo state and Minas Gerais will allow
“exchange possibilities” for workers, Philipp Schiemer, head
of Daimler’s Brazil business since June, said in the statement.  The German luxury-vehicle manufacturers’ expansion outside
Europe is targeted at markets where auto sales are increasing,
making up for slack demand in the carmakers’ home region, where
car sales are set to slump for a sixth straight year. Their
moves into Brazil come as the country’s government and central
bank grapple with managing borrowing costs, exchange rates and
trade to maintain economic growth without stoking inflation.  “The Brazilian market is quite sealed off,” Heinz Gottwick, a Daimler spokesman, said by phone. “The local
production helps us offer our vehicles on reasonable terms.”  BMW Target  BMW plans to start production in  Brazil ’s southern state of
Santa Catarina next year and is investing 200 million euros in
the new facility. The manufacturer has a target of assembling at
least 30,000 vehicles in Brazil annually.  Audi said last month that it will invest 500 million reais
($225 million) in Brazil through 2016. A new plant in Sao Jose
dos Pinhais in the state of Parana will start making the A3
sedan in 2015, followed by the Q3 SUV in early 2016. The
Ingolstadt, Germany-based company has a target of selling 30,000
cars in Brazil by 2018, including imported vehicles.  The carmaker’s production plans in Brazil are in addition
to a $1.3 billion SUV factory in Mexico that’s scheduled to
start operating in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  