-- Merck’s Immune System-Based Cancer Drug Works in 1 in 4
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-01T20:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/merck-s-immune-system-based-cancer-drug-works-in-1-in-4-patients.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s experimental cancer
drug that uses the immune system to target tumors triggered a
response in about a quarter of  lung cancer  patients, according
to preliminary results of an early study.  In a trial of 38 patients with non-small cell lung cancer,
24 percent had an immune-system response to the drug, called MK-3475 and previously known as lambrolizumab, Merck said today in
a statement. Using a measure of whether their tumors shrank, 21
percent responded, the  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based
company said.  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, today announced
it would fire 8,500 workers and revise its drug development
effort to focus on research programs such as MK-3475. The
therapy, among a new generation of cancer medicines seeking to
harness the body’s immune system, is being studied in seven
different clinical trials including 3,000 patients with a
variety of tumor types. It has been given a breakthrough
designation by U.S. regulators, which means its approval could
be sped up as it moves into late-stage trials.  “These early data in lung cancer patients were the basis
for Merck’s decision to rapidly advance MK-3475 into a Phase
II/III clinical trial,” Eric Rubin, vice president of oncology
at Merck, said in a statement.  Lung cancer  kills more people  in the U.S. than any other
cancer, according to the  American Cancer Society .  Competing Drugs  Merck is competing to get the treatment to market as rivals
also push ahead with immune system-based therapies.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s nivolumab is in final stages of testing, and
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of cancer
treatments, is also developing a immune-system drug.  Merck shares rose 2.4 percent to $48.74 at 4 p.m. New York
time.  The most-common side effects in the 38-person study were
fatigue, rash and itching in 16 percent of patients, and
diarrhea in 13 percent, Merck said in the statement. One person
developed a pulmonary edema, or too much fluid in the lungs, the
company said.  MK-3475 belongs to a class of therapies called anti-PD-1
drugs. The medicines turn back on the body’s ability to
recognize cancer cells as a threat, taking the brakes off the
immune system and spurring T-cells kill the cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  