-- Meridian Starts $230 Million IPO to Expand in Central Europe
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-10-01T11:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/meridian-starts-230-million-ipo-to-expand-in-central-europe.html
Meridian Properties NV, an Amsterdam-based real estate investment trust, started a 170 million-euro
($230 million) initial public offering to raise funds for
expansion in  central Europe .  The REIT, which pays investors rental income generated from
its properties, will end bookbuilding in the sale of 18 million
new shares and set an IPO price on Oct. 8, it said in a
 prospectus  on its website today. Meridian plans to start trading
on the Warsaw exchange on Oct. 24 and become the first REIT to
be listed on central  Europe ’s largest equity market.  Meridian is seeking funds to invest in  Romania ,  Hungary ,
 Bulgaria , the Czech Republic and  Poland  after property prices
slumped amid the global financial crisis, Chief Executive
Officer Yannis Delikanakis said at a press conference today.  “We believe the recovery will take some time and it will
be a gradual process,” Delikanakis said. Buying at the bottom
of the cycle gives you “a luxury of waiting” for the recovery.  Share Sale  The company resumed its share sale plans after suspending
the transaction in June on “deteriorating” market conditions.
Its IPO is set to be among the largest in Warsaw in 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Polish railway Polskie
Koleje Panstwowe SA plans to sell to the public a stake in its
cargo unit in the coming weeks and the government will offer a
35 percent stake in power utility Energa SA later this year.  The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development plans
to buy as much as 23 million euros of shares in the Meridian
IPO, according to the prospectus. That will give it a stake of
as much as 16 percent, Delikanakis said. The London-based EBRD
will keep the shares for 180 days after the purchase.  Cyprus-based BH Meridian Participations Ltd., currently
holding 100% of the REIT, will own at least 5 percent of
Meridian after investing 10 million euros in the IPO.  The trust will use 87.7 million euros from the IPO to buy a
so-called initial portfolio, which includes nine properties in
Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and the  Czech Republic . The REIT will
spend a further 57.4 million euros on other real-estate
investments as the company is in “advanced” talks to buy two
properties in Poland, it said in a statement on Sept. 24.  Quarterly Dividends  Meridian plans to pay out all its funds from operations as
a quarterly dividend starting from January next year, while
maintaining a loan-to-value ratio of 35 percent to 45 percent.  The initial portfolio generated pro-forma funds from
operations at 8.2 million euros in 2012, Meridian said in a
presentation in Warsaw today. Completing the purchase of two
Warsaw properties would raise that income “significantly,”
Chief Financial Officer Alexis Iordanides told reporters today.  Citigroup Inc. is the IPO’s sole global coordinator and
bookrunner, while Raiffeisen Bank International AG, Erste Group
Bank AG and Alpha Bank are acting as co-lead managers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  