-- Etsy Sellers Can Now Use Factories for Handmade Goods
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-01T16:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/etsy-says-sellers-can-now-use-factories-for-their-homemade-goods.html
Etsy Inc., an online marketplace for
handmade and vintage goods, will let its sellers use outside
manufacturers and hire as many employees as they need, loosening
rules amid confusion over requirements.  The change will allow sellers that cultivated their
businesses on Etsy to keep expanding on the site, Chief
Executive Officer Chad Dickerson said in an interview. It will
also permit moves that were previously forbidden, like employing
people in another location or producing goods in a factory.  Etsy is home to about 1 million sellers, some of whom are
struggling to keep up with demand for their products, the
company said. Under the new policy, sellers will have to
disclose their business relationships and apply to use
manufacturing services. Etsy will try to ensure that goods sold
on the site still meet its definition of “handmade.”  “It’s no secret that our community has struggled for a
long time with Etsy policies,” Dickerson said. “We realized
that as the community grows, the policies that we created that
frankly didn’t work well when the community was smaller were
bursting at the seams.”  Sellers’ ‘Authorship’  In order for something to qualify as handmade, a seller has
to have “authorship” of a good -- meaning it wasn’t purchased
somewhere else to be resold. The seller also has to take
responsibility for the production process.  On the store pages set up by sellers, they’ll need to
disclose partners and manufacturers to be transparent about how
their businesses are structured. That will help prevent the
community from finger-pointing at suspected rule breakers,
Dickerson said in  a blog post .  Dickerson said the company hasn’t determined how the
changes will affect the business, which is planning an eventual
initial public offering.  “We haven’t run a single spreadsheet on it from a revenue
standpoint,” he said. “We haven’t done any financial
projections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  