-- Letta Rallies Support to Thwart Berlusconi as Stocks Gain
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-01T16:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/letta-rallies-support-to-thwart-berlusconi-as-stocks-gain.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
is rallying support in parliament before a showdown tomorrow,
bolstering his chances of rebuffing Silvio Berlusconi’s bid to
topple the government. Stocks surged in Milan.  The 47-year-old premier will get the support of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party in a Senate confidence vote
tomorrow, Angelino Alfano, the group’s general secretary, said
in a post on Twitter. Most lawmakers from the PDL will back
Letta, while the party may eventually split in two, Senator
Carlo Giovanardi, a party member, said in an interview.  “The bias of the group is not to make this government
fall,” Giovanardi said in  Rome . “Many of us said clearly that
they would not accept certain things.”  Letta is recovering support less than a week after
Berlusconi, a three-time premier, withdrew his backing for the
government and ordered five ministers from the PDL, including
Alfano, to quit the cabinet. PDL lawmakers in the Senate, where
Letta’s majority is most at risk, will meet later today to set
their approach, Giovanardi said.  The benchmark FTSEMIB Index jumped 3.1 percent to 17,977 at
5:50 p.m. Italian 10-year bond yields fell 15 basis points to
4.44 percent.  The confidence vote may split the PDL, the second-biggest
force in Letta’s three-party coalition. Lawmakers including
Lucio Malan and Daniela Santanche had previously promised to
resign to show solidarity with the 77-year-old Berlusconi as he
fights against proceedings to oust him from the Senate.  Berlusconi, commenting in a letter to the magazine Tempi
today, criticized Letta and President Giorgio Napolitano as
“unreliable” and reiterated that he will push for snap
elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 