-- EU Won’t Survive Decade of Stagnation, George Soros Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-10-01T19:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/eu-won-t-survive-decade-of-stagnation-george-soros-says.html
The European Union faces a breakdown
within a decade if it fails to reverse a faltering economy,
according to billionaire investor  George Soros .  “Many nations have lived through stagnation and nations
have always survived,” Soros said in comments at the end of a
panel discussion at the Global Economic Symposium in Kiel,
Germany. “However, the EU is not a nation, it is an association
that is in formation and will not survive a decade or more of
stagnation, so we are facing an eventual breakdown of the
European Union.”  The 17-nation  euro zone  is only just coming out of a record
18-month recession as new political and financial risks emerge.
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  faces months of talks to set up
a government, Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta confronts a
possible confidence vote this week and the U.S. government today
began its first partial shutdown in 17 years.  While the fact that the rules governing the euro weren’t a
topic during  Germany ’s general elections last month showed that
the euro crisis is over, “Europe is far from a equilibrium
situation, ” he said.  The euro crisis transformed the European Union into an
association of “creditors and debtors that is by its nature
compulsory and unequal,” Soros said, adding that has the
potential of destroying the EU altogether.  “Only the creditors are in a position to prevent this
outcome but they do not seem to show any inclination to do so,”
he said. Germany, which he said “emerged as a de-facto
hegemonic power” in Europe, should identify and correct the
mistakes and misconceptions that have created the euro crisis.  ‘Driver’s Seat’  “Germany can initiate the process because, as the country
with the highest credit standing, it is in the driver’s seat,”
he said. “If a debtor country tried to do it would merely
aggravate its own position.”  Soros at a panel earlier today reiterated support for euro
bonds to fight  Europe ’s sovereign crisis, saying joint debt
liability would lower the cost of borrowing for individual euro
member states.  “We need both, euro bonds and structural reform in
individual countries,” said Soros.  Merkel, whose Christian Democratic bloc last month recorded
its best election result in 23 years, repeatedly rejected the
notion of debt mutualization in the euro area, arguing that this
would create the wrong incentives for debt-laden states and damp
their appetite for economic-policy changes.  “Euro bonds are a powerful taboo,” said Soros. A
guarantee to borrow at a fixed euro-bond rate would reduce the
need to transfer aid to debt-laden southern European states
because the guarantee would never be called, he said.  “The danger of default would disappear,” he said.
“That’s the free lunch you don’t have” at the moment. Transfer
payments create “a disequilibrium” that is “unacceptable in
the long term,” he said.  Soros, who has been one of the most outspoken critics of
Germany’s austerity policies for the euro area, made $1 billion
betting against the British pound in 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Kiel at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  