-- Euro-Area September Manufacturing Output Expands for Third Month
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-10-01T08:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/euro-area-september-manufacturing-output-expands-for-third-month.html
Euro-area factory output  expanded for
a third month in September as the 17-nation currency bloc’s
economic recovery gained momentum.  An index based on a survey of purchasing managers in the
manufacturing industry slipped to 51.1 from 51.4 in August, in
line with an  estimate  published on Sept. 23, London-based Markit
Economics said today. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  Encouraging indicators have begun to accumulate since the
euro area  returned to growth  in the second quarter, ending a
record-long recession. Investor confidence in Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, climbed to the highest level in more than three
years in September.  Financial markets’ concerns about the integrity of the euro
area have diminished sharply, European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on Sept. 25. As
evidence of investors’ optimism, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index has
risen about 8 percent since the end of June and the euro has
gained almost 4 percent against the dollar.  Even so, Europe continues to struggle with the legacy of a
debt crisis now in its fourth year, with the  European Central
Bank  predicting the bloc’s economy will contract 0.4 percent
this year, followed by growth of just 1 percent in 2014.  To help keep market borrowing costs down, the ECB has
pledged to keep  interest rates  low for an extended period after
it cut its benchmark rate to a record low of 0.5 percent in May.  Unemployment is at a record  rate  of 12.1 percent, and
analysts predict the jobless rate will remain higher than 12
percent through 2015, according to a Bloomberg Survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  