-- Euro Retreats From Eight-Month High Before ECB Meets; Kiwi Drops
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-10-02T07:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/euro-retreats-from-8-month-high-versus-dollar-before-ecb-meets.html
The euro retreated from an eight-month high versus the dollar before the  European Central Bank 
meets today for the first time since President  Mario Draghi  said
he’s ready to inject cash into the banking system.  The greenback rose against most major peers before a
private report forecast to show companies in the U.S. added jobs
at a faster pace. U.S. lawmakers still need to agree on raising
the debt limit to avoid a default after Oct. 17, following the
government’s first partial shutdown in 17 years. Demand for the
euro was also damped before Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
faces a confidence vote today.  New Zealand ’s dollar dropped
against all its major counterparts.  “In recent speeches, some ECB board members were concerned
about the low level of excess liquidity,” said  Joseph Capurso ,
a Sydney-based currency strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender. Indications of another
long-term refinancing operation “would be seen as putting
downward pressure on European market interest rates and would
put downward pressure on the euro.”  The 17-nation shared currency was little changed at $1.3518
at 7:59 a.m. London time after reaching $1.3588 yesterday, the
highest since Feb. 6. It weakened 0.5 percent to 131.90 yen. The
dollar fell 0.4 percent to 97.57 yen.  “We are ready to use any instrument, including another
LTRO if needed, to maintain the short-term money markets at the
level that is warranted by our assessment of inflation in the
medium term,” Draghi said in response to questions from
lawmakers in the European Parliament in Brussels on Sept. 23.  ECB Meeting  ECB policy makers meeting in Paris will keep the benchmark
refinancing rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent,
according to all 52 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Draghi will hold a news conference after the decision.  The ECB president will hold off from pumping more cash into
the region’s financial system as long as the threat of action
keeps market interest rates under control, according to
economists from Berenberg Bank to Nomura International Plc.  “Recent comments from ECB President Draghi and other
policy makers suggest they are still cautious on the recovery,
while the tightening in money market conditions remains an on-going concern,” BNP Paribas SA currency strategists Vassili Serebriakov and  Daniel Katzive  in  New York  wrote in a note to
clients. “A new factor for the ECB to consider is the  exchange
rate , which has strengthened since the last meeting.”  The central bank issued more than 1 trillion euros in
three-year loans in 2011 and 2012, giving banks an option to
repay them early. As banks take up that option,  excess liquidity 
in the system is approaching the 200 billion-euro level that
Draghi has signaled as a lower limit.  Italian Vote  Demand for the euro was limited as the survival of Italian
Prime Minister Letta’s government will be tested in a confidence
vote today, after former premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s decision
last week to withdraw support. Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
party has splintered, with Angelino Alfano, who stepped down as
deputy premier at Berlusconi’s request, saying yesterday his
party will back the government.  “Even if the government survives, which looks more likely
following yesterday’s news and rumors, political uncertainty
would remain,” Frederik Ducrozet, an economist at Credit
Agricole CIB in Paris, wrote in research dated today. That will
“limit the upside” for  market sentiment , the note said.  In the U.S., companies added 180,000 to their payrolls in
September, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before today’s report from the ADP
Research Institute. Firms hired 176,000 workers in August,
according to ADP.  Data Delays  The U.S. Labor department won’t release its monthly jobs
report on Oct. 4 if the federal government remains closed,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The BLS “will not
collect data, issue reports, or respond to public inquiries”
during the shutdown, it said on its website. “Revised schedules
will be issued as they become available” once the government
resumes operations, it said.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew urged Congress to extend
the nation’s borrowing authority “immediately,” in a letter
addressed to House Speaker  John Boehner  dated yesterday. Lew
said the U.S. has begun using the final extraordinary measures
to avoid breaching the debt limit, and repeated that they will
be exhausted no later than Oct. 17.  Debt ‘Reckoning’  The shutdown began after House and Senate lawmakers failed
to agree on a spending plan for the new fiscal year that started
yesterday. Chances of a last-minute deal evaporated as the
Republican-controlled House stood firm on its call to delay
major parts of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law for a
year. Senate Democrats were equally firm in refusing.  “You’re not too far from the point that you start thinking
about the day of reckoning with the debt ceiling, and we’re also
starting to go into a black hole period in terms of U.S. data,”
said  Robert Rennie , the Sydney-based chief currency strategist
at Westpac Banking Corp. “There’s the potential for a scramble
for U.S. dollars.”  The greenback tends to appreciate in times of financial
stress because of its status as the world’s reserve currency.
Obama has said that relationship must not be put at risk.  New Zealand’s dollar weakened for a second day after a
central bank official said the nation’s neutral interest rate
has fallen. The neutral 90-day rate is about 4.5 percent and
rates will approach that level in early 2016, John McDermott,
the assistant governor and head of economics, said according to
the bank’s website. It was 5.5 percent to 6.5 percent in
previous cycles, he said.  The kiwi dollar slid 0.8 percent to 82.14 U.S. cents after
reaching 81.94, the lowest since Sept. 17. It declined 0.3
percent yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  