-- Euro-Area Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Falls Amid Recovery
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-10-01T09:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/euro-area-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-falls-amid-recovery.html
Euro-area unemployment  unexpectedly
retreated from a record, as the currency bloc’s economic
recovery gained momentum.  The  jobless rate  fell to a revised 12 percent in July from
a record 12.1 percent a month earlier, and held at that level in
August, the  European Union ’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. Economists forecast a rate of 12.1 percent,
according to the median of 30 estimates in a  Bloomberg News
survey. (UMRTEMU)  Unemployment among young people fell to 23.7 percent in
August after two months at 23.8 percent.  Today’s report comes after the 17-nation euro economy
emerged from its longest-ever recession in the second quarter
and economic confidence rose for a fifth month in September. At
the same time, economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the
jobless rate will peak at 12.3 percent by the end of this year
before falling to 12 percent by 2015.  “Since the labor market tends to react to changes in
economic conditions with a bit of a lag, the health of the
employment outlook may continue to improve over the coming
months,” said Ben May, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in  London .  The euro extended gains against the dollar after the data
were released, trading at $1.3558 at 11:30 a.m. in Brussels, up
0.2 percent on the day.  German Election  Unemployment in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, held at
5.2 percent in August, today’s report showed. The jobless rates
in France and Spain remained at 11 percent and 26.2 percent,
respectively, while in  Italy  the rate increased to 12.2 percent.  A robust German job market and the economic strength of
Europe’s largest economy in the midst of the region’s debt
crisis helped Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats
take the largest share of the vote in a Sept. 22 election.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , the Cologne, Germany-based airline,
said last month that it will hire 500 employees in 2014 on
contracts that expire after two years, with a one-time option to
extend them.  The euro-area economy grew 0.3 percent in the three months
through June, and European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
 said last month  that he expects the pace of the economy to
remain “modest.” The Frankfurt-based central bank predicts the
economy will shrink 0.4 percent this year before growing 1
percent in 2014.  ECB policy makers gather in Paris tomorrow for their
monthly  rate decision  meeting.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, will
eliminate 15,000 jobs, the Munich-based corporation said on
Sept. 29. It initially planned some 8,000 cuts globally, a
person familiar with the program told Bloomberg News last year.  “There are some signs of stabilization in Europe’s
periphery, for example in Spain,” said Janet Henry, chief
European economist at HSBC in London. “But it will be a long
time until we see the euro area’s unemployment rate coming down
to anywhere near pre-crisis levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  