-- European Stocks Advance as Investors Weigh U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-10-01T15:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/european-stock-index-futures-advance-amid-u-s-shutdown.html
European stocks  climbed, rebounding
from their biggest decline in a month, as investors assessed the
impact of a partial shutdown of the U.S. government.  Telecom Italia SpA rose 5.2 percent after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. reinstated its buy rating on the shares. Vestas Wind
Systems A/S gained 6.8 percent after Bank of America Corp.
raised its price forecast on the Danish maker of  wind turbines .
Unilever slid to its lowest price in 10 months as the world’s
second-largest consumer-goods maker said sales growth slowed in
the third quarter.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.8 percent to 312.86 at
the close of trading, its biggest rally in three weeks, after a
report showed that  manufacturing activity  in the euro area
expanded for a third month in September. The equity benchmark
fell by the most since Aug. 30 yesterday as U.S. politicians
failed to agree on a compromise budget and  Silvio Berlusconi 
pulled his ministers out of Italy’s coalition government.  “For the moment, the shutdown looks more like noise rather
than something that makes a fundamental difference for growth,”
Nicola Marinelli, who helps oversee $180 million as portfolio
manager at Glendevon King Ltd. in  London , said by phone. “If
you look at the historical performance of equity indices in
previous cases of government shutdown and debt-ceiling
standoffs, the data show no clear trend and that equity markets
can actually rebound.”  National benchmark indexes advanced in every western-European market except for Britain.  Germany ’s DAX added 1.1
percent, while France’s CAC 40 Index increased 1.3 percent. The
U.K.’s FTSE 100 slipped less than 0.1 percent.  Government Shutdown  The Stoxx 600 gained 8.9 percent in the three months
through September, its largest quarterly rally in four years, as
a report showed that the  euro-area economy  escaped from
recession and the  Federal Reserve  decided against reducing its
monthly  asset purchases .  U.S. lawmakers in  Washington  missed a midnight deadline to
reach a compromise to continue funding the government. The
shutdown will put as many as 800,000 federal employees out of
work today, closing national parks and halting some government
services. The Democrat-controlled Senate earlier voted 54-46
against a funding bill from the Republican-controlled  House of
Representatives  because it made major changes to President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care legislation.  The parties had no immediate plans for further
negotiations. Some lawmakers expressed concern that the shutdown
could lead to a deadlock over the need to raise the nation’s
debt limit to avoid a default. The U.S. will run out of money to
pay all of its bills at some point between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31
unless Congress increases the federal government’s  borrowing
authority , according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Rallying Stocks  The  S&P 500  has risen 11 percent on average in the 12
months following a government shutdown, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on the 12 instances since 1976. That
compares with an average return of 9 percent over 12 months.  Asian equities advanced after the Bank of  Japan ’s Tankan
index, which surveys confidence among the nation’s large
 manufacturers , climbed more than economists had estimated. The
quarterly gauge rose to 12 in September, its highest level since
2007. Separately,  China ’s official measure of  factory activity 
increased for a third month.  A report from Markit Economics showed that its  euro-zone
factory index  fell to 51.1 in September, matching the
preliminary estimate and the median forecast of 31 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Readings greater than 50 mean that
manufacturing activity increased.  Telecom Italia  Telecom Italia climbed 5.2 percent to 64.2 euro cents, its
highest price since May. The telecommunications operator would
gain enough funds to improve its domestic business if it sells
at least 4 billion euros ($5.4 billion) of shares or its stake
in  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  in  Brazil , according to Goldman Sachs.  Vestas jumped 6.8 percent to 148.50 kroner. Bank of America
raised its price estimate to 180 kroner from 150 kroner,
predicting that the company will pay off almost all its debt by
2015, earlier than the consensus forecast.  Wolseley Plc (WOS)  added 3.1 percent to 3,296 pence, its largest
gain in more than five weeks. The world’s biggest distributor of
plumbing and heating products said so-called trading profit in
the 12 months through July climbed to 725 million pounds ($1.2
billion) from 665 million pounds a year earlier. Analysts had
predicted earnings of 704 million pounds, according to the
average of 20 estimates compiled by the company. Wolseley
proposed a special dividend payout of 300 million pounds.  Brintellix Approval  H. Lundbeck A/S rose 2.6 percent to 123.30 kroner, its
highest price in 14 months. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  approved Brintellix, which is marketed by
Denmark’s second-biggest drugmaker and Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co., as a treatment for people with depression.  Unilever (UNA)  slipped 2.8 percent to 27.94 euros after saying
sales growth slowed as trading in  emerging markets  deteriorated
at a faster rate. Underlying group sales for the three months
will rise 3 percent to 3.5 percent, the maker of Lipton tea and
Dove soap said late yesterday in a statement. That compares with
5 percent growth in both the first half and second quarter.  A gauge of commodity producers declined 0.9 percent as gold
fell 2.9 percent and silver dropped 4.2 percent. Fresnillo Plc
and Randgold Resources Ltd., which mine precious metals, lost 5
percent to 924.5 pence and 2.5 percent to 4,338 pence,
respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  