-- Ex-AIG Chief Greenberg Can’t Persuade Judge to Leave Case
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-01T21:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/ex-aig-chief-greenberg-can-t-persuade-judge-to-leave-case.html
Former AIG Inc. Chairman Maurice “Hank” Greenberg lost a second bid to have a judge remove
himself from an eight-year-old lawsuit brought by the New York
attorney general’s office.  Greenberg in July asked Supreme Court Justice Charles Ramos
to recuse himself, saying the judge has shown bias. Ramos denied
the motion today in  Manhattan  without hearing arguments.  “I don’t rule based on whether I like someone or I don’t
like someone,” said Ramos, who also denied a similar motion in
the case in March 2011. Greenberg’s attorneys told the judge
they plan to appeal his ruling. Ramos denied a motion for a stay
of the case pending the appeal.  The New York Court of Appeals, the state’s highest court,
ruled in June that the state can pursue its case against
Greenberg over his role in a sham reinsurance transaction and
can seek an injunction banning him from the securities industry
and from serving as an officer or director of a public company.  Greenberg, 88, argued the suit was fatally flawed after
court approval of a $115 million settlement of a class-action
case that resolved claims against him and ex-AIG Chief Financial
Officer Howard Smith. After the accord was approved, the state
said it was withdrawing its claim for damages in the case.  Eric Schneiderman, who took over the case when he became
attorney general, says Greenberg and Smith bear responsibility
for the transaction with General Reinsurance Corp. in 2000 and
2001 that inflated AIG’s loss reserves by $500 million.  ‘Sovereign Interest’  Greenberg in July asked Ramos to dismiss the case before a
trial, saying the attorney general’s office has no “valid
sovereign interest” in pursuing it. Ramos scheduled oral
arguments on that motion for Oct. 17 and said the case is a
“long way” from trial.  “This case is eight years old,” Ramos said. “This is an
embarrassment for the commercial division.”  “This case should be an embarrassment to the attorney
general,” said John L. Gardiner, an attorney representing
Greenberg with Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP. “This
case should be over.”  The case is State of New York v. Greenberg, 401720-2005,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 