-- Ex-NBA Player Tate George Convicted in $2 Million Fraud
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-10-01T22:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/ex-nba-player-tate-george-convicted-in-2-million-fraud.html
Tate George, a former player for the
National Basketball Association’s New Jersey Nets and Milwaukee
Bucks, was convicted on charges of running a $2 million Ponzi
scheme that targeted ex-professional athletes, according to U.S.
Attorney Paul Fishman.  Jurors deliberated four hours before convicting George
yesterday of four wire-fraud counts in federal court in Trenton,
New Jersey, Fishman said in a statement. George testified in his
own defense. Jurors heard from Charlie Villanueva of the Detroit
Pistons and former NBA player Brevin Knight, who were victims.  George, a  Newark  resident, told prospective investors that
their money would fund the George Group’s development of real
estate projects in New Jersey and Connecticut, prosecutors
charged. George raised more than $2 million for his company, the
George Group, after telling investors his real-estate
development portfolio was worth $500 million, prosecutors said.  “Instead of using investments to fund real estate
development projects as promised, George used the money from new
investors to pay existing investors in Ponzi-scheme fashion,”
Fishman said in the statement.  George, 45, also used the money to pay for a Sweet 16 party
for his daughter, renovations on his New Jersey home, mortgages
on homes in New Jersey home and  Florida , taxes owed to the
Internal Revenue Service, traffic tickets and a reality video
about himself, prosecutors said.  “The George Group had virtually no income-generating
operations,” Fishman said in the statement.  In Custody  He was immediately taken into custody until his sentencing
on Jan. 16 by U.S. District Judge Mary L. Cooper, according to
Fishman. He faces as long as 20 years in prison on each count.  His assistant federal public defender, David Schafer,
declined to comment on the case. Schafer said that aside from
Villanueva and Knight, the witnesses against George included
Randal Pinkett, a business consultant who was a winner of the
reality television show “The Apprentice.”  George was arrested in September 2011 on a Federal Bureau
of Investigation complaint charging him with one count of wire
fraud. His trial started Sept. 9.  George attended the University of  Connecticut , where he hit
the game-winning shot against Clemson University in the third
round of the 1990 National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament. With one second remaining and Connecticut trailing
by one, George caught a full-court pass from teammate Scott Burrell, spun around and hit a 15-foot jump shot as time
expired.  He was selected by the Nets with the No. 22 pick in the
1990 NBA draft. The Nets have since moved to  Brooklyn , New York.
In a four-year career, George averaged 4.2 points and 1.8
assists a game.  The case is U.S. v. George, 12-cr-204, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 