-- Texas Settles Lawsuit to Block AMR-US Airways Merger
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n ,   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-10-01T20:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/texas-said-to-settle-suit-to-block-amr-us-airways-merger.html
Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott ,
who joined a U.S. lawsuit to block the AMR Corp.- US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  merger, reached a settlement with the carriers in the
case, and said he now supports the tie-up.  Terms of the agreement include a commitment for AMR’s
 American Airlines  to maintain a hub at the Dallas-Fort Worth
airport and keep its headquarters in Fort Worth. The settlement
also calls for the carrier to retain service to 22 airports in
Texas, Abbott said today. Six states and the  District of
Columbia  are still participating in the federal lawsuit.  “Our real concern that we articulated from the beginning
was to ensure no interruption of service from rural areas of the
state of Texas,” Abbott said at a news conference today at the
airport. “That was our main goal going in, that’s our main
accomplishment coming out.”  US Airways  climbed 3.6 percent to $19.65 at 3:33 p.m. in
New York after gaining as much 4.7 percent for the biggest
intraday advance since Aug. 30. AMR rose 8 percent to $4.44 in
over-the-counter trading.  The U.S.  Justice Department  antitrust suit to block the
tie-up creating the world’s largest airline is heading for trial
on Nov. 25. U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly today
rejected a bid for delay by the government because of what it
said was short-staffing caused by the partial government
shutdown.  Court Protection  AMR is counting on the merger as part of its plan to
restructure in bankruptcy, after filing for court protection in
November 2011. The two carriers had targeted a third-quarter
closing for their deal before the Justice Department filed its
lawsuit in August.  “It weakens the DOJ’s case and makes it more likely to
reach out for a settlement that’s more fair than what they’ve
been seeking,” said  Jim Corridore , a New York-based analyst at
Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ, who has a strong buy rating on  US
Airways. “The more setbacks they have and the less time they
have to prepare, the more likely they are to try to find a face-saving resolution,” he said in a telephone interview.  A combination of American, the third-biggest U.S. airline,
and No. 5 US Airways would hurt consumers by damping competition
and paving the way for higher fares, the department said in its
lawsuit.  The airlines said a merger would promote competition and
create a stronger carrier able to take on United Continental
Holdings Inc. and Delta Air Lines Inc., which rank first and
second in the global industry by passenger traffic.  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington). (Washington). The bankruptcy case is In re  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  