-- Texas Governor Says Wife Misspoke on Abortion as ‘Right’
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-10-01T17:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/texas-governor-says-wife-misspoke-on-abortion-as-right-.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  said his
wife misspoke when she told a journalist that abortion is a
woman’s right.  Perry, 63, a Republican who opposes abortion, told
reporters in Smithville, New Jersey, that his views haven’t
changed. He characterized the words used by his wife, Anita, 61,
as “probably a choice that she was looking for.”  “From time to time we’ll stick the wrong word in the wrong
place, and you pounce upon it,” Perry told reporters at a
campaign event for U.S. Senate candidate Steve Lonegan, a 57-year-old Republican from Bogota, New Jersey. Lonegan faces
Democrat  Cory Booker , the mayor of Newark, in the Oct. 16
special election to fill the seat left open after the June death
of Senator  Frank Lautenberg .  Anita Perry’s remarks came Sept. 28 during an interview at
the Texas Tribune Festival at the  University of Texas  in Austin,
according to the Tribune.  “That could be a woman’s right, just like it’s a man’s
right if he wants to have some kind of procedure,” Perry was
quoted as telling  Evan Smith , the editor-in-chief.  Texas is the largest and most populous among the 13 states
that ban abortion beyond 20 weeks’ gestation. In June, state
Senator Wendy Davis, a Democrat from  Fort Worth , filibustered
for 11 hours to prevent a vote on that ban. It passed during a
special session convened by Perry, who signed the bill July 18.  Perry failed in his bid for the 2012 Republican
presidential nomination, and his decision not to seek another
governor’s term has led to speculation that he’ll run again in
2016. He told reporters today that he is traveling around the
country “talking about blue-state versus red-state policies and
which one of those work best for the people of their states and
for the people of this country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net  