-- Exercise May Be as Effective as Drugs in Treating Disease
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-10-02T08:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/exercise-may-be-as-effective-as-drugs-in-treating-heart-disease.html
Physical activity may be as effective
as drugs in treating heart disease and should be included as a
comparison in the development of new medicines, according to a
review  published  today in the British Medical Journal.  No statistically detectable differences were evident
between exercise and drug treatment for patients with coronary
heart disease or prediabetes, and exercise was more effective
among patients recovering from a stroke, according to a review
of 16 meta-analyses that included 305 studies involving 339,274
participants. The review was conducted by researchers at Harvard
University and Stanford University.  The analysis adds to evidence showing the benefit of non-medical approaches to disease through behavior and lifestyle
changes. Given the cost of drug treatment, regulators should
consider requiring pharmaceutical companies to include exercise
as a comparator in clinical trials of new medicines, according
to authors  Huseyin Naci  of Harvard and  John Ioannidis  of
Stanford.  “In cases where drug options provide only modest benefit,
patients deserve to understand the relative impact that physical
activity might have on their condition,” Naci and Ioannidis
said in the published paper. In the meantime, “exercise
interventions should therefore be considered as a viable
alternative to, or, alongside, drug therapy.”  Drug Types  The definition of exercise and their frequency, intensity
and duration varied across the list of studies included in the
analysis, which limits the ability to generalize the findings to
different forms of physical activity, said the authors, who
received no funding for the review.  Drug treatments in the studies included statins and beta
blockers for coronary heart disease; anticoagulants and
antiplatelets for stroke; and diuretics and beta blockers for
heart failure.  A landmark study by Dean Ornish, founder of the Preventive
Medicine Research Institute, found that a low-fat vegetarian
diet, increased exercise and stress management can reduce heart
disease more than standard medical care. Patients who receive
training from medical professionals on Ornish’s program for
reversing heart disease have been reimbursed by Medicare since
January 2011.  Cardiovascular disease  is the leading cause of death
globally, killing at least 17 million people a year with
fatalities predicted to rise to more than 23 million by 2030,
according to the World Health Organization.  Deaths linked to heart disease and stroke would be reduced
by 25 percent if people quit smoking, limited salt intake and
adopted other healthy habits, the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention said last month.  Not all patients benefit more from exercise than from
drugs. For those recovering from heart failure, diuretic
medicines were more effective, according to the analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  