-- Mexico’s Bonds Rally as U.S. Shutdown Fuels Fed Bets; Peso Drops
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-10-01T23:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/mexico-s-bonds-rally-as-u-s-shutdown-fuels-fed-bets-peso-drops.html
Mexico ’s bonds rallied as a partial
shutdown of the U.S. government fueled speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will maintain the pace of monetary stimulus that has
boosted demand for the Latin American country’s securities.  Yields on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.05 percent at
4 p.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency weakened 0.5 percent to 13.1549 per  U.S. dollar ,
pushing its loss this year to 2.3 percent.  The Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases have
spurred demand for higher-yielding, emerging-market assets,
driving foreign holdings of Mexico government fixed-rate bonds
to a record in May. Yields on the benchmark debt have fallen
eight basis points since the Fed surprised analysts and
refrained from paring the pace of its stimulus on Sept. 18.  “This motivation for the Fed to continue buying back bonds
and injecting liquidity into the markets is what’s driving
 emerging markets  today,” Gerardo Welsh, the head of money
markets at Banco Base SA, said in a phone interview from San
Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico. “Given this liquidity, the market’s
coming back to look where to put money, and they’re finding
Mexican bonds to be a good asset.”  The U.S. Congress’s failure to pass a budget closed the
government for the first time in 17 years, setting the stage for
a debate on raising the U.S. debt ceiling within three weeks.
The partial shutdown will put as many as 800,000 federal
employees out of work today, halting some government services
after Congress failed to break a partisan deadlock. Mexico sends
about 80 percent of its exports to its northern neighbor.  Growth Outlook  Analysts polled by Mexico’s central bank cut their
projections for growth this year to 1.43 percent from 1.78
percent previously, according to the average estimate of
economists in a survey published today.  Mexico’s  Finance Ministry  sold 6 billion pesos ($455
million) of one-month notes known as Cetes at auction today,
according to the central bank. The government also auctioned off
9.5 billion pesos in three-month notes and 10.5 billion pesos of
notes maturing in six months. It also sold all 4 billion pesos
of fixed-rate debt due in 2031 it offered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  