-- Mexico Drug Wars Don't Scare Hotel Investors: Real Estate
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/mexico-drug-wars-don-t-scare-hotel-investors-real-estate.html
Mexico ’s oceanside resorts and Mayan
ruins are luring more visitors from abroad even as drug violence
plagues parts of the country. The resurgence is spurring a wave
of new investment in the hotel industry.  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  is opening two resorts in Mexico later
this year, and  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  is
planning to increase its luxury portfolio there by 50 percent.
Blackstone Group LP’s La Quinta chain also wants to add hotels
in the country to meet rising business demand as  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and other companies open new factories.  Hoteliers and investors are counting on a continued surge
in tourism across Mexico, where gains in hotel room rates
outpaced increases in the rest of Latin America even as the
economy slowed this year. Travel growth is being driven by a
rising middle class, expansion by business and visitors from
countries including  China  who are undeterred by the violent
crime gripping northern Mexico.  “Security issues -- perceived or real -- travelers pay
attention to, and they can impact travel,” Ricardo Suarez, a
vice president of acquisitions at Stamford, Connecticut-based
Starwood Hotels, said in a telephone interview. “But there is
such strong economic growth in the country, it’s driving
domestic travel and demand from the U.S. and, more recently,
also from places like Europe,  Russia  and  Asia .”  Hotel-room bookings for this year jumped 11 percent in
Mexico as of July 25, compared with a 6 percent increase a year
earlier, according to travel-services company  Orbitz Worldwide
Inc. (OWW)  Growth in bookings in the Caribbean, Central America and
 South America , meanwhile, is slowing, Chicago-based Orbitz said.  Drug Violence  Travelers are heading to Mexico in increasing numbers even
amid little relief from a years-long crime epidemic. In August,
police found the decapitated bodies of 12 people who had been
kidnapped from a Mexico City nightclub three months earlier. The
most recent Mexican government data available, released in 2011,
shows at least 47,500 people had been killed in drug violence in
the country since former President  Felipe Calderon  took office
in 2006 and vowed to crack down on the drug trade.  The figure may be higher, with the total number of violent
deaths probably surpassing 60,000 since December 2006,  according 
to data from the U.S. Department of State. Mexico had 24
homicides per 100,000 people in 2011, compared with 4.7 in the
U.S. and 1.5 in  Canada , according to the latest data from the
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.  “The number of kidnappings and disappearances throughout
Mexico is of particular concern,” the State Department said in
a July travel  warning . It also cautioned tourists about gun
battles between rival criminal organizations.  Coastal Resorts  Resort areas and tourist destinations in Mexico generally
don’t have the levels of violence reported closer to the U.S.
border and major drug-trafficking routes, the State Department
said. In the warning, the department focused on 19 states and
areas primarily in the northern and central parts of the
country. Tourist resorts tend to be in coastal areas, such as in
Cancun on Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula or  Cabo San Lucas  on the
southern tip of the Baja California peninsula.  Violent crime has been one of a series of problems plaguing
Mexico’s tourism industry in the past several years. Hotels,
already affected by the U.S. and Mexican recessions as well as
the drug wars, were hurt further by the outbreak of swine flu in
2009, said  Fernando Garcia-Chacon , executive vice president at
broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.’s Hotels & Hospitality Group.  Hotel Occupancies  In 2009, hotel occupancies in Mexico dropped to 50 percent
and revenue per available room, an industry measure of
occupancies and rates, fell to $49.73, the lowest level in at
least seven years, according to data from research firm STR. In
May of that year, occupancies slumped as low as 29 percent.  This year through July, occupancies recovered to an average
of 61 percent, and revpar was at $74.49, according to
Hendersonville, Tennessee-based STR.  Hotel demand in Mexico is increasingly coming from places
not traditionally associated with travel to the country.
Tourists from China are almost as numerous at Starwood’s  Latin
America  properties as those with a longer history of visiting
the region, including Germans, Italians and the French, Suarez
said.  International visitors arriving in Mexico by plane rose 8.4
percent in the first seven months of 2013 from the year-earlier
period, according to data from Mexico’s tourism ministry.
Arrivals from China jumped 29 percent, while visitors from
Russia increased 56 percent during the same period, according to
the data. U.S. visitors made up 56 percent of total arrivals by
air.  As travel demand has slowed in many parts of Latin America
this year, “Mexico is helping mitigate some of this as it grows
from increasing business activity as well as the return of the
American vacationer,” Starwood Hotels Chief Executive Officer
Frits van Paasschen said on a July 25 conference call.  Hyatt Investment  In July, Hyatt announced plans to spend $325 million in
partnership with Fairfax, Virginia-based Playa Hotels & Resorts
on properties in Mexico, the Dominican Republic and Jamaica. The
first two Hyatt-branded resorts in the partnership will open in
Mexico later this year after a “multimillion-dollar”
investment.  “We believe that the potential for growth in both the
business and leisure segments is very strong in Mexico and,
therefore, have chosen to invest in the market in order to
establish a strong foundation for our brands there,” Patrick
McCudden, Hyatt’s senior vice president of Latin American
development and acquisitions, said in an e-mail.  Starwood, which has 24 hotels in Mexico, said in July that
it expects to expand its portfolio in the country by 30 percent,
with eight new hotels in its development pipeline. It’s planning
an even bigger increase -- by 50 percent -- for its luxury
properties, including its St. Regis and W brands, in the next
three years.  MetLife Purchase  New York-based MetLife Inc., the largest U.S. life insurer,
and Thayer Lodging Group bought the 365-room Hilton Los Cabos
Beach & Golf Resort in Cabo San Lucas for an undisclosed price,
the companies said last week. It was Annapolis, Maryland-based
Thayer’s first investment outside the U.S.  Mexico’s economy has slowed and is expected to expand as
little as 2 percent this year, half of 2012’s pace and the
slowest growth in four years. Hotels are getting a boost from a
bigger, more affluent middle class and manufacturing expansion
by foreign companies.  “Mexico is finally reaching an inflection point with its
middle class,” Garcia-Chacon of Jones Lang LaSalle said in a
telephone interview. “For 30 years, Mexico was the land of the
have-nots and very few haves. Now you see more industrial jobs
and service companies, which means there is business travel.
There are salaries and paid vacations.”  Foreign Manufacturers  Mexico’s gross domestic product per capita may rise 53
percent to $12,175 next year from $7,968 in 2005, according to a
May report by Jones Lang LaSalle. GDP is being helped by jobs
created at foreign companies expanding their manufacturing in
the country, such as Mazda Motor Corp., which is building a
plant in Salamanca City, about 190 miles (306 kilometers)
northwest of Mexico City.  “So many more companies from Germany, Japan and America
are moving their manufacturing to Mexico because it’s a great
location, with low labor costs,” Rajiv Trivedi, chief
development officer at La Quinta, said in a telephone interview.
“Mexico is becoming a hub of business for Latin America.”  Mexican companies are seeking to capitalize on the growth
through initial public offerings. In November,  Concentradora
Fibra Hotelera Mexicana SA (FIHO12) , also known as FibraHotel, sold
shares to become only the second publicly traded real estate
investment trust in Mexico, after Fibra Uno Administracion SA,
which had its IPO in 2011.  Stock Sales  Hoteles City Express SAB, Mexico’s third-largest hotel
chain, sold stock to the public in June. Grupo Hotelero Santa
Fe, a Mexican hotel operator partly owned by private-equity firm
Nexxus Capital SC, is planning an IPO for October, according to
two people with direct knowledge of the plans.  “The transaction market going forth will be bigger than
ever,” Garcia-Chacon said. Publicly traded companies “need to
show growth and so they are looking for acquisitions, getting
independent hotels branded and putting some money into them.”  Asesor de Activos Prisma SAPI, based in Monterrey and known
as Fibra Inn, wants to buy properties using the 1.46 billion
pesos ($111 million) it has in cash and an additional 2.5
billion pesos in planned debt following its IPO in March, said
Lizette Chang y Garcia, the company’s director of  investor
relations . By 2015, Fibra Inn expects to have 38 hotels, up from
14 now, she said. The new properties will be operated under such
brands as Hilton Worldwide Inc.’s Hampton Inn and
 InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ’s  Holiday Inn .  ‘More Comfortable’  As the economy improves, crime-related problems are likely
to diminish, said Trivedi, the La Quinta executive. Mexico’s
 Interior Ministry  said in May that drug-related killings were
down 14 percent between December and April from a year earlier.
Total homicides were down 15 percent in the first half of 2013
from a year earlier, according to an Aug. 9 report by Deputy
Interior Minister Eduardo Sanchez.  “Investors are getting more comfortable with putting money
into Mexico’s real estate market,” Trivedi said. “As business,
employment and the middle class grows, so will  travel demand  and
with it other nuisance problems will go away and take care of
themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  