-- Falcone’s Harbinger Group Extends Rally on Leucadia Deal
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-10-01T20:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/falcone-s-harbinger-group-extends-rally-on-leucadia-deal.html
Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , led by Philip Falcone, rallied in New York trading after his  hedge funds  said
they sold shares to investors led by  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)   Harbinger Group jumped 31 cents, or 3 percent, to $10.68 at
4:01 p.m. The company, which runs businesses from  life insurance 
to pet supplies, advanced 3.1 percent yesterday after the hedge
funds said Sept. 27 that they sold 18.6 million shares to
Leucadia for $8.50 apiece, giving the buyer a stake of about 13
percent.  Falcone, 51, agreed in August to meet requests from hedge
fund clients who sought their money back after he reached a
settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Manal Mehta, an investor in Harbinger Group through his Sunesis
Capital LLC, said the stock price had been pressured by
uncertainty about how Falcone’s funds would cut their holdings.  “The fact that that stake is being sold down in an orderly
manner and going to very smart people like Leucadia is a
significant positive,” Mehta said in an e-mail. The funds said
other investors, which weren’t identified in a filing last week,
bought an additional 5.1 million shares.  Falcone’s accord with the SEC includes a five-year ban from
the securities industry and an admission of wrongdoing for
improperly borrowing the funds’ money for his personal taxes,
and giving preferential treatment to some clients when returning
their money.  Leucadia, which owns investment bank Jefferies Group LLC,
is led by Chief Executive Officer  Richard Handler . Leucadia and
Harbinger Group are both based in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  