-- Fed Said to Review Commodities at Goldman, Morgan Stanley
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-01T17:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/fed-said-to-review-commodities-at-goldman-morgan-stanley.html
The  Federal Reserve  has expanded its
scrutiny of banks’ physical commodities operations to encompass
businesses run by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
that Congress had previously authorized.  The Fed is examining all legal and regulatory exemptions
that allow banks to participate in the  commodities markets , said
a person briefed on the process who asked not to be named
because the review is confidential. The appraisal, intended to
minimize potential risks to the financial system, widened since
the Fed said in July that it’s reconsidering its landmark 2003
decision to grant some lenders, such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., permission to expand into raw materials.  U.S. law restricts banks from owning non-financial
businesses unless they get special exemptions. Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley were the two biggest U.S. securities firms until
they converted into banks in 2008. A 1999 law “grandfathers”
any commodities operations they had before Sept. 30, 1997.  “The way I read the statute, all commodities activities
are grandfathered forever, subject to appropriate risk-management controls,” said Randy Guynn, head of the financial
institutions group at law firm  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP, whose
clients include Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs.  Merchant Banking  The breadth of the Fed’s review indicates the central bank
could narrow its interpretation of what’s grandfathered,
potentially limiting Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley’s
commodities operations to exactly what was held in 1997. Some of
their commodity activities, such as Goldman Sachs’s Metro
International Trade Services LLC aluminum warehousing business,
fall under a separate exemption for “merchant banking”
investments. Those can only be held for 10 years.  The Fed is “trying to clear up grandfathering and how it
fits merchant banking and the broader context,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Washington-based Federal Financial
Analytics, which advises companies on how policies may affect
their businesses. Leeway allowed to banks is vague, she said.  Banks trade derivatives related to commodities from oil to
corn to gold. To support that business, they often accept
delivery of those assets to settle trades, and even store the
materials. Many banks have moved beyond trading to owning
physical operations such as shipping companies and  power plants .  Boeing’s Concern  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and companies including Boeing
Co. and United Parcel Service Inc. sent a letter today to Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , saying they would face difficulties if
banks are forced out of commodities.  “Our ability to manage our risk would be seriously
impeded” if banks disappear as counterparties for physical
commodities hedges, the group said. “We likely would be forced
to tie up our own capital in holding physical inventories and
the related infrastructure to manage those inventories, and may
find our options for hedging shrink, become less useful, or more
expensive.”  Unlike Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, banks such as
JPMorgan and Citigroup had to seek an exemption from the Fed
that deemed their physical commodities units complementary to
their financial operations. That exemption, granted in 2003, was
the first to come under the central bank’s review.  Trading Platforms  The Fed is conducting the review while U.S. lawmakers and
regulators raise concerns that banks might abuse their various
roles in commodities markets, such as by coordinating their
trading platforms and ownership of materials or energy firms to
influence prices and profit. Lawmakers and regulators also have
questioned whether large banks integral to financial markets
should own commodities businesses, such as  oil tankers , in which
accidents could undermine the firms’ stability.  “There’s a lot of problems with banks engaging in
commodities and taking proprietary positions in commodities,”
Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said in an interview.
The  Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations, which he leads, is
reviewing banks’ involvement in commodities.  “Congress should reject the policies that allow for bank
ownership and reverse the law,”  Bart Chilton , a Democratic
member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said in an
interview.  JPMorgan, whose commodities units are overseen by Blythe Masters, said in July it may exit businesses. The largest U.S.
bank could sell or spin off holdings including warehouses,
stakes in power plants and trading in materials such as gas and
coal. The New York-based firm said it will continue trading
commodity derivatives as well as storing and trading precious
metals.  Goldman’s Mines  Morgan Stanley, whose commodities business is run by  Simon Greenshields  and Colin Bryce, owns electricity-generating
facilities in the U.S. and Europe and markets electric power in
the U.S. It also owns Denver-based TransMontaigne Inc., a
petroleum and chemical transportation and storage company, and a
stake in Heidmar Inc., based in Norwalk, Connecticut, which
manages about 100 oil and chemical tankers.  Goldman Sachs, whose commodities trading unit is led by
Gregory A. Agran in New York and Magid N. Shenouda in London,
owns coal mines in Colombia, a stake in the railroad that
transports the coal to port and part of an oil field off the
coast of Angola. Spokesmen for both firms declined to comment.  Five Years  After the Fed granted Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley the
right to convert into banks in September 2008, the firms got
five years to divest any non-financial businesses that didn’t
comply with the Bank Holding Company Act. That deadline raised
questions about whether the companies will be allowed to keep
their physical commodities businesses.  Saule T. Omarova, a law professor at the University of
 North Carolina  at  Chapel Hill , said the five-year grace period
to convert non-financial operations “strongly implies the Fed
has to make that determination.” She wrote a draft report last
year on banks’ roles in commodities, sharing it with lawmakers.  “It would be really wise of the Federal Reserve to be more
forthcoming on their thinking, their decision,” she said in an
interview. “It is just frustrating that with all this public
attention, the Fed feels impervious to that pressure, to just
ignore.”  Regulators are set to testify before a Senate Banking
subcommittee in October on the issue. It will be the panel’s
second hearing on the topic.  ‘Safety Net’  Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat and chairman of the
subcommittee, said in a September interview that the Fed should
clarify that banks’ “safety net applies to traditional banking,
not trading, not other lines of business.”  Banks’ commodities businesses drew additional congressional
scrutiny this year as aluminum users including beverage
companies complained that Goldman Sachs, which warehouses the
metal, had created delivery delays that drove up its price.
Goldman Sachs has said it stores aluminum according to
customers’ instructions and noted the price of aluminum has
fallen in recent years.  Goldman Sachs divested some physical commodity assets last
year when it sold Cogentrix Energy LLC to Carlyle Group LP. The
sale included five coal and solar power facilities in Florida,
Virginia, Colorado and California.  Morgan Stanley held talks last year with Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund about selling a stake in its commodities division.
The unit cut jobs and shut businesses including agricultural
products and dry freight this year.  Business ‘Struggling’  The six months ended in March were among the worst for the
unit’s performance since 1995, Morgan Stanley CEO  James Gorman ,
55, said earlier this year. The division had a return on equity
of less than 5 percent in 2012, the lowest among the bank’s five
largest fixed-income units.  “If we could find the right structure to help with our
commodities business, we’d move on it,” Gorman said in a
Bloomberg Television interview with  Erik Schatzker  in July.
“But as you’ve noted, we’ve been talking about this for a year.
We haven’t acted, which is a sense that we’re quite patient.”  Gorman said commodities has been a “tremendous business
for Morgan Stanley, but it’s been struggling.”  Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein said the firm’s
physical commodities unit is a “core” business that provides a
crucial service to clients. The bank, whose top three executives
trace their roots to commodities trading division J. Aron, has
said it plans to remain active in the industry.  Banks’ Defense  “The role we play in that business is very, very important
to users in the market,” Blankfein, 59, said in a September
interview with CNBC. “Without us in that market, a good credit,
a regulated company, the outcomes won’t be very good for the
users of the market.”  Banks defended their commodities activities with a
September report commissioned by the Securities Industry &
Financial Markets Association, in which Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley are members. The firms’ ability to trade physical
commodities and related financial derivatives helps airlines and
natural gas power plants hedge against changes in commodity
prices, according to the report from  IHS Inc. (IHS)   The Fed could pursue a variety of strategies for reining in
commodities businesses at banks that are grandfathered, Davis
Polk’s Guynn said.  “Even if the law says you are permitted to engage in a
particular activity, if the Fed thinks you don’t have sufficient
risk controls it can insist that you limit the activity until
you have proper risk controls,” Guynn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  