-- FMS Wertmanagement Cut Ex-Hypo Real Estate Assets by 6.1%
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-10-01T13:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/fms-wertmanagement-cut-ex-hypo-real-estate-assets-by-6-1-.html
FMS Wertmanagement, the bad bank
formed by Germany to wind down failed lender Hypo  Real Estate
Holding AG (REAEH) , shrank its assets by 6.1 percent in the first half
of the year.  FMS reduced its stock of loans, bonds and other financial
products to 128.5 billion euros ($174 billion) at the end of
June, bringing the total reduction to 27 percent since its
formation in October 2010, the Munich-based company said in an
e-mailed  statement  today.  “We are significantly ahead of our initial plan to wind
down the portfolio,” Chief Executive Officer Christian Bluhm
told reporters late yesterday. Reductions in the first six
months of the year were led by real estate loans and FMS is
seeking to use “favorable conditions in some markets” to speed
up disposals across the board, he said.  FMS, which had 176 billion euros of  Hypo Real Estate  assets
in 2010, may be able to reduce the amount to 70 billion euros to
80 billion euros by 2020. Most of the remaining infrastructure
financing and sovereign bonds will then be held to maturity,
Bluhm said.  Loss Reversed  FMS had a profit from ordinary activities of 75 million
euros in the first half of the year compared with a loss of 50
million euros a year earlier. Unrealized losses were 11.8
billion euros, with financial instruments related to  Italy 
representing the biggest share with 6.1 billion euros, Bluhm
told journalists in Munich yesterday.  FMS is  owned  by the government through the  German Financial
Markets Stabilization Agency , a unit of the Federal Ministry of
Finance that was established in October 2008 to help banks
troubled by the financial crisis. Losses at FMS are fully
covered by the German state through the Soffin bank-rescue fund.  Hypo Real Estate, once  Germany ’s second-largest commercial
property lender, transferred assets to FMS as part of a
government bailout. The company needed the rescue after its
Dublin-based unit Depfa Bank Plc couldn’t raise financing as the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze credit
markets.  FMS expects to be profitable this year, Bluhm said.
Staffing levels peaked at 139 people at the end of June and
administrative expenses were 174 million euros in the first
half, of which 104 million euros were servicing fees paid to
Hypo Real Estate.  The servicing agreement with Hypo Real Estate was
terminated by the end of September with FMS now operating the
servicing company, a step ordered by the European Commission.  “We have set up the servicing company so that we could
theoretically sell it by the end of 2014,” Bluhm said. Several
potential buyers have expressed interest, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  