-- Forint Gains Fourth Day Leading Emerging Rally: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-10-01T13:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/forint-gains-fourth-day-leading-emerging-rally-budapest-mover.html
The forint gained for a fourth day as
data showed Hungary’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace
in six months and on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
maintain stimulus as a U.S. government shutdown slows growth.  The currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 296.18 per euro by
3:06 p.m. in Budapest, extending its advance in the past four
days to 1.2 percent, the most among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The Debt Management Agency sold
40 billion forint ($183 million) in 3-month Treasury bills at an
auction today at an average  yield  of 3.51 percent, the lowest on
record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  purchasing managers’ index  in Hungary, which emerged
from recession in the first quarter this year, rose to 54.5 in
September from 51.8 in August, the highest level since March,
MLBKT, which compiles the data, said in an e-mail. Readings
above 50 signal expansion. The U.S. shutdown may lead to the Fed
further delaying tapering of bond buying, increasing appetite
for riskier assets such as Hungary’s, Gergely Palffy, an analyst
at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt., said by phone from Budapest.  “As this morning brought no panic from the U.S. shutdown
that led to selling in euro-forint,” Robert Csajbok, a
Budapest-based currency trader at ING Groep NV, wrote by e-mail.
“As the end of the tunnel emerges in the U.S. shutdown problem
that may bring another risk-on wave to the market.”  Gradual Recovery  PMI gauges in  Poland  and the  Czech Republic  also showed
expansion as the three countries benefited from a rebound in the
17-nation euro area, which buys most of their exports.  “The strong September prints suggest a continued, if
gradual, recovery in the region,” Magdalena Polan, a London-based economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in an e-mailed report. “But they also highlight sustained dependence on
external demand which, in our view, will remain the driving
force of the recovery, at least in 2013.”  The improvement in global sentiment will also allow
Hungary’s central bank to continue cutting rates from a record
3.6 percent reached in September after 14 consecutive months of
 easing , Palffy at Buda-Cash said.  “Provided the external environment remains supportive, we
expect the NBH to lower rates to 3 percent by end-2013 or the
first quarter of 2014,” economists at Citigroup Inc. including
Eszter Gargyan in Budapest wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Yields on  Hungary ’s benchmark 10-year bonds dropped five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.84 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  