-- German Stocks Advance Amid Partial US Government Shutdown
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-10-01T15:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/german-stocks-advance-amid-partial-us-government-shutdown.html
German stocks  advanced, after falling
the most in a month yesterday, as investors weighed the partial
shutdown of the U.S. government, and manufacturing in the
world’s largest economy expanded faster than forecast.  Siemens AG climbed 3.2 percent as Chief Executive Officer
Joe Kaeser said the company must close the profit gap with its
competitors.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the largest maker of
luxury cars, rose 1.8 percent as a gauge of automakers gained on
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index and it announced price increases.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  jumped 1.1 percent to 8,689.14 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt. The measure rose 6.1 percent in
September as the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly refrained from
paring bond purchases. It added 8 percent in the three months
through September, for its biggest quarterly advance in a year,
and is heading for a 14 percent annual gain. The broader HDAX
Index also rose 1.1 percent today.  “The reality is that when you look at previous shutdowns,
markets have been negative but not hugely negative,” Raimund Saxinger, a  fund manager  at Frankfurt-Trust Investment GmbH,
which oversees about $22 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“We are seeing a rebound following yesterday’s weakness. It
seems that people are relieved that markets did not move any
lower, and that there wasn’t any increased selling pressure.”  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 13 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Missed Deadline  U.S. lawmakers in  Washington  passed a midnight deadline
without reaching a compromise to continue funding the
government, resulting in the first partial shutdown in 17 years.
The shutdown will put as many as 800,000 federal employees on
temporary unpaid leave from today. The Democrat-controlled
Senate earlier voted 54-46 against a Republican-controlled House
of Representatives funding bill linked to changes in President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care legislation.  Congressional leaders have scheduled no further
negotiations on spending legislation, raising concerns among
some lawmakers that the shutdown could bleed into the more
consequential fight over how to raise the U.S. debt limit to
avoid a first-ever default after Oct. 17.  The U.S. won’t have enough money to pay all of its bills at
some point between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31 without action by
Congress, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  U.S. Manufacturing  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index unexpectedly
rose to 56.2 in September, the strongest since April 2011, from
55.7 in August, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed
today. Readings above 50 indicate growth. The median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey of economists was 55.  Siemens,  Europe ’s biggest engineering company, climbed 3.2
percent to 91.90 euros. Kaeser said in a letter to employees
difficult global economic conditions were not an excuse for
Europe’s biggest engineering company to lag behind its
competitors. Siemens said yesterday it will cut 15,000 jobs,
more than initially planned, to achieve cost-cutting targets.  BMW advanced 1.8 percent to 80.91 euros as it announced
price increases for the U.S. market.  Henkel AG, the maker of Dial soap and Loctite glue that is
diversifying its operations outside Europe, declined 1.6 percent
to 74.92 euros. Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker, said third-quarter sales growth weakened amid a
slowdown in  emerging markets .  Loewe AG, the maker of high-end televisions that applied
for creditor protection more than two months ago, tumbled 27
percent to 4.43 euros, a record low, after a court approved a
plan for a self-administered insolvency process.  Loewe “will remain fully operational” as it reorganizes,
the company said today in a statement. “The restructuring
process initiated by the executive board will also continue as
before, focusing entirely on concluding the meetings with
investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  