-- Given Imaging Holder Urges Sale of Company, Share Buyback
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-10-01T20:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/given-imaging-holder-urges-sale-of-company-share-buyback.html
Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN)  should buy back
$50 million of shares and make another effort to find a buyer,
according to an investor who said the medical-device maker has
been mismanaged.  Given Imaging failed to execute its business strategy,
causing management to lose credibility and hurting the stock
price,  Discovery Group , which owns about 4 percent of Given
Imaging, said in a letter to the board made public today. A
spokeswoman for the Yokneam, Israel-based company, which has a
market value of about $611 million, didn’t immediately reply to
a telephone request for comment.  “We no longer believe Given Imaging can attain its true
intrinsic value in the public markets,”  Mark Buckley , a partner
with Chicago-based Discovery, wrote in the letter. “By
returning excess cash to shareholders and conducting a full
auction process to sell the company, the board will remove the
execution risk that exists under the current management regime
while providing shareholders with an attractive return.”  Given Imaging, which makes a capsule-sized camera to
examine the colon, hired advisers from Barclays Plc last year as
it considered a possible sale or merger. The company in January
ended the effort to find a buyer. Given Imaging suffered a
setback last year when it said it wouldn’t submit its PillCam
Colon 2 to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  for general
screening use, and would instead limit its product to patients
who are unable to undergo or complete colonoscopies.  Missed Opportunities  “We have held discussions with potential strategic
buyers,” Discovery said. “Consistent with our observations,
these companies recognize the same missed opportunities and
failed management. Most importantly, the strategic buyers also
recognize the compelling opportunity which still exists and are
eager to participate in a formal and legitimate sale process.”  Israeli newspaper Calcalist reported last year that
Fujinon, a unit of  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901) , was in talks to buy
Given Imaging at a valuation of $750 million.  Given Imaging rose 3.2 percent to $19.85 at the close in
 New York . The company may fetch $26 to $30 a share in a sale,
Discovery said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  