-- Google Offer Paves Way to End Antitrust Clash, Almunia Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-10-01T10:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/google-offer-paves-way-for-end-to-antitrust-clash-almunia-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  may be able to settle a
European Union antitrust probe early next year, the bloc’s
competition chief said, after the company bettered an earlier
offer to alter how it shows search results.  “We have negotiated improvements until yesterday,” EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said at an event in the
European Parliament in Brussels today. “If our investigation of
this improved proposal is satisfactory, I will continue the
commitments route and end up with a formal decision next
spring.”  The owner of the world’s largest search engine offered to
allow rival search services to bid for the right to show their
results to specific queries on Google’s webpage, Almunia said.
It has promised to display links to specialized search services
along with their logos. Google will commit not to stop online
publishers from accepting other online search advertisements.  These commitments may allow the European Commission, the
EU’s antitrust authority, to end a three-year probe into how
Google promotes its own specialist search services, such as
Google News and Google Finance, copies competitors’ travel and
restaurant reviews, and has agreements with websites and
software developers that stifle competition in the advertising
industry. Google made an initial offer earlier this year.  “Given the feedback the European Commission received on
our first proposal, they have insisted on further, significant
changes to the way we display search results,” Kent Walker,
senior vice president and general counsel at  Mountain View ,
California-based Google, said in an e-mailed statement. “We’ve
made the difficult decision to agree to their requirements in
the interests of reaching a settlement.”  “Significant Improvements”  Almunia said he’d sought a better offer after receiving
“very negative” feedback from rivals who examined the
company’s previous proposals. While he’d earlier had “serious
doubts” that a settlement was possible, he said the
“significant improvements on the table” meant regulators could
work on a deal. Google and the EU will now finalize the precise
terms of a binding agreement, he said.  Google’s latest offer includes a commitment by the company
“to support its new proposals with  empirical data  to show their
impact,” Almunia said. Regulators will seek “concrete
technical elements on the effectiveness” of Google’s proposal
from its rivals before it decides whether the offer will satisfy
antitrust concerns. The EU also wants to appoint an independent
monitor to check that Google is sticking to the settlement, the
antitrust chief said.  Strongest Criticism  Competitors’ strongest criticism of Google’s earlier
proposal focused on how competing search services were
displayed, Almunia said. The new offer makes links to rivals
“significantly more visible” and “a larger space of the
Google search result page is dedicated to them,” Almunia said.
The links would be chosen by auction. Bidding for each specific
query would allow smaller search operators’ results to be
displayed, he said.  Google’s offer tightens terms that ensure it can’t harm
websites that refuse to allow their content to be displayed on
Google’s services, Almunia said. It will also end any
restrictions that may prevent advertisers using search
advertising terms across different online services.  Almunia told Bloomberg Television last month that Google
had submitted a new proposal to address the commission’s
competition concerns and help it settle the case. A remedies
 offer  by Google in April to label its branded search services
and show links to rival specialized search services was rejected
as insufficient by Almunia in July.  Google rivals, including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , have urged the EU
to seek tougher concessions from the company. Competitors and
users were able to review Google’s proposed remedies the first
time around and are asking the Brussels-based commission to
market test the latest offer, which is not public.  The EU is still examining “some aspects” of Google’s
Android mobile operating system and hasn’t made a decision on
whether to open a formal investigation, Almunia said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  