-- Google, Humane Society, Zynga: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/google-humane-society-zynga-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  Motorola Mobility (MMI)  unit
will respond to European Union accusations that it used patents
to hinder competitors, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The European Commission organized a day-long oral hearing
on the matter yesterday in Brussels, said Katie Dove, a
spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility.  The EU antitrust regulator in May sent a formal complaint
to Motorola Mobility saying it suspects the company, which
Google bought last year for $12.4 billion, is abusing its
dominant position by “seeking and enforcing” injunctions
against Apple in Germany based on its patents that are essential
for products to comply with industry technical standards.  The EU opened a formal probe into Motorola Mobility, which
makes smartphones that run on Google’s Android software, in
April 2012, following complaints by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Apple.
They accused Motorola Mobility of seeking injunctions to block
their use of patents they said the Google unit had declared
essential for the production of standard-compliant products and
had promised to license on terms that are “fair, reasonable and
non-discriminatory.”  Antoine Colombani, an EU spokesman, declined to comment on
the proceedings, saying they are confidential.  After receiving the commission’s objections, companies can
defend themselves in writing or at an oral hearing before the
EU’s antitrust authority decides to impose fines.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s biggest maker of
smartphones, offered to settle a similar probe by the EU into
its hold on so-called standard-essential patents, EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said last week. The EU is reviewing
the offer, he said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Alabama Fouled Out in Trademark Case Against Artist, Court Says  An eight-year battle between the  University of Arizona  and
an artist who designed the U.S. postage stamp honoring
University of  Alabama  football coach Paul “Bear” Bryant has
come to an end.  In a Sept. 27 order, a federal court in Alabama said the
university couldn’t pursue its trademark action against Daniel
A. Moore and his New Life Art Inc. The school sued Moore in
2005, saying he infringed its trademarks by refusing to take a
license to make his commercial prints featuring the  University
of Alabama  football team, and further infringed by selling
coffee mugs and other merchandise with reproductions of the
prints, according to court papers.  The case went through multiple judges over the years, with
four judges asking to be excused from the case because of their
ties to the school.  The judge who dismissed the case Sept. 27 is U.S. District
Judge Abdul K. Kallon, appointed to the bench in 2010 by
President  Barack Obama . Kallon is a graduate of Dartmouth
College and received his law degree from the  University of
Pennsylvania .  Judge Kallon said that because the university itself sold
$12,000 worth calendars containing the unlicensed images, this
established acquiescence in Moore’s alleged infringement. He
noted that the school also cut out and framed some of the images
from the calendar, “at times with commemorative coins.”  The school is well known for its aggressive attempts to
enforce its  intellectual property  rights. Last month it filed a
trademark infringement lawsuit against an Alabama company that
creates goods for fans of the school’s football team.  In the complaint filed Sept. 19 in federal court in
Alabama, the school accused Houndstooth Mafia Enterprises LLC of
infringing the university’s trademarks associated with its
former football coach, the late Paul “Bear” Bryant.  Last September, the school backed down from its pursuit of
a local bakery for selling cakes and cookies featuring a red
“A” it said infringed trademarks associated with the football
team.  The case against Moore and Lew Life is Board of Trustees of
the University of Alabama v. New Life Art Inc., 7:05-cv000585-SLB, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Alabama, Western
Division. The new trademark case is Board of Trustees of the
University of Alabama v. Houndstooth Mafia Enterprises, 7:13-cv-01736, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Alabama.  Humane Society to Appeal Adverse Ruling in Pork Trademark Case  The  Humane Society of the U.S.  appealed a court’s finding
that it lacked the legal position to challenge the purchase by
the National Pork Board of the “Other White Meat” slogan and
trademark.  A federal judge in  Washington  said Sept. 25 the  Humane
Society , the Iowa Citizens for Community Improvement and an
individual hog producer were all ineligible to sue. At issue was
the use of assessments pork producers in the U.S. are required
to pay the board, with the money going to plans and projects. An
individual hog farmer objected to the use of the check-off funds
for purchase of the trademark and for lobbying activities.  The Humane Society filed a notice of appeal to a
Washington-based federal court on the same day, according to the
court docket.  In an e-mailed statement, Jonathan R. Lovvorn, the Humane
Society’s senior vice president of animal protection litigation
and investigations, said “we disagree with the court’s finding
that pig farmers lack standing to sue for the misuse of their
own check-off money for prohibited lobbying. All the plaintiffs
have appealed.”  The case is Humane Society of the United States v. Vilsack,
12-cv-01582, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  Zynga Settles Trademark Lawsuit Against ‘Bang With Friends’  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  settled a lawsuit against the maker of a casual-sex Internet application called “Bang With Friends” in which
it claimed infringement of Zynga’s trademark for its “with
friends” family of games.  Lawyers for the two companies asked a federal judge to
dismiss the case in light of the settlement, according to a
Sept. 30 filing in federal court in San Francisco.  “Although the terms of the settlement are confidential,
Bang With Friends Inc. acknowledges the trademark rights that
Zynga has in its with friends marks and will be changing its
corporate name and rebranding its services in the near future,”
Bang With Friends said in an e-mail.  Zynga claimed in its suit that Bang With Friends, which
makes an application that matches Facebook friends anonymously,
“selected the name ‘Bang With Friends’ for its casual sex
matchmaking app with Zynga’s game trademarks fully in mind.”
The name infringes a trademark covering games such as “Words
With Friends” and “Chess With Friends,” Zynga argued.  The San Francisco-based gamemaker had sought a court order
barring the company from using the name “Bang With Friends” in
connection with any social-networking applications.  The case is Zynga Inc. v. Bang With Friends Inc., 13-03517,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  ( San
Francisco ).  Swiss Customs Seizes Fake Watches From Greece, Association Says  Customs officers seized more than 5,000 fake watches in
August and September in postal traffic at Zurich airport,
Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry, or FH, said in statement
yesterday.  The counterfeit items were spread over number of shipments
and originated from a source in Greece, bound for Spain and
Portugal.  The seizure was one of largest ever made in postal
operations in Switzerland, according to the statement.  FH said that Switzerland loses up to 2 billion Swiss francs
($2.2 billion) because of counterfeiting. Working with police
and customs officials, the watch-industry trade group says that
every year it destroys “several hundred thousand” fake Swiss
watches seized through real and virtual markets.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Singapore Press, Yahoo Settle Copyright Infringement Law Suit  Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  settled an
almost three-year long legal tussle over copyright
infringements, the companies said in a joint statement.  Under the terms of the settlement, Yahoo! paid damages and
costs and has undertaken to refrain from infringing on SPH’s
copyrights, according to the statement issued yesterday  The amount of damages paid by Yahoo was not declared in the
statement. Adrian Cheong, a spokesman for SPH, declined to
comment when asked how much SPH received. Yahoo! didn’t
immediately respond to e-mailed queries from Bloomberg about the
settlement.  SPH sued Yahoo’s Southeast Asia unit on Nov. 18, 2011, in
the Singapore High Court, claiming the company reproduced 23
articles from its newspapers, including the Straits Times, from
November 2010 to October 2011 without authorization. In December
the same year, Yahoo denied breaching copyright laws and
counter-sued SPH for wrongly using its images and articles on a
website.  Unauthorized Use of Ke$ha Photo Wins Photographer Damages, Fees  A U.K. photographer, whose image of the pop star Ke$ha was
used without authorization by music promotions company, has
settled the dispute for 20,000 pounds ($32,376), Amateur
Photographer magazine reported.  Jason Sheldon was told in May by a U.K. court that was
entitled to damages of 5,682 pounds for the use of the image by
Daybrook House Promotions Ltd., the magazine reported.  Daybrook House had argued that it thought use of the photo
was acceptable because it had previously appeared on a social-media site, according to Amateur Photographer.  The settlement included both damages and Sheldon’s legal
fees, according to the magazine.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 