-- Government Shutdown Doesn’t Trigger U.S. Downgrade, Fitch Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-01T14:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/government-shutdown-doesn-t-trigger-u-s-downgrade-fitch-says.html
The first government shutdown in 17
years doesn’t trigger a downgrade of the U.S.’s AAA rating, even
as political gridlock undermines confidence in fiscal decision
making and in the nation’s debt limit being increased in time to
avert a default, according to Fitch Ratings.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told Congress that the
extraordinary measures being used to avoid breaching the debt
ceiling “will be exhausted no later than Oct. 17” and that the
department will have about $30 billion to pay obligations.
Fitch, which has a negative outlook on its AAA grade, reiterated
in a statement today that its assessment of the country’s credit
grade is taking into account the political debate over raising
the debt ceiling.  “Even if the debt limit is not raised in a timely manner
we believe there is sufficient political will and capacity to
ensure that Treasury securities will continue to be honored in
full and on time,” according to the Fitch statement.
“Nevertheless, investor confidence in the full faith and credit
of the U.S. would be undermined in such a scenario.”  Congressional leaders have scheduled no further
negotiations on spending legislation, raising concerns among
some lawmakers that the shutdown could bleed into the more
consequential fight over how to raise the U.S. debt limit to
avoid a first-ever default after Oct. 17.  Ratings Action  Moody’s Investors Service assigns the U.S. a stable Aaa
ranking and said last month that it expects the debt ceiling to
be raised, averting a default, and for the government to avoid a
shutdown.  Standard & Poor’s cut the U.S. rating to AA+ from AAA in
August 2011, a move that reflected the impasse over raising the
debt limit as well as the government’s lack of a plan to rein in
its debt load.  Faith in the U.S.’s credit is “a key underpinning of the
U.S. dollar’s global reserve currency status and reason why the
U.S. ’AAA’ rating can tolerate a substantially higher level of
public debt than other ’AAA’ sovereigns,” Fitch said.  While the S&P downgrade didn’t result in investors charging
the U.S. more to borrow, as 10-year yields slipped to a record
1.38 percent in July 2012, the move contributed to a global
stock-market rout that erased about $6 trillion in value from
July 26 to Aug. 12, 2011. Yields on Treasuries due in 10 years
have risen to 2.64 percent.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the
performance of a basket of 10 leading global currencies against
the dollar, was little changed at 1,011.79 at 10:43 a.m.  New
York  time, after losing 2.8 percent last quarter, the most since
the third quarter of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  