-- Government Shutdown Begins as Deadlocked Congress Flails
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n ,   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-10-01T13:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/government-shutdown-begins-as-deadlocked-congress-flails.html
The U.S. government began its first
partial shutdown in 17 years, idling as many as 800,000 federal
employees, closing national parks and halting some services
after Congress failed to break a partisan deadlock by a midnight
deadline.  Congressional leaders have scheduled no further
negotiations on spending legislation, raising concerns among
some lawmakers that the shutdown could bleed into the more
consequential fight over how to raise the U.S.  debt  limit to
avoid a first-ever default after Oct. 17.  Many federal employees reporting to work today will be
given a few hours to conduct shutdown activities, such as
securing files and posting closed signs and phone messages,
before being sent home until Congress passes a spending measure
for the new fiscal year, which began today. One government
operation that will continue is the start of enrollment in the
health-insurance exchanges mandated under President Barack
Obama’s Affordable Care Act, the plan opposed by many
Republicans.  Markets took the government shutdown in stride. Global
stocks rose after the biggest decline in a month and Treasuries
fell on speculation any economic effect from it will be limited.
The dollar weakened. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index dropped 0.2
percent, crude fluctuated and corporate bond risk fell for the
first time in five days.  Public Opposition  Still, the shutdown will be broadly unpopular with the
public, according to a national  poll  released today by
Quinnipiac University. By 72 percent to 22 percent, Americans
oppose Congress “shutting down major activities of the federal
government” as a way to stop the health-care law, known as
Obamacare, from going into effect, the national survey found.  The poll, conducted Sept. 23-29, showed voters disapprove
of the job being done by congressional Republicans 74 percent-17
percent -- their lowest score ever -- while disapproving of
Democrats’ job 60 percent-32 percent. Obama got a negative 45
percent-49 percent overall job approval rating, versus his 46
percent-48 percent score Aug. 2, according to the survey, which
has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.5 percentage points.  “Americans are certainly not in love with Obamacare, but
they reject decisively the claim by congressional Republicans
that it is so bad that it’s worth closing down the government to
stop it,” said Peter Brown, assistant director of the Hamden,
Connecticut-based polling institute.  Economic Cost  A partial federal government shutdown would cost the U.S.
at least $300 million a day in lost economic output at the
start, according to  IHS Inc. (IHS)  That’s a fraction of the country’s
$15.7 trillion economy, and the effects probably will grow over
time as consumers and businesses defer purchases and expansion
plans.  The next step on a spending measure was uncertain today.
Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican, said on  MSNBC ’s
“Morning Joe” that House Republicans want to go to a
conference with the Democratic-led Senate to negotiate.  Republican Representative Darrell Issa of California said
Congress should agree on an interim spending deal to give 10
days “even 30 days if that was necessary” to settle
differences over curtailing parts of Obamacare.  Senator Richard Durbin of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, said he was willing to look at one aspect of
the health-care law.  Medical Devices  “We can work out something, I believe, on the medical
device tax,” Durbin said on CNN. “That’s one thing the
Republicans want to talk about; let’s sit down and put it on
the table.”  The chances of a last-minute deal -- seen so often in past
fiscal fights -- evaporated shortly before midnight as the House
stood firm on its call to delay major parts ofObama’s health-care law for a year. Senate Democrats were equally firm in
refusing to concede and planned a morning vote to reject the
House’s call for formal talks.  “It is embarrassing that these people who were elected to
represent the country are representing the Tea Party,” Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said after
midnight. “This is an unnecessary blow to America.”  House Speaker John Boehner, speaking after 1 a.m. in
 Washington , called on Senate Democrats to come to the
negotiating table.  “Let’s resolve our differences,” Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, told reporters. “The House has voted to keep the
government open, but we also want basic fairness for all
Americans under Obamacare.”  No ‘Ransom’  Obama said yesterday he wouldn’t negotiate under the threat
of a government shutdown or a default on the U.S. debt.  “You don’t get to extract a ransom for doing your job, for
doing what you’re supposed to be doing anyway or just because
there’s a law there you don’t like,” Obama said at the White
House yesterday.  Abroad, U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, whose
Conservative Party is a traditional Republican ally, said the
U.S. political crisis poses a threat to global growth.  “It is a risk to the world economy if the U.S. can’t
properly sort out its spending plans,” Cameron told the  BBC  in
Manchester today. In  Korea , the finance ministry said it could
make investors more risk averse and fuel capital outflows from
 emerging markets .  IRS, EPA  During the partial government shutdown, many essential
government operations will cease. Internal Revenue Service call
centers will close and more than 90 percent of Environmental
Protection Agency workers will stay home. National parks and
museums will be shuttered.  Other services will continue uninterrupted. Social Security
and Medicare benefits will be paid. U.S. troops will remain at
their posts around the world and will be paid under a bill Obama
signed yesterday. Air-traffic controllers and airport security
screeners will keep working.  The shutdown comes on the first day of enrollment in the
exchanges mandated under the health-care law at the heart of the
fight. Enrollment will continue today even as the government
shuts down, because it’s paid for out of mandatory funding not
affected by the lapse, U.S. officials said.  In the end, the final hours before the shutdown were marked
by a combination of legislative procedure and partisan vitriol.
House Republicans said they would appoint members to a committee
meant to negotiate a compromise between the Republican and
Democratic positions -- something several rounds of votes didn’t
accomplish.  Uncertain Timetable  “I’d be surprised if it went for weeks,” said Senator Bob Casey, a Pennsylvania Democrat. “But I don’t think it’s just
going to resolve itself in a day or two.”  Before midnight, the U.S. Office of Management and Budget
issued guidance to agencies, telling them how to go forward when
money ran out at midnight in Washington.  Boehner, who said he didn’t want a shutdown, kept bringing
bills backed by hard-liners in his party to the floor for votes.
Twice yesterday, the House voted to send a bill delaying
Obamacare to the Senate. Twice, the Senate rejected the House
plans.  Republicans remained divided between a group that says the
party’s confrontational strategy is doomed and a faction railing
against Obama’s refusal to negotiate.  “I would like see some road in which  Barack Obama  is
actually participating in the process,” said Representative Tim Huelskamp, a Kansas Republican.  At Loggerheads  Congress and Obama have been at loggerheads on fiscal
policy since Republicans won control of the House. They took
several disputes to the brink, including a potential government
shutdown in April 2011, the debt ceiling in August 2011 and the
expiration of tax cuts in December 2012.  In each case, lawmakers reached an agreement to prevent the
worst possible outcome. Most recently, the House passed a tax
bill Jan. 1, hours after income tax rate increases took effect.  Boehner and House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia
Republican, tried to avoid this fight, offering a first proposal
last month that would have let the Senate send a spending bill
without conditions right to Obama.  They faced an uprising from Republicans, urged on by
Senator Ted Cruz of  Texas , who insisted on language that would
defund Obamacare.  Scaled Back  The House scaled back its demands twice, each time running
into party-line objections from Senate Democrats and Obama, who
increasingly saw the spending bill as a prelude to the debt-ceiling negotiations.  The House’s final volley, passed last night, would have
delayed for one year the mandate that uninsured individuals buy
health coverage and would have ended government contributions to
the health insurance of lawmakers, congressional staff members
and political appointees.  Some strategists expect the shutdown to drive both parties
deeper into their respective fighting corners as they assess the
economic and political fallout, hardening positions at least
temporarily before a resolution can be reached.  “It’s clear that there are rising concerns within the
House Republican caucus about how all of this is being handled,
but I believe that for right now, the insurgents have the upper
hand and they’re not going to go away without a fight,” said
Democratic communications consultant Jim Manley of Washington-based Quinn Gillespie & Associates LLC, a former top aide to
Reid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  