-- Government Furloughs Begin Due to Congressional Impasse
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n ,   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-10-01T17:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/government-furloughs-begin-due-to-congressional-impasse.html
The real-life effects of the
political fight in Congress over President  Barack Obama ’s health
law hit home today as the government furloughed about 800,000
employees and shuttered offices, parks and museums.  The  U.S. Senate  this morning rejected the latest version of
a House spending bill on a straight party-line vote. It was the
third time in two days that the Senate has rebuffed Republican
stopgap spending legislation that included provisions to curtail
Obama’s Affordable Care Act.  No path out of the shutdown was immediately clear. Neither
the House nor the Senate has announced further budget votes, and
no signs of behind-the-scenes negotiations to break the
stalemate were evident.  “One faction of one party in one house of Congress in one
branch of government shut down major parts of the government,
all because they didn’t like one law,” Obama said at the White
House today. “The longer this shutdown continues, the worse the
effects will be. More families will be hurt. More businesses
will be harmed.”  House Republicans  are meeting at the Capitol as the party
remained divided between hard-liners insisting on continued
confrontation and at least six others who say they would support
a spending bill to end the shutdown without health-law
conditions attached.  Republican lawmakers are “waiting for  Senate Democrats  to
join us,” House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia told
reporters. “This silliness that is caused by the unwillingness
to talk is what we’re trying to avoid.”  Stocks Rise  So far, there was little external pressure to reach a deal.
U.S. stocks rose, after the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell to
a three-week low, as investors speculated the economic effects
of the partial government shutdown would be limited.  The  S&P 500  rose 0.8 percent to 1,694.68 at 1:17 p.m. in
New York, after declining yesterday for the seventh time in the
past eight sessions. Treasury  10-year yields  rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage points, to 2.64 percent at 12:36 p.m.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said
neither side has a sustainable position. Republicans won’t be
able to defund or delay the health-care law, known as Obamacare,
while the president and his Democrats will have to agree to some
changes to the law, Graham said in an interview.  ‘Lion’s Share’  “We’ll get the lion’s share of the blame for shutting the
government down, right or wrong, but they’re going to feel the
pain pretty soon for not talking,” Graham said.  The government’s first partial shutdown in 17 years may
cost the U.S. at least $300 million a day in lost economic
output at the start, according to  IHS Inc. (IHS)  Though that’s a
fraction of the country’s $15.7 trillion economy, the effects
may grow over time as consumers and businesses defer purchases
and expansion plans.  Voters disapprove of the job being done by congressional
Republicans by 74 percent to 17 percent -- their lowest score
ever -- while disapproving of Democrats’ job 60 percent to 32
percent, according to a national  poll  released today by
 Quinnipiac University . Obama got a 45 percent to 49 percent
overall job approval rating, versus his 46 percent to 48 percent
score Aug. 2, according to the survey, which has a margin of
error of plus or minus 2.5 percentage points.  “Voters are angry at almost everyone in Washington over
their inability to keep the trains running, but they are madder
at the Republicans than the Democrats,” said Peter A. Brown,
assistant director of the Hamden, Connecticut-based polling
institute.  Health Law  Both sides jockeyed today to place blame on the other side.
Democrats said the nation was being taken hostage by the
Republicans’ Tea Party faction, while the Republicans blamed
Senate Democrats and Obama for being unwilling to negotiate over
measure to delay or curtail the Affordable Care Act.  “Every piece of legislation the House sent over would have
kept the government from shutting down,” Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said following the morning vote,
adding that each House proposal was more of a compromise than
the previous proposal. Democrats “seem completely opposed to
negotiation or compromise” on Obamacare even at the cost of a
shutdown, he said.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
Republicans are “fixated” on Obamacare and that “Speaker
Boehner and his band of Tea Party radicals have done the
unthinkable: They’ve shut down the government.”  Debt Ceiling  An absence of further congressional negotiations on
spending legislation raised concerns that the shutdown could
bleed into the more consequential fight over how to raise the
U.S.  debt  limit to avoid a first-ever government default.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said today on  MSNBC  that
the shutdown may be “a preview” of what may happen after Oct.
17, when the government breaches the debt ceiling. A U.S.
default would be “catastrophic without question” for the
economy, he said.  Republican Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , chairman
of the House Budget Committee, said he wanted a broader budget
agreement as part of legislation that would raise the debt
limit.  “Most budget agreements in the past have always involved
debt-limit increases,” he said. “We think that’s the forcing
mechanism.”  Federal Workers  Many federal employees reporting to work were given a few
hours to complete shutdown activities, such as securing files
and posting closed signs and phone messages, before being sent
home until Congress passes a spending measure for the new fiscal
year, which began today.  One government operation that will continue is the start of
enrollment in the health-insurance exchanges mandated under
Obama’s Affordable Care Act, the plan opposed by many
Republicans. That’s because it’s paid by mandatory funding
unaffected by the lapse.  “It is settled and it is here to stay,” Obama said.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, said he was willing to look at one aspect of
the health-care law.  “We can work out something, I believe, on the medical
device tax,” Durbin said on CNN. “That’s one thing the
Republicans want to talk about; let’s sit down and put it on the
table.”  Democrats have insisted that Congress make up the estimated
$30 billion revenue loss from repealing the 2.3 percent excise
tax.  ‘Good Fight’  One Republican representative, Scott Rigell, said in a
Twitter message today that “we fought the good fight. Time for
a clean CR.” Rigell was elected in a Virginia district that
voted for Obama last year. Representative Patrick Meehan, a
Pennsylvania Republican, also said he supported a spending bill,
known as a continuing resolution, without conditions.  Abroad, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , whose
 Conservative Party  is a traditional Republican ally, said the
U.S. political crisis poses a threat to global growth.  “It is a risk to the world economy if the U.S. can’t
properly sort out its spending plans,” Cameron told the  BBC  in
Manchester today.  During the partial government shutdown, many essential
government operations will cease. Internal Revenue Service call
centers will close and more than 90 percent of Environmental
Protection Agency workers will stay home. National parks and
museums will be shuttered.  Other services will continue uninterrupted even if workers
go unpaid. Social Security and Medicare benefits will be paid.
U.S. troops will remain at their posts around the world and will
be paid under a bill Obama signed yesterday. Air-traffic
controllers and airport security screeners will keep working.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  