-- Greenhill Hires Ex-Goldman Executive Wainstein for Brazil
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-10-01T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/greenhill-hires-ex-goldman-executive-wainstein-for-brazil.html
Greenhill & Co. (GHL)  hired Daniel Wainstein, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s former head of investment-banking in Brazil, to open an office in  Sao Paulo , the New York-based advisory firm’s first South American branch.  Wainstein, 43, will build a team able to advise major
Brazilian companies on global transactions, he said today in a
statement from Greenhill. Wainstein left Goldman Sachs in June
after 13 years, including 11 in Brazil, according to the
statement.  Greenhill is expanding into Brazil as some international
banks pull back. Goldman Sachs halted an expansion there after
announcing plans in April to hire 50 people for the region. UBS
AG, based in Zurich, and London-based Barclays Plc have been
reducing staff in Brazil as competition with local lenders
intensifies. Economic growth  decelerated  last year to 0.9
percent, capping the slowest two years in a decade.  “If a region is going through some cyclical economic
challenges, it can be an even more opportune time for us to
recruit,” Greenhill Chief Executive Officer Scott Bok, 54, said
today in a separate e-mailed statement. “ Brazil  will certainly
have its ups and downs, just like the U.S. market does, but
Brazil is clearly a large market that will see significant
economic growth over the long term.”  Announced mergers and acquisitions involving companies in
Brazil declined 13 percent to $39.7 billion this year from the
same period in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
the outlook for economic growth worsened and volatility in
equity and exchange-rates markets led to some deals being
postponed. That’s the slowest pace for the period since 2007,
the data show.  Stock Comparisons  Brazil’s benchmark  Ibovespa index  has lost about 13 percent
this year, compared with a 19 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Wainstein was appointed chairman of Brazil investment
banking at New York-based Goldman Sachs in April 2012, when
Antonio Pereira and Fabio Bicudo were named co-chief operating
officers. Before working at Goldman Sachs, he spent two years at
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in  New York , Greenhill said in the
statement.  Wainstein was one of only two Goldman Sachs partners who
are Brazilian.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  