-- Gundlach’s Fund Had Its Biggest Redemptions in September
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-10-01T18:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/gundlach-s-fund-had-its-biggest-redemptions-in-september.html
Jeffrey Gundlach ’s  DoubleLine Total
Return Bond Fund (DBLTX) , which has beaten 97 percent of rivals over the
past three years, had its biggest net withdrawals as investors
continued to flee bonds for the fourth straight month.  Clients pulled an estimated $2.1 billion from the $35.1
billion fund in September, according to research firm
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Investors removed $1.2 billion in June, the
first withdrawals from the fund since it opened in April 2010,
$580 million in July and $1.1 billion in August, Chicago-based
Morningstar said.  Bond fund withdrawals were triggered by U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, who told Congress on May 22 that
the central bank could start reducing its bond purchases and is
prepared to begin phasing out its unprecedented easing program
later this year. The central bank unexpectedly refrained from
tapering its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases at the Sept.
17-18 policy meeting, saying it needs more evidence of lasting
improvement in the economy.  Investors have pulled about $118 billion from U.S. bond
funds from May 31 through Sept. 18, according to  estimates  from
the  Investment Company Institute .  Gundlach said last week the Fed won’t reduce its monthly
asset purchases until a new chairman takes over at the central
bank at the end of January. Gundlach co-founded Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP in December 2009 after he was
dismissed from TCW Group Inc. over a dispute.  ‘Cautious’ Mood  “DoubleLine is sharing in the outflows we’re seeing
throughout the fixed-income world,” Loren Fleckenstein, an
analyst at DoubleLine Capital, said in a telephone interview.
“With the investment mood becoming more cautious with regard to
fixed income, seeing DoubleLine go from a high-growth phase to a
period of consolidation was to be expected.”  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund returned 0.3 percent this
year, ahead of 92 percent of similarly managed funds, and has
advanced 6.8 percent annually over the past three years to beat
97 percent of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morningstar estimates deposits or withdrawals for mutual
funds by computing the change in assets on a monthly basis that
isn’t accounted for by performance. The fund’s actual
withdrawals or deposits may differ from Morningstar’s estimates
because of the timing of purchases and redemptions or dividend
distributions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  