-- Miami Beach Banker Party Shows Why Hotel Debt Fills Bonds
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-10-01T14:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/miami-beach-banker-party-shows-why-hotel-debt-fills-bonds.html
The Fontainebleau  Miami Beach  is
booked solid next week as bankers prepare to crowd the iconic
lobby for cocktails at an annual bond-market convention. For
owner Jeffrey Soffer, the conference helps justify a $1 billion
makeover that almost cost him the property three years ago.  Soffer is seeking a roughly $850 million mortgage on the
1,504-room resort from some of the same bankers gathering at the
ABS East conference, according to people briefed on the details
of the financing who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private. The loan, intended to refinance debt and buy
out Dubai World’s 50 percent stake in the hotel, will be
packaged into commercial mortgage-backed securities as investors
snap up the deals at the fastest pace in five years, according
to the people.  Soffer, the head of real-estate investor Turnberry
Associates, is likely to find a receptive audience after prices
for hotels in top-tier locations climbed 17.6 percent this year
to within 11 percent of the 2008 peak. Bond sales linked to
hospitality loans have already more than tripled since January
to $7.7 billion, compared with $9.4 billion in 2007 before
markets collapsed, enabling borrowers to extract cash from their
businesses, according to Wells Fargo & Co. data.  “When things get bad in hotels they get really bad,” said
 Dan Fasulo , a managing director at Real Capital Analytics Inc.,
a New York-based property research firm. “A lot of lenders got
burnt badly in the downturn. There is no question that CMBS
lenders have been the most aggressive” since values started
recovering, he said.  Fast Rebound  Hotels, which are the first commercial property type to see
revenue decline in a recession, can rebound the fastest as rates
can be adjusted on a daily basis to meet renewed demand. The
delinquency rate for the properties has dropped to 8.04 percent
as of August, from 11.46 percent the prior year and a peak of
21.31 percent in September 2010, according to Fitch Ratings.  The Fontainebleau, a haunt for  Frank Sinatra  and  Marilyn
Monroe  that also served as a backdrop for the “Scarface” and
“Goldfinger” movies, was a victim of the real-estate crash and
recession.  Soffer acquired the property on Collins Avenue in  South
Beach  in 2005 and then spent $1 billion using borrowed money to
renovate the resort. The owners stopped making payments on $620
million of debt in September 2010 as businesses and households
ratcheted back on travel amid the recession. Hotel revenue in
Miami plunged as much as 28 percent during the depths of the
crisis in 2009 according to STR, a Hendersonville, Tennessee-based data provider.  Hanging On  Soffer, who married Australian model Elle MacPherson this
year, hung on to the hotel by negotiating with lenders to extend
maturities. Along with a unit of Dubai World, they agreed to
invest an additional $100 million in cash, people familiar with
the plan said at the time.  He’s now seeking to tap rising demand for hotel debt and
increased valuations to buy out the Middle Eastern investor.
Average revenue-per-room at the end of September 2012 rose 35
percent since 2010, according to  Fitch Ratings . The new loan
will pay off debt sold in a CMBS deal last year comprised of a
$412 million mortgage arranged by UBS AG.  Joseph Gerbino, a spokesman for the Fontainebleau, declined
to comment on the financing. Soffer and representatives from
Dubai World didn’t return calls seeking comment.  ABS Conference  The negotiations are taking place as attendees plan to assemble
from Oct. 6 to Oct. 8 for Information Management Network’s  ABS
conference  for securitization where 3,500 people are registered,
up 25 percent from 2012, according to IMN. Attendance has
climbed from 1,200 in 2009. The Fontainebleau, has hosted the
conference since 2011, serving as a backdrop for bankers to woo
clients at parties and steak dinners.  The event is regaining its footing as CMBS sales are poised
to double to $70 billion this year, according to Credit Suisse
Group AG. The share of hotel loans within those deals also is
rising as investors become more comfortable with the lodging
sector as the U.S. recovery progresses, said Lad Duncan, an
analyst at Wells Fargo.  “Lenders were full up on hotel loans,” during the
recession, he said in a telephone interview. “With the market
improving, they are much more palatable.”  Mortgages on hotels account for 15 percent of standard CMBS
deals sold this year, which contain as many as 100 loans tied to
everything from office parks to shopping malls, according to
Wells Fargo. That’s up from 2.8 percent in 2010.  Primary Source  The lodging sector has become increasingly reliant on  Wall
Street  with CMBS the primary source of debt financing, Real
Capital said in an April report. CMBS lenders are particularly
dominant in smaller cities and towns, accounting for 50 percent
of hotel loans in so-called tertiary markets in 2012, the latest
data available, according to Real Capital.  That’s in part because insurers and regional banks
retreated from hotel lending after taking losses during the
downturn, said Real Capital’s Fasulo.  About $6.7 billion of bonds linked to large hospitality
loans to be sold off individually are set to be issued through
the end of the year, according to Bank of America Corp. data.
That includes a $3.5 billion transaction tied to  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ’s initial public offering of Hilton Worldwide Holdings
Inc., the biggest hotel chain in the world.  Still, growth in revenue-per-available-room, or revpar, is
starting to slow, according to researcher STR. It rose 5.6
percent in the first half of 2013, compared with 6.8 percent
growth for all of last year and 8.2 percent in 2011.  Hotel Performance  “Although hotel property performance has been relatively
strong over the past few years, year-over-year revpar has begun
to moderate, which makes us wonder if borrowers are trying to
refinance their loans and take out equity while valuations are
still robust,” Bank of America Corp. debt analysts led by  Alan Todd  said in a report last month.  Hotels can be more susceptible to shocks to the economy
than other property types. With the U.S. government poised for
its first partial shutdown in 17 years, investors are bracing
for volatility, which could cause lending rates to jump and
temporarily inhibit new deals, Todd said in a telephone
interview.  Additionally, the hospitality business can be more
difficult for property investors as it requires proficiency in
several areas outside of real estate, such as the food and
beverage industry, which can account for as much as 40 percent
of a property’s revenues, according to Real Capital’s Fasulo.  Elvis, Kardashian  The Fontainebleau Miami Beach, for instance, has a dozen
restaurants, four bars and clubs and amenities ranging from
luxury shopping to dog-sitting services to poolside cabanas with
flat-screen TVs. In the 1960s, Sinatra and  Elvis Presley 
performed there, and the Ed Sullivan Show hosted the first U.S.
performance of the Beatles. More recently, reality TV star and
tabloid favorite  Kim Kardashian  hosted a Halloween party at the
hotel’s  LIV nightclub  last year.  “You really need a certain amount of expertise to wring
the value out of hotels,” Fasulo said.  For now, hotels are attracting both bond and equity
investors. Hilton has filed an initial public offering, marking
a turnaround for Blackstone’s investment after the firm put $5.7
billion in equity into the 2007 buyout, which cost about $26
billion. The CMBS deal, designed to facilitate the IPO, will
refinance debt.  The hotel chain could be valued at about $30 billion based
on earnings multiples of comparable companies such as  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  and
Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott International Inc., a person
with knowledge of Blackstone’s plans has said.  Reaping Rewards  Cerberus Capital Management LP is also reaping the rewards
of available financing and low borrowing costs with top-ranked
securities linked to commercial mortgages yielding 134 basis
points more than Treasuries, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. While spreads are up from 99 basis points
at the start of the year, they’ve narrowed from 287 basis points
in August of 2011, the index data show.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is marketing $575 million of bonds
linked to the Innkeepers portfolio, which comprises 51 hotels
across the U.S. that Cerberus and partner Chatham Lodging Trust
acquired out of bankruptcy from an affiliate of  Leon Black ’s
Apollo Global Management LLC in 2011, according to Credit
Suisse. The proceeds from the deal will be used to retire debt,
fund reserves and pay out $98.2 million to the owners, according
to a Sept. 26 Fitch report.  “Players that were able to pick up properties near the
trough of the market are really printing money right now,” Real
Capital’s Fasulo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 