-- Iceland May Inject $75 Million Into ‘Weakest Link’ Housing Fund
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-10-01T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/iceland-may-inject-75-million-into-weakest-link-housing-fund.html
Iceland’s government may have to
inject 9 billion kronur ($75 million) to keep the Housing
Finance Fund afloat through 2015, according to the  Finance
Ministry .  The government has provided a state guarantee to HFF’s 940
billion kronur in debt and the state-backed mortgage provider is
considered to be the “weakest link” among the enterprises with
a full state backing, the ministry said in its budget today.  Iceland’s government has struggled to find a solution for
HFF, which is near insolvency as its inflation-linked home loans
lose ground to regular mortgages offered by commercial banks.  Without changes to the fund’s operations “there may be a
risk of the Treasury suffering further losses due to the fund,”
the ministry said. In addition to the $75 million in capital,
the government may have to inject more equity into HFF and write
off loans granted to it “if the financial position of the fund
worsens even more,” according to the ministry.  The difference between loans granted and debt sold by HFF
isn’t enough to cover operational expenses, the ministry said.
HFF has “a high number” of defaults and many borrowers have
refinanced their loans with commercial banks, it said.  HFF has about 496 billion kronur in bonds outstanding, it
 said  on Sept. 18. A total of 4,291 households, or 8.6 percent,
of homes with mortgages from HFF were in default, with an
underlying value of 81.5 billion kronur. The lender’s capital
adequacy ratio  fell to 2.5 percent  at the end of June from 3.2
percent at the end of last year, missing the 5 percent
regulatory minimum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  