-- Microsoft Board Said to Consider Mulally in Early Search
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/microsoft-board-said-to-consider-mulally-in-early-search.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  directors have
discussed chief executive officer candidates including  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s  Alan Mulally  as they look for a successor to  Steve Ballmer , according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Directors have also floated the names of other candidates
including former  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  CEO Stephen Elop, who will join 
Microsoft when its $7.2 billion acquisition of Nokia’s handset 
unit closes; Microsoft business development and evangelism chief
Tony Bates; and former Microsoft No. 3 executive Paul Maritz, 
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the 
process is confidential.  The search process is still in the early stages and the
board isn’t close to making a decision, said the people. The
board retained Heidrick & Struggles to look at internal and
external candidates after Ballmer, who has led the world’s
largest software maker since 2000, said in August that he plans
to retire within a year.  The board’s task to find a new CEO is urgent as Microsoft
undergoes a strategic change and confronts an altered technology
landscape. While it once rode a wave of growth in the personal-computer industry with its  Windows operating system , the company
has been retooling itself more recently as consumers gravitate
to mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets.  Shifting Strategy  Ballmer has overhauled Microsoft’s management and strategy
to accelerate development of hardware and services, and last
month agreed to buy Nokia’s handset unit. Microsoft also has
sought to head off shareholder dissent by reaching a cooperation
agreement with ValueAct Holdings LP, which would let the
activist investor claim a board seat starting next year.  Tony Imperati, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment on specific candidates or to make
Bates available.  Maritz didn’t respond to a message for comment. Elop didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  Ford Motor ’s Executive Chairman Bill Ford yesterday touted
the abilities of the company’s next generation of executives,
while emphasizing the No. 2 U.S. automaker’s plan for Mulally to
remain CEO. Mulally and Chief Operating Officer  Mark Fields , the
top candidate to next lead the Dearborn, Michigan-based
carmaker, last month reiterated a plan announced in November for
the CEO to remain through at least 2014.  Jay Cooney, a spokesman for Ford, said Mulally was
unavailable. Mulally hasn’t responded to multiple requests for 
comment on his potential candidacy for the Microsoft job in the 
past week.  “Alan remains absolutely focused on continuing to make
progress on our One Ford plan,” Cooney said in an e-mail. “We
do not engage in speculation.”  Technology blog AllThingsD reported Mulally’s  candidacy  for
Microsoft’s top job last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  