-- India’s 10-Year Bonds Advance on Central Bank Plan to Buy Debt
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-10-01T12:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/india-s-10-year-bonds-advance-on-central-bank-plan-to-buy-debt.html
India ’s 10-year bonds gained, after
completing a fourth monthly loss yesterday, on optimism a
central bank plan to buy sovereign debt will spur demand.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will offer to buy 100 billion
rupees ($1.6 billion) of securities at an open-market auction on
Oct. 7, it said in a statement yesterday. Government notes also
rose after a report showed the nation’s current-account deficit
widened less than economists forecast. The  shortfall  was $21.8
billion in the three months ended June 30, compared with the $23
billion median estimate in a Bloomberg survey and a $18.1
billion gap in the previous period. Indian markets are closed
tomorrow for a public holiday.  “The RBI’s move brings some comfort and support to the
markets,” said Srinivasa Raghavan, Mumbai-based executive vice-president of treasury at  Dhanlaxmi Bank Ltd. (DHLBK)  “The current-account gap has to fall further.”  The yield on the 7.16 percent sovereign bonds due May 2023
dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.73
percent in Mumbai, according to prices from the central bank’s
trading system. It jumped 17 basis points in September and 133
basis points last quarter.  The central bank announced the debt-purchase plan after
saying last week that it will take steps as required to ensure
adequate cash supply in the financial system. The RBI is
injecting about 1.5 trillion rupees into markets every day via
money-market operations and export-credit refinance, it said in
a statement on Sept. 25.  Interest Rates  Government  bonds  maturing in a decade fell in each of the
last four months, the longest run since 2009, as the RBI raised
 interest rates  and curbed funding support to banks to support
the rupee, which sank to a record 68.845 per dollar on Aug. 28.
The securities will extend the slump as the RBI lifts borrowing
costs to quell inflation and the prospect of U.S. stimulus
tapering fuels fund outflows, a Bloomberg survey shows.  Global investors net sold bonds worth $274 million on Sept.
30, exchange data showed today. They have  pulled  more than $11
billion from Indian debt since mid-May amid U.S. tapering
concerns.  The current account, the broadest gauge of trade tracking
goods, services and investment income, was 4.9 percent of gross
domestic product in the April-June period, yesterday’s report
showed. The RBI estimates the sustainable level is about 2.5
percent of GDP. The monthly  trade deficit  has almost halved
since May as higher gold-import taxes deter inward shipments of
a metal used in India for everything from wedding jewelry to
hedging against inflation.  India’s budget deficit in the first five months of the
fiscal year reached 74.6 percent of the target for 2013-2014,
according to official figures released yesterday.  “The fiscal deficit is a very big concern and the
government needs to address it,” Dhanlaxmi’s Raghavan said.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , derivative contracts used to
guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose two basis
points to 8.74 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rate slumped 86 basis points last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  