-- India May Announce 750-Megawatt Solar Auction in October
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n   a n d   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2013-10-01T08:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/india-may-announce-750-megawatt-solar-auction-in-october.html
India  may announce this month an
auction of licenses to build solar-power plants after a gap of
almost two years, offering developers as much as 3 billion
rupees ($48 million) of direct grants for the first time.  The Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy  is awaiting
Cabinet approval to invite bids for 750 megawatts of solar
photovoltaic capacity, Ministry Joint-Secretary Tarun Kapoor
said in an interview in New Delhi. The auction, which may be
announced in the next 10 days, is typically held about 45 days
after bids are invited, he said.  “The bidding documents are all ready,” Kapoor said.
“Cabinet approval is expected very soon.”  Companies including  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management
LLC-backed Welspun Group and billionaire Vinod Khosla’s Sunborne
Energy Holdings LLC have built  1,839 megawatts  of solar capacity
and cut average costs by about 51 percent since India began
auctioning licenses through its National Solar Mission in 2010.
The program seeks to reduce solar power’s cost to the level of
other forms of grid-supplied electricity by 2017.  The ministry is seeking approval to disburse the grant,
which will cover as much as 30 percent of project costs, Kapoor
said. Previously, the government supported the solar industry by
buying power at above-market rates.  The government is offering 25 million rupees per megawatt
to projects that will range in capacity from 10 megawatts to 50
megawatts, according to  auction guidelines  released in May.
Developers will submit bids specifying the amount of funds they
are seeking, and those needing the least will win.  The ministry would also have to obtain approval from the
election commission, should the Cabinet fail to clear the
auction before state assembly elections are announced in  New
Delhi , Kapoor said. That may cause a few extra weeks of delay
and bidding would be announced by December at the latest, he
said.  Five states, including the national capital territory of
New Delhi, will  go to the polls  by the end of the year,
according to the National Election Commission of India.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net ;
Archana Chaudhary in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  