-- Indigo to Buy Republic Airways’ Frontier for $36 Million
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-01T20:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/indigo-to-buy-republic-airways-frontier-unit-for-145-million.html
Indigo Partners LLC, the private-equity firm led by veteran airline executive William Franke,
agreed to buy  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) ’s Frontier Airlines
for $36 million in cash.  The total value of the transaction is $145 million
including debt, the companies said today in a statement.
Republic, which operates regional flights for larger carriers,
decided to shed Frontier in November 2011, two years after
buying the company to bring it out of bankruptcy.  “This transaction is a direct result of Frontier’s
successful restructuring, continued cost reduction efforts and
laser focus on revenue generation,” Bryan Bedford, chief
executive officer of Indianapolis-based Republic, said today.  Republic earlier began work to transform Frontier into an
ultra-low cost carrier, which offers low base fares and adds
fees for anything else. That work will continue under Franke,
who was named chairman of  Spirit (SAVE)  Airlines Inc. when Indigo
gained majority control of that ultra-low cost carrier in 2006.  “As airline fares continue to move up, passengers need
affordable travel alternatives,” Franke said today in the
statement. “Our goal will be to meet that need in more markets
as we invest in the airline to grow its footprint.”  The sale will end Republic CEO Bedford’s bid to operate
commuter carriers alongside an airline that competed on main jet
routes. Bedford returned Frontier to profit in 2012 after
reducing annual operating costs more than $120 million by
cutting jobs, dropping some markets and modifying leases, vendor
contracts and labor agreements.  Attendants, Pilots  Republic  rose  5.4 percent to $12.54 at the close in New
York. The shares have more than doubled this year.  The sale is contingent on reaching agreements by Oct. 31
with the union representing Frontier flight attendants and a
former union for the airline’s pilots. The Frontier Airline
Pilots Association agreed to cuts in pay and benefits in
exchange for an equity stake in the airline or a cash
settlement. The union later was replaced by the Teamsters.  The transaction is expected to be completed in December,
the companies said.  Republic will also hand over its rights relating to an
Airbus SAS A320neo order in exchange for reimbursement of pre-delivery deposits totaling $32 million, according to the
statement.  2008 Bankruptcy  Franke resigned as chairman of Spirit in July and sold
Indigo’s 17 percent stake in the Miramar, Florida-based carrier.  Republic bought Frontier in October 2009 for $108.8 million
and an agreement not to pursue a $150 million unsecured
bankruptcy claim.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  withdrew its $170
million Frontier bid after its pilots couldn’t agree with their
counterparts at the smaller carrier on how to mesh seniority
lists.  Frontier filed for bankruptcy protection in April 2008. The
airline’s main base of operations is  Denver , where it carries
about 19 percent of passengers, according to the U.S.
Transportation Department. Southwest and United Continental
Holdings Inc. each control about 25 percent of that market.  Republic ferries passengers to hub airports for  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
American Airlines, United, Delta Air Lines Inc. and US Airways
Group Inc. In addition to Frontier, it owns Chautauqua Airlines,
Republic Airlines and Shuttle America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  