-- Iranian Ex-Leader Says Destructive Groups Target Rouhani
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-10-01T09:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/iranian-ex-leader-says-destructive-groups-target-rouhani.html
Former Iranian President Mohammad Khatami said protests against President Hassan Rouhani last week
were “staged” and warned of a “violent movement” threatening
his government and policies.  “At a time when the president has traveled to protect the
nation and its dignity, and has been approved by the Supreme
Leader, this current is seeking to undermine the government in
ways that are strongly condemned by the Supreme Leader,”
Khatami said in an address to veterans of the Iran-Iraq war
yesterday, according to the Tehran-based  Shargh  newspaper.  Khatami’s remarks come after a group of egg-throwing
protesters welcomed Rouhani on his return from a  New York  trip
with placards reading “Death to the U.S.” The demonstrators,
who were outnumbered by the president’s supporters, were upset
at a 15-minute phone call between the Iranian leader and
President  Barack Obama  on Sept. 27 -- the highest-level
encounter between the two governments since  Iran ’s 1979 Islamic
revolution.  The protests weren’t “spontaneous but staged,” Khatami
said. “Their number was few but their power is plenty.”  The cleric who was president for eight years until 2005,
said the government of Rouhani enjoys a similar situation to his
at the beginning of his first four-year term and warned that it
may also be harmed “if these destructive currents aren’t
stopped.”  Ultimate Power  Rouhani, took office in August after pledging to govern
with moderation and to seek an easing of sanctions on his
country by engaging with the West, including the U.S. While
Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei has backed the president’s
diplomatic approach, some politicians in the country remain
opposed to any rapprochement with the U.S., which they consider
untrustworthy.  “Power must be taken away” from the hardliners, Khatami
said according to the daily. “They have podiums, newspapers and
websites, let them go and make their point there.”  The leader of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards, Major General
Mohammad Ali Jafari, was cited by the state-run Tasnim news
agency yesterday as criticizing Rouhani for the “tactical
mistake” of talking to Obama.  In the first public criticism by a top official, Jafari
said that if there were “errors made by officials, definitely
the revolutionary forces and their sympathizers will issue the
necessary warnings.”  Khatami, known to supporters as the “father of reforms”,
lobbied during his time for improved relations with the West.
During a visit to the U.S. in 2006, Khatami told a crowd at
 Harvard University  that Iran and the U.S. need to work toward
understanding each other, and condemned the September 11
terrorist attacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  