-- Isagen Gains Most Since ‘09 as Santos Raises Price: Bogota Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-10-01T16:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/isagen-gains-most-since-09-as-santos-raises-price-bogota-mover.html
Isagen SA (ISAGEN) , operator of Colombia’s
largest hydropower plant, rose the most in four years after
President  Juan Manuel Santos  said the government was boosting by
12 percent the minimum price for the stake it’s selling.  The  shares  gained 7.5 percent to 3,140 pesos at 10:53 a.m.
in Bogota, after earlier reaching a record intraday high of
3,160 pesos. The stock was the best performer on the benchmark
Colombian  Colcap index,  which increased 0.6 percent.  Colombia raised the base price for its majority stake in
Medellin-based Isagen to 3,178 pesos per share, from a minimum
of 2,850 pesos set in July when the sale plan was disclosed. At
the higher price, the government’s 57.66 percent stake would be
worth 5 trillion pesos ($2.6 billion).  “The price was raised thanks to the immense appetite and
interest that we’ve seen from Colombian and foreign companies,”
Santos said yesterday. The government set the new minimum using
several valuation methodologies, according to a statement.  Potential buyers include Charlotte, North Carolina-based
 Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and France’s  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, Colombian Finance
Minister Mauricio Cardenas said in July. Medellin-based Grupo
Argos SA and Bogota-based  Empresa de Energia de Bogota SA (EEB)  have
said they also intend to bid.  The shares had dropped from a previous record of 3,105
pesos in September on speculation that the sale wouldn’t go
forward or that it might face delays amid opposition from former
President  Alvaro Uribe , who says fully privatizing the company
would make electricity service less reliable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  