-- Italian Jobless Rate Returned to All-Time High in August
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-10-01T08:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/italian-unemployment-rate-rose-more-than-forecast-in-august.html
Italy ’s unemployment rate rose more
than forecast in August, returning to an all-time high reached
in May as companies remained concerned that the economy may not
exit soon from its longest recession since World War II.  Joblessness increased to 12.2 percent from a revised 12.1
percent in July, the Rome-based national statistics office Istat
said in a preliminary report today. The August rate was higher
than the 12.1 percent median of five  estimates  in a Bloomberg
survey. In May the rate reached the highest since the data
series began in the first quarter of 1977.  Concerns about the outlook for employment in Italy rose
last month as Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  tightened its grip on
 Telecom Italia (TIT)  SpA and the carrier Alitalia SpA’s crisis
deepened, potentially souring  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group’s appetite to
lift its stake in the company. In both cases, Italian labor
leaders expressed worries that the foreign investors may
eliminate jobs to cut costs.  The unemployment rate for people between the ages of 15 and
24 rose to a historic high of 40.1 percent from 39.7 percent,
Istat said today.  Italian  Industrial production  unexpectedly dropped in July,
contradicting forecasts and expectations that the two-year long
recession will come to an end in the second half of 2013.  Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s government projects the
unemployment rate to rise to 12.4 percent next year, the
Treasury said in a report last month. That matches a forecast in
a Sept. 27 report by the International Monetary Fund.  Joblessness (ITMUURS)  unexpectedly increased also in  Germany , a sign
of an uneven recovery in the euro region’s biggest economy. In
September the adjusted unemployment rate increased to 6.9
percent from 6.8 percent in the previous month, according to a
report published today by the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor
Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 ctirling@bloomberg.net  