-- J&J Says Boehringer Fight May Cause Cancer-Drug Shortage
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-01T19:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/j-j-says-boehringer-doxil-dispute-may-cause-shortage.html
Johnson & Johnson said a dispute with
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH over an agreement to produce the
cancer drug Doxil may create a yearlong shortage of the
medicine.  One of Boehringer’s U.S. units plans to shut down
production of Doxil, used to treat ovarian cancer and other
tumors, at year’s end even though it still owes J&J 67 batches,
according to a filing by  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J in
a Delaware court case. J&J has struggled to meet demand for the
drug for the past two years because of disruptions at the
Boehringer plant where it’s made.  Efforts for the past 20 months to boost Doxil supplies by
enlisting other manufacturers have fallen short. Those companies
won’t be able to win regulatory approval to make the drug until
late 2014, lawyers for Johnson & Johnson’s Alza Corp. unit said
in a brief filed yesterday as part of a lawsuit seeking to force
Boehringer to arbitrate the dispute.  Another Doxil shortage “would again cause serious
disruption and harm to hospitals, physicians and patients,” J&J
said in the filing. Dwindling Doxil supplies also will cause
“enormous reputational harm” to  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
biggest seller of health-care products, according to the filing.  “We can’t say in the U.S. when it will be available at
this time,” Lisa Vaga, a J&J spokeswoman, said in a phone
interview. “We’re working closely with health regulators to
establish other avenues” to produce the drug, she said. “We’re
doing everything we can.”  ‘Offered Support’  Marjorie Moeling, a spokeswoman for Boehringer’s
Connecticut-based U.S. unit, said the company had “offered
support” to J&J to help find alternative suppliers.  The company’s Ben Venue Laboratories unit, which has the
Doxil supply contract, will continue to “work cooperatively
with J&J to manufacture Doxil and to assist in J&J’s ongoing
transition to alternate suppliers through the end of the current
contract term,” Moeling said in an e-mailed statement.  Alza hired Boehringer as the “sole-source manufacturer”
of Doxil in 1995 because  Ben Venue Laboratories  had special
expertise in producing the drug, according to court filings.  Doxil production hit a snag in 2011 when Boehringer’s plant
in  Ohio  was forced to shut down its manufacturing lines after
the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  questioned the quality of
the facility’s products.  An FDA inspection of the Bedford, Ohio, plant found
inadequate routine maintenance and microbial contamination with
no clear source, the  Cleveland Plain Dealer  reported.  Generic Doxil  The FDA approved a generic version of the drug from  India ’s
 Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP)  in February because of the
Doxil shortage. In a Sept. 25  letter  to doctors, J&J warned that
patients could face another shortage starting this month because
of the dispute with Boehringer and reminded them the FDA has
approved Sun Pharma’s generic version.  Boehringer officials alerted J&J in 2011 that they had
decided to get out of the business of making drugs for other
companies, according to the J&J court filing. Still, the
Ingelheim, Germany-based company’s executives assured J&J they
would meet their obligations under the Doxil contract, according
to the brief.  The German drugmaker failed to meet Doxil production quotas
this year and in 2012, J&J said in the filings. The plant only
produced 10 batches of the 34 slated for delivery last year, J&J
said.  Mold Problems  The facility only made seven of 31 batches expected this
year after being forced to shut down production lines twice
because of mold problems and a roof leak, J&J officials added.  Officials from Boehringer informed J&J in July that they
would be cutting off Doxil production by Dec. 31 and “would not
make up any deficient production before winding down its
manufacturing operations,” according to the filing.  Boehringer has “refused to provide assurances that it will
continue to produce Doxil after Dec. 31 and until an arbitrator
rules, and refused to proceed immediately to arbitration” as
called for under the supply agreement, J&J said.  The Delaware case is Alza Corp. v. Boehringer Ingelheim USA
Corp., 8877, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  