-- Japan Air-ANA Fight for Haneda Slots Draws in American, United
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r ,   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-01T04:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/japan-air-ana-fight-for-haneda-slots-draws-in-american-united.html
Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  and  ANA Holdings
Inc. (9202) ’s fight over additional slots at  Tokyo ’s Haneda airport,
Asia’s second-busiest, is widening to include global airline
partnerships seeking access to fly businesspeople right into the
heart of the city.  Haneda is set to gain about 40 new daytime landing slots
for flights starting in March, Akihiro Ohta, Japan’s transport
minister, said Sept. 20 in Tokyo.  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL) , which has teamed up with ANA, is seeking its first slot on
its own while  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the only major U.S. carrier
without a Japanese partner, wants 25 slot pairs.  American
Airlines  Inc. has a partnership with Japan Air.  ANA, Japan’s largest airline, is vying for a lion’s share
of the roughly 20 new international slots to be distributed
among local carriers, saying government support of Japan Air’s
restructuring tipped the balance in favor of its rival. Rights
to Haneda are important as business travelers will pay a premium
to land near the city center instead of flying into Narita
airport, about 40 miles east of Tokyo.  “Access to those slots is considered very important by the
U.S. carriers,” said  Peter Harbison , executive chairman at the
Sydney-based CAPA Centre for Aviation. “It creates the obvious
competitive advantages -- being close to the city and having
desirable arrival and departure times.”  Haneda resumed regular intercontinental flights three years
ago after opening a new international terminal.  Atlanta-based Delta has said it wants 25 slot pairs so it
can return most of its flights to the airport after being forced
to move them to Narita in 1978. It’s competing against United
and American, which have flight-sharing ventures with Japanese
airlines and benefit from the domestic carriers’ slots.  ‘Piecemeal Offers’  Delta won two nighttime slots to Haneda in 2010, while
American Airlines got one.  Hawaiian Holdings Inc. (HA)  also received
one slot while United got none. A slot is the right to land and
take-off a plane.  The ability of U.S. carriers to win slots at Haneda is
hampered by government favoritism toward domestic carriers,
Delta Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said in July.  “The U.S. should reject these unsatisfactory and piecemeal
offers -- and permit no changes until Japan is ready to fully
open Haneda and allow Delta to move its hub,”  Anthony Black , a
spokesman for Atlanta-based Delta, said in an e-mail.  The allocation of daytime slots may also prove more
competitive than the nighttime slots three years ago, since the
timings are more attractive to U.S. carriers.  ANA, JAL  “American has consistently raised concerns about the
operational restrictions under which we fly between  John F.
Kennedy  and Haneda, and that remains our focus,” said Mary Frances Fagan, a spokeswoman for the carrier. The time for its
one flight between Haneda and  New York , which leaves Tokyo at
6:55 a.m., isn’t attractive to business travelers, she said.  ANA says it needs more slots from Haneda after the
government’s support during Japan Air’s restructuring.  “We can’t catch up with Japan Airlines’s finances and
profitability by ourselves after the support it had under
restructuring,” ANA President Shinichiro Ito said in an
interview last month. “One of the few ways the government could
help correct that imbalance would be to give priority over the
new slots to us.”  Japan  Airlines, the only other local airline that flies
overseas from Haneda, was relisted on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
last year after it wiped out shareholders and debts during
bankruptcy as it was supported by 350 billion yen of government-backed financing.  The carrier had an operating profit margin of 13.8 percent,
almost double ANA’s 7 percent in the year ended March, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The slots are the property of the nation’s citizens,”
JAL President Yoshiharu Ueki said in an interview last month.
“They should be divided equally.”  Japan has been gradually increasing landing and take-off
slots at Haneda since the opening of a new runway in 2010. It
will add 30,000 international slots in the year ending March 31,
bringing the total to 447,000 annually, according to the
 transport ministry .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  