-- Japan Auto Sales Climb Most in 14 Months as Korea Slumps
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-10-02T05:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/japan-auto-sales-rise-most-in-14-months-as-korea-slumps.html
Japan  saw September vehicle sales
jump the most in 14 months, adding to signs of an improving
outlook in the world’s third-largest economy.  Deliveries of passenger and commercial vehicles last month
rose 17 percent to 522,760 units, according to data from
associations released yesterday. That reversed a four-month
slide and helped July-to-September sales increase 2.3 percent,
the first gain in four quarters.  While sales fell 4.8 percent in the first three quarters,
deliveries aren’t falling as steeply as the 12 percent that the
Japan automakers’ association predicted for 2013. In other signs
of recovery, rising share prices are enriching investors, the
weaker yen is bolstering exporters’ earnings and a  Bank of Japan 
survey released yesterday showed business confidence among large
manufacturers at the highest level since 2007.  “The biggest force that’s been giving domestic auto sales
a boost is the improvement in the markets and optimism among
consumers,” said  Mitsushige Akino , chief  fund manager  at
Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo . “The improvement in
the economy and new models will continue to buoy demand.”  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Japan’s biggest carmaker, fell 0.5
percent to 6,240 yen as of 1:56 p.m. in Tokyo trading.  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201)  slipped 1.3 percent, and  Honda (7267)  Motor Co. declined 1.2
percent. The  benchmark   Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average retreated 1.9
percent.  Korea Contrast  Japan’s three biggest carmakers, Toyota, Honda, and Nissan,
all reported declines in the U.S., their biggest overseas
market, for September on lower supplies of some models and fewer
weekend selling days.  The sales gains in Japan were a contrast to  South Korea ,
where  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s sales in its home market plunged 20
percent last month, leading a 13 percent drop in industrywide
deliveries, excluding imports. South Korean automakers sold a
combined 101,021 units in September, the fewest since February,
based on Korea Automobile Manufacturers Association figures.  In Japan, the world’s third-largest auto market, last
quarter’s increase in vehicle deliveries follows declines of 6.1
percent and 9.4 percent in the preceding two quarters, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Strong Fit  Honda led gains last month with deliveries surging 40
percent as the company began selling its remodeled Fit hatchback
to challenge Toyota’s lead in hybrid compact cars. Toyota saw
domestic sales, excluding minicars, rise 12.5 percent last
month. Local deliveries rose 16 percent at Nissan and 14.5
percent at  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)   “The growth in September was very strong, much more than I
expected,” said Yoshiaki Kawano, a Tokyo-based industry analyst
at IHS Automotive. “It seems Honda’s Fit was very strong, and
with other models from Mazda and other companies coming out, I
think we can expect sales to continue to grow.”  Deliveries in Japan may be boosted as consumers buy cars
before the sales tax increases in April, according to Koichi Sugimoto, Tokyo-based auto analyst BNP Paribas SA said in a
report. BNP Paribas’s forecast for sales of 5.5 million vehicles
in Japan for the year ending March 2014 may be conservative,
Sugimoto said.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe yesterday said he’ll push for a 5
trillion yen ($51 billion) stimulus plan and go ahead with plans
to raise the sales tax for the first time since 1997, starting
with an increase to 8 percent in April, as he seeks to rein in
the world’s biggest debt burden without negating efforts to end
deflation. The sales tax would rise to 10 percent by October
2015, according to the government plan.  Vehicle Levies  That’s worried automakers, including Akio Toyoda, president
of Toyota and chairman of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers
Association, who said in August that increasing sales taxes
without cutting vehicle levies would deal a “lethal blow” to
the industry.  To relieve carmakers, Japan is poised to abolish the 5
percent automobile acquisition tax, Toshiyuki Uemura, a member
of a government panel on vehicle taxation, said in an interview
last month.  Still, removing the purchase duty won’t be enough to offset
the increase in the sales levy because most cars sold in Japan
have rebates on the automobile acquisition tax, Uemura said.  The tax break on fuel-efficient cars was applicable to
about 80 percent of new vehicle sales in the year ended March
2012, according to Japan’s Ministry of Internal Affairs.  Aging Market  Auto sales had been falling in the past year after some
government incentives to buy fuel-efficient vehicles expired.
Those rebates helped deliveries surge 28 percent in 2012.
Vehicle demand in the country had been falling for more than two
decades as more Japanese consumers choose to take the subway
instead of driving a car.  Japanese automakers are also grappling with a home market
that’s estimated to face an aging and declining population for
decades.  In an effort to reverse declining interest, the heads of
Japan’s biggest automakers have begun a one-month campaign to
promote cars to university students. Toyoda went to Meiji
University last week and the presidents of Honda and Subaru-maker  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270)  are scheduled to visit schools
later this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  