-- JGB Bubble Seen Growing by Bank of America on BOJ: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-10-01T04:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/jgb-bubble-seen-growing-by-bank-of-america-on-boj-japan-credit.html
A bubble forming in the Japanese
government bond market risks further expansion as central bank
purchases shield the notes from a global rout, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch and  Mizuho Securities  Co.  The  Bloomberg Japan Sovereign Bond Index (BJPN)  climbed 1.45
percent in the quarter ended Sept. 30, the biggest gain among
Group of 10 countries after the 1.54 percent increase in Italy’s
debt. Benchmark 10-year JGB yields were the lowest in the world
at 0.655 percent today and compared with 2.64 percent for
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Bank of America forecasts 10-year JGB yields will fall to
as low as 0.5 percent in the first half of next year while  Tokai
Tokyo (8616)  Securities Co. says they may touch a record low of 0.25
percent as the  Bank of Japan  buys more than 7 trillion yen ($71
billion) of bonds a month to defeat deflation. A JGB bubble
could set the stage for a gain in  interest rates  later if
inflation accelerates in Japan or investors lose confidence in
the nation’s fiscal health, according to Bank of America.  “JGBs are in the midst of a bubble and because yields are
suppressed by the BOJ’s powerful easing, they may start to climb
when the stimulus is removed,” said Shuichi Ohsaki, a rates
strategist in  Tokyo  at the  U.S. bank , which is one of the 23
primary dealers obliged to bid at Japanese government debt
auctions. “We have quite a bullish view on the Japanese economy
and expect the BOJ to end its zero rate policy around
mid-2016.”  Business Confidence  A quarterly report today from the central bank showed that
corporate confidence is improving. The BOJ’s Tankan  index  of
sentiment among large manufacturers rose to 12 in September from
4 in June. That was the highest reading since 2007, and compared
with the median estimate of 7 from 30 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  Japan will raise the  consumption tax  to 8 percent from 5
percent in April as planned, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said
today in Tokyo after studying the Tankan figures. He is also
poised to unveil a stimulus plan to counter any economic damage
from the levy increase. Ten-year JGB yields touched 0.655
percent, the lowest since May 10, after Abe’s tax announcement.  The government will compile a 5 trillion yen fiscal
package, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Most analysts in a separate poll expect the BOJ to
add to easing in the first half of next year.  “The current yield levels will continue to be justified by
abnormal monetary policy taken in response to the abnormal
situation,” said Koichi Kurose, the chief economist in Tokyo at
Resona Bank Ltd.  Consumer prices  had been falling for more than
a decade before the BOJ began its easing program in April to
target 2 percent annual inflation.  SoftBank Bonds  Elsewhere in  Japan ’s credit markets, SoftBank Corp.
registered to sell as much as 500 billion yen of bonds,
according to a filing yesterday with the Ministry of Finance.
The Tokyo-based company founded by billionaire Masayoshi Son
bought a controlling stake in  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint
Corp. for $21.6 billion in July after winning a bidding war.  Japanese corporate notes handed investors a 0.23 percent
gain last month, compared with a 0.54 percent return on
sovereign debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Company bonds worldwide earned 0.82 percent.  A government auction of 2.2 trillion yen of 10-year notes
today attracted drew bids valued at 3.74 times the amount
available, the highest ratio this year, Ministry of Finance data
showed. That suggested demand was strong for the benchmark debt
at its first offering in the second half of the fiscal year.  Benchmark Yields  The nation’s 10-year note  yield  touched a record low of
0.315 percent on April 5, the day after the BOJ unveiled the
unprecedented bond-buying program. It then climbed to a one-year
high of 1 percent on May 23 before sliding again.  Bank of America forecasts the yield will range from 0.5
percent to 1.15 percent in the fiscal year starting April 1,
according to a report dated Sept. 12. In contrast, Tokai Tokyo
sees about an even chance that the yield will touch 0.25 percent
during the period.  “Japan’s growth potential will continue to deteriorate, so
it’s no surprise that yields are where they are now,” said
 Kazuhiko Sano , the chief bond strategist at Tokai Tokyo. But,
“we’ll only know it’s a bubble after it bursts.”  Industrial production  in Japan fell 0.7 percent in August
from the previous month, while retail sales rose 0.9 percent
during the period, according to trade ministry data released
yesterday. Both figures were less than the median forecasts of
economists in Bloomberg surveys.  Yen Strengthening  The yen has strengthened 1.1 percent against the dollar
since the end of June, and traded at 98.08 per greenback as of
1:47 p.m. in Tokyo. The  Topix index  of Japanese shares climbed
5.3 percent in the July-September period, the fourth quarterly
advance, even as the currency appreciation risked weighing on
local exporters’s earnings.  Mizuho says the JGB rally is at odds with the gains in the
equity market.  “Bond yields aren’t consistent with stock prices,” said
 Tetsuya Miura , the chief bond strategist at Mizuho Securities, a
primary dealer. “There are only two options left for Japan:
either the nation will end deflation, the economy expands on a
nominal basis, and tax revenue increases, or it will remain in
deflation and fiscal risk premiums will rise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  