-- Karzai Ex-Rival Abdullah Files to Run for Afgan President
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-10-01T16:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/karzai-ex-rival-abdullah-files-to-run-for-afgan-president.html
Afghanistan’s former Foreign Minister
Abdullah Abdullah filed to run in next year’s election to
replace President  Hamid Karzai , according to a top supporter.  “Mr. Abdullah has officially registered himself” today
with the Afghanistan Independent Election Commission in Kabul to
run in next year’s presidential election, said Mohammad Asim, a
senior member of the Abdullah-led National Coalition of
Afghanistan, the country’s biggest opposition political party,
in a phone interview.  Elections for the presidency and provincial councils are
set for April 5, a milestone because Karzai is barred from
running again and the campaign comes amid the withdrawal of U.S.
and allied forces. Abdullah is the first prominent political
figure to file for the presidency under registration that began
on Sept. 16 and is scheduled to run through Oct. 6.  Abdullah, a runner-up in the 2009 election, dropped out
ahead of a runoff vote following allegations of endemic fraud
including ballot-box stuffing in favor of Karzai. Abdullah said
Karzai’s late brother, Ahmad Wali Karzai, who had dominated
politics in the south region, was among political figures who
misused their authority to engineer millions of fraudulent votes
for Karzai.  While Karzai hasn’t said who he would support to take his
place, politicians in Kabul have said he may back his elder
brother Qayum Karzai or current Foreign Minister Zalmai Rassoul.  Other possible candidates include former Finance Minister
Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai, who resigned his job heading a commission
overseeing the transfer of security responsibilities from the
departing allied forces in order to pursue the presidency;
warlord Abdul Rassoul Sayaf, who is a member of parliament; and
Fawzia Kofi, prominent female politician who also serves in
parliament.  Ethnic Groups  Abdullah, who is an ethnic Tajik, selected an ethnic
Pashtun, Mohammad Khan, the deputy leader of a political party
called Hezb-i-Islami, to run on his ticket as first vice
president. Mohammad Mohaqeq, who backed Karzai in 2009 and is
the supreme leader of the ethnic Hazara people, was chosen as
his second vice president. Mohaqeq also leads a political party
called Hezb-e-Wahdad Mardomi  Afghanistan .  Abdullah, a veteran of the Northern Alliance that helped
U.S. forces topple the Taliban regime in 2001, served as
Karzai’s foreign minister from 2001 to 2005 before declaring his
opposition to Karzai’s government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  