-- Kelimbetov Replaces Marchenko at Kazakh Central Bank
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-10-01T14:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/kelimbetov-replaces-marchenko-at-kazakh-central-bank.html
Kairat Kelimbetov, a deputy prime
minister who led the nationalization of failing Kazakh lenders
in 2009 as the chief of the country’s sovereign wealth fund,
will replace Grigori Marchenko as central bank governor.  Kelimbetov, 44, was named in place of Marchenko, 53, who
resigned for “family reasons” before his six-year term was set
to end in January 2015, according to a  statement  published on
President Nursultan Nazarbayev’s website today. Kelimbetov’s
knowledge of “the country’s economy and financial situation
will have a positive effect on the work of the National Bank,”
Nazarbayev said in the statement.  Kelimbetov, a graduate of Moscow State University and
 Georgetown University , was chief executive officer of Samruk-Kazyna when the government used the sovereign wealth fund to
prop up banks hit by a credit squeeze in 2009. He became
economic development and trade minister in April 2011 before
being promoted to deputy prime minister in January 2012.  The move ends Marchenko’s second stint at the helm of the
monetary authority, which was marked by a 21 percent devaluation
of the tenge in February 2009, a month after his appointment at
the height of the country’s worst financial crisis in more than
a decade.  Marchenko, who was backed by  Russia  and other former Soviet
states to succeed  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  for the top post at the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2011, was  in charge  of Deutsche
Bank AG’s local securities unit before taking over the central
bank in 1999-2004. He served as first deputy premier in 2004.  Speaking during a March 19 online conference, Marchenko
said he planned to retire after turning 55 in December 2014.  Asset Manager  The National Bank of  Kazakhstan , which manages a stockpile
of $92 billion including international reserves and the National
Oil Fund, will also oversee the assets of a single state pension
fund that will be formed next year. The central Asian nation is
consolidating more than $21 billion of retirement savings from
non-state funds to improve access to credit and mobilize
resources for faster economic growth.  In June, Nazarbayev faulted the government and the central
bank for their “awkward actions” in explaining plans to make
the  retirement age  equal for men and women, saying their work
was “ unsatisfactory .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  