-- Kenyan Growth Rate Slows in Second Quarter on Vote Uncertainty
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-10-01T08:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/kenyan-growth-rate-slows-in-second-quarter-on-vote-uncertainty.html
Kenya ’s economic growth slowed in the
second quarter following a legal challenge over the outcome of a
presidential election that held back business and tourism.  Gross domestic product in the three months through June
rose 4.3 percent on an annual basis, compared with 5.2 percent
in the previous quarter, the Nairobi-based Kenya National Bureau
of Statistics said today in an e-mailed statement.  “There was a petition in court challenging the outcome of
the election,” Vimal Parmar, head of research for Nairobi-based
Burbidge Capital, said by phone. “That issue still held back
business activity.”  President Uhuru Kenyatta was voted into office on March 4
in elections that were broadly peaceful, unlike the bloodshed
that followed the last disputed election in December 2007, in
which more than 1,100 people died in ethnic clashes.  After this year’s presidential vote, Kenya’s Supreme Court
upheld the victory of Kenyatta, rejecting a petition filed by
defeated rival, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, challenging
the result. Odinga accepted the court’s March 30 ruling, easing
tensions. Kenyatta was inaugurated as the leader on April 9.  Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have been
indicted on crimes against humanity charges by the International
Criminal Court for organizing the 2007-08 post-election clashes.
They both deny the accusations.  Farming Eases  Agriculture, which accounts for a fifth of GDP, grew by 5
percent in the second quarter from 8.1 percent in the first
quarter, while construction slowed to 6.7 percent from 13.3
percent. The leisure industry, including restaurants and hotels,
contracted 11.4 percent after shrinking 15.8 percent. Tourist
arrivals to Kenya dropped 12 percent to 495,978 in the first
half from a year earlier, according to government figures.  “The low bookings were mainly linked to uncertainties over
the country’s general elections held in March this year,” the
statistics bureau said, according to the statement.  The government forecasts the economy will grow 5.5 percent
to 6 percent this year from 4.6 percent in 2012. Treasury
Secretary Henry Rotich said the forecast for 2013 growth is
unchanged even after Islamist militants attacked a shopping mall
in the capital, Nairobi, on Sept. 21, leaving 67 civilians and
security forces dead over the four-day ordeal.  On a seasonally adjusted basis, the economy expanded 0.7
percent between April and June from 0.5 percent in the previous
three months. The economy grew 4.4 percent on an annual basis in
the second quarter of 2012, the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  