-- Kenyan President Calls for Religious Tolerance After Mall Attack
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-10-01T12:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/kenyan-president-calls-for-religious-tolerance-after-mall-attack.html
Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta
appealed for religious tolerance in the largely Christian nation
following an attack claimed by Islamist militants on a shopping
mall in the capital that left at least 67 people dead.  “We have been attacked by terrorists who cannot stand our
way of life as a united society,” Kenyatta said today at a
multi-faith prayer meeting in Nairobi.  “But we fought back as one people, and continue to nurse
our grievous wound together. We will heal each others’ wounds
and defend our nation together.”  Kenya  is home to 31.9 million  Christians , 4.3 million
Muslims, more than 53,000 followers of Hinduism and the rest of
the country’s 38.6 million people hold traditional beliefs or
aren’t religious, according to the 2009 census.  In the mall assault that began Sept. 21, gunmen stormed the
upscale complex lobbing grenades and firing automatic weapons in
the deadliest attack since al-Qaeda bombed the U.S. embassy in
Nairobi 15 years ago. It took four days for security personnel
to end the siege, which killed 57 Kenyans and nationals of
countries including Canada, Ghana and  China . Five of the
attackers were also killed, according to the government.  Al-Shabaab, al-Qaeda’s affiliate in Somalia, claimed
responsibility for the raid on the Westgate Mall, carrying out a
threat to attack Kenya it made two years ago after the country
deployed troops in  Somalia  to fight the militants. The Kenyan
incursion started after the government blamed al-Shabaab for
kidnapping foreigners and killing a British tourist on its soil.  African Peacekeepers  The militia has warned of further bloodshed unless Kenya
withdraws its forces, which account for about a quarter of the
more than 17,000-member African Union peacekeeping mission in
Somalia. Al-Shabaab is trying to impose strict Islamic law in
the Horn of African nation.  “It is they, having had enough of killing themselves in
their own country, decided to come and interfere in Kenya,
kidnapping people and taking hostages,” Kenyatta said. “We
will stay there until they bring order in their nation.”  Kenya, which hosts one of the world’s largest refugee camps
called Dadaab in the country’s north, has been supporting
Somalis who have fled civil war in their own nation for more
than 20 years, said Kenyatta. The facility hosts about 474,000
refugees, mostly Somalis, according to the United Nations.  Somalia has been mired in conflict since the overthrow of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991.  The security committee in Kenya’s parliament has called for
the closure of the Dadaab camp, saying it was an entry point and
training ground for “terrorists,” the Nairobi-based Standard
newspaper said yesterday, citing its head Asman Kamama.  A commission of inquiry is examining how Kenya failed to
detect preparations for the shopping-mall incident and measures
to avoid such a situation in the future, Kenyatta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  