-- Kim Says World Bank to Focus on Larger Projects
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-10-01T21:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/kim-says-world-bank-to-focus-on-larger-projects.html
The  World Bank  will move away from
small-scale projects to focus on larger programs where its
involvement increases the odds of attracting private funds,
President Jim Yong Kim said today.  The bank must be more selective in its lending and be ready
to abandon programs that could be done better by other groups,
Kim said in a speech to George Washington University students.
That doesn’t mean it will stop financing whole sectors such as
agriculture or infrastructure, he told reporters afterward.  “It’s trying to be focused on what we can do that will
really have an impact,” Kim said after the speech. “Many of
these large-scale projects are going to require private-sector
funding and we know we can help.”  After shaking up the Washington-based lender’s management
and organizational structure, Kim is due to submit a  strategy 
next week to its 188 member countries for meeting the goals of
ending extreme poverty by 2030 and boosting incomes for the
world’s poorest 40 percent. With the bank’s limited lending
power, reaching those targets will require more public and
private funds, Kim has said.  For example, the bank, which last week approved a $140
million project to replace aging gas turbines at a power plant
in Myanmar, said its private sector arm is working to bring
private investors into the country’s energy market.  Attracting Capital  A Uganda hydropower project operating since last year, for
which the bank provided financing and guarantees, attracted $900
million in private capital, according to the lender.  “It’s crucial that the bank focus not just on leveraging
private sector funds, but ensuring companies respect social and
environmental standards in countries where they operate,”
Nicolas Mombrial, who heads the Washington office of charity
group Oxfam, said in an e-mail.  The bank will increase its commitments to states deemed
“fragile” that are in conflict or coming out of one, Kim said
today. It will also invest in improving women’s lives and in
mitigating  climate change , he said.  In a memo to staff obtained by  Bloomberg News  last week,
Kim said the bank will organize all of its technical experts
into 14 groups to improve the advice it gives member-states on
topics from the environment to education.  “We’re trying to create a whole new culture at the World
Bank where regions will be dependent on technical areas to
provide support,” Kim said. “Technical areas are going to have
to be good because if the regions are not asking for their
support, than it’s going to be a real problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  