-- Kirkland, DLA Piper Work on Active Deal: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-10-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/kirkland-dla-piper-work-on-active-deal-business-of-law.html
Kirkland & Ellis LLP and DLA Piper
LLP worked on the deal to take private  Active Network Inc. (ACTV) , a
company that manages online registration for marathons, business
conferences and other events. Vista Equity Partners is buying
Active for about $1.05 billion in cash.  Kirkland represented Vista. From the firm are corporate
partners David Breach, Sarkis Jebejian, Richard Brand and Noah Boyens and intellectual property partner John Lynn.  Active relied on DLA Piper. From that firm are corporate
partners Michael Kagnoff, Daniel Eisner and  John Reed . Other
partners on the deal were Jamie Knox (debt), Paolo Morante(antitrust), Neil Balmert (tax), Mark Lehberg (intellectual
property) and employee benefits partners Jim Telfer and Mark Boxer.  Vista will commence a tender offer to acquire all of the
outstanding shares of San Diego-based Active’s common stock for
$14.50 a share, according to a statement yesterday. Active’s
board endorsed the offer, recommending that all stockholders
tender their shares. Under the terms of the deal, any shares not
tendered will be acquired in a second-step merger at the same
cash price as the original offer.  Active rose 26 percent to $14.31 yesterday in New York
trading.  The takeover follows a management shakeup in May, when
Chief Executive Officer Matthew Landa and Chairman David Alberga
resigned their positions, though they remained on the board.  The deal should close before the end of the fourth quarter,
according to the statement.  The company, whose customers range from the state of
 California  to Cisco Systems Inc., had attracted interest from
other buyout firms before agreeing to the Vista deal. The
company was originally expected to fetch as much as $770
million, a person familiar with the situation said.  Law Firm Moves  Bingham McCutchen Promotes Browne to Managing Partner  Bingham McCutchen LLP appointed Steven Browne as the
managing partner of the 1,000-lawyer firm.  Browne will work closely with longtime chairman Jay Zimmerman, who has led Bingham since 1994. Zimmerman, who will
take on the additional title of chief executive officer, will
remain responsible for firm finance issues, global strategy,
client relations and other strategic initiatives. Browne will
direct and supervise day-to-day operations.  “At every opportunity, Steve demonstrated a keen interest
in the direction of the firm and its people,” Zimmerman said in
a statement.  Since joining Bingham in 2005 from Testa Hurwitz &
Thibeault, Browne has held a number of leadership roles,
including managing partner of the Boston office and co-chairman
of Bingham’s corporate area.  Winston & Strawn Adds Two Real Estate Lawyers to  New York  Office  Two real estate lawyers have joined Winston & Strawn LLP in
the firm’s New York office. Christine A. Spletzer returns to the
firm as a partner after a stint at Paul Hastings LLP. Bola
Oloko, previously at Duval & Stachenfeld, is joining as of
counsel.  “We are delighted to welcome Christine and Bola to the
Winston & Strawn team,” said Michael Elkin, managing partner of
the New York office. “Their extensive experience in capital
markets real estate finance will enhance our ability to serve
our clients’ needs in New York and globally,” he said in a
statement.  Spletzer specializes in capital markets real estate finance
and commercial mortgage-backed securitization, with extensive
experience in representing issuers, originators, underwriters
and investors in connection with the issuance of commercial
mortgage-backed securities. Her experience includes mezzanine
financing and other secured lending transactions such as
warehouse financing programs, and intercreditor arrangements.  Oloko is an experienced issuer’s and underwriters’ counsel
in the commercial mortgage-backed securities area. He has
advised market participants in the securitization, acquisition
and disposition, and financing of financial assets, with
emphasis on commercial  mortgage loans . His recent securitization
experience includes representing operating advisers in
connection with new-issue CMBS 2.0 transactions and counseling
other market participants in connection with issues arising out
of legacy CMBS and other securitization transactions.  Barnes & Thornburg Adds Employment Lawyer to Michigan Office  Norman D. Hawkins joined Barnes & Thornburg LLP’s  Grand
Rapids ,  Michigan , office as a member of the labor and employment
law department.  According to a statement from the firm, Hawkins has almost
30 years’ experience. Before joining Barnes & Thornburg, he
worked in private practice representing numerous private-sector
clients, including Fortune 500 companies such as automotive
suppliers and hospitals. He specializes in federal labor law and
employment statutes.  “We are very pleased to welcome Norm to our team and to
add his experience and abilities to support our growing regional
and national labor and employment practice,” said Michael A.
Snapper, administrator of the firm’s Michigan labor and
employment law group.  With Hawkins, Barnes & Thornburg now has almost 30
attorneys in its Michigan office.  Baker Botts Adds Patent Litigator Barzoukas in Houston  Nicolas Barzoukas, who specializes in patent litigation in
the pharmaceutical field and industries related to chemistry,
electronics, biotechnology, medical devices, lasers and
mechanical systems, joined  Baker Botts  LLP as a partner in the
Houston office.  Barzoukas’s representations in Hatch-Waxman Act patent-infringement suits have resulted in the protection of the
franchises for some major pharmaceutical products, the firm
said.  “Nic adds considerable depth to our patent litigation
practice, particularly with respect to the pharmaceutical
industry, which is consistently confronted with multiple and
complex legal challenges to the products produced for
consumers,”  Andrew Baker , the firm’s managing partner, said in
a statement.  Barzoukas’s practice also includes counseling clients on
intellectual property enforcement matters, defensive and
offensive litigation strategy, freedom to operate, settlement
negotiations and licensing.  Prior to joining Baker Botts, Barzoukas was a partner at
Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP.  Lawsuit News  Thomas Cooley Law School Loses Ruling in Defamation Lawsuit  Thomas M. Cooley Law School can’t sue a New York  law firm 
for falsely claiming the school misrepresented graduate
employment statistics, a federal judge in Michigan ruled
yesterday.  Cooley, a Michigan law school, sued Kurzon Strauss LLP in
July 2011 over alleged false statements posted on websites
including JD Underground and Craigslist. The law firm, now known
as Kurzon LLP, had advertised to find potential plaintiffs to
sue the law school -- the nation’s largest -- over allegations
that the school’s employment statistics were misleading.  U.S. District Judge Robert Jonker in Grand Rapids,
Michigan, dismissed the case. Jonker held that Cooley failed to
establish “actual malice.” That term, which refers to whether
a defendant knew a statement was false or communicated the
statement in “reckless disregard” of the statement’s truth, is
a predicate for a defamation case involving plaintiffs
considered to be public figures.  In a statement on its website, the school said it planned
to appeal the ruling.  A federal district court had dismissed a separate case
brought by Cooley graduates under the Michigan consumer
protection act claiming that the school misrepresented the
number of students securing employment. The dismissal was upheld
by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Sixth Circuit in July.  Yesterday’s ruling is Thomas M. Cooley Law School v. Kurzon
Strauss, 11-cv-00844, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Michigan (Grand Rapids). The students’ case is MacDonald v.
Thomas M. Cooley Law School, 12-2066/2130, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  