-- Namibia Says It Won’t Cut Tax Rate for Anglo’s Namdeb Gem Miner
-- B y   F e l i x   N j i n i
-- 2013-10-01T08:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/namibia-says-it-won-t-cut-tax-rate-for-anglo-s-namdeb-gem-miner.html
Namibia  said it won’t cut Namdeb
Diamond Corp.’s tax rate as the gem producer 50 percent owned by
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  pushes for a review of its fiscal regime.  “We can’t entertain an idea that diamonds should be taxed
at the same rate as other mining companies,” Namibia’s Finance
Minister Saara Kuugongelwa-Amadhila said in a telephone
interview today. “We made a conscious decision to set the tax
rate at 55 percent because those diamonds are highly valuable
and Namibians should share in the benefits.”  Namdeb was in talks to cut the tax rate to 37.5 percent,
the same level as other mining companies in the country, the
Namibian Sun reported on Sept. 26, citing Kennedy Hamutenya, the
country’s diamond commissioner. Namdeb, equally owned by Anglo
American and the Namibian government, wants the tax rate reduced
as it invests in technology to mine marine diamonds, Pauline
Thomas, a spokeswoman for the company, said on Sept. 30.  The “Namibian diamond mining fiscal regime is one of the
highest in the world and goes beyond the tax rate of 55 percent
on profits as it also includes a royalty of 10 percent on
turnover,” Thomas said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“This fiscal regime has been unchanged for many years.”  Namdeb is engaging with the Namibian government, she said.  Namdeb produced 1.67 million carats of gemstones in 2012,
of which 1.1 million carats were mined in the southwest African
country’s Atlantic waters. These are home to an estimated 80
million carats, the richest known marine diamond deposits in the
world, according to the company’s website  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felix Njini in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  