-- NBC Football Carries Network to New-Season Ratings
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-10-01T18:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/nbc-football-carries-network-to-new-season-ratings.html
NBC claimed the first-week victory in
audience ratings in the age group sought by advertisers for the
new TV season, carried by “Sunday Night Football” and “The
Voice,” the network’s singing competition.  NBC, owned by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , averaged about 3.9 million
viewers a night in the 18-to-49-year-old demographic, the
network said today in a statement, up 7.1 percent from a year
earlier. Perennial leader  CBS Corp. (CBS)  commanded total viewers at
10.4 million, according to Nielsen data.  The challenge for NBC is to keep viewers as the TV season
wears on. “Sunday Night Football,” the most watched weekly
broadcast, carried the network to ratings victories last year,
too. After football ended, NBC struggled and closed the season
in May in fourth place in total viewers and third in the younger
demographic group, Nielsen data show.  Steve Burke, NBCUniversal’s chief executive officer,
estimated in September that the network earns $500 million to $1
billion less a year than its major competitors.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC finished second in the 18-49 age
group in the week ended Sept. 29, with its audience up 2.1
percent from a year earlier. The network credited the new series
“Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,” along with the returning
comedy “Modern Family.” CBS was third in 18-49, down 4.4
percent from a year earlier. Fox, part of 21st Century Fox Inc.,
was fourth, with a drop of 16 percent.  CBS’s win in total viewers was paced by “The Big Bang
Theory” and “NCIS,” which attracted more than 20 million
viewers each. NBC was second in total audience, averaging 9.71
million viewers a night for the week, representing an increase
of 19 percent. That was followed by ABC at 7.99 million and Fox
at 6.01 million  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  