-- Nestle Draws Up Divestment Shortlist
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-10-01T12:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/nestle-draws-up-divestment-shortlist-after-laggards-identified.html
Nestle SA, (NESN)  the world’s biggest food
company, has a shortlist of businesses it is looking to sell
after identifying laggards that it cannot fix, Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Bulcke  told investors today.  The maker of Nescafe coffee has completed a review of 97
percent of its 1,800 distinct business units, Bulcke said at an
investor seminar at Nestle headquarters in Vevey, Switzerland.
There is a “slightly longer list” of units that the company
will try to improve, he said, as it seeks to rebound after
posting its weakest quarterly revenue growth in four years.  “We are going to have some divestitures,” Bulcke said,
without disclosing any further details or timing. “We have
allowed underperformers to underperform for too long. That is
not the case anymore. We will go after them. We want to be in
business, not agony.”  Analysts have cited Jenny Craig diet centers, PowerBar
energy snacks and Lean Cuisine frozen meals as possible
candidates to be jettisoned. In a presentation yesterday in
Vevey, Luis Cantarell, head of Nestle’s 10.7 billion-Swiss franc
($11.8 billion) nutrition and healthcare businesses, said that
both Jenny Craig and PowerBar were in “suffering” categories.  Bulcke also said he plans to limit spending on capital like
factories to between 4 percent and 5 percent of sales next year.
In August, Nestle said 2013 capital spending would be “slightly
lower” than its forecast of about 5.7 percent of sales.  “Over the last three or four years we have increased our
capex quite extensively,” Bulcke said, in order to expand in
 emerging markets . “We now want to sweat those assets.”  Emerging Markets  Nestle fell 0.6 percent to 62.90 francs at 2:24 p.m. in
Switzerland after declining as much as 1.5 percent earlier, hurt
by Unilever’s announcement yesterday that worsening conditions
in emerging markets like  India  would crimp its third-quarter
underlying sales growth to no more than 3.5 percent.  In some cases, a slowdown in emerging markets could be
“healthy,” Bulcke said at the seminar. “When China or another
country grows 15 percent for several years in a row, that
overheats the engine,” he said, adding that emerging markets
are growing “a little bit slower than before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  