-- Netanyahu Is Wrong to Scorn Diplomacy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-01T17:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/netanyahu-is-wrong-to-scorn-diplomacy.html
The U.S. doesn’t want to see a
nuclear-armed  Iran , because it would propel a Middle East arms
race and threaten the Israelis. Arab states in the region also
dislike the idea, especially Saudi Arabia, whose leaders would
further resent the one-upmanship.  Only one country, however, fears imminent harm from the
prospect, and that is Israel. Israel is the only nation Iran’s
leaders have deemed a “cancerous tumor” that must be
eliminated, and a significant nuclear arsenal could give them
the wherewithal to make that happen.  So it makes sense that the current wave of enthusiasm for a
negotiated end to the conflict over Iran’s nuclear program
disturbs Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. “It’s a
ruse, it’s a ploy,” he told the United Nations General Assembly
today, describing recent Iranian suggestions of openness to
talks.  His wariness is useful, in reminding the Iranians that
 Israel  may still use force against them if the Jewish state
feels deeply threatened. And Netanyahu is right to be skeptical
of a deal with a regime that almost certainly has lied about
 trying to build  a bomb in the past and  may still be cheating  on
its international obligations not to do so. The Iranians may be
faking enthusiasm for an agreement now in order to buy time to
advance their nuclear program. As Netanyahu pointed out,
President Hassan Rouhani himself has  admitted  using such a
tactic in the past.  The alternatives to a negotiated settlement are worse,
however, and talks should begin whether or not Netanyahu
approves.  Suppose the deep sanctions imposed against Iran in recent
years had the desired effect of compelling its leaders to
genuinely seek a settlement. Wouldn’t that look like the charm
offensive we’re seeing from them today?  The U.S. and other world powers won’t know whether Iran’s
leaders are ripe for a deal unless they seriously engage with
them. The opening Rouhani has provided makes that possible.  Israel doesn’t oppose a negotiated settlement per se but
insists that any  terms prohibit  Iran from enriching uranium in
the future. That would be a sweet deal, but it’s make-believe.  Iran regards the ability to enrich uranium as a matter of
national identity and pride. However, its leaders might agree to
cease enrichment above 5 percent. Currently, in facilities
regularly inspected by the International Atomic Energy Agency,
Iran produces uranium enriched up to 20 percent, which can be
further upgraded to bomb-grade material fairly quickly.  Agreeing to a 5 percent cap, of course, wouldn’t guarantee
Iran would abide by it. Iran could enrich further to make bomb
fuel, but the IAEA would detect it, and the slower process would
give world powers time to organize a diplomatic or military
intervention.  As things stand, Iran is producing  about 16 kilograms  of 20
percent enriched uranium a month and may be able --  as early as
mid-2014  -- to make sufficient fissile material for a bomb so
quickly that inspectors wouldn’t detect the work until it was
done. So remaining stuck with no agreement is a poor option.  Alternatively, U.S. and/or Israeli military forces could
destroy as much of the Iranian nuclear program as possible,
presumably through air attacks, an option Netanyahu has
repeatedly broached. At the UN, he emphasized that Israel would
act alone if it had to. Putting aside the potential costs of
such an operation in terms of  retaliation, diplomatic fallout
and loss of civilian life , such strikes would probably set back
the Iranian effort by only a few years.  Then, the Iranians would almost surely eject IAEA
inspectors, leaving world powers to depend on far less reliable
intelligence services to monitor Iran’s capabilities.  If Iran refuses to come to a reasonable settlement,
military action will remain an option. For now, the focus should
be on a deal.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 