-- New Jersey Seeks to Block Gay Marriage During Appeal
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-10-01T22:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/new-jersey-asks-judge-to-block-same-sex-marriages-during-appeal.html
The attorney general for New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  asked a state judge in an emergency
request to delay implementation of her ruling that same-sex
couples must be allowed to marry.  Superior Court Judge Mary Jacobson in Trenton ruled Sept.
27 that the state’s civil-union law was unconstitutional, and
 same-sex marriages  should begin Oct. 21. Acting Attorney General
John J. Hoffman asked Jacobson today to put the ruling on hold
while his office appeals directly to the state Supreme Court.  Jacobson ruled in favor of Garden State Equality and Lambda
Legal, which represents six same-sex couples and their children.
The judge ruled after the U.S. Supreme Court on June 26 struck
down a federal law denying benefits to same-sex married couples.
Hoffman said the state Legislature passed a civil union law in
2006 that retains the name marriage for heterosexual couples.  “If the court single-handedly, without guiding precedent
and without input from the  Supreme Court , reverses this course
and overrides the intent of the democratically elected branch,
the state will suffer irreparable harm,” according to Hoffman’s
motion.  The judge should allow the Supreme Court, “the ultimate
arbiter of substantial constitutional issues, to definitively
determine the contested issue and allow that court, if it deems
necessary, to take the drastic step of rejecting on
constitutional grounds” a state law, according to the motion.  ‘Irreversible’  Hoffman disputed the judge’s ruling that the state must
begin issuing marriage licenses within three weeks, which he
said would be “drastic” and “irreversible.” If Jacobson’s
ruling is upheld, New Jersey would be the 14th state to allow
same-sex marriages.  “Every day that the state does not allow same-sex couples
to marry, plaintiffs are being harmed,” Jacobson ruled.
“Plaintiffs are ineligible for many federal marital benefits at
this moment, and their right to equal protection under the New
Jersey Constitution should not be delayed until some
undeterminable future time.”  Attorney Lawrence Lustberg, who argued before Jacobson on
behalf of  Lambda Legal , said he was disappointed that the state
is appealing and seeking a stay.  “We will fight it every step of the way,” Lustberg said.
“We’re optimistic that under the governing legal standards, the
motion for a stay will be denied, and on Oct. 21, same-sex
marriages will commence.”  Reply  Advocates of same-sex marriage have until Oct. 4 to reply,
Jacobson said in an order today. The state has until Oct. 7 to
respond. Jacobson said the state waived oral arguments.  Lambda Legal’s deputy legal director, Hayley Gorenberg,
said the group expects to prevail.  “We’ll be making the case that we are likely to win and
any delay in allowing same-sex couples to marry is too great a
hardship to allow a stay,” Gorenberg said today in a statement.  In its motion, signed by Deputy Attorney General Jean P.
Reilly, the state argued that Jacobson erred in ruling that
federal officials, “over whom the state has no control,” could
affect the constitutionality of a state law.  “Under plaintiffs’ theory, state judicial decisions would
flip-flop endlessly at the whim of variable federal policies,
resulting in chaos and, effectively, the concession that the
state constitution has no independent application,” according
to the motion.  The case is Garden State Equality v. Dow, L-001729-11,  New
Jersey  Superior Court, Mercer County (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 