-- New Zealand Aims to Revolutionize Fishing With ‘Humane’ Trawl
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-10-01T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/new-zealand-aims-to-revolutionize-fishing-with-humane-trawl.html
New Zealand says it has developed a
technology that will revolutionize commercial fishing by
bringing targeted species undamaged to the surface and keeping
unwanted catch alive.  “Precision Seafood Harvesting” replaces trawling nets
with flexible plastic liners that allow undersized fish to
escape before the remainder are brought onboard, where non-target fish are released unharmed. The method, which has reached
commercialization phase after almost 10 years of research, was
unveiled by the government and three fishing companies today.  “This is the biggest step forward for commercial fishing in
150 years,” Eric Barrat, chief executive officer at listed
fishing company Sanford Ltd., said in a statement. “What we’ve
developed in New Zealand has huge benefits for fish stocks, the
environment, consumers and New Zealand’s seafood industry. In
the process we’re set to change the global fishing industry for
the better.”  Sanford, Aotearoa Fisheries, and Sealord Group have
together put NZ$26 million ($22 million) into the project, with
the government matching their investment. Scientists at state-owned Plant & Food Research worked with the companies to develop
a “humane” system that doesn’t damage either the targeted fish
or inadvertently captured animals such as stingrays and sharks.  Small fish can swim free through “escape portals” in the
liners before they are raised to the surface. Once on deck, the
remaining fish are still swimming inside the liners, meaning
unwanted catch can be returned to the sea while the targeted
species is landed fresher and in better condition.  The companies said they expect the more environmentally-friendly fishing method to increase the value of New Zealand
seafood products. New Zealand’s seafood exports were worth
NZ$1.6 billion last year, with  China  its biggest customer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  