-- New Year’s Eve Bureaucrat Binge Costs Taxpayers Billions
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-10-01T01:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/new-year-s-eve-bureaucrat-binge-costs-taxpayers-billions.html
The government shutdown is a bridge
way too far, but I hate to admit that the right-wing Republican
caucus sometimes has a point. Just take a look at what
bureaucrats get up to on their equivalent of New Year’s Eve.
It’s as wild and crazy a moment for them as it is for revelers
in Times Square. The difference is that the functionaries get to
blow taxpayer money.  The fun begins about a week before the fiscal year ends
Sept. 30. The idea is to spend every dollar in that year’s
budget by midnight, or the unspent funds will be lost.  The government worker who spends every last dime will get
an equal or greater appropriation the next year, perhaps even a
bonus for a job well done. The one who saves for a rainy day or
returns money to the Treasury won’t be so lucky. That should
teach the frugal guy in the green eyeshade who reuses paper
clips how to conduct himself in the future.  It’s not as easy as you’d think to throw away billions of
dollars, and much is spent stupidly.  Public Notice , a
nonpartisan fiscal watchdog agency, documented the spike in
spending over the last three years. The graph looks like the end
of a blood drive when the red fills up to the top.  Public Notice cites the example of the Department of
 Veterans Affairs . There’s not an agency with a more sacred
trust: caring for the soldiers who’ve fought, returned alive and
need help getting back on their feet, sometimes literally. But
over the past week, the VA has blown more than  $500,000 on art ,
according to the  Washington  Post. While a veteran isn’t being
seen, he can look at soothing photos of sunsets, mountains and
winding roads.  Triplicate Forms  Why couldn’t the VA have spent that money on making a dent
in its notorious backlog of claims? Some are so old they are
filled out in triplicate on carbon paper, accumulating in piles
so heavy that they threaten to crash through the floor.  Jon Stewart  calls it “ Operation Enduring Wait .” Barbara Mikulski, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee,
calls it untenable. The Maryland lawmaker rolled up VA Secretary
Eric Shinseki’s sleeves for him last spring, demanding that he
make claims -- about 500,000 of which have been waiting for more
than 125 days -- his highest priority. According to the VA, the
backlog is now below 422,000. At that rate, veterans will grow
old looking at pastoral scenes on the wall. Why didn’t someone
at the VA think of allocating that money to the digitized system
that’s been promised but hasn’t been completed?  That’s a boring thing to do on New Year’s Eve. The VA has a
lot of practice spending on nonessentials. The agency has
admitted to Congress that it spends so much (anywhere between
 $20 million and $100 million ) on alcohol, gift baskets,
concerts, limos, helicopter rides and spa treatments that it
can’t provide a specific number.  The VA isn’t the only spendthrift. In 2010, the  Internal
Revenue Service  decided its employees needed to go listen to
motivational speakers flown in first class to a conference in
Anaheim,  California , where the agency also put on a show
featuring an elaborate “ Star Trek ” set on which the taxmen acted
out skits involving distress calls to Planet No-Tax while
enjoying open bars and free meals.  Whatever happened to meeting in an agency’s cafeteria with
an urn of coffee? We all remember the U.S. General Services
Administration bacchanal in  Las Vegas  in 2010 that cost
$823,000. Representative Jackie Speier, a California Democrat,
said  conference overload  was the result of an end-of-year
shopping-spree mentality.  Well Spent  The one doesn’t stand for the whole, but like the dog that
didn’t get run over, people seldom notice the money that isn’t
wasted (cleaning up after  Hurricane Katrina , sending a man to
the moon). A Harvard study found that from 2004 to 2009, 16.5
percent of all  spending  occurred in the last month of the year
and 8.7 percent in the last week. Money spent on consistent
needs such as  office equipment  and  information technology  is
more or less well spent, but splurging on not-well-thought-out
wants, such as conferences and things to hang on the wall, never
is.  Big beneficiaries of these fire sales are defense
contractors who up the pizza orders and settle in for all-nighters to accommodate the last-minute flurry of Pentagon
buying. The government spent 8.5 percent of its annual budget
for contracts during the last week of the last three fiscal
years, according to  Public Notice .  Republicans and Democrats alike complain about
end-of-year binges (Time magazine had a story on the practice in
1952), but nothing changes. It’s “the very debate we aren’t
having in Washington but should,” said Senator  Tom Coburn , an
Oklahoma Republican.  In 2010, President  Barack Obama  proposed letting agencies
redirect half of their year-end surpluses to other initiatives,
with the remainder going toward deficit reduction. The hope was
that the mentality of procurement officials could be changed.
Sure, let’s change minds and hearts, but how about changing the
law, too? If Obama thinks moral suasion is working, he should
check the White House’s  virtual suggestion box , which contains a
note from an anonymous employee complaining about the National
Guard spending its extra cash on so much ammunition that there
weren’t enough people to fire it all.  Heedless spending doesn’t make government as bad as
Republicans say, but it doesn’t increase people’s trust that
government can run things such as a health-care system. It leads
to suspicion that everyone’s on the take and government has its
wallet open for them.  Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’m going to see if I can get a
small grant to study government waste. I hear there’s a sale on.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 