-- Nokia Assets Frozen by Indian Authorities as Part of Tax Dispute
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-10-01T12:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/nokia-assets-frozen-by-indian-authorities-as-part-of-tax-dispute.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the telecommunications
company selling its mobile-phone division to  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp.,
had some of its assets in  India  frozen by a local court amid a
tax dispute with the country’s government.  India’s Income Tax Appellate Tribunal on Sept. 25 ordered
all of Nokia India’s assets be frozen before an appeal on Sept.
26 provided relief, allowing the company access to its cash,
said a Nokia spokeswoman who asked not to be identified because
she isn’t authorized to discuss legal matters. Even as Nokia’s
fixed assets remain frozen, the court’s decision won’t affect
business operations or the division sale to Microsoft, she said.  India’s government has ordered Espoo, Finland-based Nokia
to pay about 20.8 billion rupees ($333 million) in missing
taxes, the spokeswoman said. The dispute stems from business
between the parent company and its Indian unit, which makes
handsets in the south Indian city of  Chennai .  “We are working closely with the tax authorities to ensure
that the parties will find a comprehensive solution to the
remaining open issues,” Nokia said in a statement yesterday.
“Nokia has sufficient assets in India to meet its tax
obligations.”  Rekha Shukla, a spokeswoman for India’s Central Board of
Direct Taxes, didn’t respond to calls to her mobile phone.  Nokia’s next court date is scheduled for  Oct. 10  in the
 High Court  of New Delhi.  Last month, the company agreed to sell its handset division
in a $7.2 billion deal to focus on businesses including wireless
networks. India is the world’s fastest-growing smartphone
market, with Nokia ranking fifth among vendors, according to
CyberMedia Research.  Nokia gained 1.4 percent to 4.92 euros at 3:23 p.m. in
Helsinki.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  