-- Norilsk Gains Most in 2 Weeks on Dividend Revision: Moscow Mover
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-10-01T11:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/norilsk-gains-most-in-2-weeks-on-dividend-revision-moscow-mover.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN)  gained the
most in almost two weeks after its main owners gave the world’s
biggest nickel and palladium producer added flexibility in
dividend payouts, revising a 10-year shareholder accord.  The stock rose as much as 3.1 percent, and traded up 1.6
percent at 4,746 rubles by 3:49 p.m. in Moscow, the biggest
intraday gain since Sept. 19. The volume of shares was
equivalent to 115 percent of the three-month average. The
benchmark Micex Index climbed 0.3 percent.  Shareholders  United Co. Rusal (486)  and billionaire Vladimir Potanin agreed last year on Norilsk dividends as part of an
accord to end a four-year dispute at the company. In part, the
amended plan has the metals company tie distributions to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
starting with dividends from this year’s profit, rather than
2015, according to a statement from Rusal.  “The change in dividend policy gives Norilsk more
flexibility in timing when it should make payments, while the
agreement is still beneficial for Rusal,” Kirill Chuyko, head
of equity of BCS Financial Group in Moscow, said by phone. “In
the nearest four years, Norilsk may pay a bit more than was
originally agreed.”  Rusal and Potanin, who became Norilsk’s chief executive
officer as part of their peace accord, brought in billionaire
Roman Abramovich last year as a shareholder to help mediate
their battle.  Dividend Yield  Rusal depositary receipts gained 0.8 percent to 96.23
rubles. Rusal owns 28 percent of Moscow-based Norilsk. Potanin’s
Interros controls about 30 percent in Norilsk, while Abramovich
and his business partner Alexander Abramov hold about 6 percent.  Under the revised terms, Norilsk will pay at least $2
billion in dividends each year for 2013 and 2014, after paying a
similar amount from 2012 profit. They had initially planned for
Norilsk to pay as much as $9 billion in dividends for 2012
through 2014, then half of Ebitda in subsequent years.  A $2 billion payout by Norilsk for this year would give a
dividend yield of 9 percent, among the highest in the universe
of metals and mining companies, Chuyko said.  For dividends from 2015 earnings, the revised terms call
for Norilsk to pay 50 percent of Ebitda, plus the difference
between $7 billion and the combined total of distributions made
in that year and 2014. Norilsk is allowed to reduce the dividend
for 2015 by as much 20 percent and to make up for any shortfall
the following year, according to today’s statement.  Sale Proceeds  Norilsk will also  distribute  as much as $1 billion raised
from the sale of assets at the first dividend distribution date
following the revised deal, Rusal said.  For 2017 and subsequent years, the payments will be 50
percent of Ebitda. Petr Likholitov, a Norilsk spokesman,
declined to comment.  Norilsk plans to sell international assets to focus on
profitable mines in northern  Russia , according to a strategy
review agreed by its board. The company will prioritize
operations with potential annual revenue exceeding $1 billion,
profit margins of more than 40 percent and resource potential
for more than 20 years of output, Pavel Fedorov, Norilsk deputy
chief executive officer, said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  