-- North Korea Road-Mobile Missile a Concern for U.S., Thurman Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-01T08:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/north-korea-road-mobile-missile-a-concern-for-u-s-thurman-says.html
North Korea ’s new road-mobile
intercontinental ballistic missile is of concern to the U.S. in
part because it may be difficult to detect, according to the
departing commander of U.S. Forces Korea.  The Hwasong-13 is now part of North Korea’s weapons
portfolio, retiring Army General James Thurman told reporters in
 Seoul  today. While it is “difficult to assess” the missile’s
full operational capability it demonstrates North Korea’s
“continued desire to develop long-range missiles,” General
Thurman said.  North Korea unveiled the road-mobile Hwasong-13 ICBM in
April 2012 and continues to develop the Taepodong-2, which could
reach the U.S. if it is developed as an ICBM, the U.S. National
Air and Space Intelligence Center said in a report this year.
The center put the maximum range of both missiles at least at
5,500 kilometers (3,420 miles).  Concerns over North Korean’s missile capability have
increased since the North conducted its third nuclear test in
February. South Korean officials and arms experts have said Kim Jong Un’s regime may be getting closer to marrying nuclear
warheads to missiles, with North  Korea  in 2009 abandoning
international talks aimed at dismantling its nuclear programs.  ‘Close Watch’  “Of concern to us, obviously is the road-mobile capability
and the ability to detect that,” General Thurman said. The
missile’s development “is something we will continue to keep a
close watch on,” he said. “What we watch every day is not only
that system” but North Korea’s entire missile program.  The U.S. National Air and Space Intelligence Center said in
its report that continued efforts to develop the Taepodong-2 and
the most-recent ICBM “show the determination of North Korea to
achieve long-range ballistic missile and space launch
capabilities.” “North Korea has exported ballistic missile
systems and will probably continue to do so,” the center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  