-- Norway to Fight Record Household Debt Load as Government Formed
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-01T12:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/norway-to-fight-record-household-debt-load-as-government-formed.html
Norway ’s new government, formed
yesterday after two weeks of talks, plans to offer tax breaks to
encourage consumers to set aside savings in an effort to help
the nation deal with its record household debt burden.  “I don’t think that we have too large of a private debt
problem in Norway but we will create tax relief on savings,”
Erna Solberg, leader of the  Conservative Party  and incoming
prime minister after winning the Sept. 9 election, said
yesterday in an interview after agreeing to form a minority
coalition with the anti-tax Progress Party. “The policy will be
to get more people saving for the future.”  Though Norway’s government boasts no net debt thanks to its
$780 billion sovereign wealth fund, the nation’s consumers have
built up record borrowings after years of low interest rates.
That’s fueled asset prices in  Scandinavia ’s richest economy per
capita, driving  house prices  to an all-time high and prompting
warnings from regulators that the development is unsustainable.  Solberg said in an interview last month she would scale
back caps on borrowing imposed under the Labor government of
outgoing Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. The Financial
Supervisory Authority sets a guideline urging banks to limit
mortgage lending to 85 percent of a property’s value. Solberg’s
plans to ease that cap triggered a warning from the FSA last
month amid concern Norway’s housing market is still overheated.  Business Competitiveness  “As long as the rest of the economy is going well private
debt is not a problem,” Solberg said yesterday. “If you have
rising unemployment it’s a problem. You have to tackle
unemployment and business competitiveness first.”  The parties that won last month’s election, toppling
Stoltenberg’s Labor-led government after eight years in office,
have agreed to continue his party’s fiscal framework. The
coalition of the Conservatives and Progress Party will rule with
backing of the  Christian Democrats  and the Liberals.  The four parties agreed to keep a rule limiting spending of
Norway’s oil riches to 4 percent of the sovereign wealth fund.
The bloc also agreed to hold off on a feasibility study for oil
exploration off the environmentally sensitive Lofoten islands in
the  Norwegian Sea  over the next four years.  Norway’s oil industry voiced immediate dissatisfaction with
the new government’s decision not to pave the way for
exploration around the Lofoten islands. Solberg’s coalition has
also said it plans to restrict exploration off the Jan Mayen
islands, as well as in the Skagerak Sea and the Moere fields,
according to the accord released yesterday.  Oil Industry  Oil companies  such as state-controlled Statoil ASA, which
operates more than 70 percent of all production in Norway, have
said it is urgent to open the area, which could hold 3.4 billion
barrels of oil equivalent, to make up for falling production
from the  North Sea .  “It’s disappointing and a problem for democracy that the
new government has chosen to say no to an impact study,” said
Gro Braekken, head of the Norwegian Oil and Gas business group,
in an e-mail yesterday.  The Progress Party, which will enter government for the
first time since it was formed as an anti-tax movement in 1973,
had wanted to raise oil spending and tap more of the nation’s
wealth fund. The coalition, which will spending the coming days
appointing ministers and designing its government program, has
said it will target tax cuts and more spending on infrastructure
and health care.  Rate Pressure  Norges Bank forecasts the mainland economy, which excludes
oil and gas production, will grow 1.75 percent this year, after
expanding 3.4 percent in 2012. The bank left its main  interest
rate  at 1.5 percent last month, signaling faster tightening
after successfully fighting back krone gains. Norway has
struggled to keep its $500 billion economy balanced as record
monetary easing across the globe distorts asset prices in some
of the world’s richest nations.  Since Norway’s FSA introduced measures to curb bank
lending, Norway’s housing market has shown signs of cooling.
Annual house price gains slowed 3.9 percent in August, the
smallest increase since July 2009, according to the real estate
group. The number of existing homes for sale jumped from a year
earlier, putting sales roughly on pace with a record in 2012,
the group said.  Moody’s Investors Service said in a report today that
Norway, together with the rest of the Nordic region, suffers
from a “highly indebted private sector and high house prices,
which could inhibit private consumption over the coming years.”
The ratings company affirmed the stable Aaa credit grades of
Norway,  Sweden ,  Finland  and  Denmark .  Norway’s FSA, the central bank and the  International
Monetary Fund  have all sounded the alarm on risks facing the
nation’s housing market after prices doubled over the past
decade and household debt swelled to 200 percent of disposable
incomes. Outgoing Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen, who will
step down this month, has fought to prevent a re-run of the
early 1990s crisis that sent real estate prices down as much as
40 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  