-- Norway to Fight Record Private Debt With Tax Goad for Savers
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-01T08:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/norway-to-tackle-record-consumer-debt-with-tax-breaks-for-savers.html
Norway ’s new government plans to
offer tax breaks to encourage consumers to set aside savings in
an effort to help the nation deal with record household debt.  “I don’t think that we have too large of a private debt
problem in Norway but we will create tax relief on savings,”
Erna Solberg, leader of the Conservative Party and incoming
prime minister after winning the Sept. 9 election, said
yesterday in an interview after agreeing to form a minority
government with the anti-tax Progress Party. “The policy will
be to get more people saving for the future.”  Though Norway’s government boasts no net debt thanks to its
$780 billion sovereign wealth fund, the nation’s consumers have
built up record borrowings after years of low interest rates.
That’s fueled asset prices in  Scandinavia ’s richest economy per
capita, driving house prices to an all-time high and prompting
warnings from regulators that the development is unsustainable.  Solberg said in an interview last month she would scale
back caps on borrowing imposed under the Labor government of
outgoing Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. The Financial
Supervisory Authority sets a guideline urging banks to limit
mortgage lending to 85 percent of a property’s value. Solberg’s
plans to ease that cap triggered a warning from the FSA last
month amid concern Norway’s housing market is still overheated.  Business Competitiveness  “As long as the rest of the economy is going well private
debt is not a problem,” Solberg said yesterday. “If you have
rising unemployment it’s a problem. You have to tackle
unemployment and business competitiveness first.”  Norges Bank forecasts the mainland economy, which excludes
oil and gas production, will grow 1.75 percent this year, after
expanding 3.4 percent in 2012. The bank left its main interest
rate at 1.5 percent last month, signaling faster tightening
after successfully fighting back krone gains. Norway has
struggled to keep its $500 billion economy balanced as record
monetary easing across the globe distorts asset prices in some
of the world’s richest nations.  Since Norway’s FSA introduced measures to curb bank
lending, Norway’s housing market has shown signs of cooling.
Annual house price gains slowed 3.9 percent in August, the
smallest increase since July 2009, according to the real estate
group. The number of existing homes for sale jumped from a year
earlier, putting sales roughly on pace with a record in 2012,
the group said.  Moody’s Warning  Moody’s Investors Service said in a report today that
Norway, together with the rest of the Nordic region, suffers
from a “highly indebted private sector and high house prices,
which could inhibit private consumption over the coming years.”
The ratings company affirmed the stable Aaa credit grades of
Norway,  Sweden ,  Finland  and  Denmark .  Norway’s FSA, the central bank and the International
Monetary Fund have all sounded the alarm on risks facing the
nation’s housing market after prices doubled over the past
decade and household debt swelled to 200 percent of disposable
incomes. Outgoing Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen, who will
step down this month, has fought to prevent a re-run of the
early 1990s crisis that sent real estate prices down as much as
40 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  