-- Novartis Ads for Diovan May Have Violated Japan Law, Panel Says
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2013-10-01T07:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/novartis-ads-for-diovan-may-have-violated-japan-law-panel-says.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  may have violated a
Japanese law by promoting its Diovan hypertension medicine as a
treatment for cutting stroke risks without sufficient evidence,
a breach which could lead to fines and jail terms, according to
a government panel.  Novartis may have boosted sales by citing flawed data, the
panel, formed by the health ministry to probe claims of the
inaccurate research, said in an  interim report  yesterday.
Studies had found that Diovan, approved in Japan as a blood-pressure drug, also cut the risk of stroke. Kyoto Prefectural
University of Medicine and Jikei University, which conducted two
of the five studies, all initiated by doctors, subsequently said
the data could have been manipulated.  Medical journals including the  Lancet  and European Heart
Journal this year retracted the studies on Diovan, Novartis’s
second-best seller with  $4.4 billion  in 2012 sales. The
ministry’s panel, which is probing the drugmaker’s involvement
and how data manipulation occurred, also said it found a
conflict of interest regarding funds given by Novartis to Jikei
and Kyoto Prefectural universities.  “The competition for hypertension drugs must have been
fierce when Diovan was approved, and any drugmaker would have
thought additional evidence to differentiate its products could
help increase sales,” the panel said in its report. “While the
motive by Novartis is obvious, the doctors’ purpose for the
study is unclear. The government should conduct an on-site
inspection and take stern action.”  Novartis, which said it found no evidence that its former
workers manipulated data, will cooperate fully on further
investigations to determine what happened, Yoshiyasu Ninomiya,
head of the  Japan  unit, said in a  statement  yesterday.  Jail Term  Individuals guilty of violating the law on over-promotion
of drugs face a jail term of as long as two years, according to
the health ministry’s  website . Companies can be fined as much as
2 million yen ($20,000) and have their operations suspended.  Japan accounted for $5.4 billion, or 9.5 percent, of
Novartis’s $56.7 billion in revenue last year, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Novartis, which donated 570 million yen to Kyoto
Prefectural and Jikei universities for running classes, also
expected part of the funds to be used to pay for the drug
trials, the panel said. The Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker
was therefore a sponsor of the studies, it said.  Remains Unclear  In July, Novartis said some former employees of its
Japanese unit who worked on the Diovan trials failed to declare
in the studies their affiliations to the drugmaker. A report
commissioned by Novartis found no evidence that the former
workers manipulated scientific data, it said at the time.  The ministry’s panel said it remains unclear who altered
the data and for what purpose.  The universities’ investigations were sparked by a doctor
at  Kyoto University , who wasn’t involved in the studies and
questioned the validity of the data last year, the panel said.  The five trials were conducted from 2001 to 2004 in Japan
at  Tokyo ’s Jikei University; Chiba University, east of Tokyo;
Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine in western Japan; Shiga
University of Medical Science and Nagoya University in central
Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  