-- NRA Has Some Good Ideas for Stopping Massacres
-- B y   C r a i g   R .   W h i t n e y
-- 2013-10-01T19:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/nra-has-some-good-ideas-for-stopping-massacres.html
Gun-control advocates think the only
way to keep guns out of the hands of people who shouldn’t have
them is to make it harder for everybody to get them.  They should listen to some of the things National Rifle
Association Executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre, their
biggest nemesis, has been saying.  These aren’t the usual NRA cliches about how President
 Barack Obama ’s anti-gun bureaucrats are using mass shootings as
an excuse to seize everybody’s guns. After so many tragedies --
Tucson,  Arizona ; Aurora,  Colorado ; Newtown,  Connecticut ; the
 Washington  Navy Yard -- most NRA members are appalled by gun
violence. But what is LaPierre saying about what it would take
to stop or reduce it?  Here’s  what he said  on NBC’s “Meet the Press” a week
after a contractor -- who had a security clearance despite clear
signs of mental distress -- shot and killed a dozen people at
the Washington Navy Yard on Sept. 16: “We have a mental health
system in this country that has completely and totally
collapsed. We have no national database of these lunatics.”  LaPierre said much the same thing after Adam Lanza killed
his mother and then used her guns to slay 20 first-grade
children and six adults in Newtown last year. His comments on
mental health were brushed off, and he was ridiculed for saying
schools would be  safer with armed guards .  ‘No Loopholes’  Yet he was making a valid point. Better diagnostic and
treatment systems stand a chance of preventing a disturbed
person from descending into violent lunacy. That is the only way
Lanza might have been stopped, because he didn’t buy any guns.
Still, better coordination between state health authorities and
the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation’s  National Instant Criminal
Background Check System  could more effectively prevent criminals
and mentally ill people from buying guns -- at least from
federally licensed firearms dealers -- by ensuring that their
names are on the background-check list.  In April, the NRA vigorously and successfully opposed
attempts by Senate Democrats to pass legislation to ban sales of
semi-automatic rifles like the one Lanza used in Newtown, as
well as to close the “gun-show loophole” that exempts private
gun sellers, who account for anywhere from 10 percent to 40
percent of all sales, from the background-check requirement.
When the Senate voted,  no gun-control measures  could get the 60
votes needed to prevent a filibuster, and the NRA crowed
victory.  But again, listen to what LaPierre has been saying: “On
the gun check, the NRA supported the gun check because we
thought the mental records would be in the system; we thought
criminals would be in the system. And we thought they would be
prosecuted.”  There are hopeful signs that some people in Washington are
beginning to take the issue of mental health care seriously.
Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat, and her co-sponsors, including a handful of Republicans, are pushing the
Excellence in Mental Health Act, which would promote emergency
24-hour psychiatric services and other improvements. Replacing
services that were largely dismantled decades ago will take
years and cost billions. LaPierre should be challenged to put at
least some NRA lobbying clout, or money, where his mouth is on
the issue of improvements in mental health care.  He also has made unexpected comments on other areas related
to gun control. In 1999, he and the NRA supported universal
background checks. “We think it’s reasonable to provide
mandatory instant criminal background checks for every sale at
every gun show,” he told the House Judiciary Subcommittee on
Crime  at the time . “No loopholes anywhere for anyone.”  Private Sales  Yet the NRA fought tooth and nail last spring against the
universal background check bill that failed in the Senate,
saying it would “criminalize” private sales between family
members and close friends and would be the first step toward a
federal  gun registry  and eventual seizure.  In fact, the bill specifically banned establishment of a
federal gun registry and included exemptions for sales between
close relatives, and it had bipartisan sponsorship. It also
included provisions to penalize states that lag in providing the
database with names of criminals, addicts and people who have
been adjudicated as mentally ill and reward states for complying
faster.  This will come up again. LaPierre should be asked, once
again, to tell the truth, and to live up to his own words.  If legislators who vote in lockstep with the NRA would take
the trouble to read the  legislation  they vote on, and if they
and their colleagues on the other side would pay closer
attention to LaPierre’s statements, they might be able to fight
their way through the cant that dominates the discussion about
guns. They might then be able to find agreement on common-sense
ways to reduce, if not eliminate, routine gun violence and
periodic gun massacres.  At the very least,  gun-control  advocates could point out
that LaPierre often speaks out of both sides of his mouth. He
says, for example, that criminals pay no attention to gun-control laws, but he also says people who lie when filling out
the forms for the  background checks  should be prosecuted but
aren’t. He should be asked why the NRA fought legislation that
would increase criminal penalties for “straw purchases” and
gun trafficking.  Perhaps, of course, LaPierre occasionally says conciliatory
things because he knows gun controllers have no chance. Even so,
if made aware of his inconsistent positions, some legislators
who vote in lockstep with the NRA might eventually see a path to
an agreement on common-sense measures, mental health and, yes,
gun control.  (Craig R. Whitney, a former assistant managing editor and
foreign correspondent for the  New York  Times, is the author of
“ Living With Guns : A Liberal’s Case for the Second
Amendment.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Craig Whitney at  crwhitney65@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 