-- NZ Needs to Maintain Inflation Target, Former RBNZ Chairman Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-10-01T00:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/nz-needs-to-maintain-inflation-target-former-rbnz-chairman-says.html
New Zealand  must guard against making
its inflation target any looser because of the economic pain
required to rein in prices, according to former central bank
Chairman Arthur Grimes.  “It’s been loosened steadily over the years,” Grimes said
in a Radio New Zealand interview today. “It’s fine as it is
now. It’s absolutely vital not to loosen the target further.”  New Zealand’s central bank is required by the government to
keep average annual inflation in a 1 percent to 3 percent range
in the medium term. Governor Graeme Wheeler, who came into the
role in September last year, agreed to focus on the 2 percent
midpoint.  Consumer prices rose 0.7 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier. The central bank last month forecast annual
inflation will reach 2 percent in mid-2015.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand was the first central bank
with a legislated inflation target, initially set at 0 percent
to 2 percent in 1989, before the top bound was raised to 3
percent in 1996. The lower bound was raised in 2002.  Grimes’s comments come as political parties such as New
Zealand First call for the central bank to target employment and
the  exchange rate  when its sets  interest rates .  “It’s really important not to expect monetary policy to do
too much,” he said. “If you lose the focus of it you can make
every outcome worse, even the ones you are supposedly trying to
achieve.”  Grimes stood down as chairman on Sept. 18 after a decade in
the role. Under the New Zealand model, the governor has the sole
decision making role on policy and the board has an oversight
role, making sure the bank is well run and policy is set in
accordance with the target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  