-- Obama Accuses Republicans of Waging ‘Crusade’ Against Health Law
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-10-01T17:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/obama-accuses-republicans-of-waging-crusade-against-health-law.html
President  Barack Obama  went on the
attack against House Republicans, blaming them for shutting down
many government operations as part of an “ideological crusade”
against his health-care law.  “One faction of one party, in one house of Congress, in
one branch of government shut down major parts of the government
all because they didn’t like one law,” the president said at
the White House. “It’s all about rolling back the Affordable
Care Act.”  Republicans and Democrats in Congress remained at an
impasse over reaching a budget deal on the first day of the new
fiscal year. That led to a shutdown of the government at
midnight, forcing about 800,000 federal workers off the job. The
shutdown could cost the economy as much as $10 billion a week,
the White House said on its w ebsite .  Obama is seeking to reinforce his message to voters about
who is to blame in the standoff, calling it a “Republican
shutdown.” Republicans have criticized the president, saying he
has refused to negotiate.  “I urge  House Republicans  to reopen the government,” he
said.  Obama spoke after meeting in the Oval Office with Americans
who are among those the White House says will benefit from the
opening of marketplace “ shopping centers ” on state or federal
websites as part of the Affordable Care Act.  The insurance exchanges got off to a rocky start, with many
websites meant to provide new access to the uninsured seeing
delays or breakdowns. New York’s exchange was swamped with 2.5
million visitors in the first half-hour, officials there said.  Website Delays  The U.S.-run marketplace meant to serve 36 states also had
troubles, with messages saying the site was dealing with “a lot
of visitors” or simply “down.”  Of the 14 states and  Washington , D.C., that have their own
exchanges, only four --  Massachusetts ,  Rhode Island , Colorado
and Washington, D.C. -- appeared to be up and ready for business
between 9:30 and 10:30 a.m.  New York  time.  Obama said the law won’t be affected by the partial
government shutdown because the program is funded by mandatory
spending. The dire predictions about cost and health-care
rationing by the law’s opponents “haven’t come true,” he said.
Obama acknowledged “glitches” in the system on its first day
because demand on health-care websites exceeded expectations.  Federal agencies pared employees, who were able to work for
a few hours before being sent home. The White House itself,
normally staffed with 1,701 workers, was making do with a
projected 436 people, according to plans filed with the Office
of Management and Budget.  It wasn’t clear how long the shutdown might last, and there
were no known negotiations planned after the Senate earlier
today rejected an offer from the House to meet in a conference
committee to settle differences.  It was the first shutdown of the government since 1995-1996
when President  Bill Clinton  was in a budget battle with
Republicans in Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  