-- Obama Nominee Binz Withdraws From Consideration for FERC
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-10-01T14:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/obama-nominee-binz-withdraws-from-consideration-for-ferc.html
President  Barack Obama ’s choice to
lead the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission dropped out
after opposition from Republicans and a key Democrat concerned
he would support renewable energy at the expense of coal all but
doomed his nomination.  Ron Binz, a former chairman of the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission, said he won’t seek the FERC chairmanship
because he didn’t have the support of a majority of the Senate
Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which was considering
his nomination.  “Last evening I asked the President that my name be
withdrawn from further consideration as his nominee” to the
FERC, Binz said today in a statement. “I am
withdrawing so that the President can move forward with another
nominee, allowing the FERC to continue its important work with a
full complement of commissioners.”  While the White House hasn’t named a replacement, possible
candidates to head the FERC now include Colette Honorable,
chairman of the Arkansas Public Service Commission, and FERC
commissioner Cheryl LaFleur, a former executive vice president
of  National Grid Plc (NG/) ’s U.S. subsidiary, according to industry
officials that conduct business with the five-member commission.  ‘Bad Sign’  “The administration must now nominate a thoughtful leader
who doesn’t have an anti-energy-job agenda. If they don’t, they
can expect another fight,” Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  said in an e-mail.  Binz said today in a phone interview that it’s a “really
bad sign” that the FERC got swept up into politics. “What
happened to me is unfortunately not unusual in DC politics,” he
said. It’s unusual that the FERC, an independent agency, got
caught in a political fight, Binz said.  “We need agencies like the FERC to help us get to a better
place on energy,” said Binz, who plans plans to return to his
consulting practice in Denver.  Senator Tim Scott, a South Carolina Republican, said on
Sept. 25 he would vote against Binz, virtually ensuring that the
nominee wouldn’t have the backing of a majority of the Senate
committee. The other nine Republicans on the 22-person panel
already said they would oppose the nomination. Senator Joe Manchin, a West Virginia Democrat, also planned to vote against
Binz.  GOP Opposition  Republicans led by Lisa Murkowski of  Alaska , the party’s
top member on the committee, lined up against Binz after his
Sept. 17 confirmation hearing before the panel. Murkowski told
Binz at the hearing she was concerned he wasn’t forthcoming
about the extent of his support from lobbyists and public-relations officials.  Others, including Senator Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican,
and Manchin said Binz displayed a bias toward renewable fuels at
the expense of coal as head of the Colorado regulatory
authority. Without Manchin’s support, Binz needed the backing of
at least one Republican on the Senate committee.  Binz said he believes the coal industry was primarily
responsible for ending his nomination. “It’s really too bad
that the industry is spending it’s money opposing presidential
nominees instead of putting it into research” for carbon
capture and other technologies, he said.  Binz said that his positions on energy were “repeatedly
twisted and misrepresented.”  Binz, who had the support of clean-energy groups and 12
former FERC commissioners from both parties, said at his
confirmation hearing that he was open about the support he had
received to help prepare for his nomination. He also said he
wasn’t against coal and supported the use of natural gas as a
fuel source.  “We are grateful for Ron’s willingness to serve and regret
that qualified public servants continue to get obstructed by the
Senate confirmation process,” White House spokesman  Eric
Schultz  said in response to a request for comment.  Schultz said he wouldn’t speculate on any future nominee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  