-- Obama Says Fed Nominee to Keep Bernanke ‘Smart Policies’
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-10-01T11:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/obama-says-fed-nominee-to-keep-bernanke-smart-policies-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
person he nominates to lead the Federal Reserve will maintain
the “smart policies” of the current chairman, Ben S. Bernanke.  The president, in an interview with NPR News, replied
“no” when asked whether a delay in choosing a successor to
Bernanke has hurt the Fed.  “Ben Bernanke’s done an outstanding job,” Obama said,
according to a transcript released today by the radio network.
“He’s maintained confidence. And whoever I appoint I think will
continue many of the smart policies that Ben Bernanke’s made.”  Obama is likely to choose the Fed’s current vice chairman,
Janet Yellen, to succeed Bernanke, Senator  Dick Durbin , the No.
2 Democrat in the chamber, said Sept. 26.  “I would bet a few bucks that that would happen if I were
a betting man,” Durbin, of Illinois, told  Peter Cook  in a
Bloomberg Television interview. Bernanke’s term expires Jan. 31.  Durbin, who has close ties to Obama, is one of about 20
Senate Democrats who signed a July 26 letter urging the
president to pick Yellen, 67.  Former Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  has withdrawn
his name from consideration.  In the NPR interview, conducted yesterday just hours before
the government shut down at midnight with lawmakers mired in a
dispute over implementation of his Affordable Care Act, Obama
expressed frustration over Congress and its failure to pass a
budget.  “ Ben Bernanke  himself has said that his job would be a
whole lot easier, and the next Fed chairman’s job would be a
whole lot easier, if Congress started doing what it’s supposed
to be doing,” Obama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  