-- Hollande Giving Workers Say in M&A Deepens Fortress-France Image
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-10-01T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/hollande-giving-workers-say-in-m-a-deepens-fortress-france-image.html
Takeovers of French companies,
already among  Europe ’s least targeted, are about to become even
less desirable.  Seeking to fend off hostile takeovers and limit plant
closings, the French  National Assembly  yesterday adopted rules
that would give employees a bigger say over bids. The bill,
which also forces companies with more than 1,000 employees in
 France  to document attempts to find a suitable buyer before
shuttering a plant with more than 50 workers, is expected to
become law once it has been discussed and voted in the Senate
and then passed by parliament.  “It projects an image of protectionism in France, and
that’s not how we’re going to fix our problems,” said  Thibaut
De Smedt , a partner at Bryan, Garnier & Co., which handles
French corporate-finance transactions. “In the M&A world, the
image of France viewed from outside is deplorable, and this law
is adding extra complexity.”  Foreign companies have spent $14.8 billion on French
targets this year, putting 2013 on track to be the weakest for
such deals in at least a decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The new rules may further dissuade potential buyers.
France hasn’t seen a major hostile takeover since Mittal Steel
Co. bought Arcelor SA in 2006 in a transaction then valued at
about $36 billion.  The attempt to keep potential predators at bay comes even
as French companies remain among the world’s most acquisitive.
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and Schneider Electric SA
are among companies making $135 billion of takeovers since the
start of last year, exceeding most nations in western Europe
aside from the U.K., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An Anachronism  “The measures were clearly thought up by people living in
the last century,” said Jean-Pierre Martel, a founding partner
at Orrick Rambaud Martel, who advised on French drugmaker
Sanofi’s takeover of Aventis in 2004. “It’s implicitly aimed at
foreigners and meant to defend French interests. It’s ridiculous.
The biggest French companies have significant foreign investors
and are very international. Seen from abroad, this will scare
everyone.”  The debate over protecting French interests has been a
political hot potato since Canadian aluminum maker Alcan Inc.
bought French rival Pechiney SA a decade ago, eventually
breaking it up and shutting plants. More recently, ArcelorMittal,
the world’s largest steelmaker, decided to shutter a plant in
France in the north-eastern city of Florange.  The plant was the site where French President  Francois Hollande  pledged a few months before being elected in May 2012
to pass a law forcing large firms to  sell  rather than close
sites to cap unemployment, which now stands at a 14-year high.  Socialist Credentials  The Socialist president, whose popularity is at a record
low, is trying to make good on that campaign promise after being
accused by some unions of caving in to ArcelorMittal when he
ruled against a proposal by Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg 
to temporarily nationalize the Florange plant last December.  The event is a central episode in the minister’s just-released book “La bataille du made in France,” on defending
the country’s industry in the face of “large corporations with
questionable behavior.”  With the bill, Hollande is seeking to re-burnish his
credentials with his base. To its opponents, the bill asks
potential buyers to stay out.  “The provision forcing a search for a buyer of sites
before their closure could be interpreted as telling foreign
investors not to invest in France,” Jean-Claude Rivalland, a
partner at Allen & Overy LLP in Paris, said in an interview.
“In terms of perception, this could be a disaster.”  Further Complexity  Even without the law, the state has not been shy about
blocking deals. One such example this year was the failed
attempt by Yahoo! Inc. to invest in YouTube’s smaller rival
DailyMotion, a unit of phone operator  Orange SA (ORA) , in which the
state is the  single-biggest shareholder  with a 27 percent stake.
Orange Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard had sought to
sell a majority stake in DailyMotion to expand the brand and
finance research.  Industry Minister Montebourg summoned executives of the two
companies to the  finance ministry  in April, giving them a
dressing down and accusing the Orange executive of selling one
of France’s “crown jewels,” said a person with direct
knowledge of the discussion. The deal was abandoned.  The new rules would add a level of complexity to a process
that foreign buyers already deem cumbersome.  Constraining Legislation  Under the new rules, the workers’ committee of a target
company will be able to name an accountant to assess a bid and
would have a month to render its non-bidding view, which would
be required before the board of the target company publishes its
official response to a takeover offer.  The works council could ask a judge to intervene if it
feels it didn’t get satisfactory responses to its queries,
potentially delaying any deal.  “The reforms will make everything much more complex,
particularly when the works council intervenes,” Martel said.  The law would also force a company with more than 1,000
employees that wants to close down a site to look for a buyer
for three months.  If it fails to do so or turns down a “serious” offer, a
judge may impose a fine of up to 20 times the minimum wage for
each job loss, or a maximum of 2 percent of annual sales.  “Our labor legislation is particularly constraining and is
scaring off a lot of people, while foreign investment could help
our economy,” Olivier de Vilmorin, an M&A lawyer at Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP in Paris, said in an interview. “The proposed bill
isn’t likely to make France more attractive to investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ; 