-- Homebuilder Selvaag Slides on Hesitant Norway Market: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-10-01T11:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/homebuilder-selvaag-slides-on-hesitant-norway-market-oslo-mover.html
Selvaag Bolig ASA (SBO) , a homebuilder
focused on Norway’s biggest cities, dropped to a nine-month low
in Oslo after saying that buyers in  Europe ’s second-richest
nation per capita have become “more hesitant.”  Selvaag, based in the Norwegian capital, fell as much as
 4.9 percent  to 17.50 kroner, the lowest intraday level since
Dec. 28. The stock traded 3.8 percent lower as of 12:27 p.m.,
with trading at more than double the average daily volume during
the last three months.  “Demand for new homes remains high, but the market is more
hesitant than in the first half,” Chief Executive Officer Baard Schumann said in a statement today. “We’re experiencing
relatively good demand for homes in the 2 to 4 million kroner
($333,000 to $666,000) price segment, but it’s become harder to
sell more expensive residences.”  Norway , which boasts no net debt thanks to its $785 billion
sovereign wealth fund, is seeking to encourage saving and curb
growth in private borrowings which have climbed to records after
years of low  interest rates . That’s fueled asset prices in
Norway, driving house prices to all-time highs and prompting
warnings from regulators that the development is unsustainable.  Norway’s new government, led by Conservative leader Erna Solberg, plans to offer tax breaks to encourage consumers to set
aside savings, she said after winning the Sept. 9 election.  Sounded Alarm  Her government, which yesterday agreed to form a minority
government with the Progress Party, will scale back caps on
borrowing imposed under the Labor government of outgoing Prime
Minister Jens Stoltenberg.  Norway’s FSA, the central bank and the  International
Monetary Fund  have all sounded the alarm on risks facing the
nation’s housing market after prices doubled over the past
decade and household debt swelled to 200 percent of disposable
incomes. Outgoing Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen, who will
step down this month, has fought to prevent a re-run of the
early 1990s crisis that sent real estate prices down as much as
40 percent.  Selvaag sold 236 homes with a total value of 625 million
kroner in the third quarter, it said today. That compares with
303 homes valued at 966 million kroner a year earlier.  House prices fell a seasonally adjusted 0.9 percent in
September from a month earlier, the Norwegian Association of
Real Estate Agents told reporters in Oslo today.  “It seems fair to conclude that  house prices  have turned
and are now on a falling trend,” Nordea Bank AB economist
Katrine Boye said in an e-mail. “If prices continue to drop as
sharply as this, potential consequences for the economy and for
Norges Bank are big.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  