-- London Mayor Johnson Makes Joke of Tory Leadership Speculation
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-10-01T11:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/london-mayor-johnson-makes-joke-of-tory-leadership-speculation.html
London  Mayor  Boris Johnson  made a
joke of speculation that it’s his ambition to be Conservative
leader as he started his keynote speech to the annual party
conference today.  Johnson said he’d been visited by  Alain Juppe , the mayor of
the city of Bordeaux, who also simultaneously held office as
French prime minister in the 1990s. “A very good idea in my
view,” Johnson said to laughter. “Joke! Joke!”  Johnson, whose annual appearances at Tory conferences are
characterized by flirting with the idea he could replace Prime
Minister  David Cameron  at the head of the party, has been more
restrained at this year’s convention in Manchester, saying
yesterday it would never happen.  The mayor would have to return to Parliament as a lawmaker
in order to run for the Tory leadership. Cameron is currently
trailing the opposition  Labour Party  in opinion polls and there
is speculation he may face a leadership challenge if the Tories
lose the 2015 general election. Johnson’s second four-year term
as mayor of London ends in 2016.  Cameron said today he would give Johnson a “warm welcome”
if he decides to return to Parliament in the 2015 election.  “I think he’s got an enormous amount to give to public
life, and I don’t think he’s given up on that idea either,”
Cameron told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program. “All I know that
he’s a massive asset to the country, a massive asset to the
 Conservative Party . We could make a very strong team together,
we do today.”  Members’ Poll  A poll of 852 Conservative Party members carried out in
June by YouGov Plc on behalf of Tim Bale, who teaches politics
at Queen Mary, University of London, found 38 percent would vote
for Johnson as their first preference, with Home Secretary
Theresa May second with 18 percent.  “The reason Cameron is endorsing Boris’s return is that he
feels secure enough to do it,” Bale said in an interview in
Manchester today. “Cameron also recognizes Boris’s comeback to
Parliament is going to happen anyway so he is much better off
facilitating it.”  In an interview in June, Cameron praised the talents of
other senior members of his party, including May, Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne , and Education Secretary Michael Gove. Defence Secretary Philip Hammond ruled himself out as a
future leader on Sept. 30.  In an interview near Manchester yesterday, Johnson said
he’s not intending to make a bid to become Tory leader.  “I have no such plans,” he said. “Ever, now, whenever.”  After winning re-election in London last year against the
national anti-Conservative trend, Johnson was given a rock star-style reception when he arrived in Birmingham for the 2012 Tory
conference, being greeted by ranks of photographers and crowds
chanting “Boris, Boris” when he got off a train at New Street
station.  This year’s appearances have been lower-profile, though he
was given a standing ovation at a rally in Manchester last night
at which he reminded activists of his achievements in his five
years as mayor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Manchester, England, or
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  