-- Toyota Loses Bid to Get Acceleration-Injury Suit Tossed
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2013-10-01T15:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/toyota-loses-bid-to-get-acceleration-injury-suit-tossed.html
(Corrects trial date in second paragraph.)  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  tentatively lost a
bid to get a court to throw out a lawsuit claiming one of its
cars suddenly accelerated and caused an accident that left a
woman severely injured.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in Santa Ana,
California, yesterday issued a tentative ruling denying Toyota’s
request for a summary judgment in the lawsuit brought by the
estate of Ida St. John, finding sufficient evidence for the case
to go forward. The ruling, if made final, would mean St. John’s
case will begin trial Nov. 5, the first of the federal claims
consolidated before Selna to reach a jury.  St. John, then 83, was injured when her 2005 Toyota Camry
crashed in April 2009 in Columbus,  Georgia . She died after the
accident and her grandson is pursuing the lawsuit. He doesn’t
claim the accident caused the death.  “A jury could believe Mrs. St. John’s account of her
actions, and believing that testimony, could reasonably conclude
the existence of a design defect in the Camry,” Selna said.
“The record reveals that Toyota received tens of thousands of
complaints regarding uncommanded acceleration and/or engine
surging in Camrys.”  Selna is holding a hearing today on Toyota’s motion, after
which he may revise or make final the tentative ruling. He also
issued a tentative ruling yesterday establishing limitations on
testimony from expert witnesses for the plaintiff at trial.  Carly Schaffner, a Toyota spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that the company doesn’t comment on tentative rulings.  10 Million Vehicles  The carmaker, based in Toyota City,  Japan , recalled more
than 10 million vehicles for problems related to unintended
acceleration in 2009 and 2010, starting with a September 2009
announcement that it was recalling 3.8 million Toyota and Lexus
vehicles because of a defect that may cause floor mats to jam
accelerator pedals. The company later recalled vehicles over
defects involving the pedals themselves.  The recalls set off a flurry of lawsuits claiming defects
harmed the value of Toyota vehicles or caused accidents leading
to death and injury. The federal suits were consolidated before
Selna. Toyota settled the suits claiming economic loss for about
$1.6 billion.  The federal cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Callahan in federal court in Santa Ana, California at  bcallahan18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  