-- Toyota Seeks to Sway Jury in Fatal Acceleration Trial
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-10-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/toyota-seeks-to-sway-jury-in-fatal-acceleration-trial.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  said plaintiffs’
lawyers seeking to blame a fatal accident on unintended
acceleration made up a theory of how a 66-year-old woman’s foot
got stuck between the gas and brake pedal of a 2006 Camry.  Toyota’s lawyer, Vince Galvin, made his closing statement
yesterday before a jury in Los Angeles County Superior Court.
The plaintiffs, the husband and son of Noriko Uno, seek $20
million in damages, alleging that if the Camry had had a brake-override system, Uno would not have died because the car would
have stopped when she was trying to brake.  It is the first wrongful death case to go trial related to
a series of Toyota recalls for sudden, unintended acceleration.
Uno’s family claims that her right foot got stuck between the
pedals as a result of an initial accident, causing her car to
speed out of control down the wrong side of a residential road
as she tried to brake with her other foot.  “It’s a made-up theory,” Galvin told the jurors. “There
was no stuck foot.”  Galvin said Uno wasn’t applying the brakes as she drove off
after her car was struck by another vehicle that ran a stop
sign. Toyota alleges Uno drove away from the scene of that
initial crash without exchanging information with the other
driver, made two turns and sped half a mile down the wrong side
of the road until she struck a tree.  ‘Pedal Misapplication’  “Brake override is not a solution for pedal
misapplication,” Galvin said. “Under the circumstances of this
accident, brake override would not have made a difference.”  A brake-override system causes the engine to stop
accelerating when the gas and brake pedal are pushed at the same
time. Toyota claims Uno was cognitively impaired because of her
medical condition, including diabetes and a liver ailment, and
mistakenly stepped on the gas instead of the brakes.  The fact that the handbrake of Uno’s car was pulled up is
evidence she was trying to stop the car, Garo Mardirossian, the
family’s lawyer, said earlier in his closing statement. She
ended up hitting a tree when she tried to avoid oncoming traffic
while she accelerated out of control, he said.  “She tried everything to stop that car,” Mardirossian
said. “This poor woman had no choice but to do what she did.”  Brake Override  It would have cost Toyota next to nothing to install brake
override in the 2006 Camry because the car already had the
necessary hardware and it was only a software patch, the lawyer
said. Toyota recalled the 2007 Camry, after Uno’s fatal crash,
to install brake override in that model, Mardirossian said.  The Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker settled economic-loss
allegations brought by U.S. drivers after the recall of more
than 10 million vehicles worldwide in 2009 and 2010 for
potential unintended acceleration with causes such as stuck
accelerators and floor mats that shifted out of position.  That settlement was valued at as much as $1.63 billion by
plaintiffs’ lawyers.  Uno’s 2006 Camry wasn’t among the Toyota vehicles recalled
as part of the 2009 and 2010 recalls for possible unintended
acceleration-related issues.  California Superior Court Judge Lee Smalley Edmon
instructed the jurors before the start of closing statements
that they could award punitive damages, in addition to non-economic and property damages, if they found there was “clear
and convincing” evidence of malice. Toyota sought to exclude
the possibility of punitive damages from the verdict.  Mardirossian is expected to give a rebuttal statement this
afternoon after the lawyer for the woman involved in the initial
crash, who is also a defendant in the case, gives his closing
statement. The jury is expected to start deliberations tomorrow.  The cases are In re Toyota Motor Cases, JCCP4621,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  