-- Toyota to Honda U.S. Deliveries Decline Amid Short Month
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-10-02T06:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/toyota-to-honda-u-s-sales-slip-on-tight-supplies-in-short-month.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (TM) ,  Honda Motor Co. (7267) 
and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,  Japan ’s Big Three carmakers, all reported
U.S. sales declines in September with tight supplies of some
models after August’s surge and fewer weekend selling days.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, posted a 4.3 percent
decrease last month, and Nissan’s sales fell 5.5 percent, bigger
declines than analysts expected. Honda, most reliant on the U.S.
among Japan’s automakers, had a 9.9 percent sales drop that
topped analysts’ estimates. Only  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) ’s
Subaru among Asian auto brands expanded sales, reporting a 15
percent increase for September compared with a year earlier.  “A big factor was that Labor Day weekend sales were pulled
ahead into August,” said Bill Visnic, senior industry analyst
for Edmunds.com. “For Toyota and Honda, their supplies looked a
little tight. Honda may have had a particular problem in that it
was less prepared for consumers to return to light trucks.”  Toyota fell 1 percent to close at 6,210 yen in Tokyo
trading, Nissan dropped 1 percent and Honda declined 1.5 percent
as the Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 2.2 percent.  September Lull  September looks like a lull for auto sales that remain on
pace for the best volume since 2007. Deliveries for the first
two days of September, including the Labor Day holiday, didn’t
contribute to automakers’ tallies as they were counted in August
figures. Industrywide sales slipped 4.2 percent in September,
the first decline in 27 months, according to Autodata Corp.  Deliveries of new cars and light trucks slid to 1.14
million, in line with the average of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. The annualized industry sales rate, adjusted for
seasonal trends, climbed to 15.3 million, according to Autodata,
missing the 15.4 million average of 16 estimates.  Combined sales for Japanese and Korean brands dropped 7.2
percent, cutting their market share to 44.6 percent from 46.1
percent a year ago. Toyota, which outsold  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in July
and August, fell back to third in the U.S., while Honda fell to
fifth in volume after topping Chrysler Group LLC in July and
August.  No Inflection  “I don’t think there’s anything in this month that looks
to me like an inflection point for anybody,”  Kevin Tynan , auto
analyst for Bloomberg Industries, said yesterday in an
interview. “It’s explainable. I don’t think anybody is thinking
about tapping on the brakes at this point.”  Toyota sold 164,457 Toyota, Lexus and Scion vehicles last
month, compared with 171,910 a year ago. The company’s 4.3
percent drop compared with an expected 2.5 percent decline, the
average of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Toyota’s Camry remained the best-selling U.S. car with
sales of 31,871, down 7 percent from a year ago. The company’s
new Corolla helped the small car line eke out an increase and
top Honda’s Civic, the best-selling compact this year.  “September was the first full month for the new Corolla
and it’s off to a great start,” Bill Fay, U.S. group vice
president of Toyota brand sales, said yesterday on a conference
call. “A little more than half” of September’s Corolla sales
were of the new version, he said.  Prius Supply  Sales of Toyota’s Prius hybrid line were the second-lowest
of the year, down 16 percent to 15,890, the company said.
Supplies of the main hatchback version of the car were in
particularly tight supply, Fay said.  Gains for the company in the final quarter of 2013 will
come from the new Corolla and a revamped Tundra large pickup
truck, Fay said.  “If anything, we were probably a little bit light in the
new products we were launching,” he said. “We really weren’t
in a position to get new Corolla inventory levels or our new
Tundra at the inventory level we like. We’re still trying to get
RAV4 up to an acceptable level.”  Toyota’s market share was 14.4 percent in September, down
from 14.5 percent a year ago, according to Autodata.  Odyssey Shortage  Honda’s sales of 105,563 Honda and Acura vehicles were
about 10 percent below last year’s volume. The Tokyo-based
carmaker was expected to report a dip of just 0.6 percent, the
average of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  While the company boosted Civic sales 6.7 percent, Accord
deliveries dropped 14 percent. In particular, there was a
shortage of Odyssey minivans and Acura MDX sport-utility
vehicles, said Chuck Schifsky, a company spokesman.  “In the case of Accord, we don’t see any sign of demand
being down,” said Jack Nerad, an industry analyst for Kelley
 Blue Book  in  Irvine ,  California . “It was really more of a mix
issue. They probably burned through a lot of cars in August and
were light during the changeover to the 2014 model.”  Honda Slips  The sales drop for the month cut Honda’s U.S. market share
to 9.3 percent from 9.9 percent a year ago, according to
Autodata.  Nissan, based in Yokohama, Japan, reported sales of 86,868
Nissan and Infiniti brand autos, down from 91,907 a year ago.
The carmaker was expected to report a 4.8 percent decline, the
average of seven analysts’ estimates.  The Altima sedan, a Camry competitor, posted a 13 percent
drop in September. The all-electric Leaf hatchback, a slow
seller in previous years, was a bright spot last month. Sales of
the battery-powered small car jumped 99 percent from a year ago
to 1,953, keeping Nissan on track to deliver about 21,000 this
year. That’s more than its combined U.S. sales from 2010 through
2012.  Government Shutdown  The decline in September sales doesn’t indicate a weakening
of consumer demand, said Fred Diaz, vice president of Nissan’s
North American sales. “Net-net, sales are still very strong.”  The U.S. government shutdown that began yesterday as a
result of a budget squabble is a potential challenge, Diaz said.
“Who knows what this shutdown is going to do to  consumer
confidence ?”  Among smaller brands,  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ’s sales fell 6.9
percent.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , which
operate separately, reported a combined 14 percent drop in
deliveries, matching the average of seven estimates.  Deferred Payments  Separately, Seoul-based Hyundai, noting the furlough of
federal workers due to the shutdown, said it would allow
affected government employees to defer auto loan and lease
payments while the situation continues.  “We recognize the impact on family budgets that the
furlough will drive,”  John Krafcik , president and chief
executive officer of Hyundai’s U.S. sales unit, said in a
statement.  Toyota, for its part, doesn’t anticipate much harm to the
industry. “We hope and expect the government shutdown to be
short and have minimal impact on the industry,” Fay said.  For the three largest Japanese automakers, the sales drop
last month in the U.S. was a contrast to their home market,
where total vehicle sales in September rose the most in 14
months, adding to signs of an improving outlook in the world’s
third-largest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  