-- Oyu Tolgoi Partners Resolve Some Differences on Expansion
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-10-01T11:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/oyu-tolgoi-partners-resolve-some-differences-on-expansion-plan.html
Mongolia and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  made
progress in resolving project financing and other disputes
stalling the expansion of their $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper
mine, a Mongolian board member of the venture said.  Negotiations will resume in Ulaanbaatar on Oct. 7, Ganzorig
Temuulen, one of three Mongolian nationals on the Oyu Tolgoi LLC
board, said at a press conference in the Mongolian capital
today. His comments follow a meeting between the shareholders in
 London .  “We have agreed in principle on project financing” for
the expansion, board member Chuluuntseren Otgochuluu said in an
interview. Mongolia is “very confident” the terms of the
agreement can be worked out by the end of the year, he said.  A point of contention is all of the funds raised should be
invested in Mongolia, although the government is willing to
concede that some Oyu Tolgoi assets can be used as collateral,
he said. Mongolia is awaiting the completion of an updated
feasibility study for phase two of the project, he said,
indicating it would be completed early next year. The total cost
for both phases may eventually reach $14 billion, he said.  Finance Discord  Oyu Tolgoi  stalled on disagreements that include the
financing of the mine’s second-stage or underground expansion,
which is expected to cost about $5.1 billion. Mongolia, which
controls 34 percent of the project, claims cost overruns on the
open-pit operation are delaying future dividends and wants the
mine’s extension funded with revenue from copper sales until the
dispute is resolved. That’s been a subject of debate with Rio,
which has sought to raise debt to fund the mine’s second phase.  The board members said today agreements are almost
concluded on issues involving Vancouver-based Entrée Gold Inc.,
which owns part of the Oyu Tolgoi area via a venture with Rio
Tinto. The Mongolian government will take 34 percent of the
Entree license, based on a law that says Mongolia should have 34
percent of a strategic deposit. That will happen in two or three
weeks, Otgochuluu said.  Cost Guarantees  Otgochuluu said Mongolia is also seeking guarantees that
the mine expansion won’t be subject to cost overruns, and a
reset of Rio’s management fees, to be based on revenues earned
rather than money spent.  Bruce Tobin, a Melbourne-based spokesman for Rio Tinto,
wasn’t immediately able to comment.  London-based Rio, the world’s second-biggest mining company
by market value, manages the venture through its 51 percent
stake in  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , which owns 66 percent of
the mine.  Rio in July decided to delay work on the expansion until
wrangles with the government on funding and other issues are
resolved. While open-pit work continues, the dispute has led to
the suspension of underground construction and the layoff of
about 1,700 workers.  The mine, located 80 kilometers (50 miles) north of the
Chinese border, is forecast to account for about a third of
Mongolia’s economy when in full operation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  