-- Pacific Ethanol Purchases Sugar From Government to Make Fuel
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-10-01T21:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/pacific-ethanol-purchases-sugar-from-government-to-make-fuel.html
Pacific Ethanol Inc. (PEIX) , a West Coast
producer of the biofuel, said it bought raw beet sugar from the
U.S. government to make the additive.  The company purchased 167 million pounds of sugar from the
U.S. Agriculture Department’s Commodity Credit Corp. that it
plans to blend with corn and that may yield about 12 million
gallons of ethanol, Sacramento-based Pacific said in a statement
today.  A plunge in sugar prices prompted the USDA to seek ways to
dispose of surplus supplies used as collateral for government
loans. In August the agency said Front Range Energy LLC, a
Windsor, Colorado, producer, bought sugar.  “We expect this purchase of sugar to significantly lower
raw material costs for the Pacific Ethanol plants and give us
added flexibility and diversification in our feedstock
sourcing,” Chief Executive Officer Neil Koehler said in the
statement.  Pacific rose 5 cents to $3.56 today in Nasdaq composite
trading. The shares have fallen 25 percent this year.  Raw-sugar futures for March delivery climbed 1 percent to
18.32 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Denatured ethanol for October delivery tumbled 4 cents, or
2.1 percent, to $1.91 a gallon on the  Chicago  Board of Trade.
Futures have dropped 13 percent this year.  Corn for December delivery declined 2.5 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $4.39 a bushel in Chicago. One bushel of the grain
makes at least 2.75 gallons of ethanol.  The December corn crush spread, or the difference between
the cost of corn and a gallon of ethanol, was 1 cent at 5:02
p.m. New York time, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  