-- Petrobras Outlook Dims on Fuel Disappointment: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-10-01T17:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/petrobras-outlook-dims-on-fuel-disappointment-corporate-brazil.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR)  is poised to
be the biggest earnings disappointment among major crude
producers as the Brazilian real’s slump exacerbates fuel-import
losses, eroding gains from surging global oil prices.  Analysts reduced their quarterly earnings  estimates  for Rio
de Janeiro-based Petrobras by 21 percent in the past three
months, the most among the world’s 22 most valuable oil and
natural gas companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show. EOG
Resources Inc.’s outlook is improving the most, with forecasts
raised 15 percent on average, the data show.  Brazil ’s government, which  controls Petrobras  with a
majority of voting shares, limits local fuel prices to avoid
fanning inflation and requires the company to import more-expensive supplies to make up for a refining shortfall. While
speculation Brazil would increase prices for a third time this
year sent Petrobras shares to a two-month high last month,
there’s been no further relief from losses that are being
exacerbated by the second biggest slump among major currencies.
That’s countering crude export gains that are boosting prospects
for companies including Houston-based  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   “The weakness of the real makes the difference between
prices in Brazil and abroad even worse,” Carlos Jesus, an
analyst at Caixa Banco de Investimento SA in Lisbon, said in a
phone interview. The advantage of higher revenues from exports,
“isn’t enough” to compensate for loses in the domestic market.  Most Indebted  The government last allowed Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster to lift fuel prices in March. The surprise 5
percent jump pared the discount to prices abroad to about 10
percent and propelled a 15 percent surge in the company’s
shares. Gasoline prices also were increased on Jan. 29.  Losses on gasoline and diesel, combined with local taxes
that are tied to crude prices, mean Petrobras probably is the
only crude producer that loses money when international oil
prices increase, UBS AG analysts Lilyanna Yang and Bruno Varella
wrote in a note to clients dated Sept. 4.  Petrobras declined to comment in an e-mailed response.  In the past six months, the real has weakened 8.9 percent
against the U.S. dollar, the steepest decline among major
currencies after the Australian dollar. That’s stifling Brazil’s
efforts to contain  annual inflation , which has exceeded 6
percent in eight of the past nine months. The central bank’s
target range is from 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent.  The real’s decline has helped spur speculation that the
government will allow further price gains for the world’s most
indebted oil producer, whose  borrowings  and costs are mostly in
dollars. The stock jumped as much as 6 percent Aug. 15 ahead of
a board meeting and 3.3 percent Sept. 16 following a report by
Estado newspaper that another increase is on the way.  Oil Gain  Petrobras’s price policies are being maintained for now,
Finance Minister and Petrobras Chairman Guido Mantega told
reporters in Sao Paulo yesterday after saying Aug. 26 that
depreciation won’t necessarily prompt an increase. His press
office declined to comment in an e-mailed response to questions.  Brent crude has risen 5 percent in the past three months
while Petrobras shares are up 15 percent, swelling its market
value to $108 billion. The shares trade at 8.23 times estimated
profit compared with a 10.24 peer-group average. Petrobras rose
1.1 percent to 18.56 reais at 2:10 p.m. in Sao Paulo.  Even if a one-time price increase were authorized, it
wouldn’t have a substantial effect on earnings, according to
Banco Santander SA analyst Christian Audi in New York.  “A 5-10 percent price increase should have a positive but
only temporary impact on the stock,” Audi wrote in a report to
clients dated Sept. 16. “To have a more meaningful and
sustainable impact, we believe that an announcement of a
recurring price increase policy would have to be made, which is
unlikely at this point in time.”  ‘Isn’t Fair’  The company is working to bring local fuel prices more in
line with global gauges, Foster told reporters Sept. 27.  “Petrobras’s market value isn’t fair,” Foster said. “I’m
certain that with growing production, with these refining levels
and our discipline, we will deliver what analysts and investors
want. We are very close to delivering. I’m certain that with
price parity, without volatility,” the stock price will rise,
she said.  The state-run producer probably will report  adjusted  third-quarter earnings of 22 cents a share, down from 21 cents a year
ago, according to the average estimate of 10 analysts tracked by
Bloomberg.  EOG (EOG) , the biggest owner of drilling rights in the
Eagle Ford Shale in southwest  Texas , probably had $1.89 earnings
per share, up from $1.73, the data show.  Refinery Spend  The company plans to spend $237 billion in the five years
through 2017, with about 27 percent of that earmarked for
refining, distribution and retail operations in a bid to cut
dependency on imported fuels.  Monthly fuel production grew 15 percent to 66.5 million
barrels in July from 57.7 million in January 2012, the month
before Foster took over, according to  data  from the Brazilian
oil regulator. Still, imports rose 6.8 percent in the first six
months from a year earlier, according to the data. Crude imports
were up 8.7 percent in the same period.  As long as the gap continues, Petrobras will be affected,
with or without a recovery in the real, according to Auro Rozenbaum, an analyst at Banco Bradesco SA.  “Foreign exchange isn’t a problem in itself, the problem
is that fuel prices are capped,” Rozenbaum said by telephone
from Sao Paulo. “Forex increases the fixed-price problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Telma Marotto at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net  