-- Peugeot Shifts Citroen Minivan Production to GM Factory
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-10-01T16:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/peugeot-shifts-citroen-minivan-production-to-gm-factory.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  will shift
production of a compact minivan to a  General Motors Co. (GM)  factory
in  Spain  as the two carmakers seek to deepen cooperation to stem
losses in Europe.  GM’s Opel division will build a new generation of a jointly
developed small multi-purpose vehicle at its Zaragoza factory,
starting in late 2016, the companies said in a joint statement
today. Peugeot, which currently builds the Citroen C3 Picasso
small van in Trnava, Slovakia, will supply the engines and
transmissions for the vehicles.  “The alliance between PSA and GM is based on a balanced
approach,” the companies said in the statement.  GM and Paris-based Peugeot set up a partnership last year
to help the two companies return to profit in  Europe , where car
sales are heading for their sixth straight annual decline. The
two are aiming for savings of $2 billion with the alliance,
which involved GM taking a 7 percent stake in Peugeot. The
companies have since aligned purchasing and logistics and are
working to develop new models together. Today’s agreement
represents the first joint production between the carmakers.  The automakers are both struggling to fill underutilized
facilities in Europe. Opel has laid out plans to shut a factory
in Bochum,  Germany , while Peugeot is reducing its French
workforce by 17 percent and closing a plant near Paris.  Peugeot and Detroit-based GM are also in early discussions
to make the next generation of Opel’s larger Zafira minivan at
the French carmaker’s plant in Sochaux in its home country, two
people familiar with the matter said last week. Zafira
production is slated to move from the Bochum plant to
Ruesselsheim, Germany, where Opel is headquartered, in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  