-- Poland Poised to Leave Main Rate at Record Low to Gauge Recovery
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-10-01T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/poland-poised-to-leave-main-rate-at-record-low-to-gauge-recovery.html
Poland ’s central bank will probably
leave borrowing costs at a record low for a second month as it
assesses the extent of a recovery in the European Union’s
largest eastern economy.  The Narodowy Bank Polski will keep the  reference rate  at
2.5 percent, according to all 40 economists in a Bloomberg
 survey . Governor  Marek Belka  will hold a news conference at 4
p.m. in Warsaw to explain the decision.  Policy makers pledged last month to hold rates steady until
at least year-end as the economy emerges from the slowest  growth 
since 2009. While manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in
more than two years in September,  inflation  has lagged behind
the central bank’s 2.5 percent goal for nine months.  “While the data from real economy and leading indicators
suggest the economy will accelerate in the coming quarters,
growth will remain below potential and inflation will stay below
target,” Cezary Chrapek, an economist at Citigroup Inc.’s
Polish unit in Warsaw, said yesterday in a note to clients.
“The central bank will have no reason to change rates until at
least the middle of next year.”  The zloty has lost 3.4 percent against the euro this year,
underperforming currencies in other eastern European nations
including Romania and  Hungary , data compiled by Bloomberg show.
It traded 0.2 percent lower at 4.3388 per euro at 1:50 p.m.
yesterday in Warsaw.  Easing Cycle  Poland cut borrowing costs by 225 basis points between
November and July as the economic slowdown curbed  tax revenue 
and prompted a 40 percent jump in this year’s planned budget
deficit. Gross domestic product rose 0.4 percent from the
previous three months in the second quarter, accelerating after
0.2 percent growth in the first as the euro area, which buys 51
percent of Polish exports, emerged from a record-long recession.  For now, the central bank is in no rush to increase
interest rates, which could remain unchanged through the first
half of 2014, according to Belka.  “We are keeping interest rates at historically low levels
and we believe it won’t have a negative impact, for at least
some time, on inflation and financial stability,” Belka said
Sept. 27 in an interview in  New York .  Eastern European central banks are adopting different
policies as their economies display varying degrees of recovery.
Hungary cut  interest rates  to a record low last week and said it
saw room for more easing, while Czech policy makers kept the
benchmark rate at what they call a “technical zero” of 0.05
percent for a seventh meeting on Sept. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  