-- Qatar Wealth Fund Buys NYSE Euronext’s Stake in Local Bourse
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-10-01T14:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/qatar-wealth-fund-buys-nyse-euronext-s-12-stake-in-local-bourse.html
Qatar Holding LLC, a unit of the
emirate’s sovereign wealth fund, bought  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s 12
percent stake in the  Qatar Exchange  to become its sole owner.  The sale comes after achieving all the “strategic goals”
identified for the exchange when NYSE bought a 20 percent stake
in June 2009, according to an e-mailed statement today from the
two companies. Financial details of the deal weren’t given. NYSE
Euronext paid $200 million for the stake four years ago.  NYSE Euronext assisted with changes at the Qatar Exchange
that helped almost double the bourse’s market capitalization,
contributing to  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s decision in June to upgrade the
exchange to emerging market status from frontier. The U.S.
company helped migrate the Qatar Exchange onto the Universal
Trading Platform, changed trading times and introduced bond and
treasury bills to the bourse.  “Qatar Exchange has achieved significant progress and made
remarkable achievements in terms of developing infrastructure
and systems and the diversification of investment tools and
services provided to investors,” Rashid Bin Ali Al Mansoori,
Qatar Exchange chief executive officer, said in the release.  The Qatar Exchange and NYSE Euronext will continue to co-operate in technology and expertise, the companies said.  Cut Stake  NYSE Euronext cut its stake in the bourse to 12 percent
from 20 percent in December. Reducing the Qatari stake is part
of NYSE Euronext’s cost-cutting plan known as Project 14. The
exchange started the plan in 2012, after European regulators
barred it from merging with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  in February last
year. NYSE is now being acquired by IntercontinentalExchange
Group Inc.  Qatar is seeking to develop its  capital market  as a way for
companies to raise money and grow. The country, holder of the
world’s third-largest gas reserves, is planning $200 billion of
investments in stadiums, roads, a metro system and a city of
200,000 before hosting the 2022 soccer  World Cup .  Qatar Petroleum  Qatar Petroleum , the country’s state-run energy producer,
plans to raise 3.2 billion riyals ($879 million) in an initial
public offering of a newly-created petrochemical unit this
quarter, three people with knowledge of the matter said Sept.
23. Doha-based Barwa Bank, the country’s newest Islamic lender,
said earlier this year it also plans to sell shares.  In May, the government postponed plans to raise $3 billion
through an IPO of Doha Global Investment, a $12 billion fund set
up to acquire stakes in companies abroad.  Qatar is the biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas and
a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
Its 1.9 million people are the richest in the world with a per
capita gross domestic product of $102,000, more than double that
of the U.S., according to International Monetary Fund data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  