-- Rand Falls Most Among Emerging Markets as Manufacturing Shrinks
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-10-01T14:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/rand-gains-second-day-as-yields-hit-2-month-low-on-u-s-shutdown.html
The rand weakened the most among
emerging-market currencies against the dollar and South African
bond yields rose after a manufacturing gauge unexpectedly fell,
fueling concern of slowing growth in the continent’s biggest
economy.  South Africa ’s purchasing managers’ index last month
dropped below the 50 level that indicates a contraction in
manufacturing for the first time in six months as strikes hit
output. Slowing growth may prevent the  Reserve Bank  from raising
 interest rates  to curb inflation, which has been above the upper
limit of the institution’s target range since July.  “The September PMI will raise fresh concerns at the
Reserve Bank with regard to the domestic economic outlook,”
Jana le Roux, an economist at ETM analytics, said in an e-mail.
“The growth-versus-inflation dilemma is expected to continue
and indicators are increasingly pointing to a stagflationary
environment,” she said. Stagflation is marked by slow growth
and inflation.  The rand depreciated 0.2 percent to 10.0519 per dollar as
of 4:20 p.m. in Johannesburg, retreating from a 0.7 percent gain
to post the biggest drop of 24  emerging markets  monitored by
Bloomberg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December
2026 climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
8.01 percent.  The seasonally adjusted  PMI (SAPMI)  fell to an eight-month low of
49.1 from 56.5 in August, Johannesburg-based Kagiso Tiso
Holdings said. The median estimate of seven economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was 54.  Manufacturers’ Loss  The central bank has left its key  repurchase rate  at 5
percent since a surprise 50 basis-point cut in July 2012 to help
revive the economy, which is forecast to expand 2 percent this
year, the slowest pace since a recession in 2009. Inflation
accelerated to 6.4 percent in August. The bank targets a range
of 3 percent to 6 percent.  Manufacturers including Toyota Motor Corp.,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
and  General Motors Co. (GM) , face a loss in revenue of about 20
billion rand ($2 billion) after 30,000 workers held a 15-day
strike in August to demand higher wages. Labor stoppages also
disrupted output in the gold mining and construction industries
in the past two months.  Earlier, the rand advanced as the dollar weakened against
most major counterparts after U.S. lawmakers failed to agree on
a spending plan for the new fiscal year. The deadlock threatens
to hurt the economy as the  Federal Reserve  weighs tapering bond
purchases that fueled demand for higher-yielding assets,
including South African debt.  Growth Impact  “What is important to watch is the length of this shutdown
and its potential impact on U.S. economic growth,” Societe
Generale SA strategists led by London-based Benoit Anne said in
a note to clients. “To the extent that it may affect Fed policy
expectations, this may actually feed through as a risk-on signal
for global emerging-market assets.”  The U.S. government began its first partial shutdown in 17
years, idling as many as 800,000 employees. The Fed said in May
it may pare monetary stimulus if the economic recovery remains
on track.  Foreign investors  bought  14.1 billion rand of South African
bonds in September, the most in a month this year, according to
JSE Ltd. data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  