-- RBA Holds Key Rate at Record-Low 2.5% as House Prices Climb
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-10-01T05:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/rba-holds-key-rate-at-record-low-2-5-as-house-prices-climb-1-.html
Australia ’s central bank left its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged at a record low, saying
earlier cuts are still filtering through the economy and already
driving up asset prices.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board kept the overnight
cash-rate target at 2.5 percent, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
said in a statement today in Sydney, as forecast by all 33
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The local dollar rose even as
Stevens said “a lower level of the currency than seen at
present would assist in rebalancing growth in the economy.”  Traders pared bets on another rate cut this year, and data
earlier today showed  retail sales  climbed faster than forecast
in August, while  home prices  advanced to a record last month.
The RBA’s two-year easing cycle designed to rebalance the
economy away from waning mining investment may be approaching
its end as household and business sentiment improves.  “The message is entirely consistent with a neutral
stance,” said  Joshua Williamson , a senior economist at
Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. “There’s a bit more emphasis on
reminding people that the full effects of the  interest rate  cuts
are going to take time to filter through to the economy. So it
just suggests they’re giving the data the time to react.”  The central bank may be hesitant to further stoke the
 property market . Home prices in Australia’s biggest cities rose
3.7 percent in the three months through September, according to
the RP Data-Rismark Home Value Index. That’s been spurred by the
2.25 percentage point reduction in rates since late 2011.  Asset Values  “The easing in monetary policy since late 2011 has
supported interest-sensitive spending and asset values,”
Stevens said in the statement. “The full effects of these
decisions are still coming through, and will be for a while
yet.”  Yields on December cash-rate futures rose 4.5 basis points,
the most in almost two months, to 2.41 percent, data from the
Australian Securities Exchange show. That indicates traders see
a better than 60 percent chance the RBA will leave borrowing
costs unchanged through year-end.  The currency rose to 93.97 U.S. cents at 3:21 p.m. in
Sydney, from 93.38 before the decision. It climbed 4.7 percent
last month, the most in more than a year, as the  Federal Reserve 
maintained asset purchases.  Below Trend  “The Australian dollar rose recently, but is still about
10 percent below its level in April,” Stevens said. “The
economy has been growing a bit below trend over the past year.
This is expected to continue in the near term as the economy
adjusts to lower levels of mining investment. The  unemployment
rate  has edged higher.”  Employers (AULFEMPC)  unexpectedly cut payrolls by 10,800 in August and
unemployment climbed to four-year high of 5.8 percent as fewer
people sought work, government data showed.  “Households’ confidence to leverage into a strong property
boom will be affected by their assessments of  job security  and
perceptions of debt levels,”  Bill Evans , chief economist at
Westpac Banking Corp., said in a research report before the
decision. “Note that the savings rate actually increased in the
June quarter indicating that the consumer remains cautious.”  Election Boost  Since a Sept. 7 election won by  Tony Abbott ’s coalition, a
Westpac and Melbourne Institute survey showed  consumer
confidence  rose 4.7 percent last month to the highest level
since December 2010 as the prospect of a change of government
and lower rates boosted sentiment.  Business confidence  surged in
August to the highest level since May 2011, with sentiment
lifting in all industries, according to a survey from National
Australia Bank Ltd.  The RBA last week sounded a note of caution on gains in
housing prices in its financial stability review, saying
property buyers need to have “realistic expectations of future
dwelling price growth.”  Sydney will lead a jump in  home prices  as demand driven by
low rates meets a lack of supply, according to SQM Research Pty.
Prices across major cities may rise as much as 11 percent on
average in 2014 in SQM’s base-case scenario, which assumes no
more than one 25 basis-point RBA rate cut, it said.  “Inflation has been consistent with the medium-term
target,” Stevens said in the statement. “With growth in labour
costs moderating, this is expected to remain the case over the
next one to two years, even with the effects of the lower
 exchange rate .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  