-- Re/Max Gains After $220 Million IPO Priced Above Target
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-10-02T20:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/re-max-raises-220-million-in-ipo-pricing-shares-above-range.html
Re/Max Holdings Inc. (RMAX) , a franchiser of
real estate brokerages, jumped on its first day of trading after
raising $220 million in an initial public offering.  The Denver-based company sold 10 million shares for $22
each, Re/Max said in a statement yesterday, after offering them
for $19 to $21. The stock gained 23 percent to $27 in New York
trading today.  Re/Max is among property companies raising funds as the
U.S. housing market rebounds. Home prices and sales are climbing
following the worst crash since the Great Depression. Shares of
 Realogy Holdings Corp. (RLGY) , owner of the Century 21 and Coldwell
Banker brokerage brands, and property-listings sites Zillow Inc.
and Trulia Inc. have surged since their IPOs.  “ Wall Street  is looking for ways to monetize the housing
recovery for their investors,”  Susan Wachter , a professor of
real estate and finance and co-director of the Institute for
Urban Research at the Wharton School at the  University of
Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview before Re/Max’s
pricing. “This is perhaps the moment on the apex where the
recovery is at its fastest, so it’s a great time to go public.”  RIHI, a corporation majority-owned by Re/Max founders David Liniger and Gail Liniger, will own 61 percent of Re/Max shares,
according to a Sept. 30 regulatory filing. Weston Presidio, a
private-equity firm that previously backed Re/Max, planned to
sell its stake in the IPO, according to the filing.  Franchise Purchases  Re/Max intends to use some of the money from the IPO to
reacquire regional real estate franchises in the Southwest and
Mid-Atlantic region of the U.S., the prospectus shows. Re/Max
had net income of $33.3 million last year, compared with income
of $24.2 million in 2011 and a loss of $2.75 million in 2010.  “The company is very cash-rich so it is our intention to
use the money for further acquisitions and to accelerate the
growth and our market share throughout the U.S. and  Canada ,”
Re/Max Chairman David Liniger said in a telephone interview
today. “We have to be franchising in the real estate sector and
with the improving market, virtually worldwide, the timing was
absolutely perfect.”  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes rose 1.7 percent in
August to the highest level in more than six years, the National
Association of Realtors said on Sept. 19.  Home prices  in 20 U.S.
cities rose 12.4 percent in the 12 months through July, the most
in more than seven years, the S&P/Case-Shiller index showed on
Sept. 24.  Zillow, Trulia  Investors are benefiting from the recovery. Shares of
Zillow, operator of the largest real estate information website,
more than quadrupled through yesterday since the company’s 2011
IPO. Trulia Inc., the San Francisco-based residential-property
listings website, almost tripled since it went public in
September 2012.  HD Supply Holdings Inc. (HDS) , a construction-supply
company, has risen 23 percent since its June debut.  Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. managed Re/Max’s share sale, according to the filing. Re/Max
has more than 90,000 real estate agents worldwide, and its 6,300
offices are owned by agents or franchises.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  