-- Treasuries Fall Amid Bets Shutdown May Be Short-Lived
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-10-01T21:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/treasury-yield-near-august-low-as-blackrock-sees-haven-demand.html
Treasuries fell for the first time in
three days on speculation a shutdown of the U.S. government may
end soon enough for lawmakers to work on extending the federal
debt limit, minimizing damage to the economy.  Benchmark  10-year yields  rose from almost the lowest level
in seven weeks as the government began its first partial
shutdown in 17 years after Congress failed to break a partisan
deadlock by a midnight deadline. An extended stoppage may
prevent the release of jobs data on Oct. 4 that’s closely
watched for clues to Federal Reserve policy. The central bank
last month refrained from slowing the bond-purchase program it
has used to help to keep borrowing costs from rising.  “It’s a wait-and-see attitude on the government
shutdown,” said Larry Dyer, a U.S. interest-rate strategist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York , one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “The expectation is it will be short-lived,
and therefore the ultimate impact would be modest.”  The U.S.  10-year yield  increased four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.65 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 2.5
percent security due in August 2023 fell 11/32, or $3.44 per
$1,000 face amount, to 98 22/32. The yield rose as high as 2.66
percent. It dropped yesterday to 2.59 percent, the lowest since
Aug. 12.  Congressional leaders have scheduled no further
negotiations on spending legislation, raising concern among some
lawmakers that the shutdown may have an impact on the more
consequential fight over how to raise the U.S. debt limit to
avoid a first-ever default after Oct. 17.  Bill Rates  Rates on Treasury bills that mature Oct. 24 increased to
0.075 percent today after touching negative 0.01 on Sept. 27.
Two years ago, one-month bills climbed to a 29-month high of
0.18 percent as the Aug. 2, 2011, deadline set by Treasury to
avoid a default approached.  Three-month (USGG3M)  Treasury bill rates rose to 0.0152 percent.
They touched negative 0.0101 percent on Sept. 27, the lowest
level this year. The 2013 average is 0.048 percent.  Treasury trading  volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , declined 1.2 percent to
$325 billion. The average this year is $317 billion.  Higher Volatility  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Merrill Lynch
Option Volatility Estimate Index rose for a fifth day, the
longest streak of gains since Sept. 5, climbing 2.8 percent to
87.37. The average this year is 72.05.  Investors in Treasuries were long over the past week,
betting the prices of the securities will rise, according to a
survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The proportion of net longs fell to 6 percentage points in
the week ended yesterday, according to JPMorgan, 2 percentage
points lower than the week ended Sept. 23. Outright longs rose
to 21 percent, from 19 percent, while outright shorts increased
to 15 percent, from 11 percent. Investors reduced their neutral
bets to 64 percent, from 70 percent.  The government shutdown isn’t in itself a trigger for a
downgrade of the U.S.’s AAA rating, even as the political
gridlock undermines confidence in fiscal decision-making and in
the nation’s debt limit being raised in time to avert a default,
according to a statement by  Fitch Ratings .  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. rating to AA+ from AAA in
August 2011, a move that reflected the impasse over raising the
debt limit as well as the government’s lack of a plan to rein in
its debt load.  While the downgrade didn’t result in investors charging the
U.S. more to borrow, it contributed to a global stock-market
rout that erased about $6 trillion in value from July 26 to Aug.
12, 2011.  Gross’s Outlook  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said the
U.S. will avoid a “catastrophic” default on  Treasury
securities  if lawmakers fail to extend the debt limit on the
nation’s debt. The odds of a default are “a million-to-one,” as
the Treasury Department will be able to take other measures to
ensure it is servicing the country’s debt, he said.  “The Treasury is not going to default on their debt simply
because the debt ceiling isn’t going to be raised,” Gross,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said during a
Bloomberg Television interview with  Trish Regan  and  Adam Johnson . “There will be other repercussions like slower economic
growth. But the Treasury is not going to default.”  Manufacturing Gain  Treasuries extended losses as the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s  factory index  unexpectedly climbed to the highest
level since April 2011. The gauge rose to 56.2 in September,
from 55.7 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group
reported. The median forecast of economists polled by Bloomberg
called for a decline to 55. Readings above 50 indicate growth.  “The economic data for the moment is not as important,
given the uncertainty of the government shutdown,” said Gary Pollack, who manages $12 billion as head of fixed-income trading
at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New
York.  The Labor Department won’t release its monthly employment
report on schedule if the government is closed, according to an
official in President  Barack Obama ’s administration who wasn’t
authorized to discuss the process and requested anonymity.  The shutdown may help to delay a reduction in the Fed’s
purchases of Treasuries and mortgage bonds, according to
Citigroup Inc. Policy makers said on Sept. 18 they want more
proof of an economic recovery before tapering their $85 billion-a-month program.  ‘On Hold’  “The Fed has told us they’re on hold for quite some time
and we now are not going to get any economic readings for
probably a couple of months that are accurate at least,”
Michael Plavnik, head of the short-term interest-rate trading
desk at Citigroup in  London , said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” with Manus Cranny. “The Fed’s not
really going to have a chance to taper really until the first
quarter of next year.”  Payrolls increased by 180,000 in September, the most since
April, after climbing 169,000 in August, according to a
Bloomberg survey. The  jobless rate  held at 7.3 percent, a
separate survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  