-- Tribeca Said to Buy London Mayfair Property for $211 Million
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-10-01T14:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/tribeca-is-said-to-buy-211-million-property-in-london-s-mayfair.html
Tribeca Holdings Ltd., a luxury-property investor, agreed to buy 130 million pounds ($211
million) of central  London  real estate in a venture with an
undisclosed company, according to two people with knowledge of
the deal.  The site in the city’s Mayfair district has nine stores, as
well as offices and apartments with 53,000 square feet (4,925
square meters) of space opposite Selfridges department store on
Oxford Street, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. The sale will be the second-largest mixed-use property deal in London’s West End district
this year, according to data compiled by broker H2SO Property
Consultants.  The buildings at 431-451 Oxford Street will be bought from
Structadene Ltd., the London-based developer founded by
entrepreneur David Pearl, according to the people. Tribeca,
managed by Irish investor Aidan Brooks, invests in prime real
estate and advises high-net-worth family offices in  New York  and
London. Structadene and Tribeca declined to comment.  The property is about 175 yards (160 meters) from the Bond
Street high-speed Crossrail station that’s due to open in 2018
and will connect the neighborhood to  Heathrow Airport  and the
Canary Wharf financial district. Developers including  Great
Portland Estates Plc (GPOR)  and Henderson Global Investors Ltd. have
been buying sites near the stations, betting they will be more
attractive to tenants when Crossrail trains start running.  The property being bought by the venture is about half the
length of Selfridges, Britain’s second-biggest department store
after Harrods.  To contact the reporter on this story
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 