-- Tribes Fail to Block N.Y. Internet-Loan Action
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-01T19:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/tribes-fail-to-block-n-y-internet-loan-action-during-case.html
Two American  Indian tribes  that sued
 New York ’s top financial regulator over a crackdown on high-interest online lending businesses, some of which are tribally
owned, lost a bid to temporarily halt the agency’s actions.  The tribes’ claims that  Benjamin Lawsky , superintendent of
the New York Department of Financial Services, is regulating
activity taking place on their lands in  Oklahoma  and  Michigan 
are built on a “wobbly foundation,” U.S. District Judge
Richard Sullivan ruled yesterday in Manhattan.  “The state’s action is directed at activity that takes
place entirely off tribal land, involving New York residents who
never leave New York state,” Sullivan said. The tribes “are
not entitled to the extraordinary remedy of a preliminary
injunction” blocking the regulator’s actions during the case.  The Otoe-Missouria Tribe of Indians, based in Red Rock,
Oklahoma, and the Lac Vieux Desert Band of Lake Superior
Chippewa Indians, based in Watersmeet, Michigan, sued Aug. 21
seeking to establish their right to market and sell short-term,
high-interest loans to New York residents over the Internet. The
regulator said the online businesses engage in predatory
lending.  The injunction the tribes sought would have barred Lawsky
“from interfering with plaintiffs’ lending activities,”
according to the ruling.  Requested Help  Lawsky on Aug. 6 had ordered 35 online lenders, including
at least four tribal companies, to stop offering loans in New
York. He also sent a letter to 117 banks -- including  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  --
requesting their help to block improper lending by cutting off
the lenders’ access to the electronic payments system they rely
on.  Yesterday’s ruling acknowledged the case is a “potentially
ruinous threat to the tribes’ financial stability,” said David
Bernick, a lawyer representing the tribes. Customers who take
out the loans do so after agreeing the transaction is being
carried out under tribal law and not in New York, he said.  The decision “opens up a clear and painful breach in the
law that historically has been there to protect the tribes --
particularly where they are trying to develop enterprises that
will make themselves self-sufficient and economically stable,”
Bernick said in a phone interview.  The case is Otoe-Missouria Tribe of Indians v. New York
State Department of Financial Services, 13-5930, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  