-- Richter Jumps to 1-Year High on Sales Outlook: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-10-01T14:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/richter-jumps-to-1-year-high-on-sales-outlook-budapest-mover.html
Gedeon  Richter Nyrt  headed for the
highest level in almost a year after Erste Group Bank AG raised
its price estimate for  Hungary ’s biggest drugmaker, citing the
sales potential of two of its core products.  The shares rose 2.1 percent to 3,905 forint by 3:05 p.m. in
Budapest, leading the 0.2 percent advance in the  BUX Index. (BUX) 
Richter  surged  13 percent in the third quarter, compared with a
drop of 1.9 percent for the benchmark. Erste increased its  price
estimate  on the shares by about six percent to 4,780 forint and
said the indication range extension of its Esmya product in
addition to potential regulatory approval for its Cariprazine
drug bode well for sales.  “Richter’s fundamentally sound story is further augmented
by its research and development foray,” Vladimira Urbankova, a
Vienna-based analyst at Erste, wrote in a report dated today,
maintaining the bank’s buy rating on the shares. Approval from
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for Cariprazine, an
antipsychotic, will open “up a new chapter in the company’s
history,” according to the note.  Full-year sales at Richter  may jump  8 percent to 353
million forint ($1.6 billion), the mean estimate of 11 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg shows. Export revenue from Cariprazine,
developed with  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , and Esmya, designed to
treat uterine fibroids, will help boost sales by the end of the
decade, Chief Executive Officer Erik Bogsch said in an interview
on Sept. 27.  Richter shares should be re-included in MSCI Inc.’s
 Hungarian index  at the next review in November based on revamped
liquidity requirements, Bogsch said. The stock, which was
deleted from the gauge last year, may be re-added following the
removal of additional minimum liquidity requirements for MSCI
global standard indexes, the New York-based company said in a
statement in August.  “The highly likely return to the MSCI index adds one more
argument in favor of the stock,” Erste said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  