-- Ringgit Leads Asian Advance as Dollar Weakens on U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-10-01T09:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/ringgit-leads-asian-advance-as-dollar-weakens-on-u-s-shutdown.html
Malaysia’s ringgit rallied, leading
gains in  Asia , as the dollar weakened on a partial U.S.
government shutdown. Sovereign bonds advanced.  The U.S. administration began a partial closure at midnight
in Washington for the first time in 17 years after Congress
failed to break a partisan deadlock. No further negotiations
were immediately planned, raising concerns about a battle to
raise the nation’s debt limit to avoid a first-ever default
after Oct. 17. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index fell 0.2 percent.  “The dollar weakened a bit on the back of the situation
out of the U.S.,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in Singapore. “The
debt ceiling is the bigger issue for emerging-market
currencies.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.7 percent to 3.2356 per dollar
as of 5:13 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , the best performance among
Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That was the biggest gain since Sept. 19. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in exchange
rates used to price options, fell 20 basis points to 10.76
percent.  Foreign ownership  of the Southeast Asian nation’s debt
dropped 1.6 percent to 212 billion ringgit ($66 billion) in
August, the third straight month of declines, Bank Negara
Malaysia data showed. Global funds held 28 percent of Malaysian
 government bonds  in August, compared with 31 percent for
Indonesian notes and 17 percent for Thai securities, according
to  finance ministry  and central bank figures.  Additional Spending  Outflows from  emerging markets  are likely to be temporary
as there’s still plenty of liquidity in the system,  Mark Mobius ,
executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group in San
Mateo, California, wrote on his blog today.  Malaysia’s parliament has approved 14 billion ringgit in
additional  government spending  and the funds will be allocated
to several ministries including finance, education and health,
according to a report from official news service Bernama today.  The yield on the 3.26 percent Malaysian sovereign notes due
March 2018 dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 3.57 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at  