-- Rubber Drops to Six-Week Low as U.S. Government Shutdown Begins
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-10-01T07:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/rubber-swings-near-1-month-low-on-u-s-budget-woes-japan-survey.html
Rubber fell to the lowest level in
six weeks on concern that the first U.S. government shutdown in
17 years will cut demand for the commodity used in tires.  The contract for March delivery on the  Tokyo  Commodity
Exchange fell 1.8 percent to 260.9 yen a kilogram ($2,663 a
metric ton), the lowest settlement since Aug. 21. Futures
advanced rose 12 percent last quarter, the most since the period
through December.  The U.S. government began a partial shutdown after
lawmakers failed to forge an agreement in budget talks for the
fiscal year that started at midnight. When the budget battle is
resolved, U.S. politicians will move to the next fiscal dispute
over raising the nation’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling.  “We are concerned about the U.S. budget problem,” said
Ryuta Imazeki, an analyst at Okachi & Co. in Tokyo. “If they
can’t settle it, the shutdown could weaken consumption and slow
down the U.S. recovery, which are negative for commodities.”  Futures earlier rose as much as 0.5 percent after  Japan ’s
quarterly Tankan index of big manufacturers rose to 12 in
September, the highest since 2007, exceeding the reading of 7 in
a Bloomberg News survey. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said
today the nation will proceed with an increase in  sales tax  as
planned and he will unveil the size of a package of stimulus
measures later today.  Thai rubber  free-on-board fell for a fifth day, losing 1.2
percent to 79.55 baht ($2.55) a kilogram today, according to the
Rubber Research Institute of  Thailand .  Markets in  China  are closed from today through Oct. 7 for
National Day holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  