-- SEC Once Slowed by Data Gap to Report High-Speed Trader Research
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s   a n d   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/sec-once-slowed-by-data-gap-to-report-high-speed-trader-research.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will soon issue research from its new system for
monitoring markets, including a look at practices that some
blame for giving high-speed traders an unfair edge.  The reports will use data from the SEC’s Midas market-surveillance system, according to two people briefed on the
plans. The findings could help inform whether new regulations
are needed to address strategies such as canceling a high
percentage of orders, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plan isn’t ready to be announced.  The SEC lacked such a tool during the May 2010 plunge 
known as the flash crash, when the agency was criticized for 
taking four months to report the cause of turbulence that 
erased about $862 billion in U.S. equity value in minutes 
before share prices recovered.  “This shows to the outside world that the SEC has been
quite active in terms of thinking about these issues in
sophisticated ways,” said Henry Hu, a professor at the
 University of Texas  who led the SEC’s research division from
2009 to 2011. “Too often, people outside the SEC are not really
aware of just how much effort goes on.”  The SEC acquired its Midas system last year from high-frequency trading firm and technology vendor Tradeworx Inc.
Midas, an acronym for Market Information Data Analytics System,
collects about 1 billion trading records per day from 13 U.S.
equity exchanges, which sell similar data to high-speed firms
and brokers that want information milliseconds before the
public.  More Data  Midas provides the regulator with more complete data than
traders and researchers can see from the public feeds operated
by  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , SEC Associate
Director Gregg E. Berman has said. The SEC’s feed includes every
displayed order for shares on exchanges, not just the best
offers reported to the public tape. It also gathers data on
orders that are modified, canceled or filled.  One of the first reports to be published will present
information on whether stock-market liquidity is affected by the
high volume of orders that are canceled before being filled,
which can give the false appearance of real bids and offers for
stocks. Some automated strategies may cancel more than 90
percent of the orders they send to exchanges, the SEC said in a
2010  report .  Better Decisions  “People have questioned the fact that there are so many
order cancellations and that there is a relatively small
fraction of orders from certain market players that get
executed,” former SEC Chairman Elisse B. Walter said last week
in a phone interview. “To have better data analysis about that
is going to help the SEC in making a policy decision about
whether or not that presents a problem and, if so, what to do
about it.”  Midas allows the SEC to view what exchanges and some high-speed traders already know about markets, Berman said in a June
speech at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association’s Tech conference. It’s not a perfect view of market
surveillance, because it doesn’t show the SEC how orders are
routed or include information about the brokers or customers
behind trades, Berman said.  Berman is leading the SEC’s effort to analyze Midas data
and publish analyses based on findings. It’s not clear when the
SEC will publish its first report, but the two people said it
would be soon.  In a phone interview last week, Berman declined to discuss
specific reports or when they would be made public. He said each
analysis began as a research project that his staff has worked
to translate for a general audience.  ‘Shed Light’  “We focus on using this data in ways that makes sense to
understand market structure,” Berman said. “This is all around
helping people better understand markets and shed light on a
variety of different topics.”  The decision to present research from Midas began under
Walter, who said in a February speech that the reports would
explore subjects such as the speed of quotes and subsequent
cancellations. The information could help people understand the
impact of new rules sought by critics of high-frequency trading,
said Walter, who left the agency in August after serving a five-year term as a commissioner and chairman.  Midas gives the SEC a view into market behavior that some
of the most sophisticated trading firms don’t have, Berman said
in a speech in June. The data allows the regulator to study the
speed at which traders respond to quotes, as well as what
fraction of orders are canceled “within 1 second, 100
milliseconds, or even 10 microseconds,” Berman said in the June
speech.  ‘Starting Point’  “Answering these basic factual questions must be the
starting point for any serious dialogue about market speed, and
I’m very glad we now have the tools and technology to be able to
do so,” Berman said in the speech.  Canadian regulators have similarly used a data-driven
approach as they seek to analyze the role of high-frequency
traders, said  Adam Sussman , director of research at New York-based Tabb Group LLC. The Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of  Canada  has used its real-time market
surveillance database to identify traders who produce a high
number of orders relative to the number of trades that were
consummated, Sussman said in a phone interview.  The Canadian regulator’s study found that high-frequency
trading accounted for one-fifth of all trading in that country
and 94 percent of order messages.  Providing different types of aggregated market data to the
public is a good thing, said Haoxiang Zhu, assistant professor
of finance at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s  Sloan
School of Management  who specializes in market structure issues.  “Many everyday investors, and even some smaller
institutions, have little idea how their stock orders are
routed, for example, let alone the complexity of market
structure,” he said in a phone interview. “More transparency
on the structure of markets can only help.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  