-- Shutdown Psychology Made Simple
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-01T17:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/shutdown-psychology-made-simple.html
The best explanation of the U.S.
government shutdown points to two factors. The first involves
information, or what people think they know. The second involves
incentives, or what motivates our elected representatives.  From decades of empirical research, we know that when like-minded people speak with one another, they tend to become more
extreme, more confident and more  unified  -- the phenomenon known
as group polarization. One reason involves the spread of
information within echo chambers.  If you are in a group whose members think the Affordable
Care Act is horrible, you will hear many arguments to that
effect and very few in the other direction. After a lot of
people have spoken, Obamacare will seem much worse than merely
horrible; it might well be taken as a menace to the republic. In
recent months, the  House of Representatives  has been a case
study in group polarization.  In a free nation, of course, no member of Congress can
really spend life in an echo chamber. They are aware that people
disagree with them. To appreciate what is happening with the
shutdown, we have to understand a bit more about the nature of
political beliefs. It turns out that when people’s convictions
are deeply held but  false , efforts to correct those views can
backfire. Such efforts tend to entrench and fortify those very
convictions.  Entrenched Views  When the news media corrects a false proposition (say, that
 Iraq  had weapons of mass destruction, or that  George W. Bush 
banned stem-cell research), both conservatives and liberals may
become even more committed to that proposition. Partisans and
extremists know what they know, and efforts to correct what they
know make them firmer still (and angrier to boot). It is for
this reason that the beliefs of some of the most extreme  House
Republicans , and their constituents, appear almost immune to
correction.  With respect to incentives, elected officials are often
motivated by one goal above all: to get re-elected. They are
focused on their own  electoral prospects , not those of their
party. They know they have to answer to their constituents, not
to the nation as a whole.  Within the Republican Party, many members of Congress have
no reason to fear a challenge from the left. There is no chance
that they will lose their seat to a Democrat, and a moderate
Republican isn’t going to run against them. The only threat is
from the right. With respect to a controversy that the public is
closely following, the main question may well be whether, in the
view of the most extreme conservative voters, the legislators
will “cave” to President  Barack Obama  or instead stand up for
their convictions. Is it any wonder that many Republican members
are willing to run the risks of a shutdown?  Some political scientists insist that elected officials are
solely motivated by the goal of being re-elected, but this view
is too simple. We should acknowledge that many officials are
committed to certain  principles . They want to do what they
believe to be right. It is here that information matters.
Elected in a wave of conservative outrage, fueled in part by
some beast called Obamacare, many House members are standing on
principle.  Because of what they think they know, they sincerely
believe that the health-care law is a clear and present danger.
For the nation, the problem is that beliefs of this kind create
a clash of absolutes -- and make compromise or accommodation
unusually challenging.  The framers of the Constitution fully appreciated the
underlying risks. Indeed, their document was designed to ensure
against situations of precisely the kind the nation is now
facing.  Faction Risks  James Madison , the father of the  Constitution , was
concerned above all about the risks of faction, which he defined
as citizens “united and actuated by some common impulse of
passion, or of interest, adverse to the rights of other
citizens, or to the permanent and aggregate interests of the
community.”  Madison  hoped  that through the structures of the American
republic, it would be possible “to refine and enlarge the
public views, by passing them through the medium of a chosen
body of citizens, whose wisdom may best discern the true
interest of their country, and whose patriotism and love of
justice will be least likely to sacrifice it to temporary or
partial considerations.”  It is an understatement to say that this kind of refinement
and enlargement is not occurring. We will not see them unless
the most extreme members of the  Republican Party  are able to
move out of their echo chambers, and unless the incentives of
those members are significantly altered.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 