-- Shutdown Fight Spurs Fundraising Bonanza by Invoking Cruz
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-10-01T18:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/shutdown-fight-spurs-fundraising-bonanza-by-invoking-cruz.html
Even as the federal government ran
out of money last night prompting a partial shutdown, political
parties, candidates and partisan advocates seized the moment to
fatten their campaign bank accounts.  Both sides saw green by invoking the name of Senator Ted Cruz, the Texas Republican freshman who delivered a 21-hour
speech urging the defunding of the Affordable Care Act, the 2010
health-care law known as Obamacare.  “He has become the poster boy for the shutdown,” said
 Bill Allison , editorial director of the Sunlight Foundation, a
Washington-based group that tracks lobbying and political
giving. “You’re looking for that lightning rod. For Democrats,
he’s public enemy No. 1, and for Republicans, he’s Paul Revere
leading the charge against the Affordable Care Act.”  As Cruz spoke through the night Sept. 24 on the Senate
floor, Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus
sent out an e-mail seeking donations. “Today, Senator Cruz has
taken the fight to defund Obamacare to the Senate floor,” he
wrote. “I hope you will join me in standing with him in
solidarity.”  Kirsten Kukowski, an RNC spokeswoman, said the party raised
“a lot” while declining to specify the amount.  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee mentioned
Cruz as well, saying that Senate Democrats were able to overcome
“ Ted Cruz ’ stalling tactics.” Over a picture of Obama, the
DCCC asks recipients to “show your support” in its e-mail.
“Give $3 or more right now to help us take on Republicans
blocking Obamacare,” the committee requests.  Fundraising Deadline  The appeals for contributions not only coincided with the
Sept. 30 deadline for renewing the  federal budget , which
Congress failed to do. They also were timed with the end of the
third quarter reporting period, when parties and candidates are
already in the hunt for donations.  “History shows that any opportunity to capture everyone’s
attention and to make headlines is a prime opportunity to fund-raise,” said  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the Center
for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks political giving. “It’s naturally a good opportunity to
raise immediate money and also collect names for potential
future donors. It’s money now and the possibility of money in
the future.”  The  Democratic National Committee  raised $850,000 in the 24
hours preceding today’s partial shutdown of the government, the
party organization’s best single day of fundraising this year,
said a DNC official who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly on
the matter and requested anonymity.  Rubio Appeal  Another Senate leader of the effort to defund the health-care law, Florida Republican Marco Rubio, distributed an e-mail
seeking funds for Arkansas Representative Tom Cotton’s campaign
for the  U.S. Senate . Cotton joined the House Republican caucus
in opposing a short-term budget bill that didn’t curtail
Obamacare.  “My conservative colleagues and I fought tirelessly on the
Senate floor to prevent the American dream from slipping away
and stop more taxpayer money from being wasted on this job-killing law,” Rubio wrote. “Tom would be an indispensable ally
for our cause.”  The  Tea Party  Express, which supported Cruz’s successful
2012 bid for the Senate, sent an e-mail Sept. 26 urging
supporters to contribute to the advocacy group and to ask
Republican senators to block the budget bill.  Tea Party  “If you agree with us and would like us to continue our
fight, please consider making a generous contribution today,”
chairwoman Amy Kremer wrote. “Unfortunately, funding such a
fight is not cheap and we are up against forces that have deep
pockets.”  Republican consultant Sal Russo, chief strategist of
the Sacramento, California-based group, sent out the same appeal
on Sept. 30.  The Senate Conservatives Fund, a political action committee
started by former South Carolina Republican Senator  Jim DeMint ,
has a donation box in the center of its website that also seeks
signatures of health-care law opponents. Through Sept. 27, the
site said 1.9 million people had signed its petition to Congress
to eliminate funding for the law. The site also includes videos
from Cruz and Senator  Mike Lee , a Utah Republican.  “Join Mike Lee and Ted Cruz in the fight to stop
Obamacare,” the site said. “Help us spread the word with these
TV advertisements. Donate.”  Democratic Pitches  House Majority PAC, a super-political action committee that
raises money in unlimited amounts to elect Democrats to the
House, sought donations for a “rapid response” to Republican
efforts to hold “our economy hostage.”  Organizing for America, the advocacy group born out of
President  Barack Obama ’s 2012 re-election campaign, today sought
contributions of as little as $5.  “This fight just got a whole lot more real and a whole lot
more urgent -- right now, we need to know who’s going to help
hold these Republicans accountable,” executive director Jon Carson wrote in an e-mail sent to supporters.  Moveon.org, an advocacy group that supported Obama’s re-election, sought donations for online ads criticizing the
congressional Republicans. The group said it would run ads
targeting Republicans who failed to prevent the shutdown.  “If we play our cards right, 2013 could become known as
the year the Tea Party relegated itself to the dustbin of
history,” Moveon.org wrote.  As for Cruz, two fundraising events were postponed to keep
the focus on the senator’s effort to defund the health-care law,
said Rachel Dawson, finance director of his Jobs Growth and
Freedom Fund leadership PAC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  