-- Shutdown Risks Obama’s Asia Trip With Trade Deals Waiting
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v ,   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-10-02T05:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/shutdown-risks-obama-s-asia-trip-with-trade-deals-waiting.html
The U.S. government shutdown may
leave President  Barack Obama ’s foreign policy goals as an
unintended casualty.  Obama is scheduled to depart in three days for  Asia , a
region that represents more than half the global economy and one
where the White House is seeking to forge closer alliances to
counter rising economic and strategic competition from China.  While Obama still hopes to make the trip, an extended
shutdown may force him to cancel or shorten his travels, senior
adviser  Dan Pfeiffer  said in an interview with  Bloomberg News .
“There are logistical questions,” Pfeiffer said. The president
has postponed his Malaysia visit, the official news service
Bernama reported today, citing Prime Minister Najib Razak.  A cancellation risks sending a signal of a diminished U.S.
commitment to its global role that allies fear and hostile
nations or groups might welcome, according to  Leon Panetta , a
former defense secretary and White House chief of staff.  Congressional Republicans “may think this is a political
game,” said Panetta, a former Democratic congressman. “But
it’s a political game that’s doing damage to national security.
The biggest threat to our national security right now is our
failure to govern,” because other nations “will view that as a
weakness.”  Pacific Trade  Obama staked his second-term foreign policy on enhancing
the U.S. economic and military presence in the Pacific. The U.S.
exported $326.4 billion in goods and services to the Pacific Rim
in 2010, according to U.S. Census Bureau data, up from $254.6
billion in 2009. That exceeded American exports to the European
Union or to Canada. The U.S. also has bolstered its defense
assets from Australia to  South Korea  to help safeguard sea lanes
that carry more than $5 trillion of commerce, about $1.2
trillion of it U.S. trade.  The eight-day tour of Asia was scheduled to have stops in
four countries and at three international summits, including the
annual Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting among 21
members. It also would give Obama the opportunity for a face-to-face meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese
leadership.  Among the administration’s main goals is making progress on
the Trans-Pacific Partnership, an 11-nation free-trade zone
linking an area with about $26 trillion in annual economic
output.  Beyond the Trip  Obama’s events in Indonesia, Brunei, Malaysia and the
Philippines have been planned for months and orchestrated to the
hour, and White House press secretary  Jay Carney  has said Obama
still intends to go. Yet with no clear end in sight to the
fiscal stalemate with  House Republicans  and the effects rippling
through the  U.S. economy , the administration may be forced to
prepare for the possibility of cancellation.  “I can’t imagine the president going abroad with a
government that’s shut down,” Panetta, who was defense chief
and Central Intelligence Agency director under Obama, said.  The shutdown risks feeding an impression that the U.S. is
in retreat from its role of global leadership amid political
polarization in Washington, according to  Charles Kupchan , a
senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in Washington.  “It’s particularly important in  East Asia  where countries
are uncertain about the long-term geopolitical trends and trying
to decide whether to tilt toward the  United States  or toward
China,” he said. “And as a consequence it’s an important time
for Obama to show that Washington has its lights on.”  ‘Significant Pall’  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel also warned that the shutdown
casts “a very significant pall over America’s credibility with
our allies.”  “It does have an effect on our relationships around the
world and cuts straight to the obvious question: Can you rely on
the United States as a reliable partner to fulfill its
commitments?” Hagel told reporters during a visit to Seoul.  Addressing reporters yesterday at the end of a meeting with
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , Obama also drew a
link between the shutdown and global U.S. responsibilities.  “We are the foundation of the world economy and the world
financial system,” the president said. “And we certainly don’t
allow domestic policy differences on issues that are unrelated
to the budget to endanger not only our economy but the world
economy.”  Cameron Cites Risk  The shutdown comes as Obama faces challenges in defining
the international role of what he has called a war-weary
America. He faces a backlash from other nations over disclosures
of National Security Agency spying on allies, debate over a
potential opening with Iran under its new president, and
uncertainty over his handling of the war in  Syria  and his
contention that the regime used chemical weapons.  The economic damage from the shutdown also may reduce U.S.
clout.  “It is a risk to the world economy if the U.S. can’t
properly sort out its spending plans,” British Prime Minister
 David Cameron  told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program in
Manchester, where his  Conservative Party  is holding its annual
conference. The U.K. government said in a notice to citizens
that travelers may experience delays in air travel and
immigration.  Germany’s Foreign Ministry issued a travel advisory for the
U.S., citing on its website the risk of closed museums and
national parks, and the German news magazine Spiegel Online
warned that “a superpower has paralyzed itself.”  ‘Like Noise’  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.8 percent to 312.86 at
the close of trading in the equity benchmark yesterday.
Investors assessing the impact of the U.S. shutdown decided it
“looks more like noise rather than something that makes a
fundamental difference for growth,” Nicola Marinelli, who helps
oversee $180 million as portfolio manager at Glendevon King Ltd.
in London, said by phone.  Going ahead with Obama’s Asia trip in the face of a
shutdown would pose logistical as well as political hurdles.
While the president’s Secret Service detail works regardless of
a shutdown, the White House must determine whether enough staff
can be deployed ahead of the president’s arrival in each country
to facilitate his movements during a furlough of non-essential
employees.  Another consideration is whether Americans will turn
against him if he leaves the country rather than stays home to
negotiate with congressional Republicans.  Putin, Li  While the White House hasn’t released Obama’s schedule for
Asia, officials expected he’d have the chance to hold meetings
with leaders on the sidelines of the conferences, as he has in
past years. Bilateral sessions next week are likely to include
Putin at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Bali
and  Li Keqiang , China’s premier, at the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations summit in Brunei.  Peter Orszag , Obama’s former budget director and a
Bloomberg View columnist, said the president stands to lose
either way.  “If he doesn’t go he has a foreign relations problem,”
Orszag said. “If he does go, he’s got a domestic problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  