-- Shutdown Confrontation May Rob Momentum From Debt Debate
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-10-01T14:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/shutdown-confrontation-may-rob-momentum-from-debt-debate.html
A partisan stalemate that partially
shut down the U.S. government may lessen the appetite of
lawmakers for risking a debt default later this month.  The potential political and economic blow from the shutdown
that began today could sap the will of rank-and-file Republicans
in Congress to go through with a second fiscal confrontation
with President  Barack Obama  on the heels of this week’s fight,
said Dan Meyer, chief of staff to former Republican House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and later a congressional lobbyist for
President  George W. Bush .  “It has the potential to make a significant difference,”
Meyer said. Some Republicans “want to play a little too close
to the flame here and, frankly, some of them need to get their
fingers singed,” Meyer, now a lobbyist with the Duberstein
Group, said. “They’ll start feeling the heat pretty quick.”  The federal government’s first partial shutdown in 17 years
began with the new fiscal year at midnight. Legislation to fund
the government stalled as congressional Republicans stuck with
demands for changes in Obama’s signature 2010 Affordable Care
Act. Obama and congressional Democrats refused to go along.  Market Reaction  Global stocks rebounded this morning after suffering the
biggest decline in a month in the runup to the shutdown.
Treasuries fell and the dollar weakened.  The MSCI All-Country World Index climbed 0.1 percent to
382.62 at 9:30 a.m. in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced less than 0.1 percent after the benchmark index
retreated 2.6 percent from its last record on Sept. 18. Treasury
 10-year yields  rose 1.3 basis points to 2.62 percent. The
Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index dropped 0.2 percent.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said at a Bloomberg
Government breakfast this morning that the shutdown deadlock
puts Congress “on a very dangerous trajectory” going into a
debate over the next major fiscal requirement: raising the
nation’s debt limit. Assumptions that Republican congressional
leaders would act to avoid a default “may be faulty,” he said.  “The far right of the  Republican Party  is dictating policy
in the  House of Representatives  right now,”  Van Hollen  said.  Boehner’s Conditions  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , has issued
a longer list of demands before he’ll support raising the  debt 
ceiling. U.S. Treasury officials say action is needed by Oct. 17
to raise the current legal  limit  of $16.7 trillion or the
government will default.  Boehner’s conditions include approval of  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline, major revisions to the  tax code , a
one-year delay of the insurance mandate in the Obama health-care
law, means testing of the Medicare insurance program for the
elderly, and reductions in government regulations.  To be sure, some analysts argued that inability of the two
parties to agree on a short-term funding extension portends even
greater difficulty for a debt-limit extension.  Chris Krueger, a Washington analyst for Guggenheim
Securities LLC, estimates a 40 percent probability that Congress
will fail to pass a debt-limit increase by the Treasury’s
announced deadline.  ‘Difficult Shot’  “Washington couldn’t sink the short putt, and the debt
ceiling is a much more difficult shot,” Krueger said. “The
only thing probably less popular than Obamacare with Republicans
is a deal to raise the debt ceiling.”  One former Republican congressional aide said the reactions
of the party’s activists and donors to the outcome of the
government shutdown fight will shape the debt-ceiling battle.  If likely Republican primary voters such as  Tea Party 
followers and funding sources of potential Republican
congressional primary candidates, such as the Club for Growth,
view concessions won through the shutdown battle as worth the
price, they will probably encourage more demands on the debt-ceiling legislation, said the former aide, who asked for
anonymity to discuss party strategy.  If not, members will probably choose to seek more modest
concessions or avoid a debt-ceiling fight, according to the
former aide.  Public Perceptions  Party leaders and some rank-and-file Republicans will also
be influenced by public perceptions, the former aide said. An
improved image or minimal damage to the party in opinion polls
would lead to stronger demands in the next fight, while a public
backlash would cause a retreat, the aide said.  “If there’s a shutdown and the Republicans lose, I think
that Boehner’s going to tell the Tea Party: ‘You tried, you
failed, let’s move on,’” said  Stan Collender , a onetime
Democratic congressional budget aide and now a partner at Qorvis
Communications in Washington.  Alec Phillips , an economist in the Washington office of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said party leaders and most lawmakers
are willing to use the government shutdown as a safety valve to
release pressure for a debt default, because they consider it
less risky.  Steve Bell, a former Senate Republican budget aide, said
the government shutdown builds Boehner’s credibility with
members of his party who favor a more aggressive approach, while
allowing him to wait until the debt ceiling before asking them
for a tough vote to accept something anathema to many.  “He’s going to get a vote from his more stubborn wing
once, and it looks like he’s going to get it on the debt
ceiling, not the government shutdown,” said Bell, now a senior
director at the Bipartisan Policy Center in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  