-- SNB Says Invalid 1,000 Franc Banknotes in Circulation
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-10-01T10:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/snb-says-invalid-1-000-franc-banknotes-in-circulation.html
Some 1,800 invalid Swiss 1,000-franc
banknotes worth 1.8 million francs ($2 million) have been in
circulation since autumn 2012, the  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  said.  The banknotes were stolen during production at  Orell
Fuessli Holding AG (OFN)  and haven’t been through all stages of
printing, the Zurich-based SNB said in a statement today, adding
that Switzerland’s Federal Prosecutors Office is investigating
the matter.  The SNB said it will reimburse holders of such banknotes
with Orell Fuessli covering the cost. The invalid banknotes can
be identified as they have no serial number or the serial number
has been subsequently printed onto them.  Switzerland’s 1,000-franc note is among the most valuable
banknotes in the world. More than 36.7 million of such notes
were in  circulation  at the end of July, according to the SNB.
Orell Fuessli, in which the SNB holds a 33 percent  stake , has
supplied the central bank with banknotes since 1911.  Orell Fuessli, based in Zurich, said is liable for losses
incurred by customers, according to a separate statement. The
resulting charge was taken into account in the company’s profit
warning on Sept. 9, when it said it may post a loss of 8 million
francs this year amid a “severely depressed” business after a
client made complaints on printing errors.  London Arrests  “Orell Fuessli is the only banknote producer in
 Switzerland , the SNB is its biggest customer and an important
shareholder,” SNB President Thomas Jordan said by e-mail,
adding that the central bank will continue to collaborate with
the company.  Suspicious notes first turned up in a London exchange
office in October 2012, according to Orell Fuessli. Two men, who
were in possession of 37 invalid notes, were arrested by U.K.
authorities at the time, Switzerland’s Federal Prosecutors’
Office said in an e-mailed statement.  The confiscated notes didn’t have serial numbers or micro
perforation, the prosecutor said. In the past two weeks, another
17 notes were seized in Switzerland, according to the statement.  One of the arrested men had been living in Switzerland and
was sentenced to seven months in prison in  London , according to
the statement. A colleague of this man was arrested in Zurich in
April and was released from custody in June. Investigations
against the two accused people and any others involved in the
case will continue, the prosecutor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  