-- Sony’s ‘Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs 2’ Is No. 1
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2013-10-01T01:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/sony-s-cloudy-with-a-chance-of-meatballs-2-is-no-1.html
“Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs
2,” the animated sequel from  Sony Corp. (6758) , took first place at
the U.S. and Canadian box office in its debut, collecting $34
million in sales.  “Rush,”  Ron Howard ’s Formula 1 racing movie, rose to
third with $10 million in its second week, expanding broadly
after a limited debut, Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in a
statement. “Prisoners,” starring  Hugh Jackman  and  Jake Gyllenhaal , was second with $10.9 million.  “Cloudy 2,” the follow-up to Sony’s 2009 hit, marks the
fourth No. 1 debut this year for the studio, which has seen its
U.S. ticket sales slide 32 percent, leaving it ranked fifth,
according to researcher Box Office Mojo. Sony Pictures removed
its head of marketing last week following criticism of the
performance of its entertainment division.  The latest “Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs” was made
for $78 million, less than the original’s $100 million cost,
according to Box Office Mojo. It was projected to collect $45
million by Boxoffice.com in its debut.  “It’s still a fairly solid opening,”  Paul Sweeney , a
media analyst at Bloomberg Industries, said in a telephone
interview. “It’ll probably play well for the next several weeks
until more kids’ films and animation films are released for the
holidays.”  The first “Cloudy” garnered $243 million total at the
global box office.  Disastrous Storm  The PG-rated films’ central character is an inventor named
Flint Lockwood, who in the first movie concocts a machine that
turns rain into food, culminating in a disastrous storm. In the
latest version, Lockwood is forced to leave his job when he
finds that the machine is still operational and is churning out
menacing food-animal hybrids. The movie, featuring the voices of
Bill Hader, Anna Faris and Will Forte, was well received in
reviews for the quality of its animation and its visual humor.  “At times it felt as if this film might challenge Pixar’s
decade-long reign, but that promise wanes,”  wrote  Miriam Bale
in the New York Times. “Instead, the movie is sometimes so
strange, colorful and wildly cute that it may end up becoming a
‘Yellow Submarine’ for a new generation.”  Sony earlier scored three No. 1 debuts this year, with the
horror reboot “Evil Dead,”   Matt Damon ’s science-fiction film
“Elysium,” and “One Direction: This Is Us.”  Racing Rivalry  Ron Howard’s “Rush” returned in wide release after its
debut in a handful of cinemas.  Starring Chris Hemsworth, it recounts the 1970s Formula 1
racing rivalry between the late James Hunt and Niki Lauda.
Director Howard, who won the Oscar for 2001’s “A Beautiful
Mind,” conveys the intensity of the racing and the contrasting
personalities of the British playboy Hunt and the studious
Austrian Lauda.  “Prisoners,” the suspense thriller from  Warner Bros .
which finished second, has been buoyed by reviews praising the
force of the performances of its lead actors. It features
Jackman as a father who reacts to his daughter’s kidnapping by
turning vigilante after police, lacking evidence, let the chief
suspect go. Gyllenhaal plays the detective keeping tabs on
Jackman while investigating the case.  The movie’s domestic receipts total $38.5 million in two
weeks of release.  ‘Don Jon’  “Baggage Claim,” from Fox Searchlight made its debut in
fourth place, collecting $9 million, against a projected $8
million. The romantic comedy features Paula Patton as a woman
who vows to get married by embarking on a 30-day, 30,000-mile
expedition to charm a potential suitor into becoming her fiance.  “Don Jon,” a dramatic comedy from Relativity Media LLC,
was fifth with $8.7 million in its opening weekend. Directed and
starring Joseph Gordon-Levitt, the movie follows Jon Martello,
who arranges his life around family, church, gym and sex and
hooked on pornography, making him unable to deal with the women
he seduces.  The film, which also stars  Scarlett Johansson , was praised
for Gordon-Levitt’s direction. It was projected to collect $11.5
million by Boxoffice.com  “Johansson is wonderfully awful and Gordon-Levitt is
electric,” wrote Bloomberg News critic  Craig Seligman .  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 10 percent to
$95.7 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Year-to-date revenue is up 1 percent to $8.15 billion.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales for Sept. 27 to Sept. 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net 
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  