-- South African Minister Seeks Limit to Teacher Strikes
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-10-01T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/south-african-minister-seeks-limit-to-teacher-strikes.html
South  Africa ’s government plans to
classify education as an essential service and limit teachers’
right to strike, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said,
dismissing opposition from the ruling party’s union allies.  Teachers, nurses and other state workers went on strike for
20 days in 2010, closing schools and disrupting hospital
services, to secure a 7.5 percent wage increase and a 60 percent
increase in housing allowances. The deal followed nine months of
talks and compared with an average inflation rate of 4.3 percent
that year.  President Jacob Zuma has asked a team of government
officials to improve communication with teachers and avoid
confrontations that end in strikes, Motshekga, 58, said in an
interview yesterday in  Pretoria , the capital. Limiting the right
to strike will probably require changes to the law, she said.  “Teaching and health should not be treated like these
other professions,” Motshekga said. “They are, for me, very
essential services. There are sensitivities about the profession
which should limit how far people who enter that profession
should be allowed to go, because there are situations which are
extremely detrimental if they have all the full rights.”  The government of Africa’s biggest  economy  is struggling to
improve an education system that disadvantaged the black
majority during white rule that ended in 1994. South Africa’s
mathematics and science schooling was ranked last of 148
countries in a  survey  by the  World Economic Forum  this year, and
was ahead of Yemen and Libya in an assessment of the total
education system.  Final-year pass rates have increased every year since 2009,
the year in which Motshekga took office, following six
successive years of declines. A skills shortage has contributed
to a dearth in investment, undermining South Africa’s efforts to
reduce its one-in-four  unemployment  rate.  Skeleton Staff  Teachers who want to strike should be forced to keep a
skeleton staff to ensure lessons can at least partially
continue, said Motshekga, who taught in the Johannesburg
township of Soweto in the 1980s and today leads the ruling
 African National Congress ’s Women’s League.  “If teachers are going to strike, you can’t leave students
on their own,” she said. “We don’t take all their rights,
because teachers have a right to protest, but we must protect
the children also.”  The South African Democratic Teachers Union, a 230,000-member strong union that supports Zuma’s ANC, said essential
services only apply to those where people’s lives are at risk if
workers go on strike.  “We have gone on strike many a time,” Sadtu Deputy
General Secretary Nkosana Dolop said in a phone interview from
Johannesburg yesterday. “There is no learner that dies. People
fought and people died for these rights. We will challenge
everybody through all means available to make sure that our
rights as workers are not trampled upon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  