-- S. Korea Warns North With Biggest Military Parade in Decade
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-10-01T06:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/south-korea-warns-north-with-biggest-military-parade-in-decade.html
South Korea  holds its biggest
military parade in a decade today, displaying its most advanced
missiles in downtown Seoul in a show of force directed at  North
Korea  and its nuclear weapon ambitions.  The parade coincides with a visit to Seoul by U.S.
Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, who is attending annual
security talks with South Korea where 28,500 U.S. troops are
stationed. The North threatened preemptive nuclear strikes
against the U.S. and South Korea in March, fueling tensions in
the region that remain high.  “North Korea maintains its obsession with nuclear
development,” South Korean President Park Geun Hye said during
a televised ceremony at a military airfield just outside Seoul
to mark 65 years since the founding of the armed forces. “The
government will make the North feel its nuclear program and
missiles are no longer useful by hastening the development of
capabilities to deal with nuclear arms and weapons of mass
destruction.”  South Korea plans to spend nearly 1 trillion won ($931
million) next year building a command system that would allow
its military to preemptively strike targets in North Korea if
required. The South is also spending 120 billion won to enhance
missile defense next year, according to the  Defense Ministry .  The one-hour parade starting at 4 p.m. local time involves
12,000 troops, and the military will use the parade to unveil
the Hyeonmu 3, a South Korean-made cruise missile with a range
of 1,500 kilometers (932 miles), enough to reach all of North
Korea, according to the website of the parade organizers.  Window Target  After North Korea conducted its third nuclear test in
February, South Korea disclosed footage of the Hyeonmu 3 in
action and described it as capable of hitting the window of
North Korea’s military headquarters.  “We will display our determination to defend the country
and our military’s ability to deal with North Korea’s asymmetric
capabilities by unveiling state-of-the-art equipment and new
weapons during the parade,” Wee Yong Sub, a Defense Ministry
spokesman, said yesterday by phone, referring to North Korean
weapons including long-range missiles and its program to develop
nuclear warheads.  North and South Korea face each other over one of the
world’s most heavily-armed borders after the 1950-53  Korean War 
ended in a truce. North Korea has 1.2 million soldiers while
South Korea’s forces number 640,000, according to the South’s
ministry.  Postponed Reunions  Relations between the two sides showed signs of improvement
last month when they reopened their jointly run industrial park
that was shuttered in April. That thaw was short-lived with the
North indefinitely postponing reunions of families separated by
the war.  Other South Korean arms to be paraded include the Hyeonmu
2, a ballistic missile with a range of 300 kilometers, and  Spike 
rockets, deployed near the western maritime border after the
North bombarded a South Korean island in 2010, the ministry
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  