-- S. Africa Central Bank Governor Marcus Warns on Strikes
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-10-02T06:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/south-africa-central-bank-concerned-over-strikes-marcus-says.html
The South African  Reserve Bank 
remains concerned about the effects of strikes on the economy,
the bank’s governor Gill Marcus said.  It’s encouraging that  strike action  has been “largely
peaceful and legal” this year, compared with “a series of
unprocedural and violent strikes” in 2012, Marcus said in a
speech to diplomats in the capital, Pretoria, a copy of which
was published on the bank’s website late yesterday.  Thousands of South African workers downed tools in wage
disputes in the mining, manufacturing and construction
industries in August and September. Strikes shaved 0.5
percentage point off economic growth in 2012 and President  Jacob Zuma  said in June they have reduced economic growth this year by
0.3 percentage point.  Marcus reiterated that the bank faces the dual challenges
of slowing growth and increasing inflationary pressures. The
Reserve Bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 5
percent for a seventh consecutive meeting on Sept. 19.  A 16 percent decline in the value of the rand against the
dollar this year is adding to price pressures in  Africa ’s
biggest economy by boosting import costs. The currency fell 0.2
percent to 10.1381 per dollar by 8:25 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Consumer prices  rose 6.4 percent in August, exceeding the
bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target band for a second
consecutive month. The bank predicts the inflation rate will
drop below 6 percent by the end of the year.  “The bank will continue to take the necessary steps to
anchor inflation expectations and achieve  price stability  within
our mandate of flexible inflation targeting,” Marcus said.  The central bank forecasts  gross domestic product  in
Africa’s largest economy will expand 2 percent this year, the
slowest pace since a 2009 recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  