-- Statoil Says Lofoten Ban Hurts Effort to Ease Oil Decline
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-10-01T15:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/statoil-says-lofoten-ban-hurts-effort-to-ease-oil-decline.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s biggest oil and
gas producer, said the new Conservative-led government’s
decision to sacrifice exploration off the Lofoten islands will
deny the country a chance to revive flagging production.  Incoming Prime Minister Erna Solberg, whose Conservatives
agreed to form a government with the Progress Party, said
yesterday she won’t seek to open areas off the environmentally
sensitive islands in the next four years, keeping as much as 2.3
billion barrels of oil equivalent in the ground.  “Production will fall quickly after 2025 if we don’t make
new, big discoveries” and may slump as much as 50 percent by
2030, Oerjan Heradstveit, a spokesman for Statoil, said today by
telephone. “It’s all the more important for the industry that
the government considers other long-term measures that can
secure the Norwegian shelf’s competitiveness.”  Norway  expects crude-oil production, which comes mainly
from aging fields in the North Sea, to fall for a 13th
consecutive year in 2013 to less than half its peak in 2000.
Total petroleum output will drop 13 percent. While oil volumes
will subsequently be bolstered by new fields such as Johan
Sverdrup, output will resume its decline in 10 years’ time if
new finds aren’t made, according to consultants Rystad Energy.  Change Tack  Before the Sept. 9 election, the Conservative and Progress
parties had called for a study into the potential impact of
exploration off the Lofoten islands, a first step to opening
them up. After changing tack and keeping Lofoten off limits, as
well as other areas off Norway’s coast and waters around the
Arctic Jan Mayen island, they yesterday secured parliamentary
support from the smaller Liberal Party and Christian Democrats.  The area hosts the world’s biggest cold-water coral reef as
well as mainland Europe’s biggest seabird colony, according to
WWF. It’s also a breeding ground for 70 percent of all fish
caught in the Norwegian and Barents Seas, as well as sperm
whales and seals. Junior partners in the previous Labor-led
government managed to block an impact study of Lofoten in 2011.  Norwegian Oil & Gas, a business lobby, dismissed Solberg’s
decision as “disappointing and undemocratic,” saying a
majority in parliament supported an impact study. Norway’s
biggest union, LO, said the move was “very regrettable.”  While Statoil’s Heradstveit declined to detail any concrete
measures to boost the competitiveness of Norway’s oil industry,
the Stavanger-based company in May criticized the outgoing
government’s unexpected decision to raise taxes on oil
producers. Statoil listed the tax increase as one reason for
delaying the development of its Johan Castberg project.  Exploration Buoyed  Wood Mackenzie Ltd., a research group based in Edinburgh,
said it doesn’t expect Solberg’s decision on Lofoten to hurt
interest in exploration off Norway, buoyed since 2010 by
discoveries such as Sverdrup in the North Sea and Castberg in
the Arctic Barents Sea. The country also this year decided to
open an area previously disputed with  Russia .  “We view the Barents as one the most exciting basins for
exploration globally, and the northern North Sea still ranks
very favorably,” Wood Mackenzie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  