-- Steelmakers in Sink or Swim Throes as Prices Drop, Solidium Says
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-10-01T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/steelmakers-in-sink-or-swim-throes-as-prices-drop-solidium-says.html
The commodities market will offer
scant relief to metal producers struggling with overcapacity and
low prices in the coming months, according to the head of
Finland’s equity-asset manager.  Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V) ,  Rautaruukki Oyj (RTRKS)  and  Talvivaara (TALV)  Mining Co.
must continue adapting themselves to low steel and nickel
prices, Kari Jaervinen, managing director of Solidium Oy, which
owns stakes in all three companies, said in an interview in
Helsinki yesterday.  “These companies must themselves act to reach
profitability in all environments,” Jaervinen said. “Nickel
price pressures will remain and the general economic situation
causes commodity prices to develop with moderation.”  Slow global growth has damped metal prices in the aftermath
of the financial crisis. Nickel, used in stainless steel,
tumbled into a  bear market  in May and is set for a third yearly
loss. European steelmakers are struggling with excess supply as
imports from Asia worsen a supply glut amid waning demand from
automakers and builders.  Even so, speculation is premature that the super cycle, or
longer-than-average period of rising prices, in commodities is
ending, McKinsey & Co. said Sept. 26. Solidium has during the
past year increased holdings in Finnish mining-equipment makers
 Metso Oyj (MEO1V)  and  Outotec Oyj (OTE1V) , betting on construction industry
demand picking up in developing markets including China and
Southeast Asia.  Solidium is the biggest owner of special-steel maker
Rautaruukki with 39.7 percent of shares. It holds a 21.8 percent
stake in stainless-steel maker Outokumpu and 16.7 percent of
nickel producer Talvivaara.  The long-term outlook for the metal producers is more
favorable, Jaervinen said.  “Urbanization will remain such a strong cyclical force for
the next decade that outlook on minerals remains positive,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  