-- Most Swiss Stocks Advance Amid Partial U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-10-01T12:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/swiss-stocks-little-changed-amid-partial-u-s-shutdown.html
Most  Swiss stocks  advanced, after the
Swiss Market Index yesterday posted its biggest decline in a
week, as investors weighed the impact of a partial shutdown of
the U.S. government.  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG and  Julius Baer  Group Ltd. climbed
more than 2 percent.  Sonova (SOON)  Holding AG declined 3.2 percent
after Citigroup Inc. lowered its rating on the world’s largest
maker of hearing aids.  The  SMI (SMI)  added 0.2 percent to 8,037.13 at 2:21 p.m. in
Zurich as two stocks rose for every one that fell. The equity
benchmark advanced 3.6 percent in September, extending its gain
last quarter to 4.4 percent, as the  Federal Reserve  refrained
from reducing its monthly bond purchases. The gauge has rallied
18 percent so far in 2013, the third-best performance by a
European developed market. The broader Swiss Performance Index
also rose 0.2 percent today.  “Some of the U.S. shutdown news has been discounted
already,” said Konstantin Giantiroglou, head of investment
advisory at Neue Aargauer Bank in Brugg,  Switzerland . “I would
not bet too much on this surprising resilience. Market
participants think that this government shutdown will not have a
major economic impact.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 10 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Shutdown  U.S. lawmakers missed a midnight deadline to agree on a
budget and continue funding the government. The shutdown will
put as many as 800,000 federal employees out of work temporarily
and halt some services.  Democrats and Republicans had no immediate plans for
further budget negotiations, raising concerns among some
lawmakers that the two sides will also struggle to forge a deal
on raising the U.S. debt limit. The nation will run out of money
to pay all of its bills at some point between Oct. 22 and Oct.
31 unless Congress approves an increase in the borrowing
authority, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Credit Suisse climbed 2.6 percent to 28.33 Swiss francs as
Bank of America Corp. reiterated its buy recommendation on
Switzerland’s second-largest lender.  “Credit Suisse will be in a strong position to raise
dividends significantly next year, which would send very strong
signals about its business model and cash flow,” analysts led
by  Michael Helsby  said.  Julius Baer, the Swiss bank founded in 1890, advanced 2.3
percent to 43.18 francs.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the nation’s largest lender,
gained 1.2 percent to 18.72 francs as bank shares climbed across
Europe.  Sonova dropped 3.2 percent to 108.80 francs. Citigroup
reduced its rating to neutral from buy, saying “the current
valuation fully reflects the revenue and earnings growth on
offer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  