-- U.K. Factory Expansion Slows in September From 2 1/2-Year High
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-01T08:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/u-k-factory-expansion-slows-in-september-from-2-1-2-year-high.html
A  U.K. manufacturing index  fell in
September from a 2 1/2-year high as export demand slowed.  A gauge of factory activity declined to 56.7 from a revised
57.1 in August, Markit Economics said today in  London . That’s
above the 50 level signaling growth. Economists forecast 57.5,
based on the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.
A euro-area manufacturing index slipped to 51.1 from 51.4 in
August, in line with an initial estimate on Sept. 23.  Britain’s recovery has strengthened after growth
accelerated to 0.7 percent in the second quarter. Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said yesterday the economy has
“turned a corner.” While Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney 
says he doesn’t see an argument for expanding quantitative
easing, he’s pledged to keep  interest rates  low until
unemployment falls to 7 percent from the current 7.7 percent to
ensure the recovery.  “Manufacturing continues to boom, adding to the flow
of upbeat data which suggest that the economy is growing faster
than almost anyone expected,” Markit economist Rob Dobson said
in today’s report. “This stronger-than-expected performance
will raise further questions in the City with regards to the
Bank of England’s forward guidance on interest rates.”  A measure of new orders “lost only minor impetus” in
September, factory payrolls rose the most since May 2011 and
inflation increased at the fastest pace in two years, according
to the report. New export business expanded the least since May.  Markit’s  euro-area factory measure  showed output expanded
for a third month in September as the 17-nation currency bloc’s
economic recovery gained momentum, it said in a separate release
today.  In  China , a factory gauge rose less than economists
forecast in September, signaling limits on the nation’s rebound
from a two-quarter economic slowdown.  A separate Chinese manufacturing index from HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit published yesterday rose to 50.2 in September
from 50.1 in August. The final number was less than the 51.2
preliminary reading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  