-- U.S. September ISM Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-10-01T14:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/u-s-september-ism-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  DO NOT CONFUSE THIS NATIONAL REPORT with the various regional
purchasing reports released across the country. The national
report’s information reflects the entire  United States , while
the regional reports contain primarily regional data from their
local vicinities. Also, the information in the regional reports
is not used in calculating the results of the national report.
The information compiled in this report is for the month of
September 2013.  Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in
September for the fourth consecutive month, and the overall
economy grew for the 52nd consecutive month, say the nation’s
supply executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business.  The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The PMI registered 56.2 percent, an
increase of 0.5 percentage point from August’s reading of 55.7
percent. September’s PMI reading is the highest of the year,
leading to an average PMI reading of 55.8 percent for the third
quarter. The New Orders Index decreased in September by 2.7
percentage points to 60.5 percent, and the Production Index
increased by 0.2 percentage point to 62.6 percent. The
Employment Index registered 55.4 percent, an increase of 2.1
percentage points compared to August’s reading of 53.3 percent,
which is the highest reading for the year. Comments from the
panel are generally positive and optimistic about increasing
demand and improving business conditions.”  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 11 are reporting growth in
September in the following order:  Electrical Equipment ,
Appliances & Components; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Furniture & Related Products; Petroleum & Coal Products;
Fabricated Metal Products; Paper Products; Printing & Related
Support Activities; Transportation Equipment; Computer &
Electronic Products; Machinery; and Plastics & Rubber Products.
The six industries reporting contraction in September -- listed
in order -- are: Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Primary
Metals; Textile Mills; Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Chemical Products.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “Global sales generally trending moderately higher.” (Textile
Mills)
“Slight increase in demand. Forecast looks better. 4Q looking
better than 3Q -- should begin to see demand increase in
October/November.” (Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products)
“Raw materials shortages continue. General trends are up, which
enhances shortage issues.” (Wood Products)
“Overall business is flat to down across the board.” (Machinery)
“Housing continues to improve, resulting in improved conditions
for our industry.” (Furniture & Related Products)
“Rising costs of China labor has us re-evaluating our current
position in that country.” (Computer & Electronic Products)
“Steady increase in work this month.” (Primary Metals)
“Overall business is picking up.” (Transportation Equipment)
“Outlook remains strong with housing market and customer
orders.” (Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components)
“Labor rates along the  Gulf Coast  are rising with the increased
activity of construction and maintenance projects.” (Chemical
Products)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price Aluminum; Aluminum Based Products;
Caustic Soda; Corrugated Boxes (14); HDPE Resin; Metal Parts;
Oil (3); Plastic Resin (3); and Steel Based Products.  Commodities Down in Price Corn (2); and Latex.  Commodities in Short Supply No commodities are reported in short
supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  SEPTEMBER 2013 MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  PMI Manufacturing expanded in September as the PMI registered
56.2 percent, an increase of 0.5 percentage point when compared
to August’s reading of 55.7 percent. September’s reading
reflects the highest overall PMI reading in 2013. A reading
above 50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is
generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is
generally contracting.  A PMI in excess of 42.2 percent, over a period of time,
generally indicates an expansion of the overall economy.
Therefore, the September PMI indicates growth for the 52nd
consecutive month in the overall economy, and indicates
expansion in the manufacturing sector for the fourth consecutive
month. Holcomb stated, “The past relationship between the PMI
and the overall economy indicates that the average PMI for
January through September (52.9 percent) corresponds to a 3.3
percent increase in real gross domestic product (GDP) on an
annualized basis. In addition, if the PMI for September (56.2
percent) is annualized, it corresponds to a 4.4 percent increase
in real GDP annually.”  New Orders
ISM’s New Orders Index registered 60.5 percent in September, a
decrease of 2.7 percentage points when compared to the August
reading of 63.2 percent. This represents growth in new orders
for the fourth consecutive month, but at a moderately slower
rate than in August. A New Orders Index above 52.2 percent, over
time, is generally consistent with an increase in the Census
Bureau’s series on manufacturing orders (in constant 2000
dollars).  The 12 industries reporting growth in new orders in September --
listed in order -- are: Textile Mills; Plastics & Rubber
Products; Petroleum & Coal Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Furniture & Related
Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Paper Products; Transportation Equipment; and Computer &
Electronic Products. The three industries reporting a decrease
in new orders during September are: Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Primary Metals; and Machinery.  Production
ISM’s Production Index registered 62.6 percent in September,
which is an increase of 0.2 percentage point when compared to
the 62.4 percent reported in August. This month’s reading
indicates growth in production for the fourth consecutive month.
An index above 51.2 percent, over time, is generally consistent
with an increase in the Federal Reserve Board’s Industrial
Production figures.  The 10 industries reporting growth in production during the
month of September -- listed in order -- are: Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Furniture & Related Products; Paper Products; Fabricated Metal
Products; Petroleum & Coal Products; Transportation Equipment;
Computer & Electronic Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and
Chemical Products. The five industries reporting a decrease in
production in September are: Textile Mills; Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Primary Metals; Plastics & Rubber Products; and
Nonmetallic Mineral Products.  Employment
ISM’s Employment Index registered 55.4 percent in September,
which is 2.1 percentage points higher than the 53.3 percent
reported in August. This month’s reading indicates expansion in
employment for the third consecutive month. An Employment Index
above 50.5 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an
increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data on
manufacturing employment.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, eight reported growth in
employment in September in the following order: Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Wood Products; Printing &
Related Support Activities; Furniture & Related Products; Paper
Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Chemical Products;
and Fabricated Metal Products. The six industries reporting a
decrease in employment in September -- listed in order -- are:
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Primary Metals; Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Transportation
Equipment; and Computer & Electronic Products.  Supplier Deliveries 
The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing
organizations slowed in September at a slightly faster rate
relative to August as the Supplier Deliveries Index registered
52.6 percent. This month’s reading is 0.3 percentage point
higher than the 52.3 percent reported in August. A reading below
50 percent indicates faster deliveries, while a reading above 50
percent indicates slower deliveries.  The seven industries reporting slower supplier deliveries in
September -- listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal Products;
Fabricated Metal Products; Furniture & Related Products; Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products; Computer & Electronic Products;
Transportation Equipment; and Machinery. The three industries
reporting faster supplier deliveries in September are:
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Chemical Products; and Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components. Eight industries reported no
change in supplier deliveries in September compared to August.  Inventories*
The Inventories Index registered 50 percent in September, which
is 2.5 percentage points higher than the 47.5 percent reported
in August. This month’s reading indicates that respondents are
reporting inventories are unchanged from August. For the first
nine months of 2013, inventories of raw materials have
registered in a well-managed range from a high of 51.5 percent
in February to a low of 46.5 percent in April. An Inventories
Index greater than 42.7 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with expansion in the  Bureau of Economic Analysis ’
(BEA) figures on overall manufacturing inventories (in chained
2000 dollars).  The seven industries reporting higher inventories in September -
- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Transportation Equipment; Furniture & Related
Products; Machinery; and Computer & Electronic Products. The
nine industries reporting decreases in inventories in September
-- listed in order -- are: Textile Mills; Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Plastics & Rubber
Products; Wood Products; Chemical Products; Primary Metals;
Paper Products; and Fabricated Metal Products.  Customers’ Inventories*
The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 43 percent in
September, which is 0.5 percentage point higher than in August
when the index registered 42.5 percent. This month’s reading
indicates that customers’ inventories are considered too low,
but slightly higher than reported in August. Customers’
inventories have registered at or below 50 percent for 54
consecutive months. A reading below 50 percent indicates
customers’ inventories are considered too low.  The five manufacturing industries reporting customers’
inventories as being too high during the month of September are:
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Petroleum & Coal Products;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Chemical Products; and Machinery.
The 10 industries reporting customers’ inventories as too low
during September -- listed in order -- are: Textile Mills;
Furniture & Related Products; Primary Metals; Computer &
Electronic Products; Transportation Equipment; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products.  Prices*
The ISM Prices Index registered 56.5 percent in September, which
is an increase of 2.5 percentage points compared to the August
reading of 54 percent. This month’s reading indicates an
increase in raw materials prices for the second consecutive
month. In September, 22 percent of respondents reported paying
higher prices, 9 percent reported paying lower prices, and 69
percent of supply executives reported paying the same prices as
in August. A Prices Index above 49.7 percent, over time, is
generally consistent with an increase in the Bureau of Labor
Statistics (BLS) Index of Manufacturers Prices.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 12 reported paying increased
prices during the month of September in the following order:
Wood Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Plastics &
Rubber Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Chemical Products;
Transportation Equipment; Paper Products; Fabricated Metal
Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Computer &
Electronic Products; and Machinery. The only industry reporting
paying lower prices during September is Primary Metals.  Backlog of Orders*
ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 49.5 percent in
September, which is 3 percentage points higher than the 46.5
percent reported in August. This is the fifth consecutive month
of contracting order backlogs. Of the 86 percent of respondents
who reported their backlog of orders, 19 percent reported
greater backlogs, 20 percent reported smaller backlogs, and 61
percent reported no change from August.  The eight industries reporting increased order backlogs in
September -- listed in order -- are: Textile Mills; Plastics &
Rubber Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Paper Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Computer & Electronic Products; and Furniture
& Related Products. The five industries reporting decreases in
order backlogs during September are: Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Machinery; Transportation Equipment; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; and Chemical Products.  New Export Orders*
ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 52 percent in
September, which is 3.5 percentage points lower than the 55.5
percent reported in August. September’s reading reflects growth
in the level of exports relative to August, but at a moderately
slower level. This month’s reading also represents the 10th
consecutive month of growth in new export orders.  The six industries reporting growth in new export orders in
September -- listed in order -- are: Textile Mills; Wood
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Fabricated Metal Products; Machinery; and Transportation
Equipment. The four industries reporting a decrease in new
export orders during September are: Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Furniture & Related Products; Paper Products; and
Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products. Eight industries reported no
change in new export orders in September compared to August.  Imports*
ISM’s Imports Index registered 55 percent in September, which is
3 percentage points lower than the 58 percent reported in
August. September’s reading reflects growth in the level of
imports relative to August, but at a moderately slower level.
This month’s reading also represents the 10th consecutive month
that the Imports Index has registered at or above 50 percent.  The 10 industries reporting growth in imports during the month
of September -- listed in order -- are: Primary Metals; Plastics
& Rubber Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Machinery;
Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances
& Components; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Transportation Equipment; and Furniture &
Related Products. The three industries reporting a decrease in
imports during September are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; and Chemical Products.  * The Inventories, Customers’ Inventories, Prices, Backlog of
Orders, New Export Orders and Imports Indexes do not meet the
accepted criteria for seasonal adjustments.  Buying Policy Average commitment lead time for  Capital
Expenditures  decreased 12 days to 112 days. Average lead time
for Production Materials decreased 1 day to 58 days. Average
lead time for Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies
decreased 1 day to 25 days.  About this Report
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS code
categories: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Textile Mills;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products; Paper
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Chemical Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
Furniture & Related Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing
(products such as medical equipment and supplies, jewelry,
sporting goods, toys and office supplies).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,
Imports, Production, Supplier Deliveries, Inventories,
Customers’ Inventories, Employment and Prices), this report
shows the percentage reporting each response, the net difference
between the number of responses in the positive economic
direction (higher, better and slower for Supplier Deliveries)
and the negative economic direction (lower, worse and faster for
Supplier Deliveries), and the diffusion index. Responses are raw
data and are never changed. The diffusion index includes the
percent of positive responses plus one-half of those responding
the same (considered positive).  The resulting single index number for those meeting the criteria
for seasonal adjustments (PMI, New Orders, Production,
Employment and Supplier Deliveries) is then seasonally adjusted
to allow for the effects of repetitive intra-year variations
resulting primarily from normal differences in weather
conditions, various institutional arrangements, and differences
attributable to non-moveable holidays. All seasonal adjustment
factors are supplied by the U.S. Department of Commerce and are
subject annually to relatively minor changes when conditions
warrant them. The PMI is a composite index based on the
diffusion indexes of five of the indexes with equal weights: New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Production (seasonally adjusted),
Employment (seasonally adjusted), Supplier Deliveries
(seasonally adjusted), and Inventories.  Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators and
are convenient summary measures showing the prevailing direction
of change and the scope of change. A PMI reading above 50
percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally
expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is generally
declining. A PMI in excess of 42.2 percent, over a period of
time, indicates that the overall economy, or gross domestic
product (GDP), is generally expanding; below 42.2 percent, it is
generally declining. The distance from 50 percent or 42.2
percent is indicative of the strength of the expansion or
decline. With some of the indicators within this report, ISM has
indicated the departure point between expansion and decline of
comparable government series, as determined by regression
analysis.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business survey is sent out to
Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the first
part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report on
information for the current month. ISM receives survey responses
throughout most of any given month, with the majority of
respondents generally waiting until late in the month to submit
responses in order to give the most accurate picture of current
business activity. ISM then compiles the report for release on
the first business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly report, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.  Responses to Buying Policy reflect the percent reporting the
current month’s lead time, the approximate weighted number of
days ahead for which commitments are made for Production
Materials; Capital Expenditures; and Maintenance, Repair and
Operating (MRO) Supplies, expressed as hand-to-mouth (five
days), 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, six months (180 days), a year
or more (360 days), and the weighted average number of days.
These responses are raw data, never revised, and not seasonally
adjusted since there is no significant seasonal pattern.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published monthly by
the  Institute for Supply Management , the first supply institute
in the world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to lead and serve the
supply management profession and is a highly influential and
respected association in the global marketplace. ISM’s mission
is to enhance the value and performance of procurement and
supply chain management practitioners and their organizations
worldwide. This report has been issued by the association since
1931, except for a four-year interruption during World War II.  The full text version of the Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business is posted on ISM’s website at www.ism.ws on the first
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
October 2013 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Friday,
November 1, 2013.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management
 http://www.ism.ws  