-- U.S. Investigators Assist Paralympian Pistorius in Murder Trial
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-10-01T09:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/u-s-investigators-assist-paralympian-pistorius-in-murder-trial.html
Oscar Pistorius , the South African
Paralympian gold medalist, has enlisted U.S. investigators to
assist the legal team that is defending him against charges of
murdering his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp, his spokeswoman said.  Pistorius is due to stand trial in the North Gauteng High
Court in March next year for shooting the model and reality
television star at his Pretoria home on Feb. 14. The athlete,
who has been free on 1 million rand ($100,000) bail, says he
mistook her for an intruder.  “I can confirm that a team of forensic specialists from
the United States is in the country at the moment working with
Oscar’s defense team,” spokeswoman Anneliese Burgess said today
by phone from the southeastern South African city of East
London. “We don’t want to go into any further details except
that its very standard practice to work with specialists in
various fields in preparation for any trial.”  Steenkamp, then 29 years old, locked herself in a toilet
cubicle, and Pistorius, armed with a 9mm pistol, fired four
shots at her through the locked door, according to his
indictment. The cause of death was given as multiple gunshot
wounds.  Known as Blade Runner for the prosthetics he wore to race,
Pistorius won six Paralympic gold medals and in 2012 became the
first amputee runner to compete in an  Olympic Games . He was born
without fibulas and had both legs amputated below the knee at 11
months old.  Sponsors including  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest sporting-goods company, and  Luxottica Group SpA (LUX) ’s Oakley have ended deals
with Pistorius since his arrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net  