-- Justice Department Seeks Case Delays Due to Shutdown
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-02T22:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/u-s-seeks-delay-of-civil-cases-as-government-shutdown-begins.html
U.S.  Justice Department  lawyers from
 New York  to San Francisco are asking judges to delay civil cases
as the government partially shuts down, and in  Manhattan  already
won a halt to litigation except one trial.  The Justice Department made the requests yesterday in
prominent cases including its bid to block the merger of  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and AMR Corp. in Washington and others
including an antitrust suit in San Francisco pressing
Bazaarevoice Inc. to sell assets. Federal attorneys are seeking
delays in cases including the  Depository Trust and Clearing
Corp. ’s suit against the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
over rules for swaps data.  The scope of delays sought by the department is laid out on
its website, which says criminal litigation will continue
without interruption while civil litigation will be curtailed or
postponed as much as possible without significantly compromising
“the safety of human life or the protection of property.”  If a court denies a request to postpone a case, the
government will consider the judge’s order “legal authorization
to continue” with staffing at the minimum level, Justice
Department planners said.  Two Weeks  While prosecutors say they have been immediately pinched by
the government shutdown, the federal court system can run for
about two weeks without furloughing personnel by tapping into
fees from filings and other sources, according to a statement by
U.S. District Judge  John Bates , who is director of the
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. Bates’s statement came
before the shutdown began.  Once those funds have been spent, the court system would
continue to handle most cases, Bates said.  Federal judges would remain on the job, though it’s unclear
whether magistrate and bankruptcy judges would be paid until the
crisis is resolved, and payments to jurors and court-appointed
criminal defense lawyers might be deferred, he wrote in his
statement.  Emily Hewitt, the chief judge of the Washington-based Court
of Federal Claims, which hears only civil cases primarily
involving financial disputes with the U.S., issued a  statement 
on its website that the court will continue to hear and decide
cases, sticking with schedules currently in effect.  Hewitt’s comment “does not preclude litigants from filing
motions for stays,” Hazel Keahey, the court’s clerk, said.  ‘Case-by-Case’  “In the end, the outcome is going to be determined on a
case-by-case basis by the judge who’s handling the case,”
Keahey said.  The chief judge of the Southern District of New York, U.S.
District Judge Loretta Preska, yesterday granted a Justice
Department request for a stay in most civil cases because so
many lawyers are being furloughed.  Except for the government’s trial team in the whistle-blower suit against Bank of America Corp.’s  Countrywide
Financial Corp. (BAC)  unit, “nearly all civil division assistants and
staff will be unable to work on cases or meet existing court
deadlines until Congress restores funding,” according to a
letter to Preska from Sara Shudofsky, chief of the civil
division for the Manhattan U.S. attorney’s office.  Airline Case  A government request yesterday for a delay in the airline
antitrust case in Washington was denied by U.S. District Judge
Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, who said a “speedy disposition” of the
case, scheduled for trial on Nov. 25, is necessary.  The Justice Department sought to postpone the proceedings
until Congress restores funding, saying in court papers that its
attorneys are “generally prohibited” from working except in
“very limited circumstances.”  “This is creating difficulties for the department to
perform the functions necessary to support its litigation
efforts,” the department said in the filing.  Federal lawyers also filed requests in district court in
Washington for stays in at least four other cases, winning at
least one in an antitrust suit challenging the merger of Ardagh
Group SA and  Compagnie de Saint-Gobain .  In  San Francisco , the Justice Department lost its bid to
defer an antitrust trial against Bazaarevoice, a provider of
software for managing online product reviews, in light of the
department’s lapse in funding. The company opposed the move.  Voter ID  A voting-rights lawsuit challenging the  Texas  law requiring
voters to show photo identification should be halted until the
shutdown is over, Justice Department lawyers told a court in
 Corpus Christi , Texas.  Until federal funding is restored, “ Department of Justice 
attorneys and employees are prohibited from working, even on a
voluntary basis, except in very limited circumstances including
emergencies involving the safety of human life or the protection
of property,” government lawyers said in a filing today.  Lawyers for Texas and minority-rights groups challenging
the voter-ID rule didn’t oppose the delay, the U.S. said in its
filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in  Washington  at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  