-- U.S. ISM Manufacturing Index Rose in September
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-10-01T20:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/u-s-ism-manufacturing-index-rose-in-september.html
Manufacturing unexpectedly picked up
in September, showing American factories were a source of
strength for the world’s largest economy before the federal
government shut down.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
56.2, the strongest since April 2011, from 55.7 a month earlier,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed today. Readings
greater than 50 indicate growth.  Assembly lines hummed at companies from appliance and
furniture makers to metals and transportation industries as the
rebounds in housing and autos spurred growth. To sustain the
expansion, manufacturing must now overcome the budget gridlock
in  Washington  that has led to the first partial government
shutdown in 17 years, idling about 800,000 federal employees.  “You’re beginning to see a pickup in investment and
stronger construction activity from the housing recovery, and
those are important,” said  Paul Ashworth , chief U.S. economist
at Capital Economics NA Ltd. in Toronto and the best forecaster
of the ISM index over the past two years according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Still, the longer government agencies
remain closed, “the more it might affect broader industry, and
the private sector in general.”  Stocks rose, after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell to
a three-week low yesterday, as investors speculated the economic
effects of the government shutdown would be limited. The  S&P 500 
climbed 0.8 percent to 1,695 at the close in  New York .  Global Gains  Factories around the world are showing some signs of
improvement. Euro-area factory output expanded in September for
a third month, while confidence among  Japan ’s large
manufacturers in the third quarter was the highest since the
early stages of the global credit crisis in 2007, other reports
today showed.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 84 economists
projected the ISM index would fall to 55. Estimates ranged from
52.4 to 57.2. Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy.  A partial federal shutdown will cost the U.S. at least $300
million a day in lost economic output at the start, according to
Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS Inc. While that’s a fraction
of the country’s $15.7 trillion economy, and the effects
probably will grow over time as consumers and businesses defer
purchases and expansion plans.  The partial closing will also delay release of government
economic data. August figures on construction spending due today
were the first to be withheld indefinitely.  ISM Breakdown  The ISM report showed measures of production and employment
expanded at a faster pace. While the  orders  gauge cooled, it
showed the first back-to-back readings greater than 60 in more
than two years.  Manufacturing is “poised for improvement -- inventories
are relatively lean, you’re seeing gains in employment,” said
 Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . Brown projected an ISM reading of
56. At the same time, a lengthy federal government shutdown may
cause “some softness in demand as businesses postpone decisions
to invest.”  Sustained gains in motor vehicle sales have been a source
of strength for the nation’s factories. Cars and light trucks
 sold  at a 15.2 million annual rate in September to cap the
strongest quarter since the last three months of 2007, industry
figures showed today.  Auto Sales  Ford Motor Co., the second-largest U.S. automaker, and
Chrysler Group LLC posted surprise sales gains for September,
overcoming a quirk in the industry calendar, while others such
as General Motors Co. slumped more than predicted.  The recovery in housing is also spurring demand for
construction materials, furniture and appliances. Outlays for
 construction  of single-family dwellings increased in July to the
highest level since 2008.  A pickup in domestic energy production has benefitted
companies such as Praxair Inc., a Danbury, Connecticut-based
producer of gases and metallic and ceramic coating and powders.  “The energy infrastructure build-out due to shale gas
tight oil formation, especially in the Dakotas,  Texas  are
driving demand for tanks, trailers and associated equipment,”
Vice President John M. Panikar said in a Sept. 16 conference
call. Future construction of petroleum-chemical “projects in
Texas and  Louisiana  will be strong drivers for us and we look
forward to seeing those come to fruition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  