-- Unibail Sells Bonds as Euro Debt Risk Falls for 1st Time in Week
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-10-01T14:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/unibail-plans-bonds-as-euro-debt-risk-falls-for-1st-time-in-week.html
Unibail-Rodamco SE (UL)  sold bonds in
 Europe  as the cost of protecting corporate debt against losses
fell for the first time in five days.  Europe’s largest publicly traded property owner joined
French water and waste company  Suez Environnement Co. (SEV)  and
 Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE (ANN) , Germany’s biggest residential
landlord, in marketing euro-denominated securities. The Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings fell 2.6 basis points to 101 basis
points at 3:23 p.m. in  London .  Investors are weighing the impact of the first partial U.S.
government shutdown in 17 years after lawmakers passed a
midnight deadline without reaching a compromise over federal
funding. With 800,000 employees temporarily out of work, there
is speculation the  Federal Reserve  will further delay a plan to
slow bond purchases to offset any damage to the economy.  “The U.S. shutdown probably pushes back still further the
likelihood of tapering quantitative easing to at least the
December meeting,” said Craig Veysey, the London-based head of
fixed income at Sanlam Private Investments Ltd., which manages
more than $10 billion. “The Fed cited the current fiscal risks
as one of their key reasons for caution around tapering QE at
the latest meeting.”  The average yield on high-grade corporate bonds was little
changed at 1.93 percent, near the lowest since Aug. 12,
Bloomberg  bond index  data show.  Peripheral Bonds  Borrowing costs for companies from Europe’s peripheral
nations jumped amid concerns  Italy ’s government may collapse,
forcing Prime Minister Enrico Letta to call an early election
that could slow economic reforms. Yields on financial corporate
debt climbed 21 basis points to 3.2 percent, the biggest one-day
rise since July 2012, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  In the new issue market today, Paris-based Unibail sold 
500 million euros ($678 million) of five-year notes yielding 68
basis points more than the mid-swap rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Camille Delomez, a spokeswoman for
Unibail, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Suez Environnement, also based in Paris, raised 500 million
euros from 10-year bonds yielding 77 basis points more than
swaps.  Bochum, Germany-based Deutsche Annington issued 500 million
euros of notes due October 2021 at a spread of 183 basis points.
Proceeds from the sale through Deutsche Annington Finance BV
will be used to refinance debt and for general corporate
purposes, according to a person familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  