-- Munich Utility Invests in U.K. Windmills to Meet Renewable Goal
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-10-01T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/munich-utility-invests-in-u-k-windmills-to-meet-renewable-goal.html
The head of Munich’s municipal
utility expects to produce enough renewable energy next year to
meet demand from all the households in southern  Germany ’s
largest city.  The growth will enable Stadtwerke Muenchen GmbH, whose
customers include Germany’s largest engineer  Siemens AG (SIE) , to
overtake its counterpart in Cologne this year and become the
largest municipal utility in Germany, Managing Director Florian
Bieberbach said in an interview last month. The expansion comes
from investment in offshore wind farms in Germany and the U.K.,
part of a 9 billion-euro ($12.2 billion) program to supply the
city entirely from renewable power by 2025.  Bieberbach said the company is benefiting from the
Energiewende, the energy shift that will replace Germany’s
nuclear reactors with renewable power, even though it owns a 25
percent stake in a local atomic plant. By contrast, Germany’s
largest utilities EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE)  have sold assets and pare
dividends as the policy cuts profits at fossil-fuel plants.  We “will be a winner of the energy shift” because we
focused early on clean-energy projects, Bieberbach said in an
interview in Munich last month. “The switch to renewables is a
profitable business.”  Stadtwerke Muenchen is typical of the state-owned utilities
that provides power, water, gas and heating and often own the
local transport network. In Munich, it even operates 18 public
swimming pools.  Profit Increased  The company’s 2012 profit increased 1.1 percent to 214.8
million euros from a year earlier, while sales rose 13 percent
to 4.5 billion euros. Net income at RWE dropped 28 percent in
the same period.  By next year, Stadtwerke Muenchen will produce renewable
power equivalent to the demand from all the city’s households
and its public transport system. That’s about 3 terrawatt-hours,
or 40 percent of total consumption in the industry-heavy city.  Most of that will come from stakes in two wind farms in the
German  North Sea  as well as the 2 billion-euro Gwynt y Mor
project off North Wales, where Stadtwerke Muenchen has a 30
percent stake.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is shifting Germany away from
nuclear power in favor of renewable sources such as solar and
wind following the meltdown at Fukushima in  Japan  in 2011. Her
government intends to raise the share of renewables to at least
35 percent by the end of the decade, up from 22 percent last
year, and to at least 80 percent by 2050.  Other municipal utilities have found the adjustment more
difficult than Munich’s.  “It was consensus that the decision to exit nuclear power
would turn the stadtwerke into beaming winners,” Michael Feist,
chief executive officer at Stadtwerke Hannover AG, said in an
interview in Munich.  ‘Difficult Situation’  Two and a half years after Merkel’s decision, he sees a
“difficult situation” for the municipal utilities which “will
continue for another three to four years.”  He and Bieberbach called on the coalition that emerges from
Sept. 22’s federal election to rejig the energy market to reward
conventional  power plants  for providing security of supply. Wind
and solar plants are dependent on the weather, requiring back-up
from gas- and coal-fired generators. Conventional plants are
being undercut by a system that subsidizes renewable plants,
Feist said.  Municipal utilities’ generation capacity of 20,434
megawatts last year gave them an 11.7 percent share of the
German total, down from 12.6 percent a year earlier, according
to their Verband Kommunaler Unternehmen e.V. association. Their
share of renewables capacity rose by 2.7 points to 11.4 percent,
while capital expenditure fell to 6.2 billion euros from 8.6
billion euros.  “Our profit margins decrease in the sales business because
of strong competition, in the regulated distribution grid
business and in conventional power generation,” said Josef
Hasler, managing director at Nuremberg’s Staedtische Werke
Nuernberg GmbH.  Integrating new renewables plants into distributions
networks is expensive, increasing spending on grids by 50
percent at a time when lower wholesale power prices are reducing
profits, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  