-- Unilever’s Emerging Market Pain Heralds Forecast Cuts
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b ,   T r i s t a   K e l l e y   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-10-02T08:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/unilever-s-emerging-market-pain-heralds-forecast-cuts.html
Asia  and  Latin America  were the
salvation for many European companies during the height of the
debt crisis. Now, they’re eating into earnings.  Unilever on Sept. 30 blamed weakening currencies in
Indonesia, Brazil, South Africa and  India  for a sales slowdown,
following  Adidas AG (ADS)  and Prada SpA in saying the euro’s strength
is eroding profit.  Schneider Electric  SA,  Heineken (HEIA)  NV and  Danone (BN) 
are among companies most vulnerable to a profit reduction from
 emerging markets , analysts and investors estimate.  “You used to see growth rates in these markets in excess
of GDP and that can’t go on forever,” said Hugh Cuthbert, an
investment manager at SVM Asset Management in Edinburgh, who
helps manage about $1.2 billion. “That’s what investors are
realizing now.”  European companies may get 33 percent of sales from
developing nations in 2013, almost three times as much as in
1997, after they expanded into new markets to make up for a
slump at home, according to data compiled by Morgan Stanley and
Bloomberg. While U.S. companies on average generate 70 percent
of their revenue at home, businesses in Europe are forecast to
obtain less than 50 percent from their own economies this year.  Growth Slowdown  The euro was the best performer this year of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, after the 17-nation euro economy emerged from its
longest ever recession in the past quarter. This year, the euro
has risen around 15 percent against the  Indian rupee , 10 percent
against the Brazilian real, 18 percent against the South African
rand, 0.8 percent against the Chinese  yuan  and 2.5 percent
against the  U.S. dollar .  Among European consumer companies, brewers  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ,
Heineken and Carlsberg A/S as well as food company Danone are
the most vulnerable to the emerging market slowdown, according
to Barclays’ analysts including Simon Hales.  “With European consumer staples stocks deriving 50 percent
of profit from emerging markets, the downside risk to earnings
of a significant growth slowdown in these areas could be
material,” the analysts said in a Oct. 1 note. “The dark sky
just got darker,” they said, in reference to Unilever’s
earnings statement the same day.  Unilever, the maker of Lipton tea and Dove soap, derives
about 57 percent of sales from emerging regions such as India
and China. The company this week said a slowdown in emerging
markets accelerated “as a result of significant currency
weakening,” pushing the stock down as as much as 4 percent in
Amsterdam trading.  Forecast Cuts  Swiss watchmaker Swatch Group AG generated 37 percent of
its sales from China last year, while Geneva-based Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA got 41 percent from Asian countries
excluding  Japan , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
London-based SABMiller, the world’s second-largest brewer, gets
more than 80 percent of revenue from outside Europe and  North
America . Nestle, the biggest food maker, got about 15 percent
from Brazil, China and Mexico.  Societe Generale analyst Gael de Bray this week cut his
earnings forecast for Schneider Electric, the world’s biggest
maker of low- and medium-voltage power gear, as he predicts
currency effects will shave 140 million euros off the company’s
operating earnings in the second half, after 38 million euros in
the first half.  “Some markets have been disturbed by the recent weakening
in their currencies, including  Russia , India, Brazil and
Southeast Asia,” he said. Schneider is scheduled to report
third-quarter results on Oct. 25.  Preparing Investors  Several European companies have already prepared investors
for the emerging market slowdown.  Carrefour SA said Aug. 29 that the weakness of Brazilian
real and the Argentine peso point to a slight reduction in the
guidance for full-year recurring operating profit at France’s
largest retailer. L’Oreal told investors in August that currency
swings could crimp full-year sales by 3.6 percent at the world’s
largest cosmetics maker.  Michelin & Cie Finance Chief Marc Henry said in July that
 Europe ’s largest tiremaker will face currencies from emerging
countries that “remain lower than the average of 2012.” German
chemical company BASF SE, which is investing 10 billion euros in
the Asia-Pacific region, said in July that second-quarter
operating profit before some items declined because of “the
devaluation of the Japanese yen.”  Diluting Profits  In Paris trading today, Michelin dropped as much as 1.8
percent, Schneider as much as 2.1 percent and Danone as much as
1.3 percent. Heineken declined as much as 0.9 percent in
Amsterdam while SABMiller dropped as much as 1.3 percent in
 London .  Not only do weaker currencies dilute profits when
translated back, it is also making it harder to compete with
non-European rivals in third markets. That makes it difficult to
make currency hedges to protect earnings, said Frankfurt-based
Commerzbank analyst  Ulrich Leuchtmann .  “The main concern is often not direct exposure, but
competition in third markets,” he said, referring to the
exposure of German companies to the Yen. “But businesses don’t
deal with the third market problem very actively because it’s
hard to get a grip on.”  Sanofi last month said it predicts full-year earnings per
share to slip as much as 10 percent, more than originally
forecast, after generic rivals and an underperforming unit in
Brazil hurt the second-quarter sales of France’s largest
drugmaker.  Low Expectations  In the pharmaceutical sector, Sanofi and German rival Bayer
are the most exposed firms to a slump in emerging market sales
as developing regions make up about a third of each company’s
annual revenue, according to Barclays’ analysts.  “The expectations are already very low for Sanofi,” Dan Mahony, who helps manage about $9.2 billion at Polar Capital
Holdings LLC. “Companies used to talk about double-digit
emerging market growth. They don’t mention numbers like that
anymore.”  Following the cuts in earnings and sales forecasts,
European companies need to manage their exposure to emerging
markets more carefully given the risk from volatile currency
swings, according to  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London.  “We’ve seen the advance of globalization and we’ve seen
any number of companies being able to leverage off the back of
that,” he said via phone. “It’s those countries which have big
current account deficits -- whether it be India, Turkey or South
Africa -- that potentially always remain at risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  