-- Vestas Jumps as BofAML Sees Mitsubishi Benefits: Copenhagen Move
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-01T11:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/vestas-jumps-as-bofaml-sees-mitsubishi-benefits-copenhagen-move.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  rose the most
among Copenhagen’s benchmark stocks today as Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said the partnership with Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. will benefit the Danish turbine maker  Vestas rose as much as 4.1 percent, making the stock
today’s  biggest winner  in the Nasdaq  OMX Copenhagen 20 index. (KFX) 
The shares rose 4 percent to 144.70 kroner at 1 p.m. local time
with trading volume at 66 percent of the three-month daily
average.  Vestas, based in Aarhus,  Denmark , said last week it will
work with Mitsubishi Heavy on developing and selling offshore
wind turbines. BofA Merrill Lynch today raised its price
estimate on Vestas shares and repeated a buy recommendation,
citing the joint venture. The bank’s price target of 180 kroner,
up from 150 kroner previously, is the highest of any bank
covering the stock, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The move is an important step towards long-awaited
consolidation in wind turbine manufacturing and is likely to
open up midterm upsides for Vestas,” BofA Merrill Lynch
analysts, including Pinaki Das, said in a note to clients. “The
JV news adds to strong orders for Vestas in recent weeks.”  Vestas said late yesterday it won a 51-megawatt order for a
wind farm in  Uruguay . The contract brought Vestas’s announced
orders in the third quarter to 1,250 megawatts.  The Mitsubishi Heavy partnership reduces risks for Vestas
and improves the chances of the Danish company gaining market
share in the growing offshore wind market, BofA Merrill Lynch
said. It also gives Vestas better access to the Japanese market,
which is set to grow “substantially,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  