-- Vietnam Asset Company Finalizes Bad-Debt Purchase Deal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-01T10:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/vietnam-asset-company-finalizes-bad-debt-purchase-deal.html
Vietnam ’s asset management company
signed the first debt-purchase contract as it starts cleaning up
bad loans at lenders amid rising pressure to accelerate the
restructuring of the banking system and revive the economy.  The Vietnam Asset Management Company will buy a book value
of 2.5 trillion dong ($118 million) of bad debt from Vietnam
Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development, the country’s largest
lender by assets, said Nguyen Quoc Hung, the asset company’s
vice chairman, at a signing ceremony in Hanoi.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung is seeking to resolve almost
$5 billion in bad debt that has crimped lending and slowed the
 economy , which faces its most severe slump in at least a decade.
The nation’s banks have the highest level of  bad debt  among six
Southeast Asian countries covered by Fitch Ratings, which said
in a Sept. 30 report that the industry “remains encumbered by
substantial bad loans.”  Agribank, as the lender is known, had a bad-debt ratio of
6.1 percent as of end-June 2012, according to central bank
Governor Nguyen Van Binh. Lenders with bad-debt ratios of 3
percent or more will be required to sell their non-performing
loans to the VAMC, according to a May 22 government statement.
The company began operations in July with an initial registered
capital of 500 billion dong ($24 million) and will issue bonds
to about 10 banks in exchange for bad debt, Thuy has said. Banks
can use the bonds to secure funding from the central bank, he
has said.  Bad debt at lenders stood at 7.8 percent of outstanding
loans at the end of last year, according to the central bank.
Delayed structural reforms of banks and state companies could
undermine investors’ confidence and worsen the nation’s growth
prospects, the World Bank said in a July report.  In forming an entity to acquire loans from banks, Vietnam
is emulating a model tested by neighbors from  Malaysia  to  China ,
as he seeks to revive investor confidence. The Ministry of
Planning and Investment forecasts the  economy  will grow 5.4
percent this year and 5.8 percent next year, which would mark
three consecutive years of growth that’s slower than 6 percent.  Shares in the country’s top lenders have underperformed the
benchmark stock index this year. Vietnam Joint-Stock Commercial
Bank for Industry and Trade, or VietinBank, has lost 13 percent.
Vietnam Export-Import Commercial Joint-Stock Bank, or Eximbank,
has slid 10 percent this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  