-- Visa Joins MasterCard, AmEx to Make Internet Purchases Safer
-- B y   F a n n i   K o s z e g
-- 2013-10-01T21:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/visa-joins-mastercard-amex-to-make-internet-purchases-safer-1-.html
Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and
 American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest U.S. payment networks,
proposed using “digital tokens” instead of account numbers for
processing purchases made online and with mobile devices.  “Tokens provide an additional layer of security and
eliminate the need for merchants, digital wallet operators or
others to store account numbers,” the companies said today in a
joint statement.  The standard, to be applied worldwide, will be presented to
other payment firms and industry trade groups in coming weeks,
according to the statement. Tokens would be the digital
equivalent of magnetic stripes on the back of plastic bank cards
that contain customer information. They also may help to reduce
fraud by providing uniformity as companies such as Google Inc.
and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  embrace mobile commerce and offer consumers
new ways to pay.  “Mobile is the future,”  Jim McCarthy , global head of
innovation and strategic partnerships at  Foster City ,
California-based Visa, said during the conference call. “We
haven’t evolved to create a standard. For the first time, we are
laying down the foundation.”  Global card fraud losses for banks, merchants and
processors climbed 15 percent last year to $11.3 billion from
2011, according to the Nilson Report, a payments industry
newsletter based in Carpinteria, California. Gross fraud losses
in 2012 increased to 5.22 cents for every $100 in volume from
5.07 cents a year earlier.  EMV-Chip  Tokens also would complement so-called EMV-chip technology,
which has become a standard in Europe and much of the rest of
the world.  The U.S. is among the last developed nations whose payment
system relies primarily on cards with magnetic stripes and
hasn’t yet adopted EMV. Standards for the technology are managed
by EMVCo, which was formed in 1999 by Europay International,
Visa and Purchase, New York-based MasterCard. New York-based
AmEx is also an EMVCo member.  As merchants worldwide deploy more EMV terminals, fraud is
moving toward transactions conducted online or over the
telephone where physical payment cards aren’t present, according
to an August issue of the Nilson Report.  The U.S. has high fraud losses “because it leads the world
in online sales,” according to the trade publication. “Smaller
merchants who do not invest in fraud-fighting tools are
particularly vulnerable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fanni Koszeg in  New York  at 
 fkoszeg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  