-- Vivendi, EchoStar Plan Brazil Pay-TV Joint Venture
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-10-01T13:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/vivendi-echostar-plan-brazil-pay-tv-joint-venture.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Brazilian unit, GVT, is
planning a joint venture with satellite-equipment maker  EchoStar
Corp. (SATS)  to offer pay-television service across Brazil, taking on
 DirecTV (DTV)  and  America Movil  SAB.  The new company, to be based in Brazil and run by GVT, will
use the Vivendi division’s communications network and EchoStar’s
satellite and video technology, according to a statement
released today. The partners said they expect to benefit from
higher demand from soccer’s World Cup in 2014 and the Olympic
Games in 2016, both taking place in Brazil.  EchoStar, based in Englewood, Colorado, is seeking to build
on the success of its Dish Mexico joint venture, which has
gained 2.3 million subscribers since its 2008 debut. While
Paris-based Vivendi is selling off other telecommunications
assets, it is keeping phone-and-Internet provider GVT after
rejecting bids earlier this year from DirecTV and others.  GVT already offers pay-TV over its home Internet
connections, with about 530,000  subscribers  at the end of June,
according to Brazilian regulator Anatel. That compared with 9
million for Mexico City-based America Movil, 5.2 million for El
Segundo, California-based DirecTV and 889,000 for Rio de
Janeiro-based phone company Oi SA.  America Movil, the phone carrier controlled by billionaire
 Carlos Slim , has a partnership with Dish Mexico for marketing
and billing. EchoStar co-owns Dish Mexico with a local company,
MVS Comunicaciones SA. America Movil has an option to acquire a
majority stake in Dish Mexico if it obtains a license to offer
pay-TV service in its home country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  