-- Vodacom Offer for Neotel Said to Include $500 Million Debt
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-10-01T15:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/vodacom-offer-for-tata-unit-said-to-include-500-million-in-debt.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) ’s proposed
takeover of  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM) ’s South Africa unit will
include the assumption of about $500 million of debt, according
to two people familiar with the negotiations.  South Africa’s largest wireless operator is in talks to buy
the closely held Internet provider Neotel Pty Ltd. for the value
of the debt plus an additional sum, said the people, asking not
to be named because the talks are private. The deal could be
valued as high as 10 billion rand ($994 million), according to
one of the people.  Vodacom, which is 65 percent owned by Newbury, England-based  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , said yesterday it started exclusive
talks to buy Neotel. The Johannesburg-based company is
increasingly focused on small- to medium-sized business
customers and expanding data services to offset declining
revenue from its domestic voice division. Neotel said in May
that its corporate customer base rose 29 percent for the full
year, driven by growth in managed and network services.  “Excluding the wholesale carrier business, a Neotel deal
would triple the size of Vodafone’s enterprise business in  South
Africa ,” telecommunications analysts at the Lisbon-based
brokerage Espirito Santo said in a research note today. “We
expect similar deals to boost Vodafone’s fixed-line capability
and also a continued push into enterprise fixed and mobile
services globally.”  Regulatory Approval  Tata Communications spokeswoman Divya Anand declined to
comment, saying the company wouldn’t discuss market speculation.
Vodacom declined to comment in an e-mailed statement. Neotel
spokeswoman Chuma Siswana didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment.  The price hinges on regulators approving the deal,
according to UBS AG analyst Chris Grundberg.  “Would Vodacom be able to keep/use Neotel’s spectrum,
particularly under the Vodacom brand?” Grundberg said in a note
to clients. “What would be the regulatory/competition
commission view of Vodacom buying a supplier to both  MTN Group
Ltd. (MTN)  and Cell C?”  Vodacom  shares  were up 1.6 percent at 126.40 rand at the
market close in Johannesburg, giving the company a market value
of 188.1 billion rand.  Neotel was founded in 2006 after winning a license to
compete with former fixed-line monopoly  Telkom SA SOC Ltd. (TKG) ,
building a second phone network and offering voice and Internet
services. Tata Communications bought a majority stake in Neotel
in 2008, according to a statement at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  