-- Volcker Rule CapAsia CEO Sued, China Risks: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/volcker-rule-capasia-ceo-sued-china-risks-compliance.html
The fate of the Dodd-Frank Act’s ban
on banks trading for their own accounts -- one of the final
pieces of the U.S. effort to prevent a repeat of the 2008
financial crisis -- may rest with a cluster of economists at the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The agency’s 50 economists are attempting to calculate the
costs and benefits of the so-called Volcker rule, a linchpin of
the financial overhaul that would curb the kind of high-stakes
proprietary trading that could lead to crippling losses or
bailouts at banks like JPMorgan Chase & Co. or  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Court challenges that overturned other Dodd-Frank
regulations because of faulty cost-benefit analysis have
increased pressure on the SEC economists, led by Craig M. Lewis,
a veteran finance professor on leave from Vanderbilt University.
Their work may determine whether the rule could withstand a
similar lawsuit -- an option banks and trade groups say is under
consideration.  The economists are racing the clock: Regulators are under
pressure from President  Barack Obama  and Treasury Secretary
Jacob J. Lew to finish the rule in the next three months. At a
recent meeting, Lew gave the heads of the five agencies drafting
the rule a series of deadlines designed to make sure the
government meets the year-end target, according to a person
briefed on the meeting who asked not to be identified because it
wasn’t public.  The agencies -- the Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and SEC -- have reached
agreement on key issues, including the definitions of activities
like market-making and portfolio hedging, and are now working on
the final text, according to three people familiar with the
process who declined to provide details.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  China Watchdog Embraces Risk After Everbright Fat Finger  China ’s securities watchdog is forging ahead with rules
that allow  brokers  to invest in complex financial products and
enter risky new businesses even after an unprecedented $3.8
billion trading error roiled markets.  In the past six weeks, the China Securities Regulatory
Commission ended an 18-year hiatus on trading of treasury bond
futures and said it would let more brokerages borrow stock for
short selling. Those measures were disclosed after misplaced
bets caused by faulty software at  Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  on
Aug. 16 caused the wildest swings in Shanghai shares since 2009.  Policy makers in China, seeking to improve allocation of
capital, have since 2008 permitted brokerages including
Shanghai-based Everbright to offer clients short selling and
margin trading, as well as betting on derivatives with their own
funds. While the state-controlled brokerage has now been
suspended from most proprietary trading, CSRC Chairman Xiao Gang
shows no loss of appetite for risk taking.  Press officials for the CSRC didn’t reply to questions
faxed to their Beijing office seeking comment. Everbright didn’t
respond to questions sent to its Shanghai office. China’s
securities watchdog has pledged to scrutinize risk controls
among the nation’s brokerages. The regulator said on Aug. 30
that it was setting up special groups to study ways to improve
oversight of the securities industry.  For more, click here.  Switzerland and U.S. Agree to Delay FATCA Implementation  The U.S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act is to be
implemented from July 1, 2014, instead of Jan. 1, 2014, the
Swiss government said in  statement  yesterday.  The law is designed to curb tax evasion by Americans
abroad. The Swiss said the new deadline is in line with that of
other countries. Parliament approved the changes Sept. 27.  The FATCA agreement can be challenged in an optional
referendum, according to the statement.  Earlier, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service on July 12 gave
overseas banks a six-month delay to Jan. 1, 2014, to begin
compliance with FACTA, the Treasury Department said at that
time.  The July 12 extension of the act followed a previous one-year delay.  Compliance Action  Banks Face Basel Debt Rule Capturing Off-Balance Sheet Risks  Banks are set to face a broad international leverage limit
that will catch off-balance sheet risks and prevent them from
hiding their debt, according to the head of the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision.  The Basel group is seeking to put a ceiling on indebtedness
that will prove robust no matter how complicated a bank’s
business model,  Stefan Ingves , its chairman, said in an
interview.  Ingves is also governor of  Sweden ’s central bank.  A quarter of large global banks would have failed to meet a
draft version of the Basel leverage rule had the standard been
in force at the end of last year, according to  data  published by
the Basel committee on Sept. 25. Concerns that banks can reduce
their capital requirements by simply changing how they measure
the risk of losses on their assets have prompted calls from some
supervisors for more reliance on leverage limits, on the grounds
that they are harder for lenders to game.  The group, which brings together regulators from 27 nations
including the U.S., U.K. and China, is in “a good position” to
complete work on the leverage ratio rule “toward the end of the
year or sometime early next year,” Ingves said.  Under the committee’s timetable, banks will be expected to
publish how well they measure up to the rule from Jan. 1, 2015,
with the measure to become binding in 2018.  For more, click here.  Courts  Rohatyn’s CapAsia CEO Bastin Sued for Defamation in Singapore  CapAsia’s founding Chief Executive Officer Vijay Sethu sued
Johan Bastin, his successor at the Rohatyn Group-owned private
equity firm in  Singapore , claiming Bastin impugned him by
suggesting he was front-running a deal.  Sethu is seeking unspecified damages for defamation and a
restraining order against Bastin to stop him from making any
further disparaging comments, according to a lawsuit filed in
Singapore High Court. Bastin has denied the allegations.  “Our client’s position is that the lawsuit is entirely
without merit,” Bastin’s lawyers Hri Kumar and Shivani Retnam
said in an e-mail.  Bastin, who replaced Sethu as CEO in 2009, said in his
defense filing that the lawsuit was filed with the motive of
harassment.  “My client is very confident in the Singapore legal system
and that the merits of his case will be proved at trial,”
Sethu’s lawyer Edmund Kronenburg said.  Sethu, after being replaced as CEO, remained at CapAsia as
the head of one of its funds and later as a consultant before
leaving in November.  CapAsia  manages $400 million in assets across three funds,
according to its website. The firm is owned by New York-based
Rohatyn, an  emerging markets  asset manager founded by former
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  bankers, and Malaysia’s  CIMB Group Holdings
Bhd. (CIMB)   The case is Sethu v. Bastin, S612/2013, Singapore High
Court.  Interviews/Conferences  Algorithmic Trading on Commodities Futures Seen Doubling by Man  Algorithmic trading for electronic commodities futures
doubled from about 20 percent to 40 percent in the past two
years, Scott Kerson, head of a commodities unit at  Man Group
Plc (EMG) , said in a presentation for the  London Bullion Market
Association  conference in  Rome  yesterday.  There is a “reasonable” chance that will double again in
next few years, he said. Kerson heads commodities at Man
Systematic Strategies and AHL.  U.S.-EU Derivatives Spat Not Part of Trade Talks, Froman Says  U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman  said negotiations
with the European Union on derivatives regulation are taking
place outside the context of talks on a transatlantic free-trade
agreement.  EU financial-services chief Michel Barnier said on Sept. 13
that the U.S. needs to ease the burden its new rules will place
on European firms. Froman told reporters in Brussels yesterday
that the negotiations involve the European Commission, the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the International
Organization of Securities Commissions.  Froman said the U.S.-EU trade talks would include financial
services in the context of market access. While declining to
give specific examples on issues, he said that derivatives rules
would be handled “in parallel and on the side of the
negotiations” via two-party and global discussions.  Obamacare Needs to Be ‘Refined Over Time,’ Lesser Says  Richard Lesser, president and chief executive officer at
Boston Consulting Group Inc., talked about the outlook for
implementation of the Affordable Care Act and  federal budget 
negotiations.  Lesser spoke with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen, Matthew Dowd and
Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.”  For the video, click here.  Sweden Says Banks Shouldn’t Grow at Faster Pace Than Economy  Sweden’s efforts to reduce bank system risk should also
ensure the industry doesn’t grow at a faster pace than the
economy,  Financial Markets  Minister Peter Norman said.  “The dream scenario would be that the economy grows a
little bit faster than the bank sector,” Norman said yesterday
in an interview in  Stockholm .  The government of Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt has told
its four biggest banks to hold larger capital buffers than those
set elsewhere in Europe in an effort to protect taxpayers from
 financial industry  risk.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and
SEB AB must hold at least 12 percent core Tier 1 capital of
their risk-weighted assets by 2015. The Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision sets a 7 percent floor and a 2019 deadline.  Separately,  The European Banking Authority needs more
resources to keep up with its workload, Andrea Enria, its
chairman, said in prepared remarks on the agency’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  