-- Wells Fargo Sued by New York Over Mortgage-Service Accord
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-10-02T19:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/wells-fargo-said-to-face-suit-over-loan-accord-violation.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  was sued by New
York state over claims the bank failed to uphold terms of a
$25 billion mortgage-servicing settlement aimed at helping
distressed homeowners avoid foreclosure.  Wells Fargo and  Bank of America Corp.  were accused by New
York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman of violating the
provisions of the national accord by continuing to impose
unnecessary delays on borrowers seeking to modify the terms of
their loans.  Schneiderman filed the suit today in federal court in
 Washington  in the form of a motion to enforce the settlement
against San Francisco-based Wells Fargo.  Bank of America  has
agreed to changes aimed at bringing the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender into compliance with the deal,
Schneiderman said at a press conference in  Manhattan .  “We’re here because we need some extra help from the banks
to make sure the national mortgage settlement is doing what it
is intended to do,” Schneiderman said. The banks took
“radically different courses” in response to the attorney
general’s efforts, he said.  Loan Modifications  In 2012, a coalition of 49 states and the U.S. reached the
settlement with five of the country’s largest mortgage
servicers, Wells Fargo, Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , in an effort to stop
abuses such as “robosigning” of documents used in foreclosure
proceedings and to lower barriers to modifications of loans.  Wells Fargo is one of the most difficult banks for
distressed homeowners to deal with, Schneiderman said at the
press conference. The bank sends “incomprehensible
communications” to borrowers, he said, reading aloud from an
April letter sent by the bank to an upstate New York homeowner
that stated “urees are present on 2011 taxes IAO $4250. Is B1
claiming ureeduring the year? If so, how much per pay period.”  After months of discussions with both banks, Wells Fargo
“refused to acknowledge there’s a problem,” Schneiderman said.  Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, said yesterday
in a statement that “it is very disappointing that the New York
attorney general continues to pursue his course, given our
commitment to the terms of the national mortgage settlement.”  Track Record  “Wells Fargo is proud of its track record of providing
important relief to borrowers in New York and nationwide,” she
said, describing the company as a “leader in preventing
foreclosures, helping families maintain homeownership with more
than 880,000 modifications nationwide and 26,000 in New York
over the last four years.”  Adams said that the bank has modified six loans for every
foreclosure sale in New York since the beginning of 2009. The
bank has found it has been able to avoid foreclosure for 75
percent of New York borrowers who seek modifications after
falling behind by one or two mortgage payments, she said.  Dan Frahm , a Bank of America spokesman, said yesterday the
bank was pleased to resolve the issues raised by Schneiderman’s
office without litigation.  “We’re pleased with the significant assistance Bank of
America has extended, and continues to extend, to homeowners
through the national mortgage settlement and we will continue
working with attorneys general nationwide to continually improve
the experience for customers eligible for these important
programs,” Frahm said in an e-mail.  Monetary Relief  The practices Bank of America agreed to change to bring
itself in line with the settlement apply in New York only,
although the bank is expected to try to expand those reforms
nationwide, Schneiderman said.  Under terms of the national deal, the banks agreed to
streamline processes for distressed mortgage borrowers seeking
to modify loan terms, among making other reforms. The deal also
provided monetary relief for homeowners.  “The New York attorney general’s action is welcome news
for homeowners who at best get the run-around and at worst lose
their homes because Wells Fargo refuses to act in good faith,”
said Brian Kettenring, executive director of Campaign for a Fair
Settlement, an organization that advocates for accountability
from big banks for their role in the financial crisis.  “Wells Fargo was particularly aggressive in targeting
communities for predatory lending before the crash and has been
singled out by community groups as one of the worst perpetrators
of unnecessary foreclosures,” he said in a statement.  National Committee  In June, a monitor for the national settlement reported
that some of the banks, including Wells Fargo, had failed to
comply with servicing standards mandated by the deal, according
to Schneiderman’s office.  Schneiderman announced plans to sue Wells Fargo and Bank of
America in May over their alleged lack of compliance with the
deal, and notified the national committee overseeing the
settlement of his complaints.  The committee of state and federal officials declined to
pursue legal actions against the banks and said in a June letter
that an oversight process under the settlement “will be the
most efficient path to improving services to borrowers -- and,
we believe, will bring about those reforms more quickly than
protracted litigation on these particularly issues.”  New Tests  Joseph A. Smith Jr., national settlement monitor, said
today in a statement that he issued four new tests for measuring
banks’ compliance with the settlement’s standards to “better
hold the banks accountable to the commitments they made in the
settlement to improve their operations in these areas.”  Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, lead state negotiator for
the national settlement, said in a statement today that the new
metrics “will help the settlement monitor, state attorneys
general and our federal partners put more pressure points on the
banks to ensure they’re addressing our continued concerns.”  Under terms of the settlement, states can file their own
enforcement actions against banks if the committee declines to
pursue litigation, Schneiderman said. Bank of America had
disagreed, saying he had no right to sue the bank under the
settlement because it hadn’t failed to comply with
certain predetermined metrics.  Schneiderman was removed from a leadership role in
negotiating the nationwide foreclosure settlement in August 2011
because his office “actively worked to undermine” the effort,
Miller said in a statement at the time. Schneiderman worked to
ensure the settlement wouldn’t bar further investigations of
mortgage practices by individual states.  Among making other changes to conform to the settlement,
Bank of America agreed to designate high-level staff with
decision-making authority to help resolve loan-modification
requests, redesign letters to borrowers to improve clarity, and
stop transferring mortgage servicing rights to third parties
amid loan-modification negotiations, according to Schneiderman’s
office.  The changes will help fix a “byzantine process,”
Schneiderman said today.  The case is U.S. v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , 12-00361, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York at
   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  