-- West Texas Sour Weakens as Refinery Maintenance Strands Crude
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-10-01T21:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/west-texas-sour-weakens-as-refinery-maintenance-strands-crude.html
West Texas Sour crude weakened
relative to the U.S. benchmark as refinery maintenance along the
U.S. Gulf Coast reduced demand for Permian Basin oil.  WTS, a low-density, high-sulfur grade, fell 45 cents to a
$1.80-a-barrel discount to West Texas Intermediate in Cushing,
Oklahoma, at 4 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I think it is a reflection of growing supplies on the
Gulf Coast, which is entering its fall maintenance season and
backing volumes into the Permian Basin,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Flint Hills Resources LLC,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Motiva
Enterprises LLC are among companies said to be planning
maintenance in October on plants in Texas and Louisiana with a
combined capacity to process more than 2.3 million barrels of
crude a day.  West Texas Intermediate in Midland  also weakened relative
to its counterpart in Cushing, falling 10 cents to a discount of
65 cents a barrel.  Crude from the Permian Basin, the largest oil field in the
U.S., has been connected to the Gulf Coast by pipelines that
came online this year from  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  and
 Sunoco Logistics Partners LP. (SXL)   Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  will shut a fluid catalytic cracker at
its 100,000-barrel-a-day Three Rivers refinery in Texas for six
weeks of work in October, the company announced in July.  Other Work  Flint Hills’ 305,000-barrel-a-day Corpus Christi refinery
in Texas will conduct maintenance on a fluid catalytic cracker
this month, a person familiar with the plans said Dec. 20.  Petrobras’ Pasadena plant near Houston, which has a
capacity of 106,500 barrels a day, shut both of its alkylation
units for planned work about Sept. 20, a person familiar with
the maintenance said Dec. 21.  Delek US Holdings Inc. (DK)  has four weeks of work on an
alkylation unit at the 60,000-barrel-a-day refinery in Tyler,
Texas, scheduled for this month, the company said on a March 7
earnings call.  Phillips 66 (PSX)  is performing maintenance at its Lake Charles,
Louisiana, refinery, which has a 235,000-barrel-a-day capacity,
according to  Rich Johnson , a company spokesman in Houston.  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) ’s 522,000-barrel-a-day Garyville
refinery in Louisiana will shut a crude unit and a coker this
month for a turnaround that’s expected to last about 30 days, a
person with knowledge of the schedule said Jan. 29.  Motiva plans 63 days of maintenance on sulfur recovery unit
No. 5 between Sept. 3 and Nov. 5 at the 255,000-barrel-a-day
Convent refinery in Louisiana, a filing with a state regulator
shows.  Motiva’s refinery in Norco, Louisiana, is planning a
residual catalytic cracker and alkylation unit turnaround this
month, according to notices to state regulators. That plant has
a capacity of 250,000 barrels a day.  Exxon planned to do six to eight weeks of work related to a
crude unit at its 503,500-barrel-a-day Baton Rouge refinery in
 Louisiana  starting last month, a filing with the state said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  