-- White House Rejects 14th Amendment to Raise Debt Ceiling
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-10-01T19:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/white-house-rejects-14th-amendment-to-raise-debt-ceiling.html
President  Barack Obama  has neither
the legal authority nor the practical ability to bypass Congress
and extend the nation’s borrowing limit, and attempting such a
step might trigger turmoil in the markets, two top White House
advisers said.  National Economic Council Director Gene Sperling and Obama
adviser Dan Pfeiffer were responding to some congressional
Democrats who urged Obama to extend the federal debt ceiling
without congressional authorization under the 14th Amendment to
the U.S. Constitution.  Hours into a partial government shutdown resulting from a
fiscal stalemate with House Republicans, administration
officials and lawmakers are looking ahead to an Oct. 17 deadline
for Congress to raise the $16.7 trillion federal debt limit.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, a Montana
Democrat, told reporters at the Capitol today that invoking the
president’s powers under the 14th Amendment to raise the limit
is “an option that should seriously be considered.”  House minority leader Nancy Pelosi said last week that she
disagrees with Obama’s decision not to act unilaterally during a
2011 standoff over increasing the debt limit. “I would never
have taken it off the table,” the California Democrat said.  White House lawyers don’t see that as an option, Sperling
and Pfeiffer said today at a Bloomberg Government luncheon.  “Our folks have never found that there was such
extraordinary authority,” Sperling said.  Not Practical  Pfeiffer said employing such a tactic is impractical.  “Would people buy bonds that are legally questionable?”
he said. “If you were buying a car, would you ever buy a car
when the title was in doubt? The answer to that question is
no.”  “I don’t know why we would assume that investors would buy
bonds that are legally in question, that could at any day be
invalidated by a court,” he said. “So it is an impractical
solution to the problem.”  Proponents cite the language of the 14th amendment, which
says that the “validity of the public debt of the United
States, authorized by law, including debts incurred for payments
of pensions and bounties for services in suppressing
insurrection or rebellion, shall not be questioned.”  Obama and his advisers have consistently rejected using the
amendment to justify raising the debt ceiling without
Congressional support.  “This is ultimately about whether the rest of the world,
global investors, have confidence in this,” Sperling said.
“The spectacle of auctions going off that are under a legal
cloud would most likely have a lot of the same negative impact
globally that people fear in an all-out default.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  