-- Whole Milk Powder Prices Rise to Five Month High at Auction
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-10-01T20:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/whole-milk-powder-prices-rise-to-five-month-high-at-auction.html
Whole milk powder prices rose to the
highest in 5 1/2 months, adding to signs that Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd. can achieve its increased forecast
payment to New Zealand farmers.  Powder for delivery across all contracts through April rose
2.3 percent, according to a trade-weighted index posted on
Fonterra’s GlobalDairyTrade website. The average winning price
was $5,208 a metric ton, the highest since April 16.  Fonterra, the world’s biggest dairy exporter, last month
raised its forecast payment to New Zealand farmers for a third
time, citing the outlook for global prices. Whole milk auction
prices have surged 65 percent since the start of the year.  While high prices are good for farmers, they may hurt the
dairy industry by turning customers to substitutes like soy oil,
Fonterra Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings said in a Sept.
25 interview. Demand is slowing in some regions like  Africa 
“but  China  is so strong in buying whole milk powder, because
there are issues of foot and mouth disease in the Chinese
herd,” he said.  New Zealand milk production is forecast to increase 5
percent in the 2013-14 season, the company said Sept. 6. Still,
the global market continues to be in a supply constrained
position, it said. Fonterra has reduced the volume it will offer
at the auction because of demand from customers for products not
offered at those sales, it said last month.  Fonterra, which accounts for about a third of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole, skim and butter-milk
powder, dried-milk fat, lactose, butter, cheese and casein at
its GlobalDairyTrade auctions. Casein is a protein found in
milk. Prices across all products gained 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  