-- Twitter Said to Add Allen & Co. to List of Banks for IPO
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-10-01T19:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/twitter-said-to-add-allen-co-to-list-of-banks-for-ipo.html
Twitter Inc., the microblogging
service with more than 200 million members, added Allen & Co.
and Code Advisors LLC to the group of underwriters managing
its initial public offering, people with knowledge of the
process said.  Twitter, which on Sept. 12 disclosed its plans to go
public, added the boutique firms to the existing lineup of Wall
Street investment banks handling its share sale, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the decision
isn’t public. The company will make a public S-1 filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission this week, they said.  The banks will help sell shares in one of the largest and
most-scrutinized technology IPOs since social-media rival
Facebook Inc. went public last year. Allen & Co. and Code
Advisors are typically brought in because they have strong
relationships with long-term investors, said Francis Gaskins,
president of Marina Del Rey, California-based researcher
IPOdesktop.com, which monitors initial sales.  “What they’re trying to do is get the investors who may
not flip the stock,” Gaskins said in a telephone interview.
“Boutique banks have a chance of putting them in stronger hands
that will hold it longer.”  Twitter’s service lets users and advertisers post 140-character updates to followers on the Web and through mobile
applications. The San Francisco-based company, which will go
public this year, hasn’t yet decided on the valuation and size
of the offering, said one of the people.  Gabriel Stricker , a spokesman for Twitter, declined to
comment. Representatives for Allen & Co. and Code Advisors
weren’t reachable for comment.  Lead Bankers  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is Twitter’s lead underwriter,
followed by Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley and Bank of America Corp., other people close to the
situation have said. After Twitter makes its S-1 filing public,
investors will have a minimum of 21 days to review the document
before the company embarks on a roadshow to market the shares,
according to SEC rules.  Allen & Co., the New York-based boutique advisory firm
founded by Herb Allen, also worked on Facebook’s IPO. Twitter
Chief Executive Officer Dick Costolo and Jack Dorsey, the
company’s co-founder and chairman, have attended Allen & Co.’s
summer gathering of media and Internet moguls in Sun Valley,
 Idaho .  Code Advisors, based in San Francisco and co-founded by
Quincy Smith, Michael Marquez and Fred Davis, received a $25
million investment from JPMorgan last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  