-- Two U.S. Generals Fired for Failures in Afghan Attack
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-10-01T04:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/two-u-s-generals-fired-for-failures-in-afghan-attack.html
Two U.S. Marine Corps generals who
oversaw military operations in southwest Afghanistan last year
have been forced to retire for inadequately protecting troops
and military equipment under their supervision.  Marine Corps Commandant General James Amos asked Major
General Charles Gurganus and Major General Gregg Sturdevant to
retire, holding the two officers responsible for the failure to
thwart a September 2012 attack on a base in Helmand province
that killed Lieutenant Colonel Christopher Raible and Sergeant
Bradley Atwell and wounded eight others.  The moves marked the first time since the  Vietnam War  that
a U.S. Marine, Army or Air Force general was forced out of a job
for negligence during an enemy attack, according to a  blog  for
Foreign Policy magazine, which cited Tom Ricks, author of “The
Generals,” a military history.  The assault by about 15 insurgents on Camp Bastion, the
main British base in Afghanistan located next to the Marines’
Camp Leatherneck, also destroyed a fleet of six Harrier AV-8B
aircraft, marking the biggest loss of U.S. materiel in the 12-year conflict. In May, Amos ordered an investigation into the
attack and yesterday endorsed the probe’s findings.  Gurganus and Sturdevant “did not take adequate force
protection measures within the range of responses proportionate
to the threat,” Amos said in a statement released yesterday.
While both commanders faced challenges in pursuing the enemy
even as the overall U.S. troop levels began to decline in
 Afghanistan , “my duty requires me to remain true to the
timeless axioms relating to command responsibility and
accountability.”  ‘Complete Trust’  Gurganus in a statement through his spokesman said he had
“complete trust and confidence in the leadership of our Corps
and fully respect the decision of our Commandant.” Sturdevant
couldn’t be reached for comment through the Marine Corps
spokesman’s office.  Gurganus, as the overall commander for Regional Command
Southwest, bore final responsibility for forces and equipment
under his command, Amos said.  Britain’s Prince Harry, the fourth in line to the throne,
was at the base at the time of the Sept. 14, 2012, assault and
Taliban propagandists said the attackers were planning to kill
him, the U.K.-based  Guardian newspaper  reported. The prince
served in Helmand province as a gunner in Apache helicopters.  Although the U.S. Marines were located on the British base,
Sturdevant, who commanded the Marine aviation unit, remained
responsible for his own forces, Amos said. “Marines can never
place complete reliance for their own safety in the hands of
another force,” Amos said.  Amos wrote to Navy Secretary Ray Mabus asking that
Gurganus’s nomination for promotion to a three-star lieutenant
general’s rank, which is on hold in the  U.S. Senate , be
rescinded and that Sturdevant be issued a letter of censure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  