-- Korean Won Reverses Loss as U.S. Shutdown Reduces Dollar Demand
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-01T07:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/won-falls-for-second-day-as-u-s-shutdown-looms-bonds-decline.html
South Korea’s won gained, reversing
an earlier loss, after a partial U.S. shutdown reduced demand
for dollars. Sovereign bonds declined.  The greenback weakened against 15 of the world’s 16 major
currencies as the U.S. began its first shutdown in 17 years
today amid a deadlock in Congress over government spending plans
and President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  The won climbed 0.1 percent to 1,073.56 per dollar at the
close in Seoul, after falling as much as 0.2 percent in early
trade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
rallied 6.3 percent last quarter, the most in three years.  “Offshore demand for the dollar dwindled in the
afternoon,” said Jude Noh, a chief currency trader at Suhyup
Bank in Seoul. “The market soon recovered as the outcome was
somewhat priced in.”  One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
dropped eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.34
percent. The currency declined in the spot market earlier as
investors awaited the outcome of the U.S. budget talks and after
data showed exports contracted for the first time since June.  Overseas  shipments  fell 1.5 percent in September from a
year earlier, following a 7.7 percent advance in August, the
government reported. That compares with the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey for a 2.5 percent increase. Separate data
showed inflation eased to 0.8 percent, the least since 1999.  Exports dropped primarily due to the long public holidays,
which reduced working days, Goohoon Kwon and Chiwoong Lee,
economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a research note
today. Markets were closed Sept. 18-20.  Government bonds declined for the first time in three days.
The yield on the 2.75 percent notes due June 2016 climbed one
basis point to 2.83 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in  Seoul  at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  