-- World Bank’s Kim Says U.S. Fiscal Deadlock May Hurt Poor Nations
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-10-01T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/world-bank-s-kim-says-u-s-fiscal-deadlock-may-hurt-poor-nations.html
The U.S. congressional partisan
deadlock that partially shut down the government for the first
time in 17 years threatens to undermine global confidence and
hurt the poorest nations, World Bank President Jim Yong Kim
said.  “The ongoing fiscal uncertainty in the United States
greatly concerns us,” Kim said in prepared remarks to students
at George Washington University.  “This uncertainty, combined with other sources of
volatility in the global economy, could do great damage to
 emerging markets  and developing countries in  Africa , Asia and
Latin America that have lifted millions of people out of poverty
in recent years,” he said today.  The U.S. government idled as many as 800,000 federal
employees today after lawmakers failed to find an agreement on
spending legislation by a midnight deadline. Even if the budget
fight is resolved, lawmakers would immediately move to the next
fiscal dispute over raising the $16.7 trillion  debt  ceiling to
avoid a first-ever default.  U.S. stocks fluctuated, after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell to a three-week low, as investors weighed the
economic effects of the partial shutdown.  Kim, who submits a new strategy for the Washington-based
World Bank to its 188 member countries next week, said the
lender will be more selective in the projects it finances. The
strategy will be centered around the lender’s two goals of
ending extreme poverty by 2030 and boosting the income of the
poorest 40 percent.  Helping Women  “We won’t continue working in areas in which others are
better,” he said. “We won’t enter projects for the sole
purpose of meeting volume targets for the year.”  The bank will increase its commitment to states deemed
“fragile” that are in conflict or coming out of one, Kim said.
It will also invest in improving women’s lives and in mitigating
climate change, he said.  With two million Syrians fleeing the war in their own
country, Jordan and Lebanon will need help shouldering the
burden on their economies of absorbing the refugees, Kim said.
While the lender provided $150 million in aid to Jordan in July,
Kim said money was needed for Lebanon, which lost “billions of
dollars” because of the Syrian conflict.  “Lebanon now hosts more than 760,000 Syrian refugees,
which could be likened to 56 million refugees entering the
United States,” he said. “Donors pledged some funds for the
country, but we need to do much more or we risk catastrophe in
Lebanon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  