-- World Duty Free Shares Advance in Italian Debut: Milan Mover
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2013-10-01T11:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/world-duty-free-shares-advance-in-italian-debut-milan-mover.html
World Duty Free SpA (WDF)   shares  rose on
their Milan debut, beating analysts’ valuations, after the
airport retailer was spun off from  Autogrill SpA (AGL)  to gain more
flexibility for possible mergers and acquisitions.  The shares rose as high as 7.60 euros and were trading at
7.50 euros at 1:29 p.m. in Milan, giving the company a market
value of 1.91 billion euros ($2.6 billion). That’s 7.1 percent
more than the 7-euro median estimate for the stock’s fair value
in a survey of four analysts by  Bloomberg News .  “We will consider consolidation, now we have new
possibilities,” WDF Chief Executive Officer Jose Maria Palencia
said in an interview in Milan at the debut ceremony at the
Italian Exchange. “We have talks with everybody, it’s a small
industry. We integrate, we don’t swallow companies.”  Autogrill has spun off its airport retail activities so WDF
can seize growth opportunities through mergers and acquisitions.
WDF, with shops in 101 airports in 20 countries, is targeting
revenue growth of about 2.4 percent to 2.05 billion euros this
year, with earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of as much as 260 million euros, compared with
262.3 million euros a year earlier.  Shares of Milan-based Autogrill, which kept the food and
beverage business, climbed as much as 15 percent and were up 11
percent at 6.45 euros, valuing the company at 1.64 billion
euros.  The air travel sector is “quite predictable,” and there
is room to beat that market’s 5 percent average annual growth in
coming years, Palencia said. For profit growth, the company is
banking on spending in  Europe  by travelers from  emerging
markets , he said.  “WDF management will be focused on growth, with priority
in Europe and Asia Pacific, trying to capture any opportunity
both organic or non-organic, with joint ventures and business
combinations,” Banca Akros wrote in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  