-- WTI Crude Falls to 3-Month Low as U.S. Government Shuts
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-10-01T20:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/wti-crude-falls-on-u-s-government-shutdown.html
West Texas Intermediate fell to the
lowest level in almost three months as the U.S. government began
its first partial shutdown in 17 years, threatening to slow the
economy and curb fuel use.  Futures dropped 0.3 percent after lawmakers failed to
approve a funding bill. No further negotiations were immediately
planned and both sides still disagree over raising the nation’s
debt ceiling to avoid a first-ever default after Oct. 17. A
government report tomorrow may show  crude supplies  rose last
week as refineries idled units for seasonal maintenance,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  “We would probably be down if there was no government
shutdown,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price
Futures Group in  Chicago . “It’s hard to determine how much of
this move is due to the budget impasse and how much is a result
of bearish fundamentals. There’s plenty of supply, demand is
weak and the shutdown should make it weaker.”  WTI crude for November delivery fell 29 cents to $102.04 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
settlement since July 3. The volume of all futures traded was
about 23 percent below the 100-day average at 4:58 p.m.  Prices dropped after the  American Petroleum Institute 
reported inventories rose 4.55 million barrels last week. The
November contract decreased 69 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $101.64
a barrel in electronic trading at 4:58 p.m. It was at $101.84
before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent oil for November settlement slipped 43 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end the session at $107.94 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark closed
at $5.90 premium to WTI, down from $6.04 yesterday.  Economic Growth  A federal government shutdown may cut fourth-quarter U.S.
growth as much as 1.4 percentage points, economists from Moody’s
Analytics Inc. to Economic Outlook Group LLC forecast. The
nation is expected to account for 21 percent of global oil
demand this year, according to the  International Energy Agency .  The U.S. Treasury Department has said its ability to borrow
will end on about Oct. 17 unless the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling
is increased. The U.S. won’t have enough money to pay all of its
bills at some point from Oct. 22 to Oct. 31 without action by
Congress, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  “Oil is moving lower because of fears that the budgetary
impasse will have knock-on effects on the economy and consumer
demand,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC in Austin. “We’re in the refinery turnaround season, so the
market would be under pressure even without the shutdown.”  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories probably rose 2.5 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of 12 analysts in
the Bloomberg survey. The refinery utilization rate fell to 89.3
percent from 90.3 percent the prior week, the survey showed.
Units are often idled in October for maintenance as attention
shifts from gasoline and before heating oil demand peaks.  Gasoline stockpiles  are projected to decline by 700,000
barrels in the report from the Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  The government shutdown which began at midnight won’t
affect the release schedule,  Jonathan Cogan , an EIA spokesman in
 Washington , said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  WTI dropped the last three weeks as tension between  Iran 
and the U.S. eased and the likelihood of a U.S.-led attack on
Syria receded. President  Barack Obama  and Iran’s President
Hassan Rouhani spoke by phone on Sept. 27 about the Islamic
Republic’s nuclear program the first time leaders of the two
countries have spoken directly since 1979 Iranian revolution.  ‘Headline Bubbles’  “We had a good run up in August on the geopolitical
headlines and now we’re seeing that disappear,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “There’s less of a risk of us lobbing a missile
at  Syria  and the Iranians are making overtures. There’s always
going to be a big drop when you have one of these headline
bubbles and the headlines stop coming.”  Crude production in the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries  crude rose 43,000 barrels to an average 31.082 million
barrels a day in September, the most in 10 months, a Bloomberg
survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts showed.  U.S.  crude output  reached 7.83 million barrels a day in the
week ended Sept. 13, the most since May 1989, the EIA said. A
combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, has unlocked supplies in shale formations in the
central U.S.  Shutdown Worry  “With the government shutdown, peace breaking out in the
 Middle East  and rising production, there’s no reason to be
bullish oil,” said Tom Finlon, Jupiter, Florida-based director
of Energy Analytics Group LLC. “The worry about the shutdown is
that it will be protracted.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 20.9 percent, down from 21.5 yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 428,824
contracts as of 4:58 p.m. It totaled 443,262 contracts
yesterday, 28 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.86 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  