-- WTI Crude Drops as U.S. Government Shutdown Begins
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2013-10-01T12:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/wti-crude-trades-near-three-month-low-as-u-s-shutdown-looms.html
West Texas Intermediate declined amid
lower-than-average trading volumes as part of the U.S.
government closed over a budget stalemate that threatens to slow
the economy and reduce oil demand.  Futures dropped as much as 0.7 percent after a 4.9 percent
loss last month. A midnight deadline in  Washington  passed after
lawmakers failed to approve a funding bill. No further
negotiations were immediately planned and both sides still
disagree over raising the nation’s debt ceiling to avoid a
first-ever default after Oct. 17. A U.S. Energy Information
Administration report tomorrow may show  crude stockpiles  rose
for a second week in the world’s largest oil consuming nation,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  “Now the guesswork about the duration of the shutdown is
beginning because the longer it takes, the more the U.S.
economic growth in the fourth quarter will suffer,” Ole Hansen,
head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said
by phone. “At the moment, the main focus is trying to establish
the floor in the market.”  WTI for November delivery fell as much as 73 cents to
$101.60 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , and was at $101.75 at 1:50 p.m. London
time. WTI decreased 0.5 percent yesterday to the lowest close
since July 3. The volume of all futures traded was about 40
percent below the 100-day average. Prices increased 6 percent
last quarter.  Brent for November settlement was 70 cents lower at $107.67
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark was at a premium of $5.92 to WTI, compared
with $6.04 yesterday.  U.S. Shutdown  A shutdown may cut fourth-quarter U.S. growth as much as
1.4 percentage points, economists said. The nation is expected
to account for 21 percent of global oil consumption this year,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  The U.S. Treasury Department has said its ability to borrow
will end on about Oct. 17 unless the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling
is increased. The U.S. won’t have enough money to pay all of its
bills at some point from Oct. 22 to Oct. 31 without action by
Congress, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  “The debt-ceiling issue remains an obstacle to any
significant upside potential,” said Mark Keenan, a director of
commodities research and strategy at Societe Generale SA in
 Singapore .  Acceptable prices  OPEC isn’t in trouble from light, tight oil supply sources
and the marginal cost for producing tight oil is “too much” if
crude prices are at $90 a barrel, OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla el-Badri said at Oil & Money conference in London. Current  oil
prices  are acceptable, and will be at about $107 a barrel at the
end of the year, he said.  Libya  is currently producing 700,000 barrels a day and
restoring output is a “political” issue, not a technical one,
Libyan Oil Minister Abdulbari Al-Arusi, said at the same
conference. The country, a member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped about 1.4 million barrels
a day in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. crude inventories probably rose 2.5 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of eight analysts in
the Bloomberg News survey before government data tomorrow.  Gasoline stockpiles  are projected to decline by 700,000
barrels while distillate supplies, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, are forecast to drop 1.38 million
barrels, according to the survey. The EIA is the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  API Report  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  is
scheduled to release separate inventory data today. The API
collects supply information on a voluntary basis from operators
of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the EIA. It will release its
weekly report tomorrow as normally scheduled even with the
government shutdown, according to an e-mailed statement.  WTI has retreated since reaching a two-year high of $112.24
on Aug. 28 amid concern that a U.S.-led assault on  Syria  for its
alleged use of chemical weapons would spread unrest through the
region and disrupt Middle East supplies. Syria borders  Iraq ,
which according to a monthly Bloomberg survey is the second-biggest crude producer in OPEC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in  London  at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  