-- Yankees’ Rodriguez Finishes Day 1 of Appeal for MLB Drug Ban
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-01T04:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-01/yankees-rodriguez-finishes-day-1-of-appeal-for-mlb-drug-ban.html
Alex Rodriguez  began his appeal
against a 211-game drug suspension from  Major League Baseball ,
thanking a group of about a dozen supportive fans yesterday as
he entered MLB’s New York headquarters with his legal team.  Rodriguez, 38, has said he plans to be present for each day
of the appeal process, which might last all week.  Rodriguez didn’t speak to reporters prior to the closed
session in which he’ll seek to have the suspension overturned by
arbitrator Frederic Horowitz. Rodriguez was wearing a suit when
he arrived yesterday morning as the small group of fans chanted
“A-Rod” from behind police barricades. Rodriguez told them
“Thank you,” before entering the building.  A three-time American League Most Valuable Player,
Rodriguez is fifth on MLB’s career list with 654 home runs, six
behind Hall of Fame outfielder  Willie Mays .  Rodriguez filed an appeal with an independent arbitrator
Aug. 6, one day after MLB suspended him without pay through the
2014 season. MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  accused Rodriguez of
using testosterone and human growth hormone over “multiple
years” and of trying to “obstruct and frustrate” baseball’s
investigation of performance-enhancing substances supplied to
players from a now-closed clinic in Miami.  Rodriguez has said he won’t discuss specifics of the case
or the appeals process.  Rodriguez was able to play for the Yankees after filing his
appeal and appeared in 44 games this season while hitting .244
with seven home runs and 19 runs batted in. The Yankees missed
the playoffs for the second time in 19 years after finishing in
third place in the American League East Division with an 85-77
record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  