-- Afghanistan Given Special Ally Status by U.S., Clinton Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-07T17:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/afghanistan-given-special-ally-status-by-u-s-clinton-says-1-.html
Afghanistan was granted major
non-NATO ally status, a designation that allows for expedited
loans and exports, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said
today in Kabul.  The designation, which goes into effect immediately, is the
first such classification the Obama administration has made.
Other countries accorded MNNA status by the U.S. include  Israel ,
 Egypt , Australia,  New Zealand  and Japan.  Clinton, speaking in the gardens of the presidential
palace, emphasized the U.S. commitment to Afghanistan’s future
and stability. “We’re not even imagining abandoning
Afghanistan,” she said.  Clinton was in the Afghan capital for a visit lasting a
little more than two hours before heading to  Tokyo  for a
conference on Afghanistan that starts tomorrow. The gathering
which will focus on Afghanistan’s economic transition.  International donors will pledge $16 billion in aid for
Afghanistan to stabilize the country after NATO troops pull out
at the end of 2014, a U.S. official said.  Japanese officials will make the announcement Sunday in
Tokyo at an international conference where about 70 countries
and organizations will discuss Afghanistan’s economic needs
during and after the transition.  $16 Billion Pledged  The U.S. official, who wasn’t authorized to speak on the
record, said the  World Bank  has estimated that Afghanistan needs
$3.9 billion a year. The $16 billion will be given out over four
years, starting this year until 2015, the official said.  The U.S. share will change from year to year, said the
official, a member of the party attending the conference with
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . It’s expected to be in the
range of $1 billion to $2.3 billion and will come with
accountability measures to counter graft.  Clinton said the MNNA designation will allow Afghanistan
access to U.S. military supplies and to take part in training
exercises with the U.S. military.  She told Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  that the security
transition is on track. “You will always have our support” in
efforts to stabilize the country, Clinton said.  The secretary of state also reiterated the U.S. commitment
to continuing reconciliation talks with the  Taliban movement 
that is fighting Karzai’s government. “We see a positive
shift,” she said.  ‘Far From Ideal’  Clinton said that, while the security situation remains
“far from ideal,” the country is more stable. The Afghan
National Security Forces are in the process of taking over
responsibility for the security of 75 of the Afghan population,
she said.  President  Barack Obama  went to Kabul in May to sign a
Strategic Partnership Agreement that went into effect a few days
ago and will govern all aspects of the bilateral relationship.
Clinton said that the agreement was “not aimed at any one
country.”  Pakistan  has concerns about Indian influence in Afghanistan
and has tolerated militants along its border with Afghanistan.
Clinton said the recent announcement by Pakistan’s parliament
that Pakistani territory won’t be used to stage attacks on
foreign countries, and all foreign fighters found on Pakistani
soil will be expelled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Tokyo at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  