-- Areva Looks to China as France Rethinks Nuclear Power
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-07-07T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/areva-looks-to-china-as-france-rethinks-nuclear-power.html
Areva SA (AREVA)  Chief Executive Officer Luc Oursel is seeking fresh talks to sell nuclear reactors to  China ,
halted in the wake of last year’s nuclear accident in  Japan  and
amid questions about the new French government’s energy stance.  The Chinese “aren’t worried but they are legitimately
asking questions about the continuity of the French nuclear
commitment,” Oursel said yesterday in an interview in Aix-en-
Provence, France.  French President Francois Hollande, who took office in May,
pledged to cut the nuclear-power portion of France’s electricity
production to 50 percent by 2025 from about 75 percent now, and
to invest in renewable energies. Hollande wants to allow the
completion of a nuclear reactor currently built with the
technology of Paris-based Areva in Flamanville, and to shut the
country’s oldest nuclear plant by the end of his five-year term.  Once the Chinese unveil a new energy plan, “I expect the
negotiations to restart and to be closed very quickly because
it’s a replication of former negotiations” for Areva reactors
being built in Taishan, China, he said. “In  India , they are
very skilled negotiators, so you never know when it ends.”  Areva, the world’s largest builder of nuclear reactors, has
been seeking business in countries such as China and India,
where economic growth has spurred demand for diversified energy
sources. Demand is also building up in  Europe , Oursel said.  “Never have we worked on so many tenders in Europe at the
same time,” he said, citing Finland, the  Czech Republic ,  Poland 
and  Sweden .  No Nuclear Winter  China and India are committed to their nuclear power
programs, and Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil producer,
“is launching a nuclear program in 2013 to accompany the growth
in its industry, create jobs,” and cut the use of oil as a fuel
for its  power plants , he said.  “There is no nuclear winter,” the Areva CEO said. The
installed base in nuclear power will probably grow by about 50
percent by 2030 as countries in Europe and  Asia  seek to cut
reliance on fossil fuels and cap rising power prices, he said.  The meltdown of a nuclear facility in Japan last year after
an earthquake, construction delays at an atomic facility in
 Finland , and a 2007 investment in African uranium mines that
soured led to  a record loss  for Areva in 2011. Oursel has
pledged to slash costs, pare investments, and sell non-core
assets to restore profits at the company.  “We will present very soon the first-half results for 2012,
and I’m sure that people will appreciate that our strategic plan
is properly deployed and implemented,” he said.  Share Decline  He blamed most of the 47 percent drop in  Areva’s shares 
this year on the fact that an investor “decided to withdraw
very quickly,” while Areva’s free float is very limited.  Only about 4 percent of Areva shares trade, while the
French government and state-controlled entities own 89 percent
and the  Kuwait Investment Authority  holds 4.8 percent. The stock
currently trades at about 10 euros.  “The level of the shares is absolutely not justified by
the  performance  of the company and the implementation of the
strategic action plan,” the Areva chief said.  In the immediate term, the industry’s main issue is finding
long-term infrastructure funding, the executive said, which
“isn’t easy” given that “the banking system is a bit
breathless about such commitments,” Oursel said yesterday at a
conference organized by Le Cercle des Economistes. Also,
“excessive deregulation of the  electricity market  is currently
deterring all investment,” he said.  Continuity Needed  The industry “will need labor resources, technologies and
research and development,” Oursel said. “All stop-and-start
policies, or steep acceleration or slowdown in the field of
energy inevitably leads to failures. Continuity is what’s
needed.”  In that, Oursel is drawing some comfort from Hollande’s
recent pronouncements.  “With the very clear position expressed by  Francois
Hollande  on the fact that nuclear will remain the biggest
component of the energy mix, and that construction will continue
in Flamanville, the answers are in place to maintain the
confidence that France is really today the reference in term of
nuclear industry organization,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Aix-en-Provence, France at 
5051 or
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net 
Caroline Connan in Aix-en-Provence, France at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  