-- Asian Stock Rise Second Week as Central Banks Cut Rates
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-07-07T00:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/asian-stock-rise-second-week-as-central-banks-cut-rates.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week, with the
regional benchmark index capping its fourth advance in five
weeks, on anticipation central banks would ease monetary policy
to spur growth. Shares fell July 6 as interest-rate cuts in
 China  and  Europe  failed to convince investors that enough is
being done to shore up the global economy.  Sino-Ocean Land Holdings Ltd., a Chinese developer, jumped
14 percent this week in  Hong Kong  after Credit Suisse Group AG
said the nation’s interest rate cut benefits developers.
Nintendo Co., a Japanese maker of game consoles that depends on
Europe for a third of its sales, rose 3.2 percent in Osaka.
 Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , Japan’s third-largest shipping line,
tumbled 16 percent in  Tokyo  after announcing a share sale and
cutting its profit forecast.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.2 percent to 118.59 this
week, extending last week’s advance. The gauge posted a 3
percent gain for the first six months of 2012 as Greece’s debt
crisis and slowing growth in China and the U.S. roiled markets.
That compares with 8.3 percent advance by the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and a 2.7 percent increase by the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  “There is some room for the rally to last for the next
couple of weeks,” Kelvin Tay, Singapore-based chief investment
officer for the southern Asia-Pacific region at the wealth
management unit of UBS AG, said in a Bloomberg TV interview. UBS
manages about $1.5 trillion globally. “Sentiment has turned
positive. The priority has shifted toward growth from inflation.
The hands of the central banks are not so tied and they can look
at perhaps easing monetary policy as they try to help stimulate
economies.”  Relative Valuation  Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  climbed 0.2 percent this
week. The quarterly Tankan index on sentiment among the nation’s
manufacturers improved to minus 1 in June from minus 4 in March,
the  Bank of Japan  said this week. A negative number means
pessimists outnumber optimists.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  advanced 1.9 percent this week,
which was shortened by a holiday. China’s Shanghai Composite
Index slipped 0.1 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 1 percent,
while South Korea’s Kospi Index gained 0.2 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 advanced 1.5 percent after the
Pacific country’s benchmark interest rate was kept unchanged at
3.5 percent.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index gained 3.5 percent this
week, extending its advanced to eight days, the longest winning
streak since April 2011. The last time the index rose for more
than eight straight days was in January 2006.  CapitaLand Jumps  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  jumped 10 percent this week, the most on
the city state’s benchmark, on speculation Southeast Asia’s
biggest developer will benefit from declining borrowing costs in
China, which contributes about 22 percent of the company’s
revenue. Golden Agri-Resources Ltd., the world’s second-biggest
palm oil grower, climbed 7.5 percent as crude palm oil futures
rose for a third week in  Kuala Lumpur .  Speculation that central banks would further ease monetary
policy after U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly shrank in June and
unemployment in the 17-nation euro area reached the highest
level on record.  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , a surfwear company that
counts the Americas as its biggest market, jumped 8.8 percent to
A$1.17 in Sydney. Nintendo rose 3.2 percent to 9,550 yen in
Osaka.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the second-biggest construction-equipment
maker, rose 4.4 percent to 1,961 yen in Tokyo.  ECB Measures  The  European Central Bank  reduced its benchmark rate to a
record low of 0.75 percent on June 5 and the People’s Bank of
China cut borrowing costs for a second time in a month. Asian
shares pared this week’s gains yesterday after interest-rate
cuts in Europe and China failed to assure investors the moves
will be enough to boost economic growth.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the cuts may have only a
“muted” effect and downside risks to the economic outlook have
materialized. The  Bank of England  raised the size of its asset-
purchase program as the debt crisis in Europe hurts global
growth. Last month, the  Federal Reserve  extended a program of
replacing short-term bonds with longer-term debt.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , China’s biggest
lender by market value, dropped 0.7 percent in Hong Kong as
Citigroup Inc. said the rate cut in the mainland will hurt
earnings of lenders by reducing net interest margins. China
Construction Bank Corp., the second largest, 2.7 percent.  Developers Gain  While lenders declined, developers rose after Credit Suisse
said the rate cut would benefits property companies in the near
term.  Half of the top 10 gains  this week in  the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index (MXAP)  were developers with business in China.  Sino-Ocean Land surged 14 percent in Hong Kong, while  Poly
(Hong Kong) Investments Ltd. (119) , a developer that gets almost all
its revenue from China, increased 17 percent, the largest
advance in the regional gauge.  Among stocks that fell, Kawasaki Kisen slumped 16 percent
to 131 yen in Tokyo after announcing a 28.6 billion yen ($358
million) share sale and cutting its profit forecast for the year
ending March 31 by 73 percent.  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , Australia’s second-largest department
store owner, dropped 5 percent to A$2.46 in Sydney. A U.K.
private equity fund withdrew its A$1.65 billion ($1.69 billion)
bid, the company said, causing shares to reverse most of its
biggest gain in 17 years posted last week. Australia’s markets
regulator said July 3 it is examining “potential issues
regarding disclosure and trading in David Jones stock” after
the offer from EB Private Equity collapsed.  Samsung Slumps  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s largest maker of
televisions and mobile phones, slumped 3.3 percent to 1.161
million won in Seoul after its second-quarter sales missed
estimates.  “We are still reasonably cautious,” said Tim Riordan, who
helps manage $200 million at Parker Asset Management Ltd., a
hedge fund in Sydney. “All of these moves by central banks had
been expected, so they were baked into the price. ECB rate cuts
are getting to the point where each cut is met with diminishing
returns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  