-- Barclays Sued by Investor Over Alleged Euribor Actions
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-07-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/barclays-sued-by-investor-over-alleged-euribor-actions.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  was sued by an investor
who claimed her futures-trading business was harmed by the
bank’s admitted manipulation of the Euro Interbank Offered Rate.  A copy of the complaint, which also names  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  among other defendants, was provided by
Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP, the law firm representing the
investor. The filing couldn’t be independently confirmed
yesterday on the website of the federal court in Manhattan.  As part of settlements with U.S. and U.K. regulators,
Barclays has admitted rigging the London interbank offered rate,
or Libor, as well as the Euribor, its equivalent in euros, as
early as 2005. In testimony to the U.K. Parliament this week,
 Robert Diamond , who resigned as the bank’s chief executive
officer, apologized and said 14 Barclays traders were involved.  “Based on what we’ve seen so far, the rate-fixing scheme
was apparently an open secret within Barclays, leaving a broad
trail of evidence of the banks’ complicity,” Steve Berman, a
lawyer for the investor, said yesterday in a statement.  The investor, Karen Kalaway, was the principal of Riff-Raff
Trading Inc. in the Chicago suburb of Inverness, Illinois.  Her lawsuit seeks to represent all U.S.-based investors who
bought or sold Euribor-related financial instruments from Jan.
1, 2005, to Dec. 31, 2009.  Representatives of London-based Barclays, JPMorgan and
Citigroup, didn’t immediately return calls after regular
business hours yesterday seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Kalaway v. Barclays Plc, 12-05280, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  