-- Boeing Sales Chief Vacancy Won’t Block Air-Show Deals
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-07-07T13:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/boeing-sales-chief-vacancy-won-t-block-air-show-deals.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  arrives at the Farnborough
air show, where billions of dollars of jet orders may be
unveiled next week, lacking a sales chief as it fills the job
for a ninth time since  John Leahy  took his post at Airbus SAS.  Ray Conner, the previous sales boss, will be at the show in
his new role running Boeing Commercial Airplanes and will lead
the sales team until a successor is named. Leahy became Airbus’s
 chief commercial officer  18 years ago, and the Toulouse, France-
based company has led Boeing in annual deliveries since 2003.  The vacancy’s impact will be muted by the fact that orders
are mostly completed before the show near  London  and by a
decision-making structure at Chicago-based Boeing that is less
centralized than that of its European rival, said  Howard Rubel 
of Jefferies & Co. in  New York  and other analysts.  There’s a “selling-by-committee feel that Boeing has, more
so than John’s individualistic, much more autonomous approach,”
said Barclays Plc’s Carter Copeland in New York. “I wouldn’t
necessarily say it’s good or bad, it’s just different.”  Sales chiefs have tended to move to other positions at
Boeing, which emphasizes executive training. Conner held the job
from 2007 to 2009, when he became vice president of supply chain
management and operations. His successor was  Marlin Dailey , who
was then moved in August to be president of Boeing  Germany ,
Northern Europe/EU and  Africa , and was replaced by Conner.  ‘More Rotation’  “Part of it is just the centralized nature of Airbus sales
and its reliance on Leahy, whereas Boeing is more decentralized,
so there’s going to be more rotation,” said  Richard Aboulafia 
with the Teal Group in Fairfax, Virginia.  Conner “is well-known and widely respected among our
customers,” said  Marc Birtel , a Boeing spokesman. “In
addition, our regional sales vice presidents are fully engaged
with our customers on all fronts, including at Farnborough.”  Airbus and Boeing Commercial Airplanes, which generated 53
percent of the parent’s $68.7 billion in 2011 sales, both will
have new CEOs at the Farnborough International Air Show.
Airbus’s Fabrice Bregier took the company’s top spot in May. The
Farnborough show rotates each year with an expo in Paris as the
main trade event for planemakers, suppliers and customers.  Boeing is lagging behind Airbus parent European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. this year in the eyes of investors. The U.S.
company’s shares rose 0.5 percent this year through yesterday,
while EADS climbed 16 percent.  Jet Strategy  The new leaders’ most urgent moves will be determining
their strategies for the wide-body market, Aboulafia said.  The planemakers both decided to revamp their narrow-body
jets with new engines rather than develop new models, and the
Airbus A320neo is due to enter service before Boeing’s 737 MAX.  Now they’re vying for position in the wide-body jet market,
with products such as Boeing’s composite plastic 787 Dreamliner
and Airbus’s A350, scheduled to enter service in mid-2014.
Boeing is also considering a successor for the 777, the world’s
top-selling twin-aisle airliner.  “The real strategic direction here is refining and
improving and restoring confidence in the A350 on the one side
and deciding between the 787-10 and the 777X on the other,”
Aboulafia said.  The hole in Boeing’s management lineup is “a missed
opportunity to debut someone new at the show, but the new guy is
going to have to bank a lot of frequent-flier miles when he
takes the job anyway,” Aboulafia said. “Nothing substitutes
for actual client visits.”  Conner fostered Boeing’s team approach to sales during his
tenure, with more regional chiefs than Airbus, said Jefferies’s
Rubel. “I don’t think they’ll miss a beat,” he said.  Any jet orders announced in the coming week will be the
product of months’ worth of negotiations well before Conner’s
predecessor as commercial airplanes chief,  Jim Albaugh , decided
to retire in late June.  “Air-show deals are cleared in advance,” Aboulafia said.
“There’s a lot of fanfare that makes it look like someone
showed up with a handful of cash, but in reality all the details
were hashed out beforehand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  