-- Bombardier CSeries 2012 Debut Flight at Risk on Controls
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/bombardier-says-cseries-first-flight-in-2012-at-risk-on-controls.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s goal of a first
flight in 2012 for the CSeries jet is at risk as it struggles
with developing electronic cockpit controls, the planemaker’s
aerospace chief said.  The company has enough time to meet the target, while
additional delays would imperil that schedule, Bombardier
Aerospace President  Guy Hachey  said yesterday in an interview in
 London  before the Farnborough air show starting tomorrow.  “There’s no margin left to first flight,” Hachey said.
“Right now we’re still driving for first flight by the end of
this year.”  The CSeries will be the first jet from Montreal-based
Bombardier to fully adopt a so-called fly-by-wire system, which
translates pilots’ commands into electronic impulses that
activate flight controls. Bombardier has dispatched a team to
work with the developer,  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , Hachey said.  While progress is being made, it’s not clear whether the
improvement will be enough to meet Bombardier’s original
timetable, Hachey said.  “The challenge is on the systems side, mostly the fly-by-
wire,” he said. “That’s the one that’s giving me most concern
now.”  Bombardier is targeting the CSeries for the smaller end of
the narrow-body jetliner segment dominated by Airbus SAS and
 Boeing Co. (BA)  Designed to carry 100 to 145 passengers, the plane
has been set for a late-2012 debut flight and entry into
commercial service 12 months later.  First Delivery  Hachey said Bombardier has enough margin left in the
schedule to meet the goal for the CSeries’s commercial delivery.  Even as Bombardier fights with the issues of excess weight
common to all new planes in development, the CSeries will still
meet performance guarantees to customers, Hachey said. The
plane’s geared turbofan engine from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s
Pratt & Whitney unit is performing to plan, “hitting fuel burn
numbers” and completing 1,600 hours of tests, he said.  Orders total 138 so far. Analysts including Doug Runte, a
managing director at Piper Jaffray & Co. in  New York , have said
the success of the CSeries is in question because it’s trying to
crack an Airbus-Boeing duopoly and is entering a niche in which
other planemakers have failed.  Hachey said potential buyers may have been spooked by
delays for Boeing on its 787 Dreamliner and on the Airbus A380.
A weak economy damps demand as well, he said.  “We’re also in a recession,” he said. “We’ve been for
four years in a pretty tough environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  