-- California Senate Approves Spending on High-Speed Trains
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-07-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/california-senate-approves-spending-on-high-speed-trains.html
California lawmakers approved funding
the first leg of a $68 billion high-speed passenger rail line
down the spine of the most populous U.S. state, even as polls
show waning public support.  Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat who backs the plan to link
 San Francisco  and Los Angeles, praised the Senate’s “bold”
vote yesterday. The measure, passed by the Assembly July 5, won
no Republican support. The  bill  to fund the line frees the state
to sell $2.6 billion of bonds already approved by voters. The
project is slated for $3.3 billion in U.S. matching funds.  “Ten, 20 and 30 years from now, Californians then will be
glad that we made this decision today,” Senate President Pro
Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from Sacramento, said
yesterday before the 21-16 Senate vote. Democrats hold 25 seats.  California is the only U.S. state working to lay tracks for
trains running as fast as 220 miles (354 kilometers) an hour,
after Congress cut off 2012 funds for such projects. The plan
has been criticized for its cost, choice of routes and timing,
as recent deficits have meant deep cuts to schools and the poor.  While 53 percent of voters approved borrowing for the
project in 2008, 59 percent would oppose the plan if presented
with the choice again, according to a USC Dornsife/Los Angeles
Times poll last month. A  Field Poll  released July 5 said that a
third of likely voters would be less inclined to support Brown’s
proposed tax increases if lawmakers passed the rail funding.  Lower Price  The  California  High-Speed Rail Authority in April chopped
$30 billion off a price tag that had ballooned to $98.5 billion
for the system. When voters approved selling bonds for the
project, the cost was estimated at $43 billion.  “This is absolutely nuts,” Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, a
Republican from San Bernardino, said July 5. “We’re going to
build a train we don’t need, with money we don’t have. I can’t
believe we are even having this conversation.”  If Brown signs the funding bill, the state can start
construction on the first 130-mile stretch down California’s
Central Valley. The initial route, connecting some of the least-
populated parts of the state, has fed opposition to the effort.  The tracks are to run from Merced, about 120 miles south of
Sacramento, the capital, to the San Fernando Valley, north of
 Los Angeles , the state’s biggest city. To connect to that
population center with San Francisco, the bill authorizes $2
billion of bond funds to upgrade existing commuter and freight
lines to handle high-speed traffic.  California is already the most indebted U.S. state, with
$73.2 billion of general-obligation bonds outstanding and the
authority to sell another $33.1 billion.  Bond Offerings  The high-speed rail debt won’t be sold as a separate
offering. Instead, it’s to be part of multiple general-
obligation bond issues from which the proceeds are used for
various purposes such as schools, roads and bridges.  An initiative on the November ballot, sponsored by Brown
and a teacher’s union, will ask voters to temporarily raise the
 state sales tax , already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent
from 7.25 percent, and to boost taxes on income starting at
$250,000. The rate for those making $1 million or more annually,
now 10.3 percent, would rise to 13.3 percent.  If the tax increases fail, that will trigger $6.1 billion
of cuts -- $5.5 billion coming from schools, enough to pay for
three weeks of classes.  A California bond maturing in February 2022 traded June 28
at an average yield of almost 2.7 percent, or about 0.73
percentage point more than an  index  of top-rated muni debt with
a similar maturity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
securities were issued in March at a yield of 2.78 percent, or
0.88 percentage point above the benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  