-- Canada Dollar Gains Versus Most Peers on Central Banks’ Stimulus
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-07T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/canada-dollar-gains-versus-most-peers-on-central-banks-stimulus.html
Canada’s dollar rose against most of
its 16 major counterparts after global central banks added
monetary stimulus to boost economic growth.  The currency weakened yesterday against its U.S.
counterpart even after Canada’s jobless rate fell to 7.2 percent
in June from 7.3 percent in May. Employers in the U.S. hired
fewer workers than forecast in June, showing scant progress
toward reducing joblessness in America, which is Canada’s
largest trading partner. The loonie, as the currency is
nicknamed, reached a two-year high against the euro after the
 European Central Bank  cut its key interest rate, while the  Bank
of Canada  is forecast to hold its policy rate unchanged on July
17.  “The growth in North America is not ideal, it’s not great,
but it’s definitely better than what’s going on in  Europe ,”
Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview.  Canada’s currency rose 2.7 percent to C$1.2527 per euro,
the biggest weekly gain since March 2, and touched the strongest
level since June 2010. It fell 0.3 percent to C$1.0196 per U.S.
dollar in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 98.08 U.S. cents.  Currency Measure  The loonie rose 1.2 percent this week, trailing two of nine
counterparts, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  added 1.6 percent and yen appreciated
1.8 percent.  Canada’s dollar will end the year at C$1.02, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Estimates ranged from 95 Canadian cents to C$1.13 per U.S.
dollar.  Ten-year government  bonds  rose for the second week. Yields
fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, during the
past five days, to 1.69 percent. It touched 1.615 percent on
June 1, the lowest since 1950, according to Bloomberg and Bank
of Canada data.  The Bank of Canada will sell C$3.4 billion ($3.3 billion)
of five-year notes on July 11. The bonds mature Sept. 1, 2017
and carry a coupon of 1.5 percent.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Ed Devlin said Canadian
bonds don’t provide much value for investors as low yields limit
scope for  capital gains  and global uncertainty prompts the
world’s largest bond fund manager to take “defensive”
positions.  Bond View  “We’re not particularly long the Canadian market,”
Devlin, a London-based portfolio manager, said in a telephone
interview from Toronto. “I’m pretty defensive on the front end.
There is not a lot to like about  interest rates  down here.” A
long position is a bet that an asset will increase in value  Europe’s central bank cut its key interest rate by 25 basis
points to a record 0.75 percent and reduced its deposit rate to
zero for the first time. China cut interest rates for the second
time in a month and the  Bank of England  extended its asset-
purchase program.  Investors have been paring bets Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  will lower interest rates as concern about Europe’s
debt crisis eases. Swaps trading suggested yesterday that
investors are pricing in a 31 percent chance that Carney will
lower borrowing costs by at least 25 basis points this year,
down from 76 percent odds on June 1.  Bank Meeting  The BOC will meet July 17 and is scheduled to update its
forecasts in a monetary policy report to be published July 18.
Carney has held the benchmark rate at 1 percent since September
2010, the longest pause since the 1950s.  Yesterday’s jobs data add to evidence Canada’s economy
picked up momentum in the second quarter, following a slowdown
that began at the end of last year. Canada’s payrolls rose by
7,300 in June,  Statistics Canada  said from Ottawa. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the  unemployment rate  would
remain unchanged and employment would rise 5,000.  “It’s a mixed report -- not bad news but far from great
news,” said Andrew Cox, a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc.
in  New York . “The particulars of the report will likely have
only a minor influence on the trajectory of the Canadian dollar
in the coming weeks. Global factors dominate.”  U.S. payrolls rose 80,000 last month after a 77,000
increase in May, Labor Department figures showed yesterday in
 Washington . Economists projected a 100,000 gain, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The unemployment
rate held at 8.2 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6 percent this week
and futures on crude oil,  Canada ’s largest export, dropped 0.6
percent to $84.45 a barrel in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  