-- China Must Prevent Rebound in Property Prices, Wen Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/china-must-prevent-rebound-in-property-prices-premier-wen-says.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
downward pressure on the economy is still “relatively large”
and the government will intensify fine-tuning of policies even
as measures taken since April are helping stabilize a slowdown.  Wen’s comments, four days after the central bank announced
the second  interest-rate  cut in a month, were made during an
inspection tour of eastern Jiangsu province, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported yesterday. The premier also pledged to
“unswervingly” continue property controls and prevent prices
from rebounding, Xinhua said.  Asia ’s largest economy probably grew at the slowest pace in
three years in the second quarter, underscoring the risks to a
global recovery already threatened by a worsening crisis in the
euro area and faltering employment gains in the U.S. The
 International Monetary Fund  next week will cut its world-growth
estimate this year, with Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
warning the outlook has “regrettably become more worrisome.”  “The big downside risks to economic growth increase the
pressure for monetary easing,” economists Peng Wensheng and
Zhao Yang from Beijing-based  China  International Capital Corp.
said in a July 6 note. “Based on the recent developments in the
global economy, we believe major central banks will take more
conventional and unconventional measures in coming months to
loosen monetary conditions and encourage bank lending.”  China’s inflation probably slowed to 2.3 percent in June,
the lowest since January 2010, according to an analyst survey
ahead of a government report due today at 9:30 a.m. in Beijing.  Reversing Slowdown  The People’s Bank of China also last week allowed banks to
offer bigger discounts on loans, stepping up efforts to reverse
a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy. The moves
coincided with the  European Central Bank ’s decision to reduce
borrowing costs to a record low and the Bank of England’s
expansion of asset purchases.  China’s benchmark stock index fell for a third week on
concern the government isn’t doing enough to stem an economic
slowdown that will hurt company earnings. The Shanghai Composite
Index rose 1 percent on July 6 after the PBOC announcement,
paring the week’s decline to 0.1 percent.  The pace of China’s  growth  is “within the expected target
zone set at the beginning of the year,” Xinhua reported Wen as
saying during his tour from July 6 to July 8.  “In April this year we announced we would put stabilizing
growth in a more prominent position and we intensified efforts
to preemptively fine-tune policies,” Wen said. “Currently
these measures have already seen some results and the economic
slowdown has stabilized.”  Proactive Policy  The premier in March set a goal of 7.5 percent expansion
for 2012, down from an 8 percent target in place since 2005.  Growth may have slid to 7.7 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, according to the median  estimate  of 33
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey as of July 6. The data are
due on July 13. The economy expanded 8.1 percent in the first
three months, the fifth quarterly slowdown.  The government will “continue to intensify preemptive
fine-tuning and implement a proactive fiscal policy, especially
with a focus on improving the structural tax reduction policy,”
Wen said, according to Xinhua. Authorities will “continue to
implement a prudent monetary policy and effectively solve the
structural contradiction between the supply of and demand for
credit,” he said.  Even as Wen pledged to support growth, he reiterated that
property controls will continue. Restricting speculative demand
and investment in property must be made a long-term policy,
Xinhua said in its reports of the premier’s visit.  Price Rebound  “We must unswervingly continue to implement all manner of
controls in the  property market  to allow prices to return to
reasonable levels,” Wen was quoted as saying when he met
residents and local government officials in charge of affordable
housing on July 7. “We cannot allow prices to rebound, or all
our efforts will come to naught,” he said.  Market expectations about property prices are changing and
citizens are worried prices will rise again, he said. Signals in
the market are “chaotic” and misleading and speculative
information must be stopped, Wen said, according to Xinhua.  Local governments that introduced or covered up a loosening
of curbs on residential real-estate must be stopped, he said.  China’s new- home prices  rose for the first time in 10
months in June, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , owner of the
nation’s biggest real-estate website.  ‘Arduous’ Task  “As long as there are no new curbs to come and it’s only
the implementation of existing policies, home prices will still
rise,”  Du Jinsong , a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said by telephone on July 7.  Property controls are still in a “critical period” and
the task remains “arduous,” Xinhua reported Wen as saying in
its July 7 report.  The government must “promote the study and implementation
of changes to the property-tax mechanism, and to speed up the
establishment of a comprehensive long-term mechanism and policy
framework for controlling the property market,” Xinhua cited
Wen as saying.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  