-- Dollar Gains Most in 10 Months Versus Euro on Demand for Safety
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-07T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/dollar-gains-most-in-10-months-versus-euro-on-demand-for-safety.html
The dollar climbed the most since
September against the euro as investors sought refuge after U.S.
job growth fell short of forecasts and the  European Central Bank 
said the region’s economy still faces risks.  The shared currency touched a two-year low versus the
dollar amid concern an ECB cut in  interest rates  to a record low
won’t be enough to stem the euro bloc’s debt crisis. The
greenback’s advance was tempered by speculation the  Federal
Reserve  may take further steps to boost growth, including a
third round of debt purchases under quantitative easing. The
U.S. central bank opens a two-day policy meeting on July 31.  “The market has a risk-off tone,”  Mary Nicola , a currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “The data this week has been very
disappointing. It shows that there are some dimming prospects to
growth, to the point that the idea of QE3 might come into play
next week.”  The dollar rallied 3.1 percent to $1.2291 per euro
yesterday in New York, from $1.2667 on June 29. The jump was its
biggest since the five days ended Sept. 9. It touched $1.2260,
the strongest level since July 2010. The 17-nation currency
depreciated 3.1 percent to 97.89 yen in the pair’s largest
weekly drop since April 6. The Japanese currency rose 0.2
percent to 79.66 per dollar.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners including the euro and the yen, advanced 2
percent, the most since December, to 83.285. It touched 83.431,
the highest level since June 1.  The yen gained against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this week except  South Korea ’s won. The euro fell
against all of its major peers except the Danish krone.  Below Forecast  U.S. payrolls increased by 80,000 jobs last month after a
revised gain of 77,000 in May, Labor Department data showed
yesterday in  Washington . Economists projected an increase of
100,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Private employment, which excludes government agencies,
grew 84,000 in June, the weakest in 10 months.  “This number will continue to erode the fragile risk
sentiment that we’ve been seeing lately,” Carl Forcheski, a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in New York, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “The question will be, will this be enough to prompt
the Fed to reintroduce another QE?”  Quantitative Easing  The U.S. central bank pumped $2.3 trillion into the
financial system from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of debt
purchases under quantitative easing to support the economy. It’s
shifting $667 billion of short-term debt in its holdings to
longer-term Treasuries to cap borrowing costs, a program it
expanded last month, and has kept its benchmark interest rate at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Fed officials will issue their next policy statement on
Aug. 1 after a two-day meeting.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 20 after the last
meeting that the Fed is prepared to consider additional steps to
spur growth and employment, including further asset purchases.  The dollar climbed earlier this week on refuge demand after
a gauge showed U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly shrank in June
for the first time in almost three years. The Institute for
Supply  Management’s U.S.  factory index  fell to 49.7, the lowest
since July 2009, from 53.5 in May. Figures less than 50 signal
contraction. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a decline to 52.  Forecasts Lowered  Fed policy makers last month lowered their forecasts for
growth and raised their predictions for unemployment in each of
the next three years. They now see 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent
growth in 2012, down from their forecast in April of 2.4 percent
to 2.9 percent. The jobless rate will end the year at 8 percent
to 8.2 percent, they said, compared with the 7.8 percent to 8
percent they forecast in April.  The euro tumbled against the dollar on July 5 after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said euro-bloc economic growth
“continues to remain weak with heightened uncertainty” and
downside risks had appeared. Draghi spoke at a news conference
after the central bank cut its main refinancing rate by a
quarter-percentage point to a record low 0.75 percent and said
it will no longer pay interest on overnight deposits.  The ECB action came the same day that  China  cut its key
interest rate for the second time in a month and the  Bank of
England  raised the target in its asset-purchase stimulus program
by 50 billion pounds ($77 billion) to 375 billion pounds.  ‘Rates Crushed’  “The euro is down because we have seen rates crushed this
week, and they are going to stay low for a long time,”  Paul
Robson , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London , said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  The ECB refrained from announcing any additional steps to
cap debt yields in  Spain  and  Italy , where borrowing costs have
climbed amid concern  Europe  has yet to resolve its debt crisis.
The yield on Spain’s 10-year debt climbed 63 basis points, or
0.63 percentage point, this week to 6.95 percent and touched
7.04 percent. Italian 10-year yields increased 21 basis points
to 6.03 percent.  “All the ECB has managed to do this morning is increase
speculation they’re going to move to further non-conventional
measures later in the year,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said
July 5 in a telephone interview from Toronto. “The euro’s not
emerging from this at all well.”  Commodity Currencies  Currencies of commodity-exporting nations fell against the
dollar and yen as risk appetite ebbed.  South Africa ’s rand
weakened 1.2 percent, the most in a month, to 8.2591 per dollar.
New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.5 percent, its first weekly loss
since May, to 79.77 U.S. cents, and Norway’s krone slid 2.6
percent, the most this year, to 6.1165 to the greenback.
 Brazil ’s real depreciated 0.9 percent to 2.0282 per dollar.  Brazil’s real posted a risk-adjusted gain of 0.64 percent
yesterday versus the greenback this year, the biggest gain, the
Bloomberg Riskless Ranking shows. The yen’s advance of 0.43
percent was fourth-best, and the euro’s loss of 0.58 percent was
the worst performance. The gauge covers the most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  