-- Teixeira Scores Decisive Run in Yankees’ 10-8 Win Over Red Sox
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-07T04:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/teixeira-scores-decisive-run-in-yankees-10-8-win-over-red-sox.html
Mark Teixeira  scored the decisive run
off Raul Ibanez’s double in the seventh inning to help the Major
League Baseball-leading New York Yankees earn a 10-8 victory
over the injury-plagued Boston Red Sox.  Teixeira drove in four runs last night as he sent home
 Curtis Granderson  and  Alex Rodriguez  on a single in the first
inning and scored the same duo on a triple in the seventh in the
first of a four-game series at Boston’s Fenway Park. Ibanez then
sent Teixeira home to put the Yankees ahead 9-7.  The Yankees and Red Sox had ended a 10-run first inning
tied at five runs each.  “They got five in the first; we had their closer in at the
end of the game,” Red Sox manager  Bobby Valentine  told
reporters. “We did a good job, but it put us climbing uphill
the whole game.”  The score was tied again at the end of the second inning
after Granderson scored on Rodriguez’s ground-out and Boston’s
 David Ortiz  hit a run-scoring single to left field.  Mauro Gomez broke the tie in the fifth inning on a run-
scoring single before the Yankees added four more runs in the
seventh. Boston’s Cody Ross ended the scoring with a solo home
run in the seventh.  The Red Sox (42-41) are down three starting pitchers, a
closer, left fielder, center fielder, second baseman and backup
outfielder. The latest injury was to second baseman  Dustin Pedroia  who was put on the 15-day disabled list yesterday for an
injury to his right thumb sustained when he tried to dive for a
ball against Oakland on July 3.  ‘Excessive’  “It’s been excessive, I think, one of those words,”
manager Bobby Valentine said. “Ridiculously excessive.”  Boston is in fourth place, 8 ½ games behind the Yankees in
the five-team American League East.  The Yankees (50-32) have topped the Texas Rangers for the
best record in the majors even as the team is without left
fielder Brett Gardner and four former All-Star pitchers --
starters CC Sabathia,  Andy Pettitte  and Michael Pineda and
closer Mariano Rivera.  Boone Logan (4-0) got the win, giving up one run on two
hits and striking out one in 2/3 inning for the Yankees.  Rafael Soriano  got his 20th save, striking out two in 1 1/3 innings.  Andrew Miller (2-1) took the loss, allowing two runs on one
hit in 1/3 inning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  