-- England Defeats Australia by 8 Wickets to Clinch 1-Day Series
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-07-07T18:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/england-defeats-australia-by-8-wickets-to-clinch-1-day-series.html
England beat Australia by eight
wickets in their fourth one-day cricket international and clinch
victory in the five-match series.  Steven Finn  took four wickets as Australia was limited to
200-9 in its 50 overs at Chester-le-Street in Durham. Ian Bell
then scored 69 and Jonathan Trott was 64 not out as the hosts
reached the target of 201 with 13 balls and eight wickets to
spare.  England takes an unbeatable 3-0 lead in the series and has
now won a record nine straight games in the 50-over format.  “Since the new year we’re not losing,” England captain
 Alastair Cook  said in the post-match presentation. “Winning
nine in a row is an amazing effort.  England also extends its unbeaten run in home one-day
series to seven since losing to Australia in September 2009.  After England won the toss and elected to field, Finn was
4-37 and twice was on a hat trick in dominating Australia. James Anderson and  Tim Bresnan  took two wickets each, while  David
Hussey  top-scored for the visitors.  Cook and Bell teamed for an opening 70-run partnership
before the captain was caught for 29 at cover off Clint McKay.
Bell’s dismissal left England 136-2 and Trott and Bopara, who
finished an unbeaten 33, saw the victory through.  “Tough day, probably not enough runs,” Australia captain
 Michael Clarke  said. “Take nothing away from England, I thought
they were outstanding once again and continue to show us how to
perform consistently in this form of the game.”  The series concludes at Old Trafford in Manchester in three
days. England could have replaced Australia at the top of the
International Cricket Council’s one-day rankings with a 5-0
sweep but lost the opportunity when the third game was rained
out three days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 