-- Findus Said to Be Taken Over by Junior Lenders in Restructuring
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-07-07T13:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/findus-said-to-be-taken-over-by-junior-lenders-in-restructuring.html
Findus Group Ltd., the frozen-food
company owned by private-equity firm  Lion Capital  LLP, will be
taken over by its junior lenders in a debt restructuring,
according to four people with knowledge of the situation.  Lion Capital, which backs the debt-for-equity swap
proposal, will retain a stake of about 30 percent in Findus,
owner of the Young’s Seafood brand, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private.  Findus’s mezzanine lenders aim to complete the debt
restructuring by the end of this month after getting approval
from lenders holding more than 80 percent of the London-based
company’s senior loans, exceeding the two-thirds required for
the proposal to go through, the people said.  Under the plan led by Lion Capital, Highbridge Capital
Management LLC and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , junior creditors will
write off more than 200 million pounds ($310 million) of
mezzanine loans in return for ownership, the people said. They
will inject 220 million pounds into the company, including 125
million pounds to pay down senior debt at par, said the people.  Junior lenders would also provide 70 million pounds in a
short-term credit facility to meet Findus’s working capital
requirements, said the people.  “The mezzanine deal which is quickly deliverable,
consensual and maximizes value for all creditors gives the
company ample funds and the corporate stability that will allow
the management to grow the business and the group to progress,”
Matthew Smallwood, a Findus spokesman, said in an e-mail today.
He declined to comment on details of the restructuring proposal.  Lion Capital bought Findus, formerly known as FoodVest, in
July 2008 for 1 billion pounds from CapVest Ltd. in a leveraged
buyout funded by 730 million pounds of loans, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Findus had received debt covenant waivers from creditors
since March in anticipation of breaching loan terms.  Shona Prendergast, a spokeswoman for Lion Capital, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  