-- France Telecom Plans Compensation After Network Failure
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-07-07T16:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/france-telecom-looks-to-compensate-clients-after-network-failure.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) , the country’s
largest phone company, said it would compensate customers after
a 10-hour failure on its wireless network prevented subscribers
from making calls and sending messages on mobile phones.  The network problems, caused by a software bug, started
about 3 p.m. yesterday and disrupted calls and  text messages 
until 12:30 a.m. today, the Paris-based company said in a
 statement  on its website. Clients might not have had mobile
access to the Internet for another three hours.  “Orange’s clients across the territory met great
difficulties when trying to make calls and send messages,” said
France Telecom, which markets its phone packages under the brand
name Orange. “We will stay alert throughout the weekend to
monitor the network.”  France Telecom  plans to make up for the failure by offering
subscribers free calling, texting or mobile-phone Internet
surfing in September. At a press conference today, Chief
Executive Officer Stephane Richard declined to say how much this
would cost the company. Revenue from mobile and fixed-phone
packages in France accounted for half of the company’s first-
quarter sales of 10.9 billion euros ($13.4 billion).  ‘Rare Event’  “We know the software stopped working on one piece of
equipment, but we don’t know why,” Richard said in Paris.
“It’s an isolated incident and it had nothing to do with
security, capacity or the level of investment in our networks.”  The technical problem, “an extremely rare event,” is also
being looked into by network equipment vendors Alcatel-Lucent SA
and Ericsson AB, Richard said.  With about 38 percent of the French mobile market, France
Telecom had 26.5 million customers in the country at the end of
March. The company markets its phone packages at a price premium
compared with French competitors. France Telecom has built its
sales pitch on its extensive geographical network coverage and
quality of service.  The company competes with  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR,  Bouygues SA (EN)  and
 Iliad SA. (ILD)  Iliad, operating under the Free brand, became France’s
fourth mobile-phone operator in January, prompting price cuts.
France Telecom lost 615,000 wireless customers last quarter in
its home market and said that a roaming agreement it signed with
Iliad will help make up for lost revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  