-- Webb Simpson Leads Greenbrier Classic, Woods, Mickelson Miss Cut
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/tiger-woods-phil-mickelson-miss-cut-at-greenbrier-classic.html
Tiger Woods and  Phil Mickelson  missed
the two-round cut at the Greenbrier Classic, the first time in
their professional careers that both have failed to qualify for
weekend play.  U.S. Open champion  Webb Simpson  was atop the leaderboard at
9-under yesterday when play was suspended because of darkness
after rain forced a delay of more than two hours earlier in the
day. Simpson made a 6-foot birdie putt on the par-3 18th for a
4-under-66.  Round two will resume this morning for three golfers on
pace to make the cut, who were left on the course as darkness
fell. Among them was Martin Flores who was in a five-way tie for
second place with two holes to go.  Charlie Bejian,  Jonathan Byrd , Jeff Maggert and Jerry Kelly
completed the round to share second place at 8-under, one stroke
behind Simpson.  Woods carded a 140 after 36 holes to stand at even par and
miss the cut by one stroke. Mickelson missed weekend play after
shooting his second straight 71 yesterday to post a 2-over 142.  Woods was playing in the three-year-old Greenbrier event
for the first time.  “I didn’t quite have it,” Woods told reporters yesterday.
“I know we’re at altitude, but I just couldn’t get the ball hit
pin high no matter what I did, and subsequently, I made some
bogeys.”  Woods said he wasn’t concerned about distance control for
the  British Open  which starts July 19.  “It’s not going to be this warm and we’re not going to be
at altitude,” Wood said. “We’ll be on the beach.”  Woods won the AT&T National on July 1 for his third title
this year. The victory was his 74th on the Tour, breaking a tie
with  Jack Nicklaus  for the second-most in history behind  Sam Snead ’s 82.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Baltimore at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  