-- North Carolina to Probe Duke Takeover of Progress Amid CEO Exit
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-07-07T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/north-carolina-to-probe-duke-takeover-of-progress-amid-ceo-exit.html
North Carolina  is investigating  Duke
Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s $17.8 billion takeover of Progress Energy Inc.
after the company unexpectedly changed its chief executive
officer.  “This significant management change within hours after the
merger has put the company on credit watch, so we need to get to
the bottom of this to make sure we protect consumers,” North
Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  Three former Progress Energy Inc. board members said they
would have voted against the takeover had they known that Duke’s
chief executive officer would remain in charge of the combined
companies.  Duke announced on July 3 that  Bill Johnson , the chairman
and CEO of Progress, had resigned and wouldn’t take over as
president and CEO of the combined companies as planned. Duke
Chairman and CEO  James Rogers , who was supposed to be chairman
after the merger, was asked by the board to continue as CEO.  “I wouldn’t have voted for the deal,” James Bostic Jr.,
who served on Progress’s board since 2002, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “It was the board’s belief that that Bill Johnson would be able to run the combined companies in a more
efficient manner and offer a much stronger return to
shareholders.”  Standard & Poor’s  Standard & Poor’s  put Duke, the largest U.S. utility owner
by market value, on negative credit watch after “the abrupt
change in executive leadership.” The surprise decision to
change CEOs as its takeover closed was deceitful, according to
John H. Mullin, who also served on Progress’s board.  “I do not believe that a single director of Progress would
have voted for this transaction as structured with the knowledge
that the CEO of Duke,  Jim Rogers , would remain as the CEO of the
combined company,” Mullin, a former managing director for
investment banker Dillon Read & Co., wrote in a July 5 letter to
the Wall Street Journal.  The new Duke board met without Rogers or Johnson and
decided on the switch, Rogers said in a July 3 interview. Under
terms of the merger, the board is composed of 11 Duke
representatives and seven from Progress. Bostic and Mullin were
among eight Progress directors who weren’t added to the new
board.  North Carolina’s attorney general opened an investigation
to determine if Duke Energy lied to regulators or consumers to
get merger approval and win a rate increase requested last year,
according to the statement from Cooper.  Higher Rates?  Cooper is concerned that a potential credit downgrade from
Standard & Poor’s could lead to higher utility rates and has
asked for information from top company officials and directors,
the statement said.  “We are evaluating the attorney general’s request and will
respond in due course,”  Tom Williams , a spokesman for
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke, said in an e-mail.  The North Carolina Utilities Commission said yesterday that
it also will open an investigation into the transaction,
according to a state filing. The commission ordered Rogers to
appear at a hearing on July 10 to explain the timing of the
decision to replace Johnson. Rogers will testify at the meeting,
Williams said in an e-mailed statement.  “We do not comment on our board’s deliberations,”
Williams, said in a separate e-mail. The company said on July 3
it wouldn’t comment further on Johnson’s resignation, which it
has said was done by “mutual agreement.”  Johnson, who signed a non-disparagement agreement with
Duke, didn’t respond to a voicemail message left at his North
Carolina home.  ‘Work Together’  “There was information that Duke didn’t share with us, and
it may have changed the outcome,” Alfred Tollison, another
former Progress director, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“Duke may have fulfilled the letter of the agreement, but they
didn’t fulfill the spirit,” he said, referring to Johnson
occupying the CEO position for one day.  The merger was announced in January 2011 and completed on
July 2 after receiving state and federal approvals. Progress’s
board unanimously recommended that shareholders vote in favor of
the deal, according to a July 2011 regulatory filing.  “I don’t really have any idea what would have happened,”
said Bostic, a former vice president of Georgia-Pacific LLC. “I
expected that Johnson and Rogers were going to work together and
they were going to make this a successful merger.”  Mullin’s letter was reported yesterday by the  New York 
Times and  Wall Street  Journal.  Duke  fell  3.4 percent to $66.23 at the close yesterday in
New York, the biggest decline since Aug. 10.  Johnson’s appointment as CEO of the new company was “a
critical element in the merger deliberations,” Mullin wrote in
the letter. “This is the most blatant example of corporate
deceit that I have witnessed during a long career on Wall
Street.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in New York at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  