-- Norway Oil Strike Parties Are in Deadlock, Mediator Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-07-07T18:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/norway-oil-unions-meet-with-employers-following-government-push.html
Striking Norwegian oil workers and
their employers are still far from reaching an agreement to
resolve a strike that threatens to halt all oil and gas from
western  Europe ’s  largest crude exporter , a mediator said.  The two sides are in “deadlock” and continue to be “far
apart,” Carl Petter Martinsen, a mediator at the National
Mediator’s Office, told reporters in Oslo today. “We’ve only
just started so it’s too early to say things have changed.”  Norwegian Labour Minister Hanne Bjurstrom had yesterday
requested that unions and industry representatives meet again
today at 5 p.m. local time. Martinsen said he expects talks to
continue tonight and into tomorrow.  The minister’s intervention came after the industry
association, which counts  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  among its
members, threatened to halt all output from midnight on July 9.
The move is intended to force the government to end the dispute
as it did in 1997, 2000 and 2004, Teodor Sveen Nilsen, an
analyst at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in Oslo, has said.  “We can offer assistance to the partners in this deadlock
situation,” Martinsen said. Bjurstrom said yesterday she hadn’t
raised the issue of the government forcing arbitration when she
met with labor and industry representatives.  The strike is disrupting as much as 250,000 barrels of oil
output a day, according to  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s largest energy
company.  The dispute over pensions, which began on June 24, is the
first industrywide strike by energy workers since 2004 and the
longest lasting, according to SAFE, one of three unions
involved. The action has led to the loss of more than 2.58
million barrels of oil, costing the government and companies
2.25 billion kroner ($367 million), according to Jan Hodneland,
chief negotiator of the Norwegian Oil Industry Association.  “We are working on the same questions as we did when
mediation began in the end of June,” Martinsen said. “On these
questions they are still far apart from each other, primarily on
pensions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  