-- Hong Kong, Vietnam Signal Slowing Growth on Global Risks
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-07-09T11:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/hong-kong-may-revise-growth-forecast-on-global-recovery-concerns.html
Hong Kong  and  Vietnam  signaled growth
may fall short of government forecasts this year as Asian policy
makers stepped up efforts to protect their economies and
currency markets from the worsening global outlook.  Hong Kong may revise its 2012 economic forecast next month,
Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said on July 7. In Vietnam,
Deputy Prime Minister Vu Van Ninh said the country may miss its
growth target and the central bank told lenders to cut borrowing
costs on existing loans to help businesses. The  Philippines 
unveiled plans to contain currency gains that may hurt exports.  Interest-rate cuts by central banks in China and  Europe 
last week underscore the risks to the world economy as the euro
area’s fiscal crisis deepens, U.S. employment gains falter and
 Asia ’s expansion slows. The  International Monetary Fund  will
reduce its estimate for global growth this year, Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said July 6 ahead of the publication
of the lender’s updated economic outlook next week.  “Given the ongoing deterioration in Eurozone and U.S.
growth indicators in recent months, there is little prospect for
a material improvement” in emerging market exports while
domestic demand also “looks set to remain soft in the near-
term,”  Nick Chamie , global head of foreign-exchange strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, said in a July 6 note. “We see
further evidence that growth weakness will extend well into”
the third quarter.  The bank cut its aggregate growth forecast for emerging
markets this year to a “very weak” 4.7 percent from 5.5
percent, Chamie wrote.  Indonesia Growth  Indonesia’s economy may expand 6.3 percent “or less” in
the second quarter as export demand falls amid Europe’s debt
crisis, President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  told reporters today
in Jakarta after meeting with Czech Republic President Vaclav Klaus. That compares with the central bank’s forecast of 6.3
percent to 6.7 percent in the period.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 1 percent on July 6,
trimming its weekly advance to 0.9 percent as Chinese and
European interest-rate cuts failed to bolster investor
confidence and U.S. payrolls rose less than forecast.  The IMF estimated global growth of 3.5 percent for 2012 in
its April World Economic Outlook Update. New forecasts and a
report will be released on July 16.  “Over the past few months, the outlook has regrettably
become more worrisome,” Lagarde said in  Tokyo . “Many
indicators of economic activity -- investment, employment,
manufacturing -- have deteriorated. And not just in Europe or
the  United States .”  China Rates  China’s central bank on July 5 announced the second cut in
benchmark interest rates in a month ahead of a government report
this week that may show economic growth slid to the lowest in
three years. The  European Central Bank  the same day reduced its
main rate to a record low of 0.75 percent and took its deposit
rate to zero, with President  Mario Draghi  saying “downside
risks to the euro-area economic outlook have materialized.”  A reduction in growth estimates by the IMF would have an
impact on Hong Kong “because we are a small and externally-
oriented economy,” Tsang told reporters on July 7, according to
a government transcript. “We rely a great deal on our
traditional markets in Europe and America. Meanwhile, countries
in Asia have also been slowing down.”  The government estimated in February economic expansion
would drop to 1 percent to 3 percent this year from 5 percent in
2011 and 7 percent the previous year. Tsang said he would make
an assessment next month whether the forecast needs to be
adjusted.  Viet Nam  China’s growth may have slid to 7.7 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, according to the median  estimate  in
a Bloomberg News survey. The statistics bureau is due to release
the data on July 13.  In Vietnam, Vu Van Ninh told bankers on July 7 the economy
faces many problems due to a slowdown in domestic and global
markets and that it will be “extremely difficult” to meet this
year’s 6 percent growth target.  The nation’s central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh said the
same day that commercial banks should lower borrowing costs for
existing loans to companies and help businesses struggling in
the slowing economy. The  State Bank  of Vietnam cut  interest
rates  on June 29 for the fifth time this year to spur growth.
The reduction only applied to new loans.  Philippines  In the Philippines, the central bank said it will prohibit
foreign funds from investing in its special deposit accounts to
stem gains in the peso, the best performer this year among
Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Capital has poured into the country this year as economic
growth outpaced other Southeast Asian economies and on
anticipation the nation’s credit rating will be raised to
investment grade status. The benchmark  Philippine stock exchange 
index surged to a record last week.  Capital flows are complicating monetary policy, Diwa Guinigundo, deputy governor of Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, told
reporters on July 7. The central bank may consider other tools
to manage flows as a sustained and large-scale easing in the U.S.
and Europe will drive funds to search for higher yields in
 emerging markets , Guinigundo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  