-- Thousands Protest Alleged Fraud in Mexico Presidential Election
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-07-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/lopez-obrador-urges-electoral-officials-to-probe-pri-spending.html
 Tens of thousands of Mexicans
marched in the capital yesterday to protest alleged fraud and
vote-buying in the country’s July 1 presidential election.  Beating drums and waving flags, the protesters chanted
“Out Pena,” in reference to Enrique Pena Nieto, whose victory
restored the once-dominant  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or
PRI, to power after a 12-year hiatus.  Runner-up  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , while denying he was
behind the marches, which he said was a citizens’ movement,
repeated a call he’s made almost daily since the July 1 vote for
a full probe of alleged vote-buying by the PRI. A recount of
more than half of 50.3 million ballots cast was completed July
6, giving Pena Nieto 38.2 percent compared with 31.6 percent for
Lopez Obrador.  “The results were manipulated and showed lots of vote
buying,” Citlalli Avila Espinoza, a 46-year-old graphic artist
who was among the protesters marching peacefully along the busy
Paseo de la Reforma, said in an interview. “We want in a
peaceful manner to repudiate these results.”  Allegations that the PRI handed out bank cards, groceries
and other gifts in exchange for votes are reviving Mexicans’
concerns that Pena Nieto will be tolerant of corruption that
marked the PRI’s previous 71-year-rule until 2000.  Many of yesterday’s protesters were members of the anti-PRI
movement formed by students on the Internet in the run-up to the
election.  Lopez Obrador , 58, hasn’t repeated his call from six years
ago for supporters to take to the streets, saying that he’s
evaluating the election day by day and will pursue his
complaints through legal means. The former Mexico City mayor
said he’ll next address the media tomorrow at 8 a.m. local time.  After losing the 2006 race to President  Felipe Calderon  by
less than a percentage point, Lopez Obrador’s supporters
occupied Mexico City’s central plaza and main business avenue
for weeks with encampments.  Chavez Congratulations  In what may be a bellwether for Lopez Obrador’s ability to
protest the election, Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , who six
years ago backed him and didn’t recognize Calderon’s victory for
months, yesterday congratulated the 45-year-old Pena Nieto.  Chavez “reiterated  Venezuela ’s will to work with Mexico in
deepening bilateral cooperation in the union of our peoples,”
Venezuela’s information ministry said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  The ruling  National Action Party , or  PAN , whose candidate
finished third, has also accused the PRI of fraud and vote
buying. Still, unlike Lopez Obrador, who has refused to concede
defeat, the PAN recognized the PRI’s victory as irreversible.  Pena Nieto’s campaign said in an e-mailed statement that
the candidate acknowledges “the right of other parties and
candidates to resort to legal actions to resolve any doubts that
arise, but the transparency of the electoral process and the
support of Mexican society” for the campaign are
“indisputable.”  Gift-giving is widespread in Mexican elections, is only
considered illegal if made in exchange for promises of a vote
and can’t be used to justify throwing out results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Mexico  City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  