-- Pena Nieto to Expand Drug War, Debate Drug Legalization
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-07-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/pena-nieto-to-expand-drug-war-debate-drug-legalization.html
Mexico’s president-elect will broaden
the nation’s campaign against drug trafficking-related violence
and would discuss the legalization of drugs, he said in an
interview on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.”  “Our new strategy is to adjust what’s been done up until
now,” said Enrique Pena Nieto, who won election July 1,
according to an e-mailed transcript of the interview, to be
broadcast today. “Personally, I’m not in favor of legalizing
drugs. However, let’s open up a new debate, a review, in which
the U.S. plays a fundamental role in conducting this review.”  More than 47,000 people have died in drug-related violence
in Mexico since President  Felipe Calderon  began an offensive
against cartels in December 2006. Pena Nieto named General Oscar Naranjo, the former head of Colombia’s national police, as his
security adviser last month.  The 45-year-old Pena Nieto must balance public demands for
a less-bloody conflict with suspicions that his  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , or PRI, was more tolerant of drug cartels
during a 71-year rule that ended in 2000. Pena Nieto, who
pledged during the campaign to scale back the military’s role in
fighting organized crime in favor of the police, said July 2
that there would be no truce with the cartels.  U.S. Immigration Laws  Pena Nieto also said U.S. immigration laws are
“discriminatory.” He said  Mexico  needs greater economic
development to make emigration from the nation a choice rather
than a necessity.  The U.S. Supreme Court last month struck down much of
Arizona’s law designed to combat illegal immigration, ruling
that states must defer to the federal government on immigration
policy. Other states, including  Alabama ,  South Carolina ,
Georgia,  Utah  and  Indiana , have passed similar laws, which may
be undercut by the Arizona ruling.  “It seems to me that these are discriminatory laws that
don’t recognize the contribution and the value of millions of
immigrants, particularly from my country, who make enormous
contributions to the United States’ economic development,” Pena
Nieto said.  In addition to energy and labor changes, Pena Nieto said he
will work to overhaul the nation’s tax system,  “Another one of the great structural reforms that I have
committed to and which I propose to carry out is a treasury
reform, which would allow fairer taxation, simplified  tax code ,
and to broaden the tax base, which would strengthen the
country’s public finances.”  Mexico’s economy will expand 3.7 percent this year and 3.5
percent in 2013, according to the median estimate in a survey of
economists released July 5 by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in Washington at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net  