-- Post-Qaddafi Libya Held First National Ballot in Decades
-- B y   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r
-- 2012-07-08T02:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/post-qaddafi-libya-held-first-national-ballot-in-decades.html
Libyans voted yesterday in their
first free national election in more than 40 years amid
political infighting and threats of a boycott that may hamper
efforts to rebuild after the uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi .  About 2.8 million people were eligible to vote for a 200-
seat General National Conference that will pick a Cabinet to
replace the ruling Transitional National Council, which has
struggled to restore order and revive the economy since the end
of Qaddafi’s 42-year rule. The council last week stripped the
future assembly of its powers to name a committee to write a
constitution, saying that Libyans will choose the 60-member
panel in another election.  The pre-election period was marked by the eastern region’s
push for a measure of autonomy and the NTC’s failure to wrest
power from regional militias that spearheaded the NATO-backed
uprising. Fighting among the armed groups this year has
undermined security and discouraged local businesses. Protests
delayed elections in some towns and shut-in oil exports.  “All the businesses and industries are waiting for the
elections to finish,” Fawzy Shebany, the general manager of
real estate investment, catering and shipping firm Al-Madina
Holdings Co., said in a July 1 interview in Tripoli. “No
contracts are being awarded at all. This is affecting every
sector.”  Voter turnout was 60 percent, Al Jazeera television
reported today, citing Nouri Al-Abbar, the head of the country’s
election commission.  Obama Statement  The election shows  Libya ’s future is in the hands of the
people after being “in the grip of a dictator” for more than
40 years, President  Barack Obama  said in a e-mailed statement
yesterday from the White House.  The Libyan people have reached “another milestone on their
extraordinary transition to democracy,” he said.  Libya’s oil exports have been cut by about 300,000 barrels
a day as protesters block oil terminals in the country’s eastern
province, the head of the state-run National Oil Corp. Nuri Berruien said yesterday. Protesters have been occupying the
ports of Ras Lanuf, Al-Sidra and Al-Harouj in the oil-rich
eastern province of Cyrenaica since July 5 to bring attention to
their claims of marginalization.  A helicopter carrying Libyan election materials was shot at
by gunmen in the eastern city of Benghazi, Al-Abbar said. The
incident at the airport killed one person and wounded two, the
official said July 6.  Islamist Groups  Among the 142 parties and 3,700 candidates vying for seats
were Islamist groups seeking to emulate the success of their
counterparts in Tunisia and  Egypt . Election results will be
released over the coming days.  “I am so excited about the elections, finally we get to
choose,” said Nader Al Aswed, former militia fighter from a
Tripoli suburb. “It’s been beautiful to see the campaign
posters everywhere. Before only Qaddafi’s face was allowed.”  Protests delayed elections in the eastern town of Brega and
also in Azizia, Alexander Graf Lambsdorff, the head of the
European Union elections monitoring team in Libya, said at a
polling station in Tripoli yesterday. Libyan security forces
killed a person and injured two others during clashes at a
polling station in the coastal city of Ajdabiya, Deputy Interior
Minister Omar al-Khadrawi said yesterday.  While the new assembly will no longer be able to appoint
the body to write a new constitution, it will decide how to
organize the election to choose it, NTC spokesman Salah Al
Torhouni told reporters on July 5.  Oil Production  Libya, the holder of the biggest oil reserves in  Africa ,
boosted crude production to 1.43 million barrels per day last
month. It’s targeting an average 1.5 million barrels a day this
month and capacity is “technically” back at pre-war levels of
1.6 million barrels a day, Berruien said. Companies operating
there include  Total SA (FP) ,  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  and  Eni SpA. (ENI)   The country’s political situation hasn’t matched the pace
of the petroleum industry’s revival, with the south joining the
oil-rich east in pushing for semi-autonomy. In the east, where
the uprising against Qaddafi started, residents voted to take
control of their administrative affairs, sparking fears of a
complete secession.  Three Libyan ports in the country’s eastern province of
Cyrenaica have been unable to export oil because of protests,
Arabian Gulf Oil Co. spokesman Abdul Jalil said. Militants have
forced the closing of three oil refineries in the country’s
east, the  Associated Press  reported July 6, citing rebel
commander Fadlallah Haroun.  Harbors Closed  “The people of Cyrenaica closed the harbors in an attempt
to put pressure on the local authorities,” Bubaker Bayera,
spokesman for the self-declared Cyrenaica region, said. “We are
not calling for civil war or separation, but we need the
authorities to pay attention to us.”  Armed groups have engaged in clashes in the North African
country. The transitional authorities sent gunmen belonging to
the Zintan and Misrata militias, the two most powerful, to the
southern city of Sebha in April to serve as peacekeepers after
members of the African Tibu tribe clashed with local Arab
forces.  The Tibu later threatened to declare autonomy and have said
they may boycott the vote after roughly 15 percent of their
voters were disqualified. That followed an election commission
ruling stating that they didn’t hold Libyan citizenship or valid
identification cards, the Libya Herald reported, citing a June
26 decision by election officials.  Militia Influence  “The electoral process will undoubtedly be affected by
violence, but we believe that the major militias seek to retain
influence in the country’s new institutions rather than to
overturn them,” Crispin Hawes, director of the Mideast and
North Africa program at the Eurasia Group, wrote in an e-mailed
note from  London .  Among the most powerful parties running are the Islamist
groups, including the Muslim Brotherhood-linked Justice and
Construction Party, mimicking events in other countries where
the so-called Arab Spring protests toppled leaders.  In  Tunisia , the Islamists gained control of the parliament.
In Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood and Salafi Nour Party dominated
the legislature before it was disbanded and the Brotherhood’s
Mohamed Mursi went on to win the presidency.  Hawes said that he expects some of the Islamist parties to
do well in the race.  “It’s important for the economy that these elections go
ahead and we move on to the next phase” after the revolution,
said Husni Bey, the chief executive of the Husni Bey Group, a
Tripoli-based importer. “While the private sector and the oil
sector are doing well, many other areas of industry and commerce
need a kick-start. It’s almost psychological.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brigitte Scheffer in Dubai at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  