-- Rajoy Calls on EU to Deliver Debt Purchases as Spain Yields Rise
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-07-07T13:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/rajoy-calls-on-eu-to-deliver-debt-purchases-as-spain-yields-rise.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said euro-zone countries must urgently implement decisions
including government bond purchases agreed to in June as the
country can’t finance its deficit under current conditions.  The premier said he will announce additional measures this
month to control the country’s budget shortfall. Spanish
regional leaders must cut more spending as tax revenue slumps
amid the country’s second recession since 2009, he said today in
a speech in Navacerrada near  Madrid .  “It’s time to go from words to deeds,” Rajoy said.
“ Europe  must comply as quickly as possible with the agreements
its leaders reached in Brussels. The European project is at
stake.”  Rajoy is facing renewed pressure from bond investors after
the  European Central Bank  took no action to lower yields at its
July 5 meeting. Bond yields tumbled on July 2 after European
leaders agreed to allow euro-area bailout funds to buy the debt
of governments such as  Spain  and Italy.  The additional yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-
year bonds rather than benchmark German bunds rose to 563 basis
points yesterday from 486 basis points on July 2.   Spain’s 10-year yield rose 62 basis points in the week that
ended yesterday, July 6, the most since the five days through
June 15, to 6.95 percent. It reached 7.04 percent yesterday,
the highest since June 20.  Euro-region finance ministers will aim to enact the June 29
agreement at a meeting on July 9, European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy  said last week.  ECB Rate  The ECB lowered its benchmark rate to a record low 0.75
percent on July 5, disappointing investors who had predicted it
might restart its government-bond buying program to ease stress
on Spain and Italy. The central bank will only buy government
debt if it considers it necessary to keep inflation on
track, Benoit Coeure, an executive board member, said yesterday.  “If the governments decide to do it they should go
ahead,” Coeure told a meeting of the Circle of Economists.
“That doesn’t mean the ECB can’t buy Italian and Spanish debt
on the market, but they’ll do it if it needs to for reasons of
monetary policy and not otherwise.”  At last month’s summit, euro-area leaders agreed to use
rescue funds “in a flexible and efficient manner in order to
stabilize markets for member states” that respect rules
including budget-deficit limits.  The EU’s two rescue funds may only amount to about 20
percent of the outstanding debt of  Italy  and Spain, limiting the
ability to lower the nations’ borrowing costs.  Stability Measures  The rescue mechanisms, the European Financial Stability
Facility and the yet-to-start European Stability Mechanism, may
have 500 billion euros available for purchases. Italy and
Spain have about 2.4 trillion euros combined of outstanding
bonds, bills and loans, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rajoy said Spain needs to deliver on its own budget-deficit
target in order to maintain its influence on European decision-
making. He will publish a plan to eliminate duplication in local
government in Spain, which has national, regional and town hall
administrations. The government is also devising a program to
improve Spain’s public education system that is due to be
released after the summer break, he said.  “We need to control the  budget deficit ,” he said. “It’s
essential to eliminate it because we can’t finance it at the
moment. Anyone can understand that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  