-- Treasuries Rise as Slowing Job Gains Fuel Bets on Fed
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-07-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/treasuries-rise-as-slowing-job-gains-fuel-bets-on-fed.html
Yields on Treasury 10-year notes fell
the most in a month as lower-than-forecast U.S. employment
growth raised speculation the  Federal Reserve  will embark on a
third round of asset purchases to sustain the economic expansion.  The yield approached the record low set June 1 as the rally
in the benchmark security continued for a second consecutive
week. Traders speculated that the $66 billion of U.S. notes and
bonds slated to be sold next week will retain their haven appeal
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the
currency bloc still faces risks even with policy makers cutting
interest rates to a record low on July 5.  “The Fed needs to do more,” said  Adrian Miller , a fixed-
income strategist at GMP Securities LLC in  New York . “There is
going to be a bid for Treasuries, for growth issues or European
issues.”  The benchmark 10-year note yield decreased 10 basis points,
or 0.10 percentage point, to 1.55 percent yesterday in New York,
from 1.65 percent a week earlier, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The 1.75 percent security due in May 2022 rose
28/32, or $8.75 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 26/32.  The record low 10-year yield of 1.44 percent was set June 1
after payrolls climbed less than the most-pessimistic forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey. Yields tumbled 29 basis points that
week on the jobs report and concern Greece would exit the
European Monetary Union.  QE3 ‘Likelihood’  U.S. payrolls rose 80,000 last month after a 77,000
increase in May, Labor Department figures showed yesterday in
 Washington . Economists projected a 100,000 gain, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The jobless rate
held at 8.2 percent.  “The unemployment number shows listlessness in the  U.S.
economy ,” said  Tony Crescenzi , a strategist at Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s
biggest manager of bond funds, in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“It’s clearly growing too slowly to keep the  unemployment rate 
from rising and with continued figures like this, one would
expect the Federal Reserve to continue to be what it’s been,
which is activist.”  Implied yields on Eurodollar futures contracts, which are
based off expectations for the  three-month dollar London
interbank offered rate, or Libor , and changes in central bank
monetary policy, fell between one and three basis points for
contracts that expire through the end of 2015. The implied yield
on the December 2014 contract dropped to 0.745 percent.  September Meeting  Eurodollar trade in price terms while the implied yield is
derived by subtracting the contract price from 100.  The Fed lowered its benchmark interest rate to zero in
December 2008 and has said economic conditions will probably
warrant holding the rate low through at least late 2014.  “There’s an increasing likelihood of QE3 sometime between
now and the September Fed meeting,” said  William O’Donnell ,
head U.S. government bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , one of
21 primary dealers that trade with the central bank. “The
debate will be do they act in August or do they wait until the
September meeting.”  Speculation of more Fed action began earlier in the week
after the  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S. non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 52.1 in June from the prior month’s 53.7.
Readings of above 50 signal expansion.  Global Responses  The Fed said June 20 that it would enlarge its program of
replacing shorter-term securities from its Treasury holdings
with longer-term securities to $667 billion from $400 billion.
The central bank has purchased in two rounds of quantitative
easing $2.3 trillion of  government  and mortgage securities to
help lower private sector and government borrowing costs.  The Treasury will auction $32 billion of three-year notes
on July 10, $21 billion of 10-year securities on July 11 and $13
billion of 30-year bonds the next day.  The ECB and People’s Bank of China both cut  interest rates 
July 5 and the  Bank of England  increased its asset-purchase
program. Draghi said July 5 that “economic growth in the euro
area continues to remain weak with heightened uncertainty
weighing on both confidence and sentiment.”  “The problems in Europe are probably going to remain a
drag on the U.S.,” said Adam Brown, director of Treasury
trading at Barclays Plc in New York, another primary dealers.
“If you think QE is going to happen, generally you’re going to
be bullish on rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  