-- Saudi Arabian Shares Gain as Companies Release Earnings Results
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-07-07T14:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/saudi-shares-fall-as-u-s-job-data-heightens-economic-concerns.html
Shares in Saudi Arabia, the Arab
world’s biggest stock market, gained as companies started to
release quarterly results.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co., a unit of Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. rose to the highest level since May 2. Almarai
Co., the kingdom’s largest food producer by market value, gained
the most since June 16 after announcing an 8.7 percent increase
in second-quarter net income. Jarir Marketing Co. gained the
most in a week after reporting an 8.4 percent gain in quarterly
earnings.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  advanced 0.4 percent to
6,859.59 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh. The index had
declined as much as 0.7 percent during trading today.  “The market is waiting for the results of the leading
companies,” Turki Fadaak, the head of research at Albilad
Investment Co. in Riyadh, said today. “The market will be on a
flat path until more corporate results are released.”  The Saudi market fell in early trading today after U.S.
stocks declined for the week after American employers hired
fewer workers than forecast in June, showing the labor market is
making scant progress toward reducing joblessness. The
 unemployment rate  held at 8.2 percent.  With concerns about slowing economic growth, the  European
Central Bank  reduced its benchmark rate to a record low, while
ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the cut may only have a limited
effect on the euro-area economy. China also lowered rates in a
bid to expand investments and consumption.  “There is a very uncertain global backdrop,” said  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at Jeddah-based  National Commercial
Bank . “We will get a steady trickle of bad news, which will
depress markets. It is very hard to see a clear trend
emerging.”  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer gained 6.9 percent, the most since
March 5, 2011, to 185 riyals. Almarai gained 1.2 percent to
65.25 riyals. Jarir, Saudi Arabia’s largest stationery and
electronic products retailer, rose 0.7 percent to 150.5 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  