-- Serena Williams Pounds Way to Wimbledon Title With Serve Record
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-07T23:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/serena-williams-pounds-way-to-wimbledon-title-with-serve-record.html
Serena Williams  fired a record 102
aces on her way to the Wimbledon singles title, yet none were
more important than the four she hit in 49 seconds in
yesterday’s final.  After losing her serve twice to give away the second set,
and down 1-2 in the third, the American slammed four serves past
 Poland ’s Agnieszka Radwanska in less than a minute in the fourth
game on Centre Court. She then eased to the 6-1, 5-7, 6-2
victory, giving her a fifth Wimbledon singles title and 14th
Grand Slam singles championship.  “My serve really helped me throughout this tournament,”
said Williams, who struck 17 aces in the final to reach 102,
four more than  Germany ’s Philipp Kohlschreiber, the top server
in the men’s draw. “I can’t describe why it was so good or how
it was so good. It’s not like I practice it that much. I just
had the rhythm, kind of felt it.”  Williams’ serve is “the best shot in tennis,” 18-time
Grand Slam singles champion  Chris Evert  said in an interview at
the ESPN studio at Wimbledon yesterday, where she works as a
broadcaster.  The American right-hander also out-performed today’s men’s
finalists. Britain’s  Andy Murray , who is trying to become the
first British man since 1936 to win the Wimbledon singles title,
has struck 74 aces.  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland , who will
regain the top ranking in tennis if he wins his seventh
championship, made the final with 59.  Broken Records  Although Williams struggled occasionally with her ground
strokes in the earlier rounds, her serving hardly ever let her
down.  She won 91 percent of her service games in the past two
weeks and produced three times more aces compared to the second-
best women’s server, Germany’s Sabine Lisicki. Williams broke
her own Wimbledon women’s ace record twice: 23 in the third
round, and 24 against reigning Australian Open champion  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus in the semifinals. Azarenka will regain the
top ranking in women’s tennis tomorrow, while Williams moves up
two spots to No. 4.  “It’s probably terrifying to be on the other side of the
net,” said Evert, who won three Wimbledon singles titles
between 1974 and 1981. “I’m glad I’m not in this era. The serve
has always been there, but now she is consistently picking her
spots better and that’s why she has more aces.”  Radwanska, who hit 16 aces in the entire tournament and won
79 percent of her service games, agreed.  “It’s her weapon,” she said in a news conference.
“That’s why she won the tournament five times already.”  `Latest and Greatest'  Williams responded to increased pressure from her opponent
yesterday by relying on her serve. She said she’s trying to make
four aces in a game a regular thing.  “I do that all the time now,” Williams said. “I did it
in  Madrid . I did it earlier in this tournament. That’s my latest
and greatest thing to do, is hitting four aces in a game. It’s
awesome.”  The most powerful shot in women’s tennis was initially
modeled on the one that helped  Pete Sampras  win seven Wimbledon
titles.  “I used to want to serve just like Pete, but I think my
motion changed,” Williams said. “It doesn’t look anything like
his. It just kind of became my own. It became Serena
Williams’s.”  And so did the Wimbledon trophy for a fifth time, tying her
with sister Venus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  