-- Serena Williams Beats Sharapova to Win Olympic Gold Medal
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-04T17:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/serena-williams-beats-radwanska-for-fifth-wimbledon-championship.html
Serena Williams dropped one game as
she cruised past  Maria Sharapova  to add an Olympic gold medal to
her collection of 14 Grand Slam tennis titles.  Williams, the fourth seed, won 6-0, 6-1 on Centre Court at
Wimbledon in  London  today. Having captured all four of the major
titles at least once, she’s completed what the  International
Tennis Federation  calls the “Career Golden Grand Slam.”  It’s the first Olympic singles title for the 30-year-old,
who won doubles gold with her sister, Venus, in 2000 and 2008.
The sisters have won all four majors as a team, making Serena
the only player to claim the golden slam in singles and doubles.
She also set an Olympic women’s record for losing only one game
in the final.  “Deep down, I wanted it in singles as well,” Williams
said about winning the gold medal. “This is right up there.”  More American success followed a few hours later, when
twins Mike and  Bob Bryan  won the gold medal in men’s doubles,
beating  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Michael Llodra 6-4, 7-6
(7-2). Olympic gold had been the only prize to elude the
brothers, who took bronze in Beijing.  Murray Wins  One month after losing in the finals of Wimbledon,
Britain’s Andy Murray will have a shot at becoming a double
Olympic champion tomorrow. Murray will play for the singles
title against men’s Grand slam record holder  Roger Federer  of
 Switzerland , while he also advanced to tomorrow’s mixed doubles
final with his partner, 18-year-old Laura Robson.  The British pair today beat the German team of Christopher
Kas and Sabine Lisick, 6-1, 6-7 (7-9), 10-7.  Today’s win for  Serena Williams  comes a month after she
beat  Poland ’s Agnieszka Radwanska for her fifth Wimbledon title.
That victory capped a comeback from surgery and blood clots that
Williams described as nearly fatal.  Williams hasn’t lost since being upset in the opening round
of the French Open in May -- her earliest exit at a major. After
winning Wimbledon, she clinched her 43rd career title in
Stanford,  California , before going to the Olympics.  Total Control  Williams dictated play from the start today. She won the
first set in 30 minutes as Sharapova claimed 12 points and
struggled with her high ball toss in a gusty wind.  She kept the Russian on the back foot in the second set,
taking a 3-0 lead. The crowd roared as Sharapova won her only
game after 46 minutes as she held serve for the first time.  Sharapova, 25, got her first break point in the next game,
only for Williams to answer with a well-placed serve in the
corner and a forehand volley. Williams then saved a second break
point with a backhand winner.  Leading 5-1, Williams set up match point with an ace. She
let out a long scream after clinching the gold with her 10th ace,
then jumped and danced around Centre Court as her sister cheered
from the family box.  Sharapova said she was pleased to take home a medal even if
she was disappointed about its color.  “It means a lot,” Sharapova said in a news conference.
“To win a medal as a first-time Olympian is an amazing
accomplishment.”  The wind pulled the U.S. flag free of the pole and swept it
away as it was raised at the medal ceremony.  “I saw all these gusts of wind and then I saw the flag
flying, it was probably flying to come hug me,” Williams said.
“It didn’t quite make it.”  It was the shortest women’s final since France’s Suzanne
Lenglen defeated Britain’s Dorothy Holman 6-3 6-0 at the 1920
games in Antwerp.  Tennis, one of the original nine Olympic sports in  Athens 
in 1896, was withdrawn after the 1924 Paris Games. It returned
in  Seoul  in 1988, when German  Steffi Graf  became the only player
to complete the Golden Slam by winning all four majors and the
Olympic title in the same year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  