-- U.S. Urges Serbs to End Help to ‘Illegal’ Forces in Kosovo
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-07T10:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/u-s-urges-serbs-to-end-help-to-illegal-forces-in-kosovo-1-.html
Serbia  should end support for
“illegal” security forces in northern Kosovo, where the Serb
minority is concentrated, as the two states hold European Union-
mediated talks on trade, borders and mutual recognition, U.S.
Assistant Secretary of State Philip Gordon said.  The partition of Kosovo “is not an option,” Gordon said
of the northern Kosovo territory bordering Serbia, where
supervision by the U.S.-led International Steering Group ends in
September. Troops from the European Union Rule of Law Mission,
or EULEX, and NATO’s Kosovo Force, or KFOR, will remain in
northern Kosovo after September.  “Serbia will have to come to terms with the reality of a
democratic, sovereign, independent and multi-ethnic Kosovo
within its current borders,” Gordon, the top U.S. State
Department official for European and Eurasian Affairs, said
today in a speech in Dubrovnik, Croatia. “We can and will help
with this process.”  Gordon travels to the capitals of Serbia and Kosovo
tomorrow where he is scheduled to meet with newly elected
Serbian President  Tomislav Nikolic  and Premier-designate Ivica Dacic.  Dacic heads the Socialists, the third-biggest party in the
Serbian parliament. The group was once led by late President
 Slobodan Milosevic , who died in prison while on trial at the
international court in The Hague, Netherlands, for  war crimes .
Dacic was asked by Nikolic to put together a cabinet following
an unsuccessful attempt by former President  Boris Tadic  to stay
in power as premier after losing presidential elections in May.  Tadic also arrived in Dubrovnik today at a Croatian summit
attended by southeastern European heads of governments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  