-- Vietnam Regulator Tells Lenders to Cut Rates on Loans Further
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-07T06:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/vietnam-regulator-tells-lenders-to-cut-rates-on-loans-further.html
Vietnam ’s commercial banks should
reduce interest rates on outstanding loans and help businesses
struggling in a slowing economy, the central bank said.  Lenders must cut rates on existing loans to companies to
below 15 percent, Governor Nguyen Van Binh told a banking
conference in Hanoi today. Credit growth slowed to 0.76 percent
from end-2011, the central bank said.  Vietnam’s  economy  expanded 4.66 percent in the three months
to June from a year earlier, and Deputy Prime Minister Vu Van
Ninh said today it may miss its 6 percent target this year amid
a deepening debt crisis in  Europe  and a growth slowdown in
 China . Businesses have struggled to access credit, even as the
monetary authority cut  interest rates  and directed lenders to
prioritize lending to strategic sectors such as small
enterprises.  “We should aim to help companies that still have the
potential to develop,” Binh said today. Commercial banks “need
to be determined and quick in reducing lending rates to help
companies.”  Lenders may not be able to cut rates on loans immediately,
as the central bank reduced borrowing costs faster than
expected, Le Hung Dung, chairman of Vietnam Export Import Bank,
said at the conference today, in response to the governor’s
instruction.  Credit Growth  The government pledged last month to pursue “flexible and
cautious” monetary policies with “reasonable” levels of
credit growth to help businesses hurt by lending rates. At the
same time, the country needs to speed up restructuring of weak
commercial lenders and banks’ bad debt, the government has said.  Bad debts accounted for 4.47 percent of total lending as of
end-May from the end of 2011, the central bank said today. Banks
are facing difficulty lending as the economic slowdown affects
companies and crimps loan demand, the bank said.  Vietnam’s economy is projected to stabilize further in
2012, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a note yesterday.
Still, “in addition to a slowdown in export markets, there is a
risk that pressures on prices and the  exchange rate  could
resurface, if the authorities’ commitment to stabilizing the
economy and safeguarding the financial sector is perceived as
waning,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  