-- Yale to Ensure Students in Singapore Have Freedom of Expression
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-07-07T00:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-07/yale-to-ensure-students-in-singapore-have-freedom-of-expression.html
Yale University  will ensure its
liberal arts campus in Singapore won’t impose censorship amid
criticism the city-state’s laws will stifle academic freedom.  Students at the new Yale-NUS College will be able to
express themselves freely on campus and skepticism of the
venture should fade as people see the “successful education
experiment,” Pericles Lewis, president of the Singapore campus,
told reporters yesterday.  The college is the first overseas undergraduate campus by
the  New Haven , Connecticut-based Yale University and is funded
by the  National University  of Singapore, the city’s government
and private donors. The venture has been criticized by Yale
professors who say they were not consulted in the planning and
that they have concerns about civil rights in Singapore, where
the government has said restrictions on public assembly and
speeches are necessary to maintain social and religious harmony.  “We expect students to express all kinds of opinions on
campus,” Lewis said. “The issue is about going off campus and
there, students will have to abide by the laws of Singapore.”
Most students enrolled so far are Singaporeans and should be
used to the city-state’s rules, he said.  On April 6, Yale professors passed a resolution urging the
new campus to respect and support human rights and political
freedom. The Singapore campus was inaugurated by Prime Minister
Lee Hsien Loong in the presence of  Richard Levin , Yale’s
president, who last year said he was confident his faculty in
Singapore could teach and publish without restrictions.  “There will always be critics,” said Lewis, a professor
of English and Comparative Literature at Yale. “But as people
see the successful education experiment, there are going to be
more people praising us than criticizing us.”  Degrees from the new college will be awarded through NUS,
as the Singapore university is known. Yale, a member of the  Ivy
League  of eight private U.S. universities, would have authority
to hire faculty and set curriculum and admission policies, the
university said in the prospectus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  