-- 
Manchester United, Arsenal Continue Premier League Streaks

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-12-10T18:14:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/manchester-united-arsenal-continue-premier-league-streaks.html
Manchester United  and Arsenal
continued their unbeaten runs in English soccer’s Premier League
while Wigan moved out of last place.  Nani and  Wayne Rooney  scored two goals each as Manchester
United defeated Wolverhampton 4-2 to extend its undefeated
streak to six league matches. Arsenal made it eight straight
unbeaten as  Robin van Persie  scored in a 1-0 win over Everton.  Wigan won 2-1 at West Brom, Aston Villa beat Bolton 2-1,
Norwich defeated Newcastle 4-2, Liverpool beat Queens Park
Rangers 1-0 and Swansea was a 2-0 winner over Fulham.  Nani and Rooney scored once in each half as United
rebounded from a loss at Basel three days ago that knocked it
out of the  Champions League . United pulled within two points of
first-place Manchester City and moved five points ahead of
third-place Tottenham.  Nani put United in front after just 17 minutes at Old
Trafford and Rooney scored 10 minutes later to end an eight-game
goalless drought in the league. After Steven Fletcher’s goal for
Wolves two minutes after halftime, Nani and Rooney scored 10
minutes apart once again to secure the victory.  Van Persie scored his league-leading 15th goal at the
Emirates Stadium as Arsenal moved up to fourth place on the day
the club celebrated its 125th anniversary.  Van Persie volleyed in a chip from  Alex Song  in the 70th
minute, giving him 12 goals during Arsenal’s unbeaten run. The
Gunners are undefeated in their last 16 home matches with
Everton.  Bolton on Bottom  Jordi Gomez scored with a penalty kick in the 57th minute as
Wigan rallied to move out of last place and also out of the
three relegation places at the bottom of the standings. West
Brom’s Steven Reed opened the scoring minute before Victor Moses
tied it for Wigan.  Bolton now sits last after a 2-1 home loss to  Aston Villa ,
which got goals from Marc Albrighton and Stylian Petrov. Ivan Klasnic scored for Bolton, which has just nine points from 15
matches.  Grant Holt had two goals in Norwich’s home win over 10-man
Newcastle. Wes Hoolahan and Steve Morison also scored for the
Canaries.  Demba Ba had both goals for Newcastle, which had Dan
Gosling sent off for a two-footed challenge in the 66th minute.
Newcastle lost for just the third time this season, but is
winless in its last four matches.  Luis Suarez’s goal lifted Liverpool past QPR, while Scott
Sinclair and Danny Graham scored and Michel Vorm stopped Clint Dempsey’s penalty kick as Swansea beat Fulham to end a four-
match winless run.  Sunderland hosts Blackburn and Tottenham visits Stoke
tomorrow, while league-leading  Manchester City  is at Chelsea in
two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 