-- 
Asia Stocks Decline as Europe Crisis Drags on Growth, Confidence

-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 
2011-12-10T01:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/asia-stocks-decline-as-europe-crisis-drags-on-growth-confidence.html
Asian stocks fell this week as
 Standard & Poor’s  said it may strip Germany and France of their
AAA credit ratings and a European summit ended without a
“unanimous agreement” on fighting the debt crisis.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest lender by market value,
fell 2.5 percent in  Hong Kong .  China  Overseas Land & Investment
Ltd., the biggest mainland developer listed in the city, plunged
6.5 percent amid speculation that China will maintain curbs on
lending even as growth slows.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,
Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer, slid 5.3
percent as crude prices sank.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., owner of
the crippled Fukushima nuclear plant, plunged after a report it
may be taken over by the Japanese government.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  dropped 2.2 percent this week
to 115.07. The gauge gained the most in four years the previous
week as the  Federal Reserve  and five other central banks fought
Europe’s crisis by making it cheaper for banks to borrow in
dollars.  “European issues will not be easy,” said Koji Toda, chief
fund manager at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo, which oversees the
equivalent of $68 billion. “The global economy is slowing. If
you see that fact, you can’t be so optimistic. Companies
depending on China business will likely have an impact from the
slowdown.”  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 2.4 percent this week,
while China’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.9 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 2.1 percent.  Nikkei Drops  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 1.2 percent as reports
from  Japan  last week showed orders for machinery fell
unexpectedly and the economy grew last quarter less than
initially estimated.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200  dropped 2 percent as energy and
mining stocks slid amid falling oil and metal prices. The
nation’s central bank lowered its benchmark  interest rate  on
Dec. 6 for a second straight month as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis
threatens to slow the nation’s commodity exports.  A summit of European leaders in Brussels failed to forge a
unanimous accord. French President Nicolas Sarkozy yesterday
said British Prime Minister David Cameron made “unacceptable”
demands regarding treaty amendments. Talks were “extremely
difficult” and the U.K. made a treaty of all 27 European Union
members impossible, he said.  Germany and France risk losing their AAA credit ratings in
a review of 15 euro nations, Standard & Poor’s said Dec. 5, as
the region struggles to contain the crisis.  Chinese Developers  HSBC dropped 2.5 percent to HK$60.05 in Hong Kong and
 Nippon Sheet Glass Co. , which counts Europe as its biggest
market, fell 2 percent in Tokyo to 146 yen.  Chinese developers listed in Hong Kong after the Shanghai
Securities News reported China will extend property controls
next year. The report cited Zhao Luxing, real estate department
head at the Ministry of Housing and Rural Development’s policy
research center.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688)  slumped 6.5 percent
to HK$13.74 in Hong Kong. Guangzhou R&F Properties Company Ltd.
plunged 10 percent to HK$6.3.  Renhe Commercial Holdings Co. (1387) , a Chinese developer of
underground shopping centers, slipped 16 percent to 94 Hong Kong
cents after a report that a customer defaulted on 2 billion yuan
($314 million) in debt.  Oil and commodity producers fell across Asia. Woodside
Petroleum fell 5.3 percent to A$31.89 in Sydney. CNOOC Ltd.,
China’s biggest offshore oil producer, dropped 3 percent to
HK$14.78 in Hong Kong, while Jiangxi Copper Co., the No. 1
Chinese producer of the metal, retreated 7.5 percent to
HK$17.96.  Fukushima Fallout  Tokyo Electric Power, the Japanese utility at the center of
the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl, fell 13 percent to 247
yen. The Mainichi newspaper reported on Dec. 8 that the utility
may effectively be nationalized. Tokyo Electric said in a
statement today that no decision has been made on
nationalization or a capital injection.  E Ink Holdings Inc. (8069) , the Taiwanese maker of screens for
Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle reader, dropped 20 percent to NT$43.2
in Taipei. A new Kindle model has Wi-Fi functionality problems,
website Electronista said on Dec. 6.  MAp Group (MAP) , which controls Sydney Airport, fell the most
this week on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index after the airport said
it will merge its international and domestic terminals by 2019.
The stock fell 21 percent to A$2.78.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  