-- 
Aspirin Reduces Risk of Recurring Blood Clots With Less Bleedin in Study

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-12-10T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/aspirin-reduces-risk-of-recurring-blood-clots-with-less-bleedin-in-study.html
Aspirin may be a safe solution for
preventing recurrences of dangerous blood clots in the veins,
potentially providing a low-cost therapy after prescribed blood
thinners, a study found.  Patients who took aspirin daily for two years had a 40
percent reduced risk of clots breaking free and moving in the
circulatory system compared with those taking a placebo,
according to the  study  released today at the American Society of
Hematology meeting in  San Diego .  “The reduction in events was striking, and this I believe
will prompt additional studies,” said  Evan Sadler , a professor
of medicine at Washington University Medical School in  St.
Louis , and president of  ASH , in an interview. “Aspirin’s really
good at preventing second clots in people with heart attacks and
strokes, but it hasn’t been thought to be effective on the
venous side.”  An earlier  study  involving almost 40,000 women showed that
a daily, low dose of aspirin had little effect in preventing
venous thromboembolism, or clots deep in the veins, in healthy
women, said Sadler, who wasn’t involved in the studies.  Aspirin, the 112-year-old pain killer, has been shown to
cut the risk of strokes and heart attacks. The medicine also
lowered the danger of colorectal cancer in a U.K. study
published in October. Side effects including ulcers and stomach
bleeding.  In the new study, patients first took an anti-clotting pill
for as long as a year before switching to a 100-milligram dose
of aspirin, or placebo, for two years. While the anti-clotting
medicine can be effective, it’s costly and can lead to increased
bleeding, Sadler said.  “Aspirin is appealing because it’s so cheap, and we know
its safety profile,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  