-- 
Canadian Currency Reaches Five-Week High Amid Growing Appetite for Risk

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-12-10T05:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/canadian-currency-reaches-five-week-high-amid-growing-appetite-for-risk.html
The Canadian dollar reached its
strongest level in five weeks as signs of growth in the U.S.,
the nation’s biggest trade partner, and Europe’s latest plans to
tackle its debt crisis fueled appetite for riskier assets.  Canada ’s currency rose versus 11 of its 16 most-traded
peers as U.S. consumer confidence jumped to a six-month high and
stocks rallied. The Bank of Canada said growth in the domestic
and U.S. economy is stronger than forecast. Data showing the
American economy is building momentum may ease pressure on the
 Federal Reserve , which meets next week, to buy more bonds.  “The Canadian dollar did somewhat better against the U.S.
dollar than we anticipated,”  David Watt , a senior currency
strategist in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada, the nation’s
largest lender, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“Markets are seeing a rebound in U.S. consumer confidence and
some better economic data out of the U.S.”  Canada’s currency, also known as the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.3 percent to
C$1.0169 per  U.S. dollar  yesterday in Toronto, from C$1.0195 on
Dec. 2. The loonie touched C$1.0052 on Dec. 8, the strongest
level since Nov. 1. One Canadian dollar buys 98.34 U.S. cents.  The loonie gained 1.4 percent over the past month in the
best performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar rose
0.5 percent, while the euro dropped 0.8 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.9 percent in its
second straight weekly advance.  Bonds Gain  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing yields on the
benchmark  10-year note  down to 1.979 percent on Dec. 8, the
lowest level in Bloomberg records. The yields decreased five
basis points for the week, or 0.05 percentage point, as prices
on the 3.25 percent securities due in June 2021 added 43 cents
to C$110.17.  Canada will auction C$3 billion ($2.95 billion) of three-
year notes on Dec. 14, according to a statement on the  Bank of
Canada ’s website. The 1 percent securities mature in February
2015. The previous three-year auction, on Nov. 2, drew an
average yield of 1.219 percent and a ratio of 2.36 times the
bids for the amount on offer.  The government sold C$3.5 billion of two-year notes on Dec.
7, fetching an average yield of 0.937 percent.  EU Leaders  The loonie gained yesterday, reversing earlier losses,
after EU leaders holding all-night talks in Brussels added 200
billion euros ($267 billion) to their crisis-fighting warchest
and tightened anti-deficit rules. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  hailed the moves as a “very good
outcome.”  The currency also advanced as the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of U.S.
 consumer sentiment  rose to 67.7 this month from 64.1 at the end
of last month. The median estimate of 73 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was a reading of 65.8. The data overshadowed a
report showing Canada posted an unexpected trade deficit in
October as energy shipments helped push imports to a record.  A day earlier, the U.S. Labor Department said the number of
Americans filing applications for  unemployment benefits  last
week fell by 23,000 to 381,000, the fewest since February.  Household incomes in the U.S. are growing faster than
currently estimated as  tax revenue  from employee pay was up 4.8
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to a
client note this week from Joe LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  Intertwined With U.S.  “What we’re seeing is some stabilization in those economic
numbers,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist at Bank of
 Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital unit in Toronto, said yesterday in
a telephone interview. “Our economy is intertwined with the
U.S., and so what happens in the U.S. tends to follow in
Canada.”  The Canadian dollar erased a decline on Dec. 6 after the
Bank of Canada held its benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent,
damping speculation it would signal cuts. While  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis raised risks to the global economy,
there’s “considerable monetary stimulus” in Canada with interest
rates near historic lows and the financial system “functioning
well,” policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney  said in a
statement.  ‘Unique Position’  “Canada is in a unique position in that they are less
exposed to Europe and  China  and more heavily reliant on the
U.S.,”  Kathy Lien , director of currency research at the online
trading firm GFT Forex in New York, wrote Dec. 6 in a note to
clients. That the Bank of Canada “did not even hint about the
possibility of lower interest rates was enough to send the
Canadian dollar sharply higher.”  Policy makers on the  Federal Open Market Committee , meeting
Dec. 13, may concentrate more on how they communicate with the
public than whether they should purchase more assets to
stimulate the economy. The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of
Treasury and mortgage-related bonds between 2008 and June in two
rounds of quantitative easing.  “Recent economic data takes away some of the urgency for
the need to engage in a new round of quantitative easing,”
 Michael Feroli , a former Fed economist who is now chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York , said this week.
The FOMC “can say, ‘Let’s wait and see if this is going to
build on itself.’”  The central bank already pledged it won’t raise interest
rates from near zero until at least 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  