-- 
Chavez Says He Canceled Trip to Argentina, Brazil on Rains

-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-12-10T01:32:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/chavez-says-he-canceled-trip-to-argentina-brazil-on-rains-3-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  said
he canceled a trip to  Argentina  and  Brazil  to deal with the
heavy rains hitting the South American country.  “Fortunately, I’m fine, my recovery continues,” Chavez
said by telephone in comments carried on state television. “The
trip was suspended because of the reasons I gave. The
meteorological prognosis indicates that the situation continues
to be unstable. It may continue raining.”  Chavez was expected to attend Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s inauguration tomorrow and then travel to
 Sao Paulo . It was to be his first trip outside of  Venezuela 
since returning from Cuba Oct. 20 and declaring himself cured of
cancer.  Chavez canceled the trip to oversee the government’s
response to the flooding, a spokesman for former Brazilian
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  said earlier today.  “We were told Chavez isn’t coming anymore because of the
rains in Venezuela,” Jose Crispiniano, a spokesman for Lula,
said in a telephone interview. “It has nothing to do with his
illness.” Chavez was to meet have met with Lula.  A columnist for the Caracas-based newspaper El Universal
also reported today that Chavez would stay behind in Venezuela,
though a spokesman for the Information Ministry said he didn’t
have any information regarding the president’s travel plans.  Eight Dead  Venezuela canceled classes this week and the government
extended for 90 days a state of emergency in several parts of
the country, where hundreds have been evacuated due to heavy
rains. Last December, torrential rains killed more than 35
people and left 130,000 in government shelters.  “The first thing that comes to mind is that Chavez is
trying to take care of his health,” Elsa Cardozo, a professor
of international relations at the Universidad Central de
Venezuela, said in a telephone interview. “The current rains
don’t compare to the disaster from last year.”  Interior Minister Tarek El-Aissami said today that while it
hasn’t rained in 24 hours in Venezuela, there are eight
confirmed deaths.  Chavez last appeared in public on Dec. 6 when he held a
news conference with the international media and spoke for
almost three hours. He hosted a regional summit on Dec. 2 and
Dec. 3 in Caracas to create the Community of Latin American and
Caribbean States, an economic and political bloc similar to the
 Organization of American States  without the U.S. or  Canada .  Chavez, who was diagnosed with an undisclosed type of
cancer in June and had a baseball-size tumor removed in Cuba,
has expressed solidarity with Lula, who is receiving treatment
for throat cancer.  The 57-year-old former paratrooper has said that he expects
to hold a summit of Latin American leaders who have defeated
cancer along with Paraguay’s Fernando Lugo and current Brazilian
President  Dilma Rousseff .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  