-- 
China’s Weakest Export Growth Since 2009 Raises Odds of More Easing by Wen

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-10T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/china-s-weakest-export-growth-since-2009-raises-odds-of-more-easing-by-wen.html
China ’s  export  growth slowed to the
weakest pace since 2009, making the government more likely to
further ease policies to sustain the expansion of the world’s
second-largest economy.  Overseas shipments rose 13.8 percent in November from a
year earlier, the customs bureau said yesterday. Excluding
distortions in January and February each year, that was the
least since export growth resumed in December 2009. The  trade
surplus  narrowed to $14.5 billion from $17 billion the previous
month. Import growth slowed to 22.1 percent.  Europe’s debt crisis is capping exports just as Premier  Wen
Jiabao ’s campaign to curb prices cools output. China may further
lower reserve requirements for banks, reduce taxes for smaller
companies, and boost spending on infrastructure, public housing
and social welfare to spur growth after inflation fell to a 14-
month low, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  “The downside risk in  China’s economy  continues to rise,”
said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based economist with Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. A reserve-ratio cut before year-
end is “very likely” and the government may use tax rebates to
support exporters, said Liu, who previously worked at the  World
Bank  and Hong Kong Monetary Authority.  November’s export growth compared with the 10.9 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 32 economists and
a 15.9 percent increase in October. The value of shipments last
month was $174.5 billion.  Europe Slide  Exports to the European Union, China’s biggest market, rose
5 percent from a year earlier, a quarter of the pace reported in
July and August, customs data show. Sales to  Germany ,  Europe ’s
biggest economy, fell 1.6 percent last month from a year earlier
and shipments to  Italy  dropped 23 percent, the third straight
decline.  The increase in  imports , which climbed to a record $159.9
billion, compared with a median estimate of 18.8 percent and a
28.7 percent increase in October. The median forecast for the
trade surplus was $15.2 billion. The excess was $22.9 billion in
November last year.  Inflation cooled to 4.2 percent last month as industrial
output growth weakened, according to statistics bureau data
released Dec. 9. In a more positive sign for officials, retail
sales growth accelerated.  The Politburo said the same day that China will maintain a
“prudent” monetary policy and a “proactive” fiscal policy
next year, after a meeting chaired by President  Hu Jintao  ahead
of an economic work conference that the Economic Observer
newspaper said may take place Dec. 12-14.  Reserve-Ratio Cuts  “The government is leaving its boilerplate language on
policy unchanged,” London-based Capital Economics Ltd. said in
a note. “In practice, easing has begun.”  The People’s Bank of China lowered banks’  reserve
requirements  for the first time in almost three years effective
Dec. 5 to encourage lending. Cuts in the ratio may be as
frequent as one a month in the first half of next year as the
economy’s slowdown sends a “strong signal” for further
loosening, according to Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based
economist for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell on Dec. 9 to
its lowest level since March 2009 as commodity producers Jiangxi
Copper Co. and Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. slid. The
gauge has declined for five straight weeks.  Yuan Forwards Drop  Investors have pared expectations for gains in the yuan,
with twelve-month non-deliverable forwards dropping 0.5 percent
to 6.4130 per dollar in the week ending Dec. 9. The spot rate
for the currency fell 0.1 percent to close at 6.3647 per dollar
in  Shanghai .  China’s  trade surplus , a source of friction with nations
including the U.S., has dropped from a peak of almost $300
billion in 2008 and the commerce ministry said last month that
it may be as small as $150 billion this year.  The excess may disappear within two years as domestic
demand rises, making the yuan’s value less of an issue with
trading partners,  Li Daokui , an academic adviser to the central
bank said last month. The currency may even face depreciation
pressure, he said in an interview.  Trade faces “severe” challenges next year, Wang Shouwen,
head of the Commerce Ministry’s foreign trade department, said
on Dec. 7., adding that exports should grow provided Europe’s
crisis doesn’t get out of control.  Expansion in overseas shipments will slow to 10 percent
next year and trade will make a negative contribution to
economic growth, according to estimates from China International
Capital Corp.  China Cosco Holdings Co. (601919) , the nation’s largest operator of
dry-bulk and container vessels, warned on Oct. 27 it will report
a full-year loss as rates for carrying commodities and
containers have plunged. Chairman Wei Jiafu called 2011 the
“most painful” year ever for world shipping.  --Li Yanping, Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Ailing Tan in
 Singapore . Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net  or
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  