-- 
Egypt November Inflation Accelerates as Rate Increases Boost Food Prices

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-12-10T06:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/egypt-november-inflation-accelerates-as-rate-increases-boost-food-prices.html
Egypt ’s  inflation  accelerated on
rising food prices in November, the month that saw the central
bank’s first interest rate increase in three years.  The annual inflation rate in urban parts of Egypt, the
gauge that the central bank monitors, rose to 9.1 percent from
7.1 percent in October, according to data posted on the website
of the official statistics agency today. Food and beverage costs,
the biggest component in the  consumer price index , increased an
annual 11.6 percent in November, compared with 8.7 percent a
month earlier, the data showed.  “The favorable base effects that were at play in the last
few months are starting to fade away,” Mohamed Abu Basha, a
Cairo-based economist at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, Egypt’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank, said in a telephone interview.  The central bank cited inflationary pressures when it
raised its benchmark deposit rate by a percentage point to 9.25
percent on Nov. 24. Most economists said its real purpose was to
stem flight from the Egyptian pound as violence flared between
security forces and protesters calling on the generals who took
over from  Hosni Mubarak  to step down.  Since the bank’s move, Egypt has concluded a largely
peaceful first round of parliamentary elections, with Islamist
groups led by the Muslim Brotherhood winning the most votes, and
Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri took office with enhanced
powers granted by the army council, which says it won’t transfer
authority to elected politicians until a presidential vote is
held next year.  Dwindling Reserves  The economy is still struggling to recover from the unrest
before and after the fall of Mubarak in February, which has
deterred tourists and foreign investors. Gross domestic product
grew 1.8 percent in the fiscal year that ended June 30, its
weakest performance in at least 10 years.  The central bank has spent about 40 percent of its  foreign
currency reserves  this year. The pound has dropped 3.6 percent
this year.  More interest rate increases are likely in 2012, as “the
eyes of the central bank now are more on the currency rather
than inflation when it comes to policy rates,” said Abu Basha.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  