-- 
EU Says UN Global Warming Talks May Run Out of Time for Deal

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-10T16:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/eu-says-global-warming-talks-short-on-time-to-reach-agreement-in-durban.html
The European Union said envoys from
190 nations at global warming talks are running out of time to
reach an agreement after a United Nations-sponsored meeting ran
a day past its scheduled finish.  The UN released a new draft text today outlining
conclusions for the meeting this morning in Durban, South
Africa, after delegates met through the night about how to break
a deadlock blocking an agreement. That document was published at
least three hours after an agreed deadline and failed to include
amendments the EU requested, said Marcin Korolec, environment
minister of  Poland , which holds the rotating EU presidency.  “There’s a lack of leadership that is dangerous for these
difficult talks,” Korolec said in an interview in Durban.
“We’re ready to stay here as long as needed, even until
tomorrow, but ministers from other countries may not be.”  The delay raises the risk the talks collapse without an
agreement after two weeks of discussion. The meeting was due to
end yesterday, and ministers are beginning to pack their bags
for flights home.  “We are literally working against the clock,” U.K.
Secretary of State for Environment and Climate Change  Chris
Huhne  said in Durban. “We will go on as long as it takes, but
there is a risk that a number of other delegations will have to
peel away.”  Contradictions  Delegates gathering about 6:30 p.m. local time for the
first formal meeting of the day made contradictory statements
about the outcome.  Brazil ’s lead negotiator, Luiz Alberto
Figueiredo told reporters he was “confident” an agreement will
be reached today because “everything is there.”  “Everything is not there,” Malian envoy Seyni Nafo, who
speaks for the African group of nations, said in an interview.
“We can’t conclude on a treaty or framework where we know that
the emissions are pledges are so low, and the means of support
for  developing countries  are so low that it can’t deliver. One
single legally binding treaty will not solve the issue, will not
raise the ambition.”  Figueiredo said countries are converging on agreeing that a
new “protocol or another legal instrument” will be negotiated
by 2015, with implementation starting before 2020.  South African Text  Last night, delegates worked on a compromise text by South
African Foreign Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, who is chairing
the talks, that would bring China and  India  into a new treaty
cutting pollution. It would enable countries to extend the Kyoto
Protocol limiting  greenhouse gases  and establish a Green Climate
Fund that would help distribute as much as $100 billion a year
in climate aid.  This morning, the UN released a 56-page document with 19-
page annex detailing technical measures on forest protection,
finance and measuring pollution that would form part of the
agreement. Ministers from nations and negotiating blocks were
huddling to consider whether to accept it. It must be approved
at a formal meeting that’s still not scheduled.  “We have reached a point where there is no more space for
the middle ground,” Bangladeshi envoy Quamrul Chowdhury said in
an interview today in Durban. “These talks will end in either a
complete failure or a success.”  Legal Instrument  Under the South African proposal, nations would agree by
2015 to adopt “a protocol or another legal instrument
applicable to all parties,” replacing an earlier call for a
“legal framework” that the EU and island nations said was too
weak. The document dropped a reference to a post-2020 deadline
for a new treaty to enter into force.  The roadmap is a precondition by the 27-nation EU to extend
its mandatory greenhouse gas targets under the  Kyoto Protocol 
after current ones expire next year.  “The text looks promising but we need to take the
decisions here and now and as early as possible,” said Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the European Commission,
the EU executive arm. “We’re running out of time.”  A decision on the timeline could open up a wider package
detailed in this morning’s 56-page document, including climate
aid and the transfer of clean technologies to developing
nations. If the draft text is adopted, it would be first time
developing nations said they’d agree to mandatory emission
targets, putting them on par with industrial nations.  ‘Sweet Spot’  “They found a sweet spot on the legal form, that works for
 China , works for India, works for the U.S., works for the E.U.,
works for the vulnerable countries,” Tim Gore, climate change
policy adviser to the development charity Oxfam, said in an
interview. “This is the keystone for the deal.”  Draft text for an agreement to set further targets under
the protocol was also published during the night. According to
the proposal a second commitment period would expire in 2017,
three years before the EU’s internal target. Countries would
submit their second set of Kyoto commitments before May 1, 2012.  “Countries have much more convergence,” said Brazil’s
lead negotiator, Luiz Alberto Figueiredo in an interview after a
gathering that finished about 2:30 a.m. “It was a positive
mood, a positive shift, and I’m very hopeful.” He said talks
may end early this afternoon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Durban,  South Africa  at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in Durban, South Africa at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  