-- 
Euro Weakens After ECB, EU Leaders Fail to Boost Confidence in Debt Plan

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-12-10T05:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/euro-weakens-after-ecb-eu-leaders-fail-to-boost-confidence.html
The euro fell against the majority
of its most-traded counterparts after a European Union agreement
for tighter fiscal controls failed to convince investors the
region’s two-year financial crisis is closer to a resolution.  The 17-nation currency weakened for the fifth week in the
past six against the dollar on speculation leaders would
struggle to institute tougher anti-deficit rules and as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  damped speculation the
central bank to step up its bond-buying. The pound was one of
the best performers this week as U.K. Prime Minister  David
Cameron  said he would not sacrifice sovereignty to save the
euro. The Dollar Index fell for a second week amid better-than-
forecast economic data before the  Federal Reserve  meets Dec. 13.  “The ECB and Draghi were not inclined to really
participate more aggressively in sovereign bond markets,”  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency research in New York at
Nomura Holdings Inc., said yesterday. “The key thing for the
market is whether this is something that’s going to trigger more
aggressive balance sheet use by the ECB. If we don’t have the
ECB stepping in, it’s hard for the market to stabilize.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.3386 from $1.3391 on Dec.
2, after touching a one-week low of $1.3282 yesterday. The
shared currency declined 0.5 percent to 103.89 yen and the
Japanese currency gained 0.4 percent to 77.65 per dollar.  Bank Funding  The  cost  for European banks to fund in dollars reached 1.22
percentage points below the euro interbank offered rate, the
most in a week, after Cameron said there was “fundamental
disagreement” in European Union talks in Brussels that ended
yesterday and rejected signing a “fiscal pact.” Finland also
threatened to withdraw from the permanent bailout fund if
changes to decision making are introduced.  “There is nothing in interbank-funding market that shows
marked improvement in lending environment,”  Mark McCormick , a
New York-based currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co said yesterday. “We still think that with any euro rally on
any event news you want to sell on those moves as it’s not
sustainable and this isn’t a game changer.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY)  dropped four
times in five days as signs the world’s biggest economy will
avoid a recession reduced investor appetite for safer
investments. The gauge, which Intercontinental Inc. uses to
measure the greenback against six currencies fell 0.1 percent to
78.593.  Consumer Mood  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment rose to 67.7 this month from 64.1 at
the end of last month. The Labor Department reported initial
jobless claims fell to the lowest in nine months.  Sterling rose 0.5 percent to $1.5671 and gained 0.1 percent
to 85.43 pence per euro as Britain will stay outside of the
European Union budget agreement.  Bank of England  policy makers kept the benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low 0.5 percent on Dec. 8 and their asset-
buying target at 275 billion pounds ($431 billion). The central
bank extended its bond-purchase program in October to help
bolster the flagging economy.  Norway’s krone was the best performer against the dollar
during the week, advancing 0.8 percent to 5.7461.  The U.S. currency has rallied 0.5 percent in a past month
against nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro fell
0.8 percent and the Japanese currency was 0.8 percent stronger.  ECB Moves  The ECB cut its benchmark interest rate by a quarter-
percentage point to 1 percent on Dec. 8, matching a record low,
as forecast by 55 of 58 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Draghi said during a press conference in  Frankfurt  that he
was “kind of surprised by the implicit meaning” that was given
to his comments last week when he said the ECB could follow
faster fiscal union with “other elements.”  “So the market misinterpreted the fiscal compact argument
that Draghi used at the European Parliament,”  Jeremy Stretch ,
executive director of foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London  said Dec. 8. The focus is
back on  Europe ’s two bailouts funds, the European Financial
Stability Facility and the European Stability Mechanism,
“although as we know they have limited, inadequate firepower.”  Euro-area governments have to repay more than 1.1 trillion
euros ($1.5 trillion) of long- and short-term debt in 2012, with
about 519 billion euros of Italian, French and German debt
maturing in the first half alone, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The ECB has bought a total of 207 billion euros of
sovereign bonds during the region’s crisis in an effort to stem
surges in bond yields.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the euro will
decline against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 95,814 on Dec. 6,
compared with net shorts of 104,302 a week earlier.  The euro will weaken to $1.30 by the end of the March 2012,
according to median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 42
economists and analysts. The shared currency will reach $1.32 by
the end of next year, the survey shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  