-- 
Ex-U.S. Amateur Athletic Union Leader Accused of Child Sex Abuse in 1980s

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-12-10T18:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/ex-u-s-amateur-athletic-union-leader-accused-of-child-sex-abuse-in-1980s.html
The Amateur Athletic Union opened an
investigation into sexual-abuse allegations against former
president Robert “Bobby” Dodd, the sports governing body said
in a statement on its website.  ESPN reported yesterday that two former basketball players
claimed Dodd, 63, molested them in the 1980s.  “The AAU has recently been made aware of some serious
allegations about President Robert W. ‘Bobby’ Dodd, dating back
several decades,” the amateur sports organization’s  statement 
says. “The AAU has opened an independent investigation into
these matters and has also contacted local  law enforcement  in
 Memphis , where the activities allegedly occurred. We will
actively cooperate with any and all authorities to determine the
facts and truth.”  The two players allege the abuse occurred when they were
between 12 and 16 years old, ESPN said. Dodd didn’t respond to
visits to his home, telephone calls or e-mail seeking comment on
the allegations, the network said. Attempts by Bloomberg News to
seek comment from Dodd were unsuccessful.  One of the players, 43-year-old Ralph West of Miami, told
ESPN that Dodd assaulted him in Memphis in 1984. West said he
sent the AAU an e-mail last month about Dodd’s alleged behavior,
the network said.  Confronted Dodd  The other player, whom ESPN didn’t identify, told the
network he called Dodd last month to confront him about his
“sick” behavior and said that Dodd apologized. ESPN said it
verified the call by examining telephone records.  Both accusers said they never went to the police with the
allegations and only recently told their families, ESPN said.  The AAU statement said Dodd, the organization’s top
executive since 1992, recently underwent surgery for  colon
cancer  and “will not be returning to his positions as president
and executive director of the AAU.”  AAU first vice president Louis Stout is the interim
president.  The allegations of sexual abuse are the latest involving
U.S. sports figures in the past two months.  Former  Penn State  University assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky, 67, was charged with sexually assaulting young boys
over a 15-year period. He has denied any criminal conduct.  Penn State fired head coach  Joe Paterno , 84, and President
Graham B. Spanier, 63, last month for their handling of the
allegations.  Syracuse University  fired assistant men’s basketball coach
Bernie Fine, 65, on Nov. 28 amid a police investigation into
allegations of child sexual assaults. He has denied any
wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 