-- 
Texas Republicans Win High Court Review of Judge-Drawn Election Districts

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-12-10T05:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/texas-republicans-get-emergency-supreme-court-hearing-on-election-maps.html
The U.S. Supreme Court will hear an
emergency challenge by  Texas  Republicans to maps that would
govern next year’s state and federal elections, accepting a case
that tests the power of judges to redraw voting-district lines.  Temporarily blocking a lower court order that put the
maps in place, the court said last night it will hear the case
on an expedited basis, with arguments on Jan. 9.  A panel of federal judges in  San Antonio  created the
interim maps last month, voting 2-1 to put them in place for
2012 because of legal uncertainty over the districts created by
the state legislature after the decennial census. Texas has yet
to secure approval for those election districts from either the
 Justice Department  or a federal court, as required by the U.S.
Voting Rights Act.  Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  contends the panel
overstepped its bounds and should have put in place interim maps
that hewed more closely to the legislature’s plan.  “Even once a decade is too frequent for states to
sacrifice their sovereignty in this way or for courts to be put
in the untenable position of drawing political lines from
scratch,” Abbott argued in court papers.  “The Supreme Court’s decision today is an important step”
toward “protecting the integrity of Texas’s elections,” Abbott
said in a statement after the high court agreed to hear the
case. The state “will work to resolve this matter as quickly as
possible.”  Gaining Four Seats  Texas gained four congressional seats after the 2010 census
showed the state added almost 4.3 million new residents.
Hispanics accounted for about 65 percent of that increase,
according to the census.  The case might affect Democratic prospects to retake
control of the  House of Representatives . Republicans now control
the chamber 242-192, with one vacancy.  Minority groups are challenging the Republican-drawn maps
as violating the Voting Rights Act and the U.S. Constitution.
The challengers say the state dawdled on redistricting, failing
to enact a plan until July and then seeking the required
“preclearance” from a three-judge panel in Washington rather
than taking a faster route by filing with the Justice
Department.  “After dragging its feet on the congressional
redistricting and preclearance process, the state’s last-minute
request for judicial extrication from its own failed strategies
must be rejected,” the challengers had argued.  Welcoming the Opportunity  After the court agreed to hear the case, Trey Martinez Fischer, chairman of the Texas Legislature’s Mexican American
Legislative Caucus, said in a statement the minority groups
welcomed the opportunity to argue against Texas’s position.  “Our resolve remains stronger than ever and our commitment
to minority voting rights unwavering,” Fischer said. “We look
forward to making our case before the United States  Supreme
Court .”  Jurisdictions with a history of voting rights violations
must obtain preclearance before changing their district lines or
election procedures. That requirement covers all or parts of 16
states.  Latino voting rights activists and the Justice Department
say Texas lawmakers created racially gerrymandered districts to
prevent the election of Hispanics, who more often vote for
Democrats. Texas says that while its proposed maps may favor the
state’s Republican majority, they don’t discriminate against
Hispanics.  The Supreme Court under Chief Justice  John Roberts 
questioned the constitutionality of the preclearance requirement
in a 2009 ruling that narrowed the provision’s scope.  The cases are Perry v. Perez, 11A520 (state house map);
Perry v. Perez, 11A521 (state senate map); Perry v. Perez
(Congressional map), 11A536.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 