-- 
Fernandez Begins Second Presidential Term Facing Argentina’s 25% Inflation

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-10T17:26:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/fernandez-begins-second-term-facing-argentina-s-25-inflation.html
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  starts her second term with the challenge
of extending nine years of economic growth while tackling one of
the world’s highest  inflation  rates.  Fernandez took the oath of office at the Congressional
building in Buenos Aires today after winning re-election in
October with 54 percent of the vote, the most since Juan Domingo
Peron’s return from exile in 1973. Former Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  was sworn-in as vice president.  The 58-year-old Fernandez, wearing the blue and white
presidential sash, vowed to focus on improving the
competitiveness of  South America ’s second-biggest economy and to
boost regional trade ties as the world faces a slowdown led by a
debt crisis in Europe. She said she would shift the foreign
trade secretariat from the foreign ministry to the economy
ministry to ensure policy coordination.  “We know that regional integration is one of the best
defenses in a difficult world,” Fernandez said as the
presidents of  Brazil , Uruguay,  Bolivia  and  Chile  looked on. “We
need to protect what we have achieved in recent years.”  Since Fernandez took office in December 2007, annual
economic growth has averaged 5.6 percent and unemployment fell
to 7.2 percent. Aided by surging soybean exports and growth in
neighboring Brazil, Fernandez used record government revenue to
boost spending on public works, raise pensions and provide
subsidies to poor families who kept their children in school.
That helped fuel a consumer boom and annual inflation economists
estimate is 25 percent.  Resolving Inflation  “The main problem that should be resolved is inflation,”
said Nestor Walenten, head of the country’s real estate chamber.
“Once we manage to control inflation, the country will be able
to keep on the growth path and workers will have more purchasing
power.”  Fernandez praised the use of central bank reserves to pay
down debt and said her government would set economic targets
based on employment, not inflation. She urged Congress to pass a
law restricting the purchase of farm land by foreigners and
compared the debt crisis in  Europe  to the experience of
Argentina in 2001, when the country defaulted on $95 billion of
bonds and unemployment soared to more than 20 percent.  Argentina’s debt before the default “was a weight that
prevented us from growing, a weight that generated misery and
tragedy,” she said. “Today other countries face the same
problem and we see what is happening.”  Chavez Absence  Absent from today’s ceremony was  Hugo Chavez  of Venezuela,
who has undergone treatment for cancer this year. Chavez
canceled his plans to attend the ceremony yesterday, saying he
needed to deal with heavy rains in his country. The U.S. sent
Labor Secretary Hilda Solis.  A weakening peso and living costs rising at the fastest
pace among major economies after  Venezuela  led Argentines to
pull $18 billion out of the economy in the first nine months of
2011, double the pace of a year earlier, according to the
central bank.  Fernandez has sought to stem the losses since her election
by ordering some companies to repatriate foreign investment and
export revenue and tightening controls over the foreign exchange
market. She has also prodded companies to increase their
investments in the country and to manufacture more of their
goods locally.  Bond Rally  In a move that helped rally the country’s bonds, Fernandez
on Dec. 6 named Finance Secretary Hernan Lorenzino to take
charge at the Economy Ministry, replacing Boudou. Lorenzino, 39,
helped manage last year’s debt restructuring and accompanied
Fernandez to a summit of G-20 leaders in  France  last month.  Lorenzino’s experience may help pave the way for
 Argentina ’s return to global credit markets for the first time
since defaulting on $95 billion of bonds in 2001, said Sebastian Vargas, an analyst at Barclays Plc in  New York .  Without access to global markets, the government has turned
to the national pensions agency for financing, and tapped
central bank  reserves , which fell to $46.2 billion on Dec. 6
from $56.2 billion in January, to help pay its foreign debt.  Next year, the global economic crisis and a slowdown in
Brazil, Argentina’s main trade partner, will cut growth to 4.3
percent from 7.5 percent this year, according to the median
estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Slowing Growth  Some sectors are already showing signs of stalling.
Contracting vehicle demand in Brazil, the main destination for
Argentine car shipments, led auto exports to slip 18 percent in
November from a year ago. Industrial production in October rose
4.1 percent from a year earlier, the slowest pace in two years.  Fernandez’s efforts to reduce subsidies, limit salary
increases and restrict access to the foreign exchange market
risk alienating a broader range of voters, said Mariel Fornoni,
director of Buenos Aires-based pollster Management & Fit. Yet
given the size of her October election victory, Fernandez can
press ahead with difficult measures to fix the economy, Fornoni
said.  “She has the political capital to do that now,” Fornoni
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  