-- 
Gene Therapy Lets Hemophiliacs Skip Drug Treatments in Early Research

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-12-10T18:58:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/gene-therapy-lets-hemophiliacs-skip-drug-treatments-in-early-research.html
A single dose of a gene therapy let
four patients with severe hemophilia stop regular injections of
clotting factors previously needed to protect them from bleeding
to death, a study showed.  The four patients didn’t have spontaneous hemorrhages, even
after participating in activities that caused such episodes in
the past. Two others were able to extend the time between
injections, according to the study published in the  New England
Journal of Medicine  and presented today at the American Society
of Hematology conference in  San Diego .  The early results suggest the experimental gene therapy has
the potential to prevent the bleeding episodes of hemophilia
with a single, long-term treatment, researchers said in the
study. People with severe hemophilia usually must get injections
of a clotting-factor drug two to three times a week.  “I would imagine, if all the forces come together, that we
should have a treatment for patients with hemophilia that’s out
in the community in the next five years,”  Amit Nathwani , of the
 University College London ’s Cancer Institute and an author of
the paper, said today at the conference.  Inherited Disorder  Hemophilia, an inherited disorder that prevents blood from
clotting properly,  affects  20,000 men in the U.S., according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The condition
rarely occurs in women. The study participants had hemophilia B,
which is a deficiency of clotting factor IX and less common that
hemophilia A, deficiency of clotting factor VIII.  Patients in the study, whose bodies produced less than 1
percent of the normal amount of clotting factor IX, were getting
injections of the standard treatment. After receiving the gene
therapy, one patient’s level of blood clotting factor remained
stable for 16 months without twice-weekly preventative
injections of the concentrates.  No serious or long-lasting toxicity from the therapy was
observed in the patients, according to the study.  Use of  gene therapy  has been controversial, and not always
successful. In 1999, 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger died of a
massive immune response within hours of being treated for a
liver disease at the  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia.
That was followed in 2007 by the death of a woman who received a
modified gene in an arthritis trial.  “Hemophilia has long been one of the disorders thought
most likely to be correctable with gene therapy, but previous
approaches to deliver the gene have been disappointing,” Susan
Shurin, acting director of the U.S.  National Heart, Lung, and
Blood Institute , a sponsor of the research released today, said
in a statement. “If future studies support these findings, it
would bring a significant improvement in the quality of life for
those living with the disease.”  The hemophilia study also was sponsored by  St. Jude
Children’s Research Hospital  in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , and
conducted at University College London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  