-- 
IMF Resources to Counter European Crisis to Get Boost Without U.S. Backing

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-12-10T19:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/imf-gathers-funds-for-european-debt-crisis-as-u-s-stands-aside.html
In 2009, the U.S. led a global drive
to increase the International Monetary Fund’s firepower to help
pull the world out of recession, pitching in $100 billion. This
time, it’s a bystander in a similar effort to counter the
European debt crisis.  European leaders meeting in Brussels agreed to lend the IMF
as much as 200 billion euros ($268 billion), opening the way for
aid from nations such as Brazil and South Korea. While the U.S.
supports the effort, it won’t participate, an administration
official said in  Washington  yesterday.  Any solution to the crisis should be led by European
nations themselves, not the IMF, to assure financial markets,
said the official, who spoke to reporters on condition of
anonymity. What’s more, the administration of President Barack Obama would be unlikely to convince a Congress divided between
Democrats and Republicans to approve money for the fund.  “Obama had a lot more political capital coming in 2009 when
he was just elected,” said Julie Chon, a former adviser at the
Senate Banking Committee, which authorizes contributions to the
IMF. “The crisis that’s confronting the world today is a
European-born crisis, so it requires European leadership, while
in 2009 we were still fighting the remnants of a U.S. subprime
crisis.”  While bilateral loans can be helpful, the IMF can’t
substitute for a show of force from European nations, the
administration official said. U.S. officials have said in the
past that the IMF has adequate resources, thanks to the 2009
campaign.  ‘Wealthy Enough’  “ Europe  is wealthy enough that there’s no reason why they
can’t solve this problem,” Obama said Dec. 8 at a White House
press conference. “It’s not as if we’re talking about some
impoverished country that doesn’t have any resources.”  The pledge by Europeans would provide temporary bilateral
loans to the IMF to help it meet a potential increase in loan
demand or a request from Spain and Italy for precautionary
lending.  The agreement also raises the odds of help from the Group
of 20 nations, which held back last month because they said
Europe wasn’t doing enough to help itself. The G-20 comprises
the world’s leading industrial and developing economies
accounting for about 85 percent of global gross domestic
product.  “We can contribute if some conditions are met,” Sohn Byung Doo, director general of the G-20 bureau at  South Korea ’s
finance ministry, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  China ’s Reserves  China, whose foreign-exchange reserves of $3.2 trillion as
of September were the world’s biggest, reiterated its
willingness to help, while stopping short of any indication of
when it’s prepared to announce an IMF contribution.  “China has been part of the international effort to
counter the financial crisis and China will continue to be part
of the effort, because we are interrelated, interdependent,”
Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying said today. “We are in it
together. We are in one boat.”  “Europe needs a partner, they come to sell their bonds,
that’s a partnership,” Fu, whose portfolio is European affairs,
told reporters in Vienna today. “They have to work out the
terms, it should be a kind of relationship of cooperation.”  Stocks  climbed (SPX)  yesterday, sending the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index up for the week, Treasuries fell and the euro rose
after Europe set plans to boost its rescue fund and tightened
anti-deficit rules.  Stocks Climb  The  S&P 500  climbed 1.7 percent to close at 1,255.19 at 4
p.m. in  New York . The euro increased 0.3 percent to $1.3375.
Ten-year Treasury yields rose nine basis points to 2.07 percent.
The 10-year Italian bond yield fell 10 basis points to 6.36
percent, reversing a 23-point increase.  Obama and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , while
refraining from committing cash, have pushed European leaders to
resolve a crisis that threatens to derail the U.S. economic
recovery.  Geithner this week met with European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi , French President Nicolas Sarkozy, Italian Prime
Minister Mario Monti and German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  during a three-nation visit to Europe to discuss
possible solutions to the crisis. Geithner said he was
“encouraged” by efforts by euro zone leaders though their work
“will take time.”  Congressional Gridlock  With Congress gridlocked on deficit-cutting measures, “the
idea of voting to spend money helping advanced economies in
Europe would be very difficult,” said  Phillip Swagel , a
professor of international economic policy at the University of
Maryland in  College Park  and a former assistant Treasury
secretary. “We have so many problems at home, including
reducing the fiscal deficit,” he said.  Twenty-six Republican senators, including  Jim DeMint  of
South Carolina and  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma, introduced a bill
yesterday to stop the IMF from using U.S. taxpayer dollars to
bail out euro-region countries. The bill also seeks to rescind
the  credit line  the U.S. gave in 2009.  The IMF “has substantial resources, and American taxpayers
are not going to have to make any more commitments to the IMF,”
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters yesterday.  Losing Clout  The U.S. may find itself losing clout at the IMF, while
emerging markets gain influence with their contributions, said
Chon, now senior fellow at the Washington-based Atlantic
Council, which promotes U.S.-European relations. She led the
banking committee’s negotiations to obtain congressional
funding for the IMF in 2009.  “The emerging-market countries know that they will gain
reputational benefits by participating in these bilateral
loans,” Chon said. “If the U.S. isn’t putting money in the
pot, it is also not at the table making influential decisions.”  Brazil  and other fast-growing developing nations are
seeking a greater voice at the Washington-based fund, which was
set up at the end of World War II to help ensure stability of
the global monetary system.  Emerging markets, which are growing twice as fast as their
developed counterparts, say that their voting power doesn’t
reflect their weight in the global economy. They also want to
end the tradition of selecting a European to head the
institution. The managing director is  Christine Lagarde , a
former French finance minister.  Biggest Shareholder  The U.S. still is the biggest shareholder in the IMF, with
a 17 percent vote that allows it to block major decisions.
Because bilateral loans will likely go to IMF general resources,
the U.S. will maintain a say on which countries get help.  In April 2009, G-20 leaders agreed to triple the fund’s
resources to about $750 billion after a surge in requests for
loans from crisis-stricken countries such as Hungary and
Iceland.  The U.S. supported the increase. Dominique Strauss-Kahn,
then the managing director, had been calling for a doubling of
resources when he heard from the U.K. and U.S. leaders, as well
as from Geithner.  “There was a discussion with Gordon Brown and  Barack Obama 
and  Tim Geithner ,” Strauss-Kahn recalled in an interview this
year, referring to the U.K. prime minister at the time. “They
were almost reproaching me, saying, ‘Now, you have announced a
doubling; if you want to have an impact, you need more than a
doubling.’ I said, ‘Fine, let’s do it.’”  Emergency Lending Pool  The U.S. and Japan each ended up lending about $100 billion
and the EU $178 billion. For the first time in the fund’s
history, large emerging markets also pitched in, with China
pledging as much as $50 billion and Brazil, India and Russia as
much as $10 billion each.  These contributions, which are temporary, were subsequently
folded into an emergency lending pool. That pool supplements the
fund’s permanent resources, also called quotas, which alone
would not have sufficed to meet all the bailouts the IMF
finances.  The IMF has co-financed bailouts to Greece, Ireland and
Portugal and currently has about $390 billion available for
lending, which Lagarde has said may not be enough.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  