-- 
Jefferson County Bankruptcy Should Be Dismissed, BNY Mellon, Creditors Say

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-12-10T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/jefferson-county-bankruptcy-should-be-dismissed-bny-mellon-creditors-say.html
Alabama ’s Jefferson County doesn’t
meet a legal requirement to remain in bankruptcy and its case
should be dismissed, its creditors said in court filings.  Bank of New York Mellon (BK)  Corp., as the indenture trustee for
holders of the county’s sewer warrants, asked U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham, Alabama, to throw the
biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy out of court, where the county
is protected from creditors.  BNY Mellon  argues that Jefferson County wasn’t authorized
to file for bankruptcy because, under Alabama law, only
counties, cities and towns that have issued funding or refunding
bonds are eligible for Chapter 9 municipal restructuring. The
county has only warrants, which are distinguished from bonds
under Alabama law, the bank said in yesterday’s filing.  “In light of the county’s lack of funding or refunding
bonds and the resulting failure of specific authorization to
file its Chapter 9 petition, the county’sChapter 9 petition must
be dismissed,” BNY Mellon lawyers said in the filing.  Jefferson County creditors including  JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  Bank
NA, which owns more than $1 billion of the sewer warrants, Bank
of America NA and Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. filed court
papers supporting BNY Mellon’s request for dismissal.  Legal Test  Bennett scheduled a two-day hearing starting Dec. 15 to
decide whether the county meets the legal tests laid out in
Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code .  Jefferson County filed bankruptcy last month after county
and state officials and bondholders failed to implement a
tentative agreement that would have cut debt by about
$1 billion. The county’s bankruptcy was caused by more than
$3 billion in debt related a sewer system that doesn’t collect
enough money from residents to pay its obligations.  Since the bankruptcy filing on Nov. 9, the county has
battled bondholders and the receiver for control of the system
and its finances. Bennett hasn’t ruled on what limits, if any,
the bankruptcy imposes on the receiver, John S. Young Jr.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in New York at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  