-- 
N.Z.’s National Party Gets 47% Share of Votes in Final Count

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-12-10T03:37:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/n-z-s-national-party-gets-47-share-of-votes-in-final-count-1-.html
New Zealand’s National party will
form a government with a 47 percent share of the public vote
after a final count that gave it 59 seats in the next
parliament.  National captured the biggest vote after counting of the
so-called special votes, which are ballots cast by people out of
their home constituencies on Nov. 26, the  Electoral Commission 
said in a  statement  today. That would be National’s best
performance since 1990. The party’s share in a preliminary count
was 48 percent.  Prime Minister John Key reached agreements with single-seat
parties ACT and United Future last week to ensure he has control
of the 121-seat parliament. The two allies will back his
policies on asset sales and welfare reform as well as voting in
favor of the budget. Key is also in talks to win support from
the Maori party that has three seats.  The main opposition Labour party will have 34 seats after
counting of special votes, unchanged from the result announced
on election night, the commission said. The Green party’s share
of the vote rose to 11.06 percent, giving it 14 seats, up from
13 on election night.  Under the nation’s mixed-member proportional voting system,
New Zealanders cast two ballots, one for a party and the other
for a candidate in their constituency. There are 63 general
constituencies and seven special constituencies reserved for
native Maori voters.  Non-binding Referendum  Parties need to garner 5 percent of the vote or win a
constituency to get into parliament.  In a non-binding referendum alongside the ballot, voters
were asked to retain or change the voting system. About 57.77
percent said they want to keep the so-called MMP system, the
commission said today.  In the Christchurch Central constituency, National
candidate Nicky Wagner was declared winner with a majority of
45. In the Auckland electorate of Waitakere, Labour was awarded
the seat after National held a 349-vote lead on election night.  Both seats are likely to face a judicial recount before
final confirmation, the  New Zealand  Herald newspaper reported
this week. The award of the constituent seats doesn’t affect
either party’s majority in parliament, which is determined only
by the party vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  