-- 
NRC Commissioners Have ‘Grave Concerns’ Chairman Jaczko Is Damaging Agency

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-12-11T01:07:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/nrc-commissioners-have-grave-concerns-chairman-jaczko-is-damaging-agency.html
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  is causing “serious damage” to the
agency and is “creating a chilled work environment,” his four
commission colleagues said.  Jaczko has bullied career staff and attempted to intimidate
an independent panel of technical advisers, the other NRC
commissioners said in an Oct. 13 letter to White House Chief of
Staff  William Daley , released yesterday by Republicans on the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  “In a long series of very troubling actions taken by
Chairman Jaczko, he has undermined the ability of the commission
to function,” Commissioners George Apostolakis, William Magwood IV, William Ostendorff and Kristine Svinicki said in the letter
that described their “grave concerns.”  Jaczko responded that the commission’s majority has
“loosened the agency’s safety standards” over his opposition.
The exchanges bring into the open tensions and conflict within
the agency that is responsible for regulating the 104 commercial
reactors in the U.S. and is considering applications for a new
generation of  power plants .  The NRC commissioners are scheduled to testify before the
committee, led by California Republican  Darrell Issa , about the
rifts on Dec. 14.  “There is no chilled work environment around me,” Jaczko
said in a Dec. 7 letter to Daley. “I have never attempted to
intimidate” the technical advisory panel, and “I do not ignore
the will of the commission on policy matters,” he said.  Loosened Standards  “Unfortunately, all too often, when faced with tough
policy calls,” the commission majority “established policies
that have loosened the agency’s safety standards,” he said.  Jaczko wasn’t open with colleagues about his intent to stop
work on a proposed waste site at  Nevada ’s Yucca Mountain,
according to a June report from the NRC’s inspector general.  Republicans have accused Jaczko of stopping work on the
Yucca project for political reasons, which he has denied.
President  Barack Obama  has moved to halt the project. Jaczko is
a former aide to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat who led opposition to the Yucca site.  Jaczko’s opponents are waging a “politically motivated
witch hunt against a man with a proven track record of ensuring
that nuclear power is produced as safely and responsibly as
possible,” Adam Jentleson, a Reid spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Japan  Response  A report released yesterday by Representative  Edward Markey 
of  Massachusetts  blamed the four commissioners for trying to
impede Jaczko’s response to Japan’s nuclear crisis in March.  They “conspired, with each other and with senior NRC
staff, to delay the release of and alter” an agency task-force
study on the crisis, according to the 22-page report. It is
based on documents submitted by the commissioners in response to
an October request from Markey, the top Democrat on the House
Natural Resources Committee.  Jaczko, a former congressional science fellow for Markey,
has urged the NRC to move quickly in implementing the task-
force’s recommendations to improve safety at U.S. reactors after
an earthquake and tsunami caused radiation leaks and meltdowns
at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  Markey’s report found e-mails and other documents with
“high levels of suspicion and hostility directed” at Jaczko.
At other times, e-mails showed Jaczko’s colleagues “assumed ill
intent on the part of the chairman” and tried to “undermine
his efforts or refuse his requests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  