-- 
Obama Urges Cordray Confirmation and Payroll Tax Cut Passage

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-12-10T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/obama-urges-cordray-confirmation-and-payroll-tax-cut-passage.html
President  Barack Obama  pressed U.S.
lawmakers not to “go home for the holidays” until they extend
a payroll tax cut and confirm his nominee to run the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau.  “Every day America has to wait for a new consumer
protection watchdog is another day that dishonest businesses can
target and take advantage of students, seniors and service
members,” Obama said in his weekly  radio and Internet address 
today.  The nominee, former  Ohio  Attorney General  Richard Cordray ,
was blocked in the Senate on Dec. 8, falling seven votes shy of
the 60 needed to proceed to a roll call on confirmation.  “I refuse to take ‘no’ for an answer,” Obama said today.
“Financial institutions have plenty of high-powered lawyers and
lobbyists looking out for them. It’s time consumers had someone
on their side.”  Obama said a key part of the financial reform law passed
last year “was putting in place the first-ever consumer
watchdog -- someone whose job it is to protect American families
from being taken advantage of by mortgage lenders, payday
lenders and debt collectors.”  Cordray would protect Americans from “unscrupulous
practices” and, without him in place, people will be vulnerable
to the “risky bets” that led to the financial crisis, Obama
said.  Obama said the payroll tax cut extension affects about 160
million Americans who would see their tax rates go up next year
unless Congress acts. The employee portion of the tax was
lowered from 6.2 percent to 4.2 percent this year.  No Grinches  Obama urged people to call their members of Congress and
say: “Don’t be a Grinch. Tell them to do the right thing for
you and for our economy.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  used the Republican  address  to
highlight his party’s proposals for sparking hiring and accused
Democrats of obstructing those measures in the Senate.  Republicans in the House yesterday released their version
of legislation to extend a payroll tax cut and expanded
unemployment insurance into 2012, a top priority for Obama.  “Because his policies aren’t working, the president has
asked Congress to pass legislation that would extend
 unemployment benefits  and payroll tax relief for working
Americans,” Boehner, of Ohio, said. “Next week, the House is
going to do that.”  The $202.4 billion measure includes a provision expediting
approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Keystone XL pipeline,
which is emerging as the center of a clash with congressional
Democrats and Obama.  Pipeline and Jobs  Moving ahead on the $7 billion pipeline to carry Canadian
tar-sands crude through the Great Plains to the  Gulf of Mexico 
would create jobs, Boehner said.  A decision on the project, under review by the State
Department, has been put off until early 2013 to review
environmental issues. Obama has said he would reject any bill
that includes the pipeline provision.  Boehner said there is bipartisan support for extending the
payroll tax cut and the additional elements of the legislation,
including the Keystone pipeline.  “This is no time for the same-old my-way-or-the-highway
theatrics,” Boehner said. “We should get these things done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  