-- 
Palestinians Are ‘Invented’ People, Gingrich Says in Jewish TV Interview

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-12-10T17:26:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/palestinians-are-invented-people-gingrich-says-in-jewish-tv-interview.html
Palestinians are an “invented”
people and the  peace process  in the  Middle East  is
“delusional,”  Newt Gingrich , a frontrunner for the Republican
nomination for president, said.  The Obama administration has pursued a foreign policy of
propping up “people who hate us” with an “even-handedness”
that’s “favoring the terrorists,” Gingrich said in an
interview with  The Jewish Channel , a cable television network.  “I think that we’ve had an invented Palestinian people,
who are in fact Arabs, and were historically part of the Arab
community,” Gingrich said in the interview. “And they had a
chance to go many places. And for a variety of political reasons
we have sustained this war against Israel now since the 1940s,
and I think it’s tragic.”  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, issued a statement
today saying Gingrich “is wrong to think his attempt to turn
the Palestinians into a non-people with no claim to a state will
appeal to his audience on the Jewish Channel.”  “Gingrich’s cynical efforts to attract attention to
himself with divisive and destructive statements will not help
his presidential ambitions,” Levin, who is Jewish, said.
“Gingrich offered no solutions --just a can of gasoline and a
match.”  The Republican presidential contenders are scheduled to
debate in Iowa today. The debate, sponsored by ABC News and the
 Des Moines  Register at Drake University in Des Moines, is the
first to be held since the ascendancy of Gingrich in polls.  Gingrich, a former U.S. House speaker from  Georgia , has
emerged as the leading challenger to Mitt Romney, former
governor of Massachusetts, with less than a month before the
Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses start the party’s nomination contests.  The latest national daily  Gallup tracking poll  for the
Republican presidential contenders shows Gingrich with 37
percent support compared with 22 percent for Romney. The poll,
released yesterday, showed the five other Republican contenders
with single digit support. The poll taken Dec. 1-5 is a 5-day
rolling average of support among registered Republicans
nationwide and was first released by Gallup on Dec. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  