-- 
Perrigo Joining S&P 500 Spurs Biggest Premium: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-12-11T15:09:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/perrigo-joining-s-p-500-spurs-biggest-premium-israel-overnight.html
Perrigo Co. (PRGO)  posted its biggest two-
week gain since September 2010 after shares of the largest U.S.
maker of generic over-the-counter drugs were added to the
Standard & Poor’s 500 and  Nasdaq  100 indexes, increasing the
 premium  relative to the Tel Aviv-traded stock.  Perrigo advanced 11 percent to $99.63 in the past two weeks
in  New York . The Tel Aviv shares climbed 8.3 percent in the same
period to 369 shekels, or the equivalent of $97.95. The Israeli
shared gained 1.8 percent to 375.8 shekels at the 4:30 p.m.
close in Tel Aviv today. The  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index  of the
largest Israeli companies listed in New York rose last week to
the highest level since Nov. 16, led by  SodaStream International
Ltd. (SODA)   Perrigo, the Allegan, Michigan-based company that bought
B’nei Brak, Israel-based Agis Industries Ltd. in 2005, is
benefiting as consumers switch form more expensive brand names
amid sluggish economic growth. The company was added to the  S&P
500 (SPX)  last week, which is tracked by investors with about $1.25
trillion in assets.  “There’s a larger pool that is indexed to the  S&P 500 , so
Perrigo is probably going to be something that will have to be
bought,” said David Buck, an analyst at Buckingham Research
Group in New York, who recommends buying the shares. “It’s a
reflection of the earnings growth” and the company’s
diversification into selling generic prescription medications.  Concern among investors that  Europe ’s debt crisis will curb
demand for Israeli exports has pushed the Tel Aviv’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25) 
18 percent lower this year. The  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index 
rose 0.5 percent to 84.70 last week, paring its annual drop to
19 percent.  Mellanox, MagicJack  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the Israeli adapter maker
that’s partly owned by Oracle Corp., will join the benchmark
TA-25 Index on Dec. 15, the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange said in an
e-mailed statement last week.  Mellanox’s market value has surged to $1.38 billion from
$877 million at the end of the first quarter as it benefits from
increased demand for cloud computing and customers including
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  seek to move data more
easily over networks.  Mellanox shares in Tel Aviv declined 2 percent to 131.4
shekels, or the equivalent of $34.93. The New York shares fell
2.8 percent to $35.18 last week.  MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL) , the Israeli company whose founders
invented the technology used for making telephone calls over the
internet, dropped 4.6 percent to $24.59 on Dec. 9, making it the
only company to retreat on the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index.  Share Offering  MagicJack plans to offer 1.2 million of its ordinary shares
and certain shareholders may offer 300,000 additional shares in
an underwritten public offering, according to a statement last
week. The company said it will use the proceeds for additional
advertising costs.  SodaStream posted its biggest weekly gain since July on
speculation sales will jump after  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY)  put the
Israeli soda machine maker’s products on the cover of its
Christmas circular.  The  shares (PRGO)  added 20 percent to $36.35 in the past five
days, the biggest weekly advance since July 1.  SodaStream forecasts rising demand in the U.S. after it
boosted the number of stores that carry its carbonation machine
and flavor packets. Bed Bath & Beyond, the Union, New Jersey-
based home-furnishings retailer, has more than 1,000 locations
in the U.S.  Consumers spent a record $52.4 billion during Thanksgiving
weekend in the U.S., or an average of $398.62 each, up 16
percent from a year earlier, according to the National Retail
Federation.  Earnings Triple  The $1.53  premium  for Perrigo’s New York-traded shares was
the biggest on Dec. 9 among all companies traded in U.S. and
Israel.  The company’s stock will be included in the S&P 500, the
benchmark index for the largest U.S. equities, on Dec. 16,
according to a statement from the index provider last week.
Perrigo was added Dec. 6 to the  Nasdaq 100 Index (NDX) , which is
tracked by investors with about $400 billion in assets.  Earnings will triple this year to $4.75 a share from $1.58
in 2008, according to the average estimate of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Perrigo said on Nov. 28 that it received final approval
from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for a generic over-
the-counter drug that will compare to Mucinex tablets for the
relief of chest congestion.  The company, whose products are sold at  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) 
and  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , also sells store-branded versions of
AstraZeneca Plc’s Prilosec OTC heartburn medicine and Johnson &
Johnson’s Zyrtec allergy treatment.  ‘Under Pressure’  “In an environment of economic challenges, consumers are
under pressure and Perrigo is very well positioned for that,”
said Randall Stanicky, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity in New
York. “Perrigo is part of the market that has really attractive
long-term growth.”  Perrigo makes about 70 percent of store-branded over-the-
counter medicines in the U.S., Stanicky said.  Perrigo shares in Tel Aviv are headed for their biggest
annual gain since 2007, rising 65 percent this year.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China . It’s also
home to the largest number of startup companies per capita in
the world.  Plan B  The shekel gained 0.1 percent to 3.7613 per  U.S. dollar  in
New York. The Israeli currency declined 1.3 percent over the
past three months, the second-best performer among 10 emerging
markets in Europe, the  Middle East , and Africa tracked by
Bloomberg.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, rose 1.1 percent to 151.7 shekels, or
$40.33 in Tel Aviv. The U.S. shares advanced 1.3 percent to
$40.20 last week.  Teva’s shares were rated “equalweight” in initial
coverage at Barclays Plc.  President Barack Obama backed his health secretary’s
decision last week to overrule U.S. drug regulators and deny
Teva’s request to sell its emergency contraceptive pill Plan B
over the counter.  Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius
ordered Margaret Hamburg, the Food and Drug Administration
chief, to reject the application by Petach Tikva, Israel-based
Teva, citing potential sales to girls younger than age 17.  “When it comes to 12-year-olds or 13-year-olds, the
question is: Can we have confidence that they would potentially
use Plan B properly?” Obama said at a press conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  