-- 
Pfizer’s Failed Blood Cancer Drug Shows Benefits in Study of New Patients

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-12-10T17:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/pfizer-s-failed-blood-cancer-drug-shows-benefits-in-study-of-new-patients.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s blood-cancer drug
Mylotarg, pulled from the market last year after it was linked
to deaths, helped a different group of patients, a study found.  Patients newly diagnosed with  acute myeloid leukemia  who
received Mylotarg with chemotherapy lived for 25 months after
treatment, compared with 15 months for those given chemotherapy
alone, according to the  study  released today at the  American
Society of Hematology  meeting in  San Diego . Mylotarg had
previously been used in patients ages 60 and older only after
their cancer had returned.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, will talk with U.S.
regulators about whether the medicine may return to the market,
said Mace Rothenberg, senior vice president of clinical
development and medical affairs for the New York-based company’s
oncology unit.  “We are working closely with investigators to better
understand the findings from this study,” Rothenberg said in a
telephone interview. The next step would be “taking these data
forward as a potential new submission, working with regulators,
if we choose to go that path,” he said.  The study results may presage new life for what was an $83
million product in 2009, according to Evaluate Pharma.  Pfizer pulled the drug in June 2010 after 10 years on the
market. The  Food and Drug Administration  requested the company
stop selling the therapy after a clinical trial showed it didn’t
help patients and was tied to deaths from liver complications.  Expedited Review  Mylotarg was approved in 2000 under an expedited review
process, which requires companies to conduct follow-up studies.
One such trial that began in 2004 was stopped early after
patients died and others didn’t appear to benefit. Pfizer
obtained Mylotarg in 2009 when it bought Wyeth.  The drug originally was approved for patients 60 and older
who had a relapse of  acute myeloid leukemia , a blood cancer that
begins growing in the bone marrow. The disease will be diagnosed
in 13,000 people in the U.S. this year and has a five-year
survival rate of 23 percent, according to the  National
Institutes of Health .  Mylotarg was the first therapy approved to treat patients
whose cancer had returned and was the first drug to be withdrawn
after winning approval under the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration’s accelerated review program.  The study released today involved 280 patients ages 50 to
70 who were first diagnosed with the disease. The group was
treated with chemotherapy and some patients also received
Mylotarg.  Treatment Dosage  Pfizers ’s drug was given to patients over a week, in 3
milligram increments, said Sylvie Castaigne, the principal
investigator. “We used a small dose, and repeated the dose a
short intervals,” said Castaigne, a professor in the department
of hematology at Hôpital de Versailles in Versailles,  France .  Next “will be to test the drug in younger patients,
because we know that younger patients respond better than older
patients to chemotherapy,” Castaigne said in a telephone
interview from  San Francisco . Researchers also examine whether
they can get similar results with a lower dose. “We are right
at the limit of toxicity now,” she said.  The drug must be resubmitted to the FDA with the new data
before it could return to the U.S. market, Rothenberg said.  “Our knowledge is always moving forward, and sometimes we
may not always have the best insights of how best to use the
drug when it first arrives,” he said. “In this case, it was
right on that margin, and it fell back. Now it’s just a question
of finding that right dose in the right patients, and clearly
demonstrating a benefit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  