-- 
Treasury 30-Year Bonds Drop on Europe Deal, U.S. Economic Recovery Signs

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-12-10T05:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/treasury-30-year-bonds-drop-on-europe-deal-u-s-recovery-signs.html
Treasury 30-year bonds fell for a
second consecutive week as a European agreement for closer
fiscal union reduced the haven appeal of  U.S. debt  and reports
showed the economic recovery strengthening.  Yields also rose on benchmark 10-year securities as the
government prepared to sell $78 billion in notes, bonds and
inflation-linked debt in four auctions next week. The  Federal
Reserve  will hold its last policy meeting of the year Dec. 13.  “We are seeing some concession for supply, and the market
is a bit more optimistic on  Europe ,” said Justin Lederer, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald LP,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed.
“Any selloff is limited because Europe’s troubles still hang
over our heads.”  Yields on 30-year bonds increased eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 3.11 percent, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The price of the 3.125 percent securities
maturing in November 2041 dropped 1 20/32, or $16.25 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 11/32. Yields touched 2.99 percent yesterday
and the day before, the lowest level since Nov. 30.  Benchmark 10-year note  yields  advanced three basis points
to 2.06 percent after touching 1.96 percent yesterday, the least
since Nov. 28. Shorter-term securities rose this week, with two-
year yields dropping three basis points to 0.22 percent.  Gain in Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.9 percent, the
euro was little changed at $1.3386, and crude oil futures
dropped 1.3 percent to $99.83 a barrel in  New York .  Nineteen months after European leaders forged their first
plan to contain debt turmoil, a fifth comprehensive effort added
200 billion euros ($268 billion) to the region’s crisis-fighting
capacity and tightened rules to curb future debt. The agreement
sped the establishment of a 500 billion-euro rescue fund to next
year and dropped a proposal that bondholders shoulder losses.  “The agreement is a step in the right direction, but it
wasn’t enough,” said  Sean Murphy , a Treasury trader in New York
at Societe Generale SA, a primary dealer. “The summit lacked
the firepower necessary to take the firm footing out of
Treasuries.”  S&P said it’s examining the outcome of the European Union
summit before deciding whether to go ahead with its threat this
week to cut the credit rating of 15 euro-region nations
including  Germany .  S&P on Summit  “We will be studying the implications of the summit and
its impact on the growing systemic stresses we identified,” the
ratings company said via e-mail yesterday.  The European Union’s AAA long-term rating and the rankings
of some of the region’s largest banks including BNP Paribas SA,
Commerzbank AG and Deutsche Bank AG may also be lowered by S&P.  In a sign financial institutions are facing stress, the TED
spread, or the difference between what banks and the U.S.
government pays to borrow for three months, climbed to more than
54 basis points, the highest since June 2009. The three-month
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, increased to 0.54
percent, while the rate on U.S. bills remained at zero.  Demand for a refuge from sovereign-debt turmoil pushed a
gauge of Treasuries due in 10 years or longer up 21 percent in
the past six months, the best performance among 144 bond indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies, after accounting for currency changes.  Consumer Confidence  Bonds slid yesterday as a report showed confidence among
U.S. consumers rose in December to a six-month high. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment climbed to 67.7 from 64.1 at the end of November. The
median estimate of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a reading of 65.8.  Initial jobless claims fell by 23,000 to 381,000 in the
week ended Dec. 3, the fewest since February, Labor Department
figures showed earlier this week.  “The consumer confidence data was very strong, helping
the sentiment in the market,” said  Adrian Miller , fixed-income
strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in New York.
“There is positive sentiment out of the euro zone, and that is
weighing on Treasuries.”  The U.S. plans to auction $32 billion of three-year notes
on Dec. 12, $21 billion of 10-year debt the next day and $13
billion in 30-year bonds on Dec. 14, the Treasury Department
said. The government will also sell $12 billion of five-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities on Dec. 15 and offer
two-, five- and seven-year notes the following week.  ‘Onslaught of Supply’  “The market wants to prepare for the onslaught of supply
coming, but it’s hard with Europe in the picture,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading in New York at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, a brokerage for institutional
investors. “Euro leaders are starting to sound like the boy who
cried wolf, but you have to believe something will get done.”  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter maturities in
its holdings of Treasuries with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs under a plan announced in September.  All of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict the
central bank next week will keep its target lending  rate  at zero
to 0.25 percent, where it has been since December 2008.  U.S. 10-year note yields will climb to 2.39 percent by the
middle of next year, according to the average forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 63 analysts, with the most recent
forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  