-- 
Russians Protest Against Putin

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-12-11T11:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/russia-opposition-says-tens-of-thousands-to-rally-against-putin.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  faced
the biggest protests in his 12 years in power as Russians
rallied across the country against election fraud.  Twenty-five thousand people gathered in the center of
Moscow yesterday in near-freezing temperatures and dispersed
after 6 p.m. without detentions or violence, police said.
Several thousand demonstrated in St. Petersburg and more than
15,000 in about 30 other cities across the world’s biggest
country by area, RIA Novosti reported.  The swelling resentment threatens to weaken Putin’s bid to
return to the Kremlin in a presidential contest in March, which
may allow him to have almost a quarter-century in power. His
 United Russia  party retained a narrow majority in the State
Duma, the lower house of parliament, amid accusations of vote
rigging in the Dec. 4 parliamentary ballot.  “We are for free elections, we are for democracy,” Ilya
Ponomaryov, a Duma lawmaker and one of the protest organizers,
told the crowd in Bolotnaya Square, on an island just south of
the Kremlin. “We want a recount of the vote.”  As many as 150,000 people turned out for the biggest rally
in the capital in two decades, said Vladimir Ryzhkov, a former
lawmaker. The organizers are planning to stage protests the next
two weekends and will apply for a permit to hold a rally with
500,000 protesters on Sakharov Prospekt, he said.  ‘ Russia  Without Putin’  Organizers handed out white ribbons to participants, a
color that has started to become a symbol of the protests.
People at the square chanted: “Russia without Putin!”  Putin, 59, announced in September he plans to return as
president next year. The Russian leader, who in 2008 handed over
the presidency to Dmitry Medvedev because of a constitutional
ban on three consecutive terms, has seen his popularity fall
amid voter discontent at stalling wage growth and corruption.  “I wanted Medvedev to run again as president instead of
Putin, but he turned out to be an actor in a puppet show,”
Katya, 24, a dental technician, said while eating french fries
at a diner on the west side of the square. She declined to give
her surname, saying her father is a government official and a
United Russia member.  Vladivostok,  St. Petersburg   Protests began in Vladivostok on the Pacific coast,
spreading west through Siberian cities such as Ulan Ude and
Omsk, before starting in Moscow, St. Petersburg and other
European Russian cities, RIA Novosti reported. Police detained
dozens of people at unsanctioned rallies, the state news service
said.  The  Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe ,
the continent’s democracy watchdog, the U.S.,  Germany  and the
European Union criticized violations during the Dec. 4 vote.  Putin said Dec. 8 that U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s remarks of the vote emboldened protesters. Clinton
mentioned publicly the OSCE’s criticism that the election was
marred by fraud. The comments “sent a signal” to activists,
Putin said on Dec. 8.  “We respect the point of view of the protesters,”   Dmitry Peskov , the premier’s spokesman, said in a e-mailed statement
today. “We are hearing what is being said, and we will continue
to listen to them. The citizens of Russia have a right to
express their point of view, in protest and in support, and
those rights will continue to be secured as long as all sides do
so in a lawful and peaceful manner.”  ‘Geopolitical Game’  Konstantin Kosachyov, the head of the Duma’s foreign-
affairs committee, accused unnamed foreign powers of seeking to
destabilize Russia.  “What’s happening now was planned long before the
elections, irrespective of the outcome, to discredit them,”
Kosachyov said in a phone interview yesterday. “The aim is to
place in doubt the legitimacy of the Russian leadership. It’s a
geopolitical game.”  Former U.S. Secretary of State  Madeleine Albright  said
Putin’s mistake was to overestimate his voter appeal.  “He basically thought he was permanently popular,”
Albright said at a panel discussion Dec. 9 at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in  Washington . “The problems
are domestic.”  A  map  on Yandex, Russia’s largest search engine, showed the
locations of planned protests in almost 100 cities around the
country, with links to pages on social networking site  Vkontakte 
for details of each event.  Credit Risk  Russia’s credit risk rose the most among emerging markets
since protests started, while the ruble weakened for seven days.  “The market is only now starting to price in the return of
top-level political risk for the first time in 12 years,”
 Kingsmill Bond  and Andrey Kuznetsov, analysts at Citigroup Inc.
in Moscow, wrote Dec. 9 in an e-mailed note. “We are likely to
see continued downward pressure on the market as those investors
not prepared for this or not willing to stomach the risk, exit
the market.”  United Russia  lost the two-thirds majority that had given
it the power to alter the constitution unilaterally, winning 238
seats in the election for the 450-member Duma, the Central
Elections Commission  said . The Communists got 92 seats, Just
Russia won 64 and the nationalist  Liberal Democratic Party  56
seats.  The Communists denounced the vote as “illegitimate,”
without endorsing demands for a re-run by the organizers of most
of yesterday’s rallies, the Solidarity movement, an umbrella
opposition group. Just Russia will seek a vote recount in a
number of regions, lawmaker Gennady Gudkov said.  United Russia  The ruling party benefited from uneven access to state
resources and the media before the vote, the OSCE said Dec. 5.
Election observers also saw evidence of ballot-box stuffing and
other irregularities at the polls, it said.  In Moscow,  Europe ’s largest city, the official results gave
United Russia more than 46 percent of the vote, compared with
27.5 percent in an exit poll by the Public Opinion Foundation.
The Russian capital has a population of 11.5 million, according
to last year’s census.  Medvedev’s human-rights council said it was “extremely
concerned” about fraud complaints about the parliamentary poll
and the vote should be repeated if the violations were serious
enough to alter the results, according to a statement on the
panel’s website.  Moscow Protests  Thousands of people took to Moscow’s streets in the days
after the vote to protest against the election results and
police detained several hundred people.  That action “was spontaneous, with much fewer people,”
said Yekaterina Goncharenko, who stood holding white flowers on
Bolotnaya Square yesterday. “Now it is much more peaceful.”  While the demonstrations are “clearly” the biggest ever
against Putin, they are “nowhere near” the size of rallies
that toppled governments in the  Middle East  this year,  Neil Shearing , senior emerging-market analyst at  Capital Economics  in
 London , said Dec. 8 in a telephone interview.  “I don’t think we will see anything like the Arab
spring,” said  Dmitry Oreshkin , an independent political analyst
in Moscow. “No one is in a rush to run into machine-gun fire.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  