-- 
Saudi Shares Gain on European Accord, Rise in U.S. Consumer Sentiment

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-12-10T13:24:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/saudi-shares-gain-on-european-accord-rise-in-u-s-consumer-sentiment.html
Saudi Arabian shares reached their
highest level since August after European leaders agreed to
boost a rescue fund and American  consumer confidence  topped
estimates.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker known as Sabic, jumped to its highest price
in six weeks, while  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA) , the kingdom’s second
largest publicly traded lender by market value, gained the most
in a week.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  added 0.8 percent to 6,302.84,
its highest level since Aug. 3 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh.
The 149-company gauge extended monthly gains to 3.3 percent. Two
shares rose for every stock that dropped.  “It’s a combination of positive factors aligning to buoy
investor sentiment,” said Asim Bukhtiar, an equity analyst at
Riyad Capital. “The gains on U.S. and European markets over the
weekend coupled with the lack of negative surprises from
yesterday’s European summit are fueling the upward movement on
the Tadawul.”  U.S. stocks rose this week after European leaders agreed to
boost a rescue fund and American consumer confidence topped
estimates. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  rose 0.9 percent and posted its first
back-to-back weekly gain since October. The index rallied 1.7
percent yesterday. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  gained 1.6
percent while  Europe ’s benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  jumped
1.2 percent, the most since Nov. 30.  Debt Rules  European countries enshrined debt rules in a new treaty
that leaves out the U.K. instead of amending European Union
agreements that date back to the 1950s. The agreement added 200
billion euros ($267 billion) to the region’s war chest and
tightened rules to curb future debts. The leaders brought
forward the start of a 500 billion-euro rescue fund to next year
and diluted a demand that bondholders shoulder losses in
rescues.  Oil prices climbed the most in more than a week after a
report showed that confidence among U.S. consumers rose to a
six-month high. Crude oil for January delivery advanced $1.07 to
settle at $99.41 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
yesterday. Saudi Arabia holds 20 percent of the world’s proven
oil reserves. The U.S. was the world’s biggest oil-consuming
country in 2010, responsible for 22 percent of global oil
demand, according to BP Plc.  Sabic rose 1.3 percent to 97.75 riyals, its highest price
since Oct. 29 and Samba soared 2.1 percent, the largest gain
since Dec. 3, to 48 riyals.  National Industrialization Co. (NIC) , the
petrochemicals maker known as Tasnee, strengthened 2.3 percent
to 40 riyals.  Fundamentals  “We are seeing investors picking up names on fundamentals
in industrials, chemicals and dairy stocks,” said Bukhtiar.
“As agriculture commodities continue to ease during the
quarter, such as wheat, corn and sugar, dairy producers should
derive benefits during the coming first half.”  Savola Al-Azizia
United Co. (SAVOLA) , a food producer, advanced to its highest price since
Dec. 3, gaining 0.8 percent to 26.40 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  