-- 
UN Envoys Debate Climate Pact Amid Divisions on Legal Outcome

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-10T18:59:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/un-envoys-begin-debating-climate-pact-amid-divisions-over-legal-outcome-.html
Envoys from more than 190 countries
began debating a package to fight global warming, though they
remained divided about the legal nature of a future accord.  Negotiators at United Nations-led talks in Durban, South
Africa, started formal consideration of measures linking
progress on a new accord including all countries to extending
the  Kyoto Protocol , the world’s only treaty aimed at curbing
 greenhouse gases .  Nations are clashing over a proposal that calls on them to
craft a “protocol or another legal instrument” to lower fossil
fuel emissions and reduce the threat of global warming. The U.S.
accepted the plan being pushed by the European Union. Other
countries remain opposed, according to EU delegates.  “One of the biggest concessions of the last 24 hours was
the fact that the Americans said they are prepared to live with
the language,” U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  said in an
interview in Durban. He declined to say who opposes the plan.  Other countries want to include the phrase “legal
outcome,” language rejected by EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  as too vague.  The 27-nation EU bloc has pressed for a new accord that’s
“legally binding,” though later accepted compromise language
calling for a “legal instrument.” The EU says “legal
outcome” is a deal breaker.  “It’s unacceptable to the vast majority of the
participants here,” Huhne said.  The EU had said it wouldn’t extend Kyoto’s emissions limits
beyond next year unless all countries agree to start talks for a
new accord that’s “legally binding,” a phrase rejected by the
U.S. on the grounds that  China , the world’s biggest greenhouse-
gas emitter, isn’t willing to fully participate in such a
treaty.  Legal Form  Now that the EU, the U.S. and  Brazil  have reached agreement
on language calling for a “legal instrument,” the “big
unknown” is where China and  India  stand, Norway’s climate
change envoy, Henrik Harboe, said in an interview.  “They are very unclear,” he said. “I think both of them
are very afraid of ending up with the blame.”  Negotiators for both China and India declined to comment.  Envoys in Durban are also considering a governing
instrument for the Green Climate Fund, which would help channel
part of the $100 billion a year in aid rich nations have
promised by 2020 to help developing countries fight climate
change.  The UN climate negotiations have dragged 24 hours beyond
their deadline to finish.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Durban,  South Africa  at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in Durban, South Africa at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  