-- 
Yemen Forms Government; Egypt’s Military Council Relents on Constitution

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-12-10T22:48:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/yemen-forms-government-egypt-s-military-council-relents-on-constitution.html
A new Yemeni government was sworn in
after President Ali Abdullah Saleh agreed to relinquish
presidential powers, while a representative of  Egypt ’s ruling
military council said it would leave drafting a new constitution
to elected members of parliament.  Yemeni Prime Minister Mohamed Salem Basindwah said the
government’s top priority is ending violence and restoring basic
services to the country, according to the official Saba news
agency. The cabinet was sworn in by interim leader and Vice
President Abdurabu Mansur Hadi, the news service said.  Saleh agreed last month to give up power amid anti-
government protests. The unrest cost Yemen more than $8 billion,
with attacks against the country’s oil-pipeline network
disrupting exports and causing nationwide shortages.  “Our main responsibility is taking the country out of the
economic and security collapse and to improve the living and
humanitarian conditions of the people,” Basindwah said,
according to Saba. Yemen is the poorest Arab country and suffers
from power outages and shortages of fuel, bread, sugar and milk.  Basindwah will seek support from  Saudi Arabia  and the
 United Arab Emirates  during his first trip abroad as prime
minister, the news service said. The cabinet discussed plans to
end shortages of water, electricity, cooking gas and fuel during
its first meeting, the news service said.  Hadi Unopposed  Hadi will run unopposed in an election on Feb. 21 to
replace the president, under an agreement between the main
opposition coalition, called the Joint Meeting Parties, and
Saleh’s General People’s Congress. Parliamentary elections will
be scheduled at a later date.  Jamal Benomar, special adviser on Yemen at the  United
Nations , is working with the Gulf Cooperation Council, UN
Security Council and international partners on the transition of
leadership in the country, according to a UN statement
yesterday.  In Egypt, Major General Mamdouh Shahin said the ruling
military would have “no opinion” on the members of the
founding committee in charge of drafting a new constitution.  The only body authorized to form the committee is the
country’s parliament and its elected and not appointed members,
Shahin said,  according to a statement , dated yesterday, on the
Egypt State Information Service website.  Egypt’s Military  Egypt’s military council has faced renewed pressure to
accelerate the transition to civilian rule, after opposition
groups said it hadn’t relinquished enough authority following
 Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster.  The council swore in a new cabinet this week and gave Prime
Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri presidential powers, excluding
oversight of the military and judiciary, it said. The army has
said it will remain the ultimate authority in Egypt until a
president is elected next year.  “We reject the government of el-Ganzouri,” said  Ahmed Maher , co-founder and coordinator of the April 6 Youth Movement,
one of the groups behind the revolt against Mubarak that has
staged a sit-in outside the cabinet building. “This whole thing
is an attempt to maneuver around our demands. We want a real
national salvation government that represents the people and
represents  Tahrir Square ,” he said, referring to the plaza that
has been the focus of protests in Cairo.  Death in  Syria   Syrian security forces fired on protesters demanding the
ouster of President Bashar al-Assad, killing at least 43 people
since Dec. 9, a human-rights activist said.  At least 12 people, including two children, were killed in
the central city of Homs, while a woman and a 12-year-old girl
died in Daraa, in the south, where the uprising against Assad
started nine months ago, Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the  Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights , said in an e-mailed statement from
 London . Two were killed yesterday in Homs and several wounded,
the group said.  Two children were among at least 18 people killed in the
suburbs of the capital Damascus, while civilians were also shot
in Hama, the northern province of Idlib, and the southern
village of Inkhil, according to the organization.  Arab League foreign ministers will meet in Cairo in the
coming week to discuss developments in Syria, Egypt’s official
Middle East News Agency reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified league official. The report didn’t specify a date
for the meeting.  In Tripoli, gunmen attempted to kill the head of the Libyan
army, the  Associated Press  reported yesterday, citing Sgt.
Abdel-Razik el-Shibahy. Gen. Khalifa Hifter, the army chief of
staff, was in a convoy traveling to military headquarters when
armed men shot at them, AP reported. No one was harmed in the
attack, according to the AP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net . 