-- 
Yoga Pose Copyright Bid Too Much of a Stretch, U.S. Says in Bikram Battle

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-12-10T06:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/yoga-poses-can-t-be-registered-for-copyrights-u-s-says-1-.html
Yoga poses such as head-to-knee
stretches and the sequences of the moves are “exercises”
rather than “choreography” and can’t be copyrighted in the
U.S., regulators said.  The  U.S. Copyright Office  previously permitted yoga poses
and their sequences to be registered, even if those exercises
were in the public domain, Laura Lee Fischer, acting chief of
the office’s Performing Arts Division, said in response to an
inquiry by an attorney involved in lawsuits the founder of
Bikram Yoga filed against three yoga studios.  The office reviewed the legislative history of the
copyright law and decided that exercises, including yoga, “do
not constitute the subject matter that Congress intended to
protect as choreography,” Fischer said in an e-mail. “We will
not register such exercises (including yoga movements), whether
described as exercises or as selection and ordering of
movements.”  The e-mail is contained in a response filed yesterday to
 Bikram’s Yoga College of India ’s complaint against  New York- 
based  Yoga to the People . Washington lawyer Elliott Alderman,
assisting defense attorney Jordan Susman and Harvard Law School
professor William Fisher, sought the determination from the
Copyright Office.  Evolation Yoga , with studios in cities including Buffalo
and  Brooklyn ,  New York , and  Yen Yoga , in Traverse City,
 Michigan , also were sued. All three lawsuits were filed in
federal court in Los Angeles.  Validity Presumption  Robert Gilchrest, a lawyer at  Silverman Sclar Shin & Byrne
PLLC  in Los Angeles who represents Bikram Yoga and its founder,
Bikram Choudhury, said the e-mail shouldn’t affect his case
because Choudhury already had registered a copyright
for a book containing his yoga sequence.  “There is a presumption that when a
copyright is issued, it is valid,” Gilchrest said. He said the
Copyright Office has issued “hundreds of copyrights for
exercise videos, but now they’re saying they’re looking at it
again and they’ve changed their mind? It is meaningless to this
litigation.”  The Copyright Office decision won’t put an end to the
litigation because the suits also claim trademark infringement
and violation of the teacher-certification agreements.  Breathing Exercises  Choudhury and his affiliated Bikram Yoga studios teach a
strictly regimented type of yoga that lasts for 90 minutes and
includes 26 poses, two breathing exercises and a scripted
dialogue in a room that is heated to 105 degrees. Yoga to the
People founder Greg Gumucio was a former student of Choudhury,
as were some of the instructors at Evolation and Yen Yoga.  Choudhury said in his complaint that each studio violated
his copyrights and trademarks as well as limitations on how and
where his students can teach his method.  Susman and Fisher, who represent Yoga to the People and
Gumucio, said yoga sequences and poses can’t be copyrighted. The
defendants said the hot yoga they offer differs from Bikram
yoga. Each studio offers other types of yoga as well.  Gumucio created a website,  www.yogatruth.org , and has
almost 8,000 signatures of people who agree yoga shouldn’t “be
privatized.”  The case is Bikram’s Yoga College of  India  L.P. v. Yoga to
the People, Inc., 11-cv-07998, U.S. District Court, Central
District of  California  ( Los Angeles ). The other cases filed are
Bikram’s Yoga College of India L.P. v. Raiz, 11-cv-7377, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles) and
Bikram’s Yoga College of India L.P. v. Evolation Yoga LLC., 11-
cv-05506, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 