-- 
Zynga Says IPO Price Range Affected by Underperformance of Recent Offers

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-12-10T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-10/zynga-says-ipo-price-range-affected-by-undereperformance-of-recent-offers.html
Zynga Inc. said the valuation it’s
seeking in an initial public offering is 50 percent less than an
August fair value estimate after it took into account recent
IPOs that have underperformed.  The price range of $8.50 to $10 a share is based on “a
review of the offering price and recent aftermarket performance
of companies that completed IPOs in 2011,” the company said in
a regulatory  filing  yesterday.  The top end of Zynga’s offering range would value the
company at $7 billion, or half the $14.1 billion it said
represented its fair value as of August. Groupon Inc., the
Chicago-based provider of online coupons, raised $805 million in
its IPO last month including an over-allotment option. The
shares surged as much as 31 percent in the first weeks of
trading before plunging as much as 42 percent from their high.  Angie’s List Inc., the Indianapolis-based operator of a
consumer-reviews website, raised $132 million in its IPO last
month, including an over-allotment. The shares tumbled as much
as 29 percent from a high in public trading.  Groupon and Angie’s List both have recovered this month.
Groupon closed yesterday at $23.48, 17 percent above its
offering price. Angie’s List closed at $16.03, 23 percent higher
than its IPO price.  Game Development  San Francisco-based Zynga’s offering of 100 million shares,
set to price on Dec. 15, would be the biggest by a U.S. Internet
company since  Google Inc. (GOOG)  went public in 2004, Bloomberg data
show. Zynga may raise about $889 million in the share sale to
spend on developing new games and possibly buying companies or
technologies, according to its filing.  Zynga had originally planned to seek a higher market value
in its IPO, and scaled back after Internet companies including
Groupon sank following their debuts, a person with knowledge of
the plans said this month. Zynga said its IPO price “was not
determined using the methodology used by management and the
third party valuation firm to value our stock in August.”  Investors have already put in enough orders to cover all
the stock being offered, people familiar with the matter said
Dec. 8.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are managing
the IPO. Zynga’s shares will trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the symbol ZNGA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  