-- Air-Controller Furloughs to End as FAA Acts on New Law
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/air-controller-furloughs-to-end-as-faa-acts-on-new-law.html
Air-traffic controller furloughs
were suspended yesterday as the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration acted on legislation designed to work around
across-the-board spending cuts that kicked in last month.  “Air traffic facilities will begin to return to regular
staffing levels over the next 24 hours and the system will
resume normal operations by Sunday evening,” Transportation
Department spokesman Justin Nisly said in an e-mailed statement.  Congress voted last week to end days of flight delays
stemming from air-traffic controller furloughs, allowing the FAA
to shift airport-improvement funds to the controllers within the
agency’s budget.  The House cleared the measure 361-41 April 26 after the
Senate unanimously passed the bipartisan bill the previous
night. The bill lets the FAA move as much as $253 million within
its budget to end furloughs, or unpaid days off. President
 Barack Obama  will sign the bill, spokesman Jay Carney said.  “We can’t just keep putting Band-Aids on every cut,”
Democrat Obama said in his weekly address yesterday. “It’s not
a responsible way to govern. There is only one way to truly fix
the sequester: by replacing it before it causes further
damage.”  Rolling furloughs of 10 percent of U.S. controllers began
April 21. The resultant flight delays have become the focus of
debate on the mandatory spending cuts known as sequestration and
led to calls from airlines and airport operators for a solution.  Congressional Air Travel  Obama in his address suggested that members of Congress
realized the effects of the FAA cuts because they fly home each
weekend. He said lawmakers should use the “same sense of
urgency and bipartisan cooperation” to pass a deficit-reduction
bill.  House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman
Bill Shuster said “the administration, and the FAA, has refused
for months to provide us with a plan, to work with the airline
industry to figure out how this could be implemented without all
this pain to the traveling public and the economy.”  “I believe this has been mismanaged. I believe this will
force them to stop these needless furloughs,” Shuster, a
Pennsylvania Republican who voted for the measure, said April
26.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said the bill also gives the FAA enough flexibility to avert the
planned June 15 closing of 149 small-airport control towers
operated by agency contractors. Lawmakers voted on the measure
before leaving for a week-long recess.  Other Workers  In addition to the 15,000 controllers, the measure also
will end unpaid time off for 11,000 FAA employees who perform
essential services such as safety inspections, Kori Blalock
Keller, a spokeswoman for the Professional Aviation Safety
Specialists union, said in an interview.  The union had been assured by FAA Administrator Michael Huerta that its members wouldn’t be subject to furloughs if the
bill passed, Keller said.  “We obviously appreciate the fix, but we are looking at
the long term,” she said. “We need a long-term fix to
sequestration. This is by no means the end.”  The delays since April 21 show the need for fully staffed
airport towers, the National Air Traffic Controllers Association
union said in a statement praising the bipartisan vote.  Under sequestration, the FAA had to pare $637 million from
its budget for fiscal 2013, which ends Sept. 30.  Cuts’ Effect  House Democrats decried the move to single out the aviation
agency for budget relief while not changing across-the-board
cuts in programs for the poor, such as Head Start.  “We ought not to be mitigating the sequester’s effect on
just one segment when children, the sick, our military and many
other groups who will be impacted by this irresponsible policy
will be left unhelped,” said Representative Steny Hoyer of
 Maryland , the No. 2 House Democrat.  House Speaker John Boehner said the havoc created for
travelers by the furloughs was a crisis invented by Obama to
gain leverage in the broader debate to replace the automatic
cuts with a debt-reduction agreement.  “It’s unacceptable that the FAA chose not to plan for
sequestration or utilize the flexibility it already has,”
Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said in a statement after the vote.
“Americans were rightly fed up, and it’s unfortunate that the
House and Senate were forced to step in and fix the problem when
the president chose not to act.”  Controller Payroll  A group representing large airlines heralded congressional
passage of the FAA legislation.  “This measure ensures that air-traffic controllers can
return to work, and importantly return efficiency to the
national air space,” Nicholas Calio, chief executive officer of
Airlines for America, the Washington-based trade group
representing the largest U.S. carriers, said in a statement.  At the same time, the Airports Council International-North
America, an airport trade group in  Washington , said its response
to the measure was “bittersweet.”  “We are very disappointed that the Airport Improvement
Program was used to pay for this fix, as these funds were paid
by passengers to maintain and enhance airport runways and
taxiways, not fund FAA operations,” said David Edwards, chief
executive officer of the Greenville-Spartanburg Airport District
in South Carolina and chairman of the trade group.  Flight Delays  Delays at major U.S. airports continued yesterday.  Flights in Los Angeles and Philadelphia were experiencing
delays due to “staffing,” according to an FAA  website .
Philadelphia had returned to normal by 12:30 p.m. local time. At
Los Angeles, departures were being delayed by as much as 30
minutes, according to the website.  Except for weather delays in San Francisco, other major
U.S. airports were running smoothly, according to the website.  On-time performance averaged about 77 percent from April 21
through April 25 at America’s major airports, compared with
almost 79 percent for the two months ended April 20, industry
researcher FlightStats Inc. said in a statement.  “Although traffic in some airports may be experiencing
more delays, the system as a whole is performing on average
consistently,”  Portland , Oregon-based FlightStats said.  Huerta, the FAA chief, told House appropriators April 24
that he had no choice in going ahead with the furloughs of
controllers under government-wide budget cuts. He said there
would be “no effect on safety” for airline passengers.  Salaries account for 70 percent of the agency’s operating
budget, and 40 percent of those expenses go to air-traffic
controllers, he said.  Asked whether he could concentrate furloughs at less-
congested airports, Huerta said the FAA has to avoid picking
“winners and losers” among airlines by sparing larger hubs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  