-- Taliban Intensifies Bombing Campaign Ahead of Pakistan Elections
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-04-27T09:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/taliban-intensifies-bombing-campaign-ahead-of-pakistan-elections.html
A bomb attack at an election rally
killed at least nine people in  Pakistan  yesterday, as violence
against political activists escalated ahead of the country’s
parliamentary ballot next month.  As many as 55 other people were wounded in the bombing
targeting supporters of the  Awami National Party  in Pakistan’s
commercial heartland of Karachi, Suresh Kumar, secretary in the
health department of the Sindh provincial government, said by
phone today. Pakistani Taliban militants have claimed the
responsibility, according to the Geo television channel.  The attack was the third in a week in Karachi and will add
to security concerns before the South Asian nation’s general
election scheduled for May 11. Eight workers of the Karachi-
based Muttahida Qaumi Movement were killed in blasts on April 23
and April 25. The Taliban has also threatened to target
President Asif Ali Zardari’s  Pakistan Peoples Party , media
reports said.  “Taliban are targeting these parties because of their
clear-cut policies against terrorism,” Peshawar-based retired
brigadier Mehmood Shah, a former security chief in the tribal
region bordering Afghanistan, said by phone. “Other parties
have a kind of ambiguous stand towards militants.”  Candidates Attacked  The Peoples Party-led government in March became the first
civilian administration in the country’s history to complete its
full 5-year term. The main opposition Pakistan Muslim League-
Nawaz of former Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  leads in opinion
polls.  Amnesty International  asked Pakistani authorities in an
April 24 statement to investigate attacks on political
candidates that have killed at least 37 people and left 183
injured nationwide. Most of the attacks have been on ANP and MQM
supporters.  In leaflets, distributed by Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan in
parts of northern Pakistan and various areas of Karachi last
week, insurgents warned people to stay away from the election
process, saying democracy was “un-Islamic” and an agenda of
“secular forces,” according to Dawn.com, an online arm of the
Dawn newspaper.  TTP, or Pakistan’s Taliban movement, is a loose alliance of
militant and sectarian organizations that are fighting security
forces in the country’s tribal areas bordering  Afghanistan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  