-- American Citizen to Face Verdict in North Korea Court, KCNA Says
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2013-04-27T06:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/american-citizen-to-face-verdict-in-north-korea-court-kcna-says.html
North  Korea  said it will hand down
a verdict on a detained American citizen accused of crimes
against the state, the communist country’s official Korean
Central News Agency reported today.  Pae Jun Ho, who entered North Korea’s Rason City on Nov. 3
as a tourist, will face judgment in the Supreme Court after
admitting to the charges, KCNA said, without citing a source.
Pae was involved with a Protestant religious movement, according
to a Dec. 11 CNN report that identified him as Kenneth Bae.  The U.S. had no immediate comment on the KCNA report, Beth
Gosselin, a spokeswoman at the State Department in  Washington ,
said by phone. A delegation that included former New Mexico
Governor Bill Richardson failed during its visit to North Korea
in January to secure Pae’s release.  “In the process of investigation, he admitted that he
committed crimes aimed to topple the DPRK with hostility toward
it,” the KCNA report said, referring to the country’s official
name Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  The Korean peninsula has been on edge since February, when
Kim Jong Un’s regime detonated an atomic bomb in defiance of
United Nations sanctions and then threatened preemptive nuclear
strikes against its enemies. The Obama administration has
rejected claims North Korea possesses the ability to launch
nuclear-armed ballistic missiles while warning Kim’s
inexperience raises the possibility of errors.  The KCNA report comes as the South Korea announced plans to
start withdrawing its citizens as early as today from a jointly
run industrial park in North Korea. The North on April 8
recalled its workers from the Gaeseon industrial zone, the last
point of inter-Korean exchange and an important cash source for
the impoverished nation.  Several U.S. citizens have been detained in recent years in
North Korea. All of them have been released after negotiations.
Eddie Jun, a Korean-American missionary, was released in 2011
after being detained for half a year for proselytizing,
according to the Associated Press. In February 2010, North Korea
released an American missionary, Robert Park, after he was held
for about two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  