-- Las Vegas Sands Says Pricewaterhouse Resigns as Auditor
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-04-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/las-vegas-sands-says-pricewaterhouse-resigns-as-auditor.html
Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP
resigned as auditor of  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the casino company
that disclosed last month it probably violated the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act.  Pricewaterhouse told the Las Vegas-based casino company on
April 23 it won’t seek re-election, according to a regulatory
filing yesterday. The company said there had been no reportable
disagreements with Pricewaterhouse going back to 2011 and that
it is seeking a replacement.  The exit follows the disclosure last month by Sands, the
largest U.S.-based casino company, that an internal audit
concluded there were “likely violations of the books and
records and internal provisions” of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act. The company said then it had improved its
practices with respect to books and records and is cooperating
with all investigations.  The U.S. Justice Department and Securities and Exchange
Commission have requested documents relating to Sands’
compliance with the law, which prohibits payments to foreign
officials for favors, according to company filings.  Pricewaterhouse has been Sands’ auditor since it went
public in 2004, and has worked for company founder  Sheldon Adelson , 79, for 25 years, according to Ron Reese, a spokesman
for the casino company.  The firm’s departure was “not the result of any non-public
information that impacts past disclosures or is anticipated to
impact future disclosures related to any of our reported
litigations or investigations.”  Caroline Nolan, a spokeswoman for Pricewaterhouse, declined
to comment.  Court Case  Steve Jacobs, a former executive of the company’s Chinese
unit, has said in Nevada state court filings that he was fired
because he wouldn’t give in to “illegal demands” of Adelson --
who, Jacobs claimed, demanded he secretly investigate Macau
officials and use “improper leverage” against them. Jacobs has
sued the company for breach of contract.  Adelson, 17th on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  with an
estimated net worth of $26.9 billion, has denied Jacobs’s
claims.  Sands fell 1.6 percent to $56.17 yesterday New York. The
shares have advanced 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  