-- Australia’s Swan Rejects ‘Mindless Austerity’ Ahead of Budget
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-04-27T01:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/australia-s-swan-rejects-mindless-austerity-ahead-of-budget.html
Australia ’s ruling  Labor party ,
trailing in polls ahead of the September election, will resist
making big budget cuts to spending as it would damage the
world’s 12th-largest economy, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “We reject the heartless philosophy of mindless
austerity,” Swan said in an essay published by the Chifley
Research Centre today. “When expenditure in an economy is
savagely slashed, aggregate demand is suppressed and
unemployment rockets up, and ultimately savings in the economy -
- including the budget position -- deteriorate.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is attempting to boost her
minority government’s economic credentials, which were damaged
when a slump in  tax revenue  forced her in December to abandon a
pledge to return the May 14 budget to surplus. Slower resource
investment, rising unemployment and  prices  restrained by the
currency’s longest stretch above parity to the  U.S. dollar  in 30
years have seen traders boost bets that the central bank will
cut rates to a record low next month.  Adding to the hurdles faced by Australia’s first female
prime minister, Gillard must overcome voter perceptions of
political infighting within her own party, highlighted last
month during her party’s third leadership battle in as many
years. Labor’s support remained at 45 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, while  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition
held at 55 percent, according to a Newspoll published in the
Australian newspaper on April 23.  ‘Right Rein’  “The Labor party isn’t exactly the flavor of the month at
the moment and we haven’t always pulled the right rein every
single time over the last few years,” Swan said in today’s
essay. “The government has not been perfect, and I have not
been perfect, but we’ve learned equally from all of the
successes and the times we’ve fallen short of expectations.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia is trying to rebalance a two-
speed economy where mining regions in the north and west thrive
off Chinese demand, while manufacturing and tourism in the south
and east struggle.  Policy makers have left borrowing costs unchanged at 3
percent this year, after lowering them six times in the 14
months through December to help offset the drag on growth from
the local dollar and to boost industries including construction.  Australian employers cut payrolls more than forecast in
March, with the jobless rate unexpectedly increasing to 5.6
percent, the highest level since November 2009, government data
showed April 11.  Slow Inflation  Consumer price growth, the central bank’s preferred measure
of inflation, slowed last quarter to a 14-year low rate of 0.3
percent from the previous quarter, the Bureau of Statistics said
April 24. Economists had predicted a 0.5 percent gain.  While such signs point to a weakening in Australia’s
economy, Swan today said his government had improved the
nation’s financial fortunes since coming to power in December
2007.  “No country in the world has made better decisions over
the past five years than ours, and the dividends of that can be
seen in low unemployment, contained inflation, and low  interest
rates ,” he said.  Labor is pledging to boost spending on education and
disability payments should it win power again in the Sept. 14
election. Earlier this month Gillard unveiled a plan to increase
education spending by A$14.5 billion ($14.9 billion) over six
years in what she called the biggest overhaul of school funding
in 40 years.  New South Wales, the largest state by population, became
the first of the nation’s eight states and territories to commit
to Gillard’s plan at a signing ceremony in Sydney on April 23.  “Education should, and will always, play a major role in
building the type of society we want,” Swan said. “We will
never accept that a child who lives in Western Sydney should
have less of an education than a child from inner  Melbourne .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  