-- Chinese Industrial Companies’ Profit Growth Slowed in March
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-27T03:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/chinese-industrial-companies-profit-growth-slowed-in-march-1-.html
Growth in Chinese industrial
companies’ profits slowed in March, adding to evidence the
nation’s economic recovery is losing steam.  Net income increased 5.3 percent from a year earlier to
464.9 billion  yuan  ($75 billion), down from a 17.2 percent pace
in the first two months, the National Bureau of Statistics said
on its  website  today. Profit in the first quarter rose 12.1
percent to 1.17 trillion yuan, it said.  China’s stocks fell for a third straight month in April
amid investor concern that the recovery in the country’s
economic expansion is losing momentum and will hurt corporate
earnings. The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  closed 1
percent lower yesterday, the last trading day before a three-day
holiday ending May 1.  “Profits are only growing in line with sales and with
problems of overcapacity and the sluggish global picture, it
doesn’t bode well for a speedy return to higher profit
margins,” said  Louis Kuijs , chief China economist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in  Hong Kong . “Heavy industries
especially still face destocking and higher costs, but if there
is a silver lining, industries catering to the consumer, like
textiles, food and beverages, seem to be doing much better.”  Industrial companies’ revenue rose 11.9 percent in the
first three months to 22.2 trillion yuan, according to today’s
statement. That’s down from 13.1 percent in the first two months.
The bureau doesn’t break down January and February data due to
distortions caused by the timing of the Lunar New Year holiday.
No figure was given for March sales.  Lower Estimates  Profit margins in the first quarter were 5.3 percent, the
same as the first three months of 2012, the data show. The
report covers companies in 41 industries with annual sales of 20
million yuan and above.  The world’s second-biggest economy expanded 7.7 percent in
the first three months of 2013 from a year earlier, down from
7.9 percent in the fourth quarter and trailing the 8 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Royal Bank of  Scotland  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut their
estimates for full-year growth to 7.8 percent after the GDP data.
That would be the same as 2012 which was the weakest pace in 13
years.  Industrial growth is facing downward pressure amid slowing
domestic and international demand, Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology spokesman Xiao Chunquan said April 23.
Profits at industrial companies are at “very low levels”
compared with the past few years because of falling product
prices and surging costs, Xiao said.  Earnings Rebound  Vehicle manufacturing earnings dropped 1 percent last month
from a year earlier after a 20 percent increase in the first two
months, the statistics bureau said in a separate  statement . The
drop in coal industry profit accelerated in March to 50 percent
from 35 percent in the first two months, it said.  Earnings in some industries have rebounded after falling
for most of last year when slowing economic expansion damped
demand for steel, cement and machinery. Restocking and higher
product prices are supporting profit gains even as growth in
 gross domestic product  moderates. Profit in the ferrous metals
industry, which includes steel, doubled in March from a year
earlier, the bureau said.  Earnings in oil processing, coking and nuclear fuel
processing tripled in March from a year earlier, after swinging
to a profit in the first two months from a loss a year ago, the
bureau said.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.,  Asia ’s biggest refiner,
made a profit from crude-oil processing in the first quarter for
the first time since 2011, while PetroChina Co., cut its
refining losses, statements from the companies this week showed.  --Nerys Avery,  Helen Sun . With assistance from Michelle Yun in
Hong Kong and Helen Yuan in  Shanghai . Editors:  Garry Smith ,
Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  