-- China Mourns Victims of Sichuan Quake With 3 Minutes of Silence
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-27T01:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/china-mourns-victims-of-sichuan-quake-with-3-minutes-of-silence.html
China ’s Sichuan province began a
day of mourning for 196 people killed in an April 20 earthquake,
with wailing sirens signaling the start of three minutes of
silence at 8:02 a.m., the time the temblor hit.  All public entertainment activities are being suspended
today in the southwestern province as part of the commemoration,
according to the provincial government. State broadcaster  China
Central Television  showed local government officials, as well as
representatives from troops, armed police, and volunteers who
participated in the rescue in the past week present at a
ceremony in Lushan county of Ya’an city, the quake’s epicenter.  The 6.6-magnitude earthquake, which struck in the same
region as one in 2008 that killed about 87,000 people, prompted
senior leaders including Premier  Li Keqiang  to travel to the
region to oversee the government’s response amid concerns that
aftershocks and damaged roads could slow rescue efforts. The
focus has since shifted to rebuilding in Lushan.  The central government and Sichuan local government have
allocated 1.51 billion yuan ($245 million) to aid local
residents, and most of the towns affected have since resumed
power, CCTV reported.  In traditional Chinese culture, family members mourn the
deceased for seven weeks. The seventh day after the death is the
first important day during the mourning period.  Volunteers rushed to the region after the temblor. Among
them was Zhu Zhipeng, a 24-year-old liquor and cigarette
merchant from the southern city of Shenzhen, who worked three
days ferrying food and medicine to residents in Taiping, one of
the towns worst hit by the quake. By April 25, he’d decided to
head home.  Businesses Re-Open  “The army used helicopters to send the injured to
hospitals and tents are now set up with supplies coming in,”
Zhu said as he headed to the provincial capital of Chengdu by
bus. “There’s not much for us to do in the area now.” Along
the road, local villagers and children waved signs saying
“thank you.”  In Lushan, grocery stores began re-opening for business on
April 24, while residents waited in queues for free supplies of
rice and noodles. Trucks brought in portable power generators
and red banners reading “disaster relief” in Chinese were hung
on damaged buildings.  Local governments have also begun assessing losses from the
quake that injured about 12,000 people. Lushan estimated losses
of 85 billion  yuan  ($13.8 billion), about 40 times the county’s
total gross domestic product last year, the 21st Century
Business Herald reported yesterday. Combined losses reported by
the counties of Lushan, Baoxing and Tianquan reached 169 billion
yuan, according to the newspaper.  The Communist Party’s Politburo Standing Committee, the
country’s top decision-making body, said April 24 that China
would “make every effort” to look after residents in the
quake-hit zone and make preparation for rebuilding.  After the 2008 earthquake, the Chinese government announced
three days of national mourning, including a pause in the then-
progressing torch relay for the Beijing  Olympic Games .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  