-- Congress Urges Obama Act on Syria With No Accord on What
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-04-27T00:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/congress-urges-obama-act-on-syria-with-no-accord-on-what.html
U.S. lawmakers are pressing
President  Barack Obama  to act against Syria’s regime for its
suspected use of chemical weapons, with no agreement over what
to do among options filled with uncertainty and risk.  Demands have ranged from Republican Senator  John McCain ’s
push to establish a no-fly zone and provide weapons to Syria’s
opposition to Democratic Senator  Dianne Feinstein ’s call to take
the matter to the  United Nations .  “There’s no good option, at least that I’ve seen,”
Senator Angus King of  Maine , an independent who serves on the
Intelligence and Armed Services committees, said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ”
airing this weekend.  Debate over Syria was given new impetus by the
administration’s disclosure on April 25 that intelligence
agencies assess with “varying degrees of confidence” that
Bashar al-Assad’s regime has used chemical munitions on a small
scale in two instances.  Obama said yesterday that the intelligence must be
corroborated while reiterating that confirmation would be a
“game-changer” for the U.S.  “There are a range of questions around how, when, where
these weapons may have been used,” Obama said. “We have to
make these assessments deliberately, but I think all of us --
not just in the  United States , but around the world -- recognize
how we cannot stand by and permit the systematic use of weapons
like chemical weapons on civilian populations.”  No ‘Credibility’  In the Syrian government’s first response to the U.S.
findings, Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said “the
fabricated and false” allegations “do not have any
credibility,” according to the official Sana news agency. The
regime has said that chemical weapons have been used by
terrorists, its blanket description for the opposition.  Obama has never said what action he would take if  Syria 
crossed what he’s called a “red line” against the use of toxic
agents.  McCain, of  Arizona , renewed what he called a two-year
effort to persuade the administration “to provide a safe area
for the opposition to operate, to establish a no-fly zone and
provide weapons to people in the resistance whom we trust.”  Representative Tom Rooney of Florida, a Republican member
of the House intelligence committee, disagreed and echoed the
administration’s concern that funneling arms into the volatile
region may backfire.  Al-Qaeda Ties  “The easy thing would be to help the rebels, but the
reality of the situation is” that many of them are “the people
we have been fighting for the last 10 years,” he said in an
interview, referring to groups of Islamic extremists associated
with al-Qaeda. “We should be very careful how we proceed.”  Until now, the administration has provided non-lethal aid,
such as communications equipment, and humanitarian supplies to
the rebels. Secretary of State  John Kerry  announced last week
that the U.S. is providing an additional $123 million to the
Syrian opposition, a doubling of aid, while some Persian Gulf
nations send arms as well as money.  At a classified briefing yesterday for members of the
House, Kerry gave no indication about when or if the U.S. will
act on the chemical weapons finding, according to Representative
 John Mica , a Florida Republican.  Representative  Brad Sherman , a California Democrat, said
Kerry described a range of potential steps.  “It’s everything from diplomatic opposition to Assad, to
supporting refugees, to cash for groups, to weapons for groups,
to a no-fly zone,” Sherman said. “All of those are on the
table.”  Syria’s Defenses  Sherman said a no-fly zone “is not a no-casualty option”
because Syria’s anti-missile and anti-aircraft defenses are more
sophisticated than those allied forces confronted in taking such
a step in Iraq and Libya.  Intervening to seize Assad’s arsenal of chemical weapons
would require as many as 75,000 troops, Jeremy Sharp and
Christopher Blanchard of the  Congressional Research Service 
wrote in an April 22 report.  “We’re not going to put 75,000 boots on the ground,”
Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat, said yesterday on
 MSNBC ’s “Jansing and Co.” “Will we go in and bomb? Well, what
do you bomb? Do you bomb the planes that have the sarin on it so
you get a plume, and then the wind carries it?”  Feinstein, a Californian and chairwoman of the Senate
intelligence committee, called on the UN Security Council to
take “meaningful action” to end the Syrian crisis.  “It is clear that ‘red lines’ have been crossed and action
must be taken to prevent larger-scale use” of chemical weapons,
Feinstein said in a statement.  Russia’s Ties  Russia, with military and economic ties to Syria, has
blocked more aggressive action by the UN.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , said he was
“deeply concerned” that further confirmation of chemical
weapons use “may be outsourced” to the world body.  Swedish scientist Ake Sellstrom, who is leading a UN fact-
finding mission that has been denied access to Syria to
investigate whether chemical weapons were used, will meet with
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on April 29.  Sellstrom’s team has been stranded in Cyprus, unable to
gain permission to enter Syria to investigate two sites, in
Aleppo and Homs. About a dozen letters have been sent to Syrian
authorities in a protracted exchange that hasn’t yielded access,
according to a UN official who spoke on condition of anonymity
about the diplomatic communications.  For Obama, the challenge remains what to do if the
administration comes to the conclusion that his “red line” has
been crossed.  “He doesn’t want to get involved in another war in the
 Middle East ,” said  Richard Murphy , a former U.S. ambassador to
Syria and adjunct scholar at the Middle East Institute in
Washington. “The question is, when you set a red line, do you
stand behind it?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  