-- Credit Suisse, Lone Star to Buy Fortis Bad Bank
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-04-27T16:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/credit-suisse-lone-star-to-buy-fortis-bad-bank.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Texas-
based  Lone Star  Funds will pay 6.7 billion euros ($8.7 billion)
for the assets of Royal Park Investments SA, a vehicle set up to
manage toxic assets of failed Belgian bank Fortis.  Belgium , one of the vehicle’s shareholders, will get 1
billion euros in cash from the sale, reducing government debt by
more than 0.2 percent of gross domestic product, Finance
Minister Koen Geens said in an e-mailed statement from Brussels
today. Ageas, the insurer formerly known as Fortis, will receive
1.04 billion euros, it said in a separate statement.  Royal Park Investments was set up in May 2009 by Fortis,
the Belgian government and French bank  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  as a
special purpose vehicle to manage a pool of distressed debt
securities. The shareholders contributed 1.7 billion euros in
equity at the time. That amount had increased to a net asset
value of 2.3 billion euros, Royal Park Investments said today.  Fortis, once Belgium’s biggest financial-services company,
became a casualty of the 2008 financial turmoil after pouring
24.2 billion euros into purchasing the assets of ABN Amro
Holding NV a year earlier, just as the U.S. subprime-mortgage
market collapsed and lending dried up.  Fortis Dismantled  Most Fortis assets ended up in the hands of the Dutch and
Belgian governments, while BNP Paribas agreed to buy the main
banking unit in Belgium as well as a stake in its insurer.
Fortis was given a  call option  on the BNP Paribas shares that
the Belgian government received to win over investors for its
state-organized break-up.  Ageas agreed to sell that option to Belgium for 144 million
euros, according to today’s statements. The country is now free
to sell its BNP stake, although it currently has no plans to do
so, Geens said.  The accord comes as a shrinking economy curbed tax income
in Belgium. Taxpayer funds had to be used to replenish lender
Dexia SA’s capital following its dismantlement. The  budget
deficit  widened to 3.9 percent of gross domestic product in 2012
from 3.7 percent a year earlier, the Brussels-based  National
Bank of Belgium  said last month. Debt as a proportion of GDP
rose to 99.6 percent last year from 97.8 percent in 2011.  Ageas (AGS) , based in Brussels, will return 1 euro a share to
shareholders after the transaction is complete, the Brussels-
based company said in a separate statement today.  “This is another major step forward in simplifying our
company and will eliminate the uncertainties linked to the
evolution of the value of these assets,” Ageas Chief Executive
Officer Bart De Smet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  