-- Telenor Buys Hellenic Telecom’s Bulgarian Unit for $934 Million
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-04-27T11:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/telenor-buys-hellenic-telecom-s-bulgarian-unit-for-934-million.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s
largest telecommunications operator, agreed to buy  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO) ’s Bulgarian mobile unit for
717 million euros ($934 million).  Telenor’s acquisition of Globul, the second-largest mobile
carrier in Bulgaria with a 36 percent share of the market,
allows the Fornebu, Norway-based operator to grow its presence
in central and eastern Europe, while enabling the Athens-based
operator to reduce costs. Germany’s  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , which
holds a 40 percent stake in OTE, considered aiding the unit in
August. The deal will be finalized in the third quarter.  Telenor, which generated 58 percent of its revenue outside
Norway, Sweden and Denmark last year, has continued to push into
faster-growing countries in  Europe  and Asia to boost sales. The
carrier already operates in Hungary,  Serbia , Montenegro as well
as Thailand and Malaysia.  “Based on our experience in Telenor’s well-performing
operations in the region, we strongly believe that we will be
able to create value in the Bulgarian market,” Telenor Chief
Executive Officer Jon Fredrik Baksaas said in an April 26
statement.  OTE, Greece’s second-biggest company by market value, has
cut staff and sold international assets to reduce debt as the
nation’s recession damps demand for its products. In January,
the company issued 700 million euros of five-year bonds to
redeem more than 1 billion euros of notes due this year and
next. Demand for those notes exceeded supply, with OTE Chief
Executive Officer Michael Tsamaz calling it a “vote of
confidence” in the company.  Globul has been in  Bulgaria  since 2001, Telenor said. At
the end of 2012, the carrier had 4.5 million subscribers. The
company, along with OTE’s Germanos Bulgaria unit, had revenue of
378 million euros and earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 135 million euros.  OTE reported a fourth-quarter net loss of 43.7 million
euros on Feb. 28 as sales slipped to 1.1 billion euros from 1.2
billion euros a year earlier. OTE is scheduled to report its
first-quarter results May 8. Telenor reported April 26 first-
quarter sales slipped 1.6 percent to 24.7 billion kroner ($4.22
billion), while net income rose to 3.6 billion kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  