-- Letta Appointed Prime Minister, Italy Gets New Government
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-04-28T10:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/letta-appointed-prime-minister-italy-gets-new-government.html
Enrico Letta was sworn in as
 Italy ’s prime minister after forging an alliance with Silvio Berlusconi, ending a two-month stalemate and signaling a
generational shift in the country’s politics.  The ceremony was marred by a shooting outside the prime
minister’s office across town. Two police officers and the
suspect were wounded in the incident, SKYTG24 said. The gunman 
was arrested and identified as a 49-year-old with psychological 
problems, and the shooting didn’t appear to be politically 
motivated, SKYTG24 reported.  Letta, 46, took the oath of office with his 21-member
Cabinet at the presidential palace in Rome to become Italy’s
third-youngest premier since World War II. He named a record
seven women to his Cabinet, including former European Union
commissioner Emma Bonino as foreign minister. He also appointed
Bank of Italy veteran Fabrizio Saccomanni as finance minister.  “Letta’s choice of ministers shows his ability as
mediator,” said Carlo Alberto Carnevale Maffe, professor of
business strategy at Milan’s Bocconi University. “The ministers
are all moderate and no extremists are included.”  The new prime minister has sealed an alliance with former 
premier Berlusconi, resurrecting the coalition that stood
behind Letta’s predecessor, Mario Monti. While the deal gives 
Letta a majority in parliament, he must manage the competing 
agendas of his Democratic Party and forces loyal to Berlusconi 
to find common ground on policy.  Letta’s Cabinet was due to hold its first meeting after the
ceremony and the outcome may reveal the extent of Berlusconi’s
influence.  Berlusconi Demand  Berlusconi, a three-time premier, told Canale 5 television
yesterday that Letta had agreed to his demand to use the first
Cabinet meeting to eliminate a property tax on first homes and
to reimburse last year’s payment. The pledge was central to
Berlusconi’s campaign for the February elections and helped him
narrow the Democratic Party’s 15 percentage-point poll lead to
lose the vote by less than one percentage point and deny the
Democrats a majority of seats in the Senate.  The Democrats won a majority in the Chamber of Deputies,
but without the Senate couldn’t build a government on their own.
The stalemate led to the resignation of Pier Luigi Bersani, who
led them into the election. President Giorgio Napolitano asked
Letta to try to build a government on April 24 and the premier
was forced into a coalition with Berlusconi.  Angelino Alfano, general secretary of Berlusconi’s People
of Liberty party, was named deputy prime minister and placed at
the head of the Interior Ministry. Anna Maria Cancellieri,
interior minister under Monti, will serve as justice minister.
European Affairs Minister Enzo Moavero Milanesi will remain in
the same role for Letta and the Defense Ministry goes to Mario Mauro, an ex-Berlusconi ally and member of Monti’s Civic Choice
party.  Market Confidence  Letta’s swearing in ends a political stalemate caused by
inconclusive elections in February that left the country with a
hung Parliament.  He is starting his tenure with two-year government yields
near a record low and the Italian economy, the European Union’s
third-largest, in its longest recession for at least 20 years.
Tax-cut plans enjoy widespread support in parliament, and
members of the governing coalition have repudiated the fiscal
austerity they imposed under Monti. The two-year note closed at
1.29 percent in the last trading session on April 26, down from
1.67 percent when voters went to the polls.  Letta’s party favors progressive taxation and counted on
the support of labor unions at the polls. The party identifies
itself as center-left and brings together ex-Christian Democrats
including Letta and former communists like Bersani. People of
Liberty is calling for cuts to public spending and it appeals to
entrepreneurs and professionals.  Maintaining Unity  Letta will be pushed to tackle a new election law -- to
reduce the probability of future stalemates -- as well as
justice reform and a labor-market update that economists have
said is needed to boost productivity.  The property tax, known as IMU, may be the first item on
Letta’s agenda. IMU, created by Monti to help cut the deficit,
became a symbol to Italians frustrated by budget rigor.  The main challenge for Letta, a former industry and
European affairs minister, will be keeping Berlusconi committed
and his own party intact. The Democratic Party, which fields the
biggest force in parliament, nearly fractured during the post-
election impasse after then-leader Bersani refused to bargain
with Berlusconi and failed to gain a legislative majority.  Giuseppe Civati, a Democratic Party lawmaker in the Chamber
of Deputies, said in an interview yesterday on state broadcaster
RAI that he’s prepared to cast his ballot against the government
in its confidence vote and that he may be joined by other
dissenters.  “Berlusconi has a compact group behind him and Letta
doesn’t,” said Federigo Argentieri, professor at John Cabot
University in  Rome . “He risks becoming a hostage of
Berlusconi’s group and I think in that case he would resign.”  Berlusconi Trials  Justice reform may be a source of friction for the new
government as Berlusconi contests three separate criminal trials
and blames his legal troubles on political vendettas. Berlusconi
is appealing convictions in a tax-fraud case and a wire-tapping
trial. The billionaire is also on trial on charges of paying a
minor for sex and abusing the power of his office. He has denied
all wrongdoing.  The Democratic Party embraced People of Liberty, its
historic adversary, for the first time in November 2011 when
Berlusconi’s last government fell and the European sovereign
debt crisis threatened to overwhelm Italy. Together, they
installed Monti and his cabinet of professors and bureaucrats to
impose tax increases and rein in borrowing costs.  The two parties were thrown together again this year by the
emergence of Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, the upstart
party that grabbed a quarter of the vote in February. Grillo, an
ex-comic and anti-establishment crusader, turned down Bersani’s
offers of a partnership.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  