-- Exxon Mobil Begins Production at Kearl Oil Sands
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-28T12:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/exxon-mobil-begins-production-at-kearl-oil-sands-after-delays.html
(Corrects number of barrels per day in second paragraph of
a story that was published yesterday.)  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
largest company by market value, began production at its Kearl
oil sands project in  Alberta , which is projected to produce 4.6
billion barrels of recoverable oil in the next 40 years.  The project will produce 110,000 barrels per day later this
year and that’s expected to double by late 2015, the company
said in a statement. The Kearl site is 46 miles (75 km)
northeast of Fort McMurray, Alberta, and is operated by  Imperial (IMO) 
Oil Ltd., which is 70 percent owned by Exxon Mobil.  “Kearl is a historic development for Imperial,” Richard Kruger, Imperial Oil’s chief executive officer, said in a
statement. “Kearl is the largest project we’ve ever undertaken
and the beginning of a period of substantial growth for the
company that will see us double production to more than 600,000
barrels per day by about 2020.”  The C$12.9 billion Kearl project has been beset by
equipment transport and weather delays, along with rising costs.
In February, Imperial raised its estimate for initial costs due
to “harsh weather” and issues delivering equipment to the site
near the Saskatchewan border. Montana residents protested the
truck traffic that made its way through the state en route to
Alberta.  Imperial started production yesterday, said Pius Rolheiser,
a spokesman for the company, in a telephone interview from
Calgary today.  Lower Prices  The news comes the same week the two companies reported
earnings.  First-quarter profit at Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil  was
$9.5 billion, or $2.12 a share, on sales of $108.8 billion. Per-
share results were 7 cents higher than the average of 19
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income at Calgary-based Imperial dropped to C$798
million, or C$0.94 cents, on revenue of C$8.01 billion. Earnings
per share fell 1 cent short of the C$0.95-cent average from 12
analysts.  Imperial plans to avoid the impact of selling Kearl’s
output at  lower prices  for oil-sands crude relative to the U.S.
benchmark by transporting it to refineries owned by Imperial and
Exxon, Kruger said April 25. Imperial also is looking to secure
rail cars for transporting some of the crude, to avoid a
pipeline shortage from western  Canada  that’s depressing prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier in Trenton,  New Jersey , at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  