-- Gilead-Bristol Hepatitis C Drug Combo Cures All in Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-04-28T16:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/gilead-bristol-hepatitis-c-drug-combo-cures-100-in-study.html
A hepatitis C drug combination from
 Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  cured all
patients in a trial, demonstrating the success of a cocktail
that may never be approved.  In a study among 41 patients of Gilead’s sofosbuvir with
Bristol’s daclatasvir, with or without the generic antiviral
ribavirin, 40 were virus-free 12 weeks after six months of
treatment, according to results presented yesterday in
Amsterdam. The other patient didn’t turn up to the last
appointment and was later found to be virus-clear. All the
patients had failed prior treatment with either  Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s Incivek or  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Victrelis.  The lack of a late-stage study, and the expense of the
pills, will probably put the Gilead-Bristol combination out of
reach for doctors and patients, said Geoffrey Dusheiko, a
professor of medicine at the Royal Free Hospital in  London .  “It’s a conundrum for us,” Dusheiko said in an interview
after the results were presented at the European Association For
the Study of the Liver’s conference. “It looks a very promising
regimen, it really does. But I’m really not sure it’ll see the
light of day.”  Still, doctors may be tempted to prescribe the Gilead-Bristol combo “off-label” once both drugs are approved, said
 Mark Thursz , secretary-general of the European liver
association.  “Lots of investigators around  Europe  and the U.S. are
itching for the opportunity to put together what they believe to
be the optimum combination for our patients,” Thursz said.
“The only barrier to that is what is the combination cost going
to be because I suspect there will be package deals to be had.”  Previous Success  The combination had previously demonstrated success in
patients who hadn’t been treated before. Those who have failed
Incivek or Victrelis are “perhaps the most difficult-to-treat
population” and have no current options, said Mark Sulkowski, a
doctor at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore who presented
the results.  Bristol-Myers, based in  New York , was working on the
combination with Pharmasset Inc., which developed sofosbuvir,
when Gilead bought the company for $10.8 billion in 2011. Gilead
subsequently focused on developing sofosbuvir in combination
with its own drug, ledipasvir. That combination cured 100
percent of patients in a mid-stage patient study, and the
company is testing it in two late-stage studies.  Combo Trials?  Gilead and Bristol have planned no further trials of the
combo because  Foster City , California-based Gilead is focusing
on a cocktail that contains only its own drugs. “We believe
that we have been able to advance the development of SOF
(sofosbuvir)/ledipasvir much more quickly than would have been
possible with any inter-company collaboration,” Gilead’s chief
scientific officer Norbert Bischofberger said in an e-mail.  Bristol is  “committed to driving advances in hepatitis C
research both through internal development and external
collaborations to study the best treatments” and is working
with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Janssen unit to study daclatasvir with
simeprevir, it said in an e-mail.  Still, while ledipasvir may be effective against patients
with hepatitis C genotype 1, the most common form worldwide, it
may not work for those with genotype 3, which accounts for about
25 percent of cases in Europe and 45 percent in the U.K., said
 Graham Cooke , a clinician at  Imperial College London .
Daclatasvir and sofosbuvir are both active in that group, he
said.  “We probably have a better option for G3 that we could be
using if the companies were cooperating,” Cooke said in an
interview. “Daclatasvir and sofosbuvir looks much better but
Gilead very clearly want to develop in-house.”  Off-Label Combo?  Prescribing the two drugs as an off-label combination may
be too expensive because they’ll probably have high prices as
individual therapies whereas Gilead’s cocktail may be cheaper,
he said.  Off-label use may also be dangerous, said Jean-Michel
Pawlotsky, a professor of medicine at the University of Paris-Est.  “We don’t have enough safety data,” Pawlotsky said in an
interview. “If a doctor does that and there’s a major accident,
the doctor is liable. It’s dangerous but I know that people will
do it.”  Bristol-Myers agreed last week to study daclatasvir in
combination with Merck’s MK-5172. This month it also agreed to
test the drug together with Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Vertex’s VX-135.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  