-- Google’s Schmidt Warns of Governments Restricting Online Freedom
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/google-s-schmidt-warns-of-governments-restricting-online-freedom.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Executive Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said governments around the world are likely to threaten
Internet freedom, requiring efforts now to ensure people around
the world will remain connected online.  Schmidt, speaking at the “ Big Tent D.C. ” event in
 Washington  yesterday, said society needs to pursue technical
solutions to prevent governments from controlling the flow of
information on the Internet. Google hosted the event in
partnership with Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  After recently co-authoring the book “ The New Digital
Age ,” Schmidt is extolling the power of online access that
helped school girls avoid bombings in Libya and helped maimed
women in  Pakistan  move on with their lives. He also touted the
importance of the falling prices of mobile devices in helping
bring more digital access to the developing world.  “This mobile revolution that we’re all sort of part of
will become the defining story for most people in the next five
to 10 years,” Schmidt said.  Schmidt also called for better Web security against attacks
that squelch online access and protection for those silenced by
governments for voicing their opinions on the Internet.  “They’re going to be tempted to get control,” Schmidt
said. “They’re going to be tempted to filter and to otherwise
restrict what’s going on.”  Open Web  Schmidt’s comments come after another executive at his
company, Nelson Mattos, praised the potential of mobile at an
event in San Francisco on April 23 that was organized by the
World Affairs Council and Bloomberg. Mattos, who is vice
president of product and engineering for  Europe  and  emerging
markets  at Google, said mobile technology is helping women
advance in business and society.  At yesterday’s event in Washington, speakers and panelists
warned about overreacting to terrorist threats, such as the
Boston bombing, in ways that curtail Americans’ speech and other
rights, including access to material on the Internet.  “It’s a false choice to say that, as individuals who are
radical become moved to violent extremism, we somehow have to
curtail our civil rights and civil liberties in order to protect
ourselves,” Jane Holl Lute, outgoing deputy secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security, said at the event. “It’s not a
crime in this country to be radical, it’s not a crime in this
country to be extreme, where we all become concerned is when
that radicalism and extremism translates into acts of violence,
even imminent acts of violence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  