-- Iceland Sours on Austerity as Pre-Crisis Parties Close on Power
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-04-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/iceland-sours-on-austerity-as-pre-crisis-parties-close-on-power.html
Icelanders, burdened by more than
four years of hardship, are poised to oust the government and
return to power the parties that steered the island through a
banking-led boom that ended in economic ruin 2008.  Voters in the 322,000-people North Atlantic island nation
head to the polls today, with a preliminary result expected
after the voting ends at 10 p.m. local time.  “No government that’s forced to raise taxes enormously and
cut all services down to the bone will become popular,” Eirikur Bergmann, a political science professor at Bifrost University,
said this week in an interview. “The current government is
headed for the greatest defeat in Iceland’s history.”  Polls show voters have abandoned the Social Democratic
Alliance and the Left Green Party coalition, which took over
after street protests ousted an Independence Party-led
government in 2009. Independence and its pro-deregulation ally,
the Progressive Party, are now set for a comeback, tapping voter
fatigue as the nation struggles to dig itself out of the
collapse triggered by the failure of its three-largest banks.  The government will win only 25.6 percent of the votes
combined, according to the latest poll. Support for the
Progressive and Independence Parties was 25.4 percent and 22.9
percent, respectively, according to Frettabladid and Stod 2 poll
released on April 26.  Debt Burdened  While Social Democratic Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir has won praise from the  International Monetary
Fund  and debt rating companies for her handling of the crisis,
voters are burdened by excessive mortgage debt and an
 unemployment rate  that’s still more than double pre-crisis
levels. Unemployment was 6.8 percent in March, up from below 2
percent in 2007, according to a monthly survey from the
Statistics Office.  The government has made close to 300 changes to the tax
system, including raising income, value-added and corporate
taxes. The government dropped a 37 percent flat tax, raising the
highest marginal  tax rate  to 46.2 percent and also introduced a
1.5 percent wealth tax on fortunes above 75 million kronur
($638,000). New taxes have also been levied on natural resources
and the tourist industry, as well as bank employees.  The parties have been outbidding each other with promises
of debt writedowns and tax cuts, measures they say will be paid
for by the creditors of the failed banks.  Debt Writedowns  The Progressive Party, one of the pre-crisis architects of
financial deregulation, has pledged to writedown mortgages by as
much as 20 percent, which in part will be financed by the 450
billion kronur of domestic-currency assets held by creditors in
the failed  Kaupthing Bank hf , Glitnir Bank hf and Landsbanki
Islands hf.  The Independence Party, a potential government partner with
the Progressives, has pledged cutting taxes to ease the
financial pain of consumers and corporations.  “In most matters it will be pretty easy for the
Progressive Party and the Independence Party to reach an
agreement, which can be the basis of them forming a
government,” said Olafur Hardarson, a professor in political
science at the  University of Iceland , in an interview this week.
“However, the promises of the Progressives to write down
mortgages and abolish the inflation indexation of consumer loans
may be a bit tricky.”  Seizing Assets  As forced writedown of creditor claims may also backfire on
Iceland’s economic resurrection, according to Lars Christensen,
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ’s chief  emerging markets  economists and one of
the first to predict 2008 collapse.  While there’s a need to ease  household debt , “paying for
that by seizing the assets of foreign investors such as the
creditors of the failed banks isn’t the way,” Christensen said
in an interview this month. “If their assets are seized, the
international investor community won’t soon forget that.”  Iceland emerged from a $4.6 billion IMF-backed rescue
program in 2011 and has since returned to global  capital markets 
with two U.S. dollar bond sales. In January, it won a court
battle against the U.K. and the Netherlands, freeing it from as
much as $2.6 billion in damages for not honoring depositor
claims stemming from failed Landsbanki.  Since 2008, Iceland has relied on  capital controls  now
blocking as much as $8 billion in offshore kronur holdings from
being offloaded. The government and central bank have yet to
design a road map for exiting the controls as they try to avoid
a new crisis. The turmoil in 2008 sent the krona plunging as
much as 80 percent against the euro in the offshore market. Even
the official onshore rate dropped close to 50 percent.  Can’t Refuse  Inflation spurred by krona losses has crippled households.
With more than 80 percent of private debt linked to consumer
prices, Icelanders are more vulnerable to currency swings than
borrowers elsewhere. Households owe domestic lenders about 1.43
trillion kronur ($11.3 billion) in loans indexed to inflation.
They’ve struggled to keep up debt payments as price gains hover
close to 4 percent.  “After a term which has been very difficult financially
for many voters, the Progressives and the Independence Party
have promised solutions which are designed to do away with
people’s financial misery,” said Bergmann. “It’s like making
people an offer they can’t refuse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 