-- Indian Spy on Pakistan Death Row Unconscious After Jail Attack
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-04-27T17:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/indian-spy-on-pakistan-death-row-unconscious-after-jail-attack.html
A convicted Indian spy on death row
in Pakistan was unconscious and on a ventilator in a Lahore
hospital after sustaining head injuries in a jail attack by
fellow prisoners.  Pakistani doctors were working to revive Sarabjit Singh,
according to a statement issued by the country’s foreign
ministry in Islamabad today. In  India , Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  called the attack “very sad,”  Press Trust of India 
reported, adding that Indian officials had been granted access
to the injured man.  Sarabjit Singh was arrested in 1990 and later found guilty
of spying and involvement in deadly bomb blasts in Pakistani
cities. His family have said the man hails from a border village
in the northern Indian state of Punjab and had crossed the
frontier by mistake.  The incident may spark fresh tension between Pakistan and
India, nuclear-armed neighbors which in January and February
engaged in some of their most serious cross-border skirmishes in
almost a decade in the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir. The
fighting strained efforts to repair ties shattered by the Mumbai
terrorist strike in 2008.  India last year executed the only one of 10  Pakistan  gunmen
to be captured alive during the Mumbai attack. It has since
executed a Kashmiri man found guilty of playing a role in a 2001
raid on India’s parliament.  “He was attacked by two prisoners with steel bars and
bricks in jail,” Sarabjit Singh’s lawyer, Awais Sheikh, said by
phone from Lahore. “Jail authorities are responsible. It’s
criminal negligence.”  ‘Very Critical’  India and Pakistan resumed peace talks in 2011 more than
two years after they were broken off following the attack by
Pakistani militants on Mumbai that killed 166 people.  Pakistan’s government provided consular access to officials
of the Indian High Commission in Islamabad to visit Singh in the
hospital, according to the statement. It also instructed its
high commission in  New Delhi  to facilitate visas to Singh’s
family members. Visas have been issued to Singh’s wife, two
daughters and a sister, according to the private Pakistani
television channel Geo.  “Singh is in a very critical condition,” lawyer Sheikh
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  