-- Knicks, Spurs on Verge of NBA Series Sweeps; Warriors Top Denver
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-27T05:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/knicks-win-90-76-at-celtics-to-take-3-0-nba-playoff-series-lead.html
Carmelo Anthony scored 26 points
and the New York Knicks won 90-76 to take a three-games-to-none
playoff series lead against the Boston Celtics, who were playing
at home for the first time since the Boston bombings.  The San Antonio Spurs defeated the  Los Angeles  Lakers
120-89 to lead their series 3-0, and the Golden State Warriors
topped the Denver Nuggets 110-108 to earn a 2-1 advantage in
their first-round National Basketball Association series.  New York can complete a sweep of the best-of-seven series
with a win tomorrow at TD Garden in Boston. It would be their
first playoff series victory in 13 years, stretching back to
when they reached the 2000 Eastern Conference finals.  “It wasn’t easy,” Anthony said in a televised interview.
“We took our time, executed. We knew they were going to make
some runs. We stayed composed.”  The Celtics and the Lakers would make NBA history if they
rebound from three games down to win their series.  In today’s games, the Indiana Pacers look to take a 3-0
lead on the road against the Atlanta Hawks; the Chicago Bulls
seek to extend their series lead to 3-1 against the visiting
Brooklyn Nets; the Oklahoma City Thunder, playing without guard
 Russell Westbrook , who needs knee surgery, will try to win their
third straight game against the Houston Rockets, and the Memphis
Grizzlies need a win to tie their series 2-2 with the visiting
Los Angeles Clippers.  ‘First Punch’  The Knicks, who opened a 16-point halftime lead, increased
the margin to 21 points early in the fourth quarter.  “That first quarter on the road, you’ve got to make sure
you take that first punch and we did that,” New York’s  Jason Kidd  said.  J.R. Smith, who was ejected when his elbow caught  Jason
Terry  in the face with seven minutes left, and  Raymond Felton 
added 15 points apiece for the Knicks.  Jeff Green  had 21 points
and  Kevin Garnett  had 12 points and 17 rebounds for the Celtics,
who were held to 40 percent shooting.  “I didn’t think we showed up not to play well,” Celtics
coach Doc Rivers told reporters. “I thought overall our effort
was there, I thought we did lose our spirit early on.”  The Celtics wore green t-shirts saying “Boston stands as
one” as they honored the victims and first responders of the
April 15 Boston Marathon bombings with a moment of silence
before the game. Four people were killed and more than 175
injured when bombs exploded near the race’s finish line.  Injured Lakers  At Staples Center in Los Angeles,  Tim Duncan  scored 26
points and  Tony Parker  had 20 for the Spurs, who had a 55-44
halftime lead.  The Lakers, playing without injured scoring leader  Kobe Bryant , were led by  Dwight Howard  with 25 points and 11 rebounds
and Darius Morris, who had 24 points. They host Game 4 tomorrow.  At Oracle Arena in Oakland, California, Stephen Curry had
29 points and 11 assists while Jarrett Jack added 23 points as
the Warriors rallied from a 66-54 halftime deficit.  Ty Lawson had 35 points and 10 assists for Denver, followed
by Corey Brewer’s 16 points.  The Warriors host Game 4 tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  