-- New York City Employee Pension Funds Sue BP Over Gulf Oil Spill
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-27T00:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/new-york-city-employee-pension-funds-sue-bp-over-gulf-oil-spill.html
New York City pension funds sued  BP
Plc (BP/)  for at least $39 million in investment losses, saying the
 oil company  failed to disclose the risks and safety issues
leading to the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster in the  Gulf of
Mexico .  The company misled investors and attempted to minimize the
damage and cost to shareholders after the spill began, according
to a complaint unsealed today in federal court in  Manhattan . The
case was originally filed April 17 by pension funds for city
workers, teachers, police officers and firefighters.  The estimated transactional investment losses to city
pension beneficiaries caused by BP’s misconduct and fraudulent
behavior exceed $39 million, City Comptroller  John Liu  said in
an e-mailed statement today.  “BP failed to disclose to shareowners the serious risks
involved in its offshore drilling operation,” Liu said. “After
the spill began, it misleadingly attempted to minimize the
extent of the damage and the cost to shareowners.”  The April 20, 2010, blowout of BP’s Macondo well and the
subsequent explosion sent 4 million barrels of oil into the
Gulf. The blast aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig killed
11 workers and set off the largest offshore  oil spill  in U.S.
history.  Criminal Penalties  Last year BP agreed to pay an estimated $8.5 billion to
settle lawsuits by most plaintiffs as well as $4 billion to the
U.S. government in criminal penalties. The company is also
facing claims from plaintiffs who weren’t covered by last year’s
settlement and as much as $17 billion in fines over violations
of the U.S. Clean Water Act.  Liu said the funds are barred from suing the company under
federal securities laws because of a 2012 Supreme Court ruling.
The current lawsuit focuses on state law claims to recover
losses, he said in the statement.  A consolidated shareholder lawsuit against BP is pending in
federal court in Houston.  The New York case is New York City Employees Retirement
System v. BP Plc, 13-2551, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  