-- Nomura Asset Seizure Rejected by Italian Judge in Paschi Probe
-- B y   S e r g i o   D i   P a s q u a l e ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-04-27T10:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/nomura-asset-seizure-rejected-by-italian-judge-in-paschi-probe.html
An Italian judge rejected a request
by prosecutors to seize as much as 1.95 billion euros ($2.5
billion) of assets held by  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  as they probe
how  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  used derivatives to
conceal losses.  The judge in Siena took the decision late yesterday,
prosecutor Nicola Marini told reporters at a court in the city.
Marini said he didn’t have details of the reasoning behind the
ruling.  Italian prosecutors are probing claims that Nomura
executives colluded with Monte Paschi’s former managers to
design one of two derivatives in 2008 and 2009 that hid as much
as 557 million euros of losses at the Italian bank. Tokyo-based
Nomura, which isn’t under investigation, said last week that it
will “vigorously” contest any suggestion of wrongdoing.  Most of the assets sought from the Japanese broker consist
of assets pledged by Monte Paschi to Nomura as security for the
derivatives contracts and deposited in  Germany .  Nomura dropped 0.7 percent to 762 yen in  Tokyo  yesterday,
falling for the first day in three.  The German central bank rejected  Italy ’s request to seize
the assets last week because it hadn’t received a request valid
under German law, a person with knowledge of the situation said
at the time. Prosecutors may seek an international court order,
the person said.  Nomura Derivatives  Monte Paschi sought a 4.1 billion-euro bailout from the
Italian government in February, its second in four years, as its
capital shortfall widened. The bank has lost 32 percent of its
 market value  since Jan. 17, when  Bloomberg News  first reported
the lender’s use of derivatives, which had never been fully
disclosed to shareholders.  As part of the transaction arranged by Nomura and dubbed
Alexandria, Monte Paschi bought Italian  government bonds  using a
loan from Nomura. It swapped the fixed-rate interest
payments on the bonds with a floating rate and guaranteed the
credit risk, effectively making a bet on the future
value of Italian government debt. Monte Paschi was forced to
post more margin, or security against the derivatives, with
Nomura as the securities tumbled during  Europe ’s fiscal crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Sergio Di Pasquale in Milan at 
 sdipasquale1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  