-- Tottenham Maintain Champions League Hunt With Draw at Wigan
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-27T18:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/tottenham-maintain-champions-league-hunt-with-late-draw-at-wigan.html
Tottenham rallied for a 2-2 draw at
Wigan in the English Premier League to stay in the hunt for a
place in the  Champions League  next season.  An Emerson Boyce own goal in the final minute earned
Tottenham the draw and sees the north London club join fourth-
place Chelsea on 62 points, one fewer than Arsenal, as the three
battle for the final two qualifying places in European soccer’s
Champions League.  Manchester City, which relinquished its league title to
Manchester United earlier this week, strengthened its hold on
second place with 2-1 win over West Ham. Three players were sent
off as West Brom beat Southampton 3-0, Stoke beat Norwich 1-0,
Everton defeated Fulham 1-0 and Liverpool routed Newcastle 6-0.  Wigan was poised to move out of the three relegation places
at the bottom of the 20-team standings before a low ball into
the box in the final minute deflected in off Boyce’s leg to tie
the score.  Spurs almost won in the final seconds of stoppage time as
Gareth Bale’s free kick was punched out by goalkeeper Joel
Robles, who stopped  Tom Huddlestone ’s shot off the rebound
before another attempt from Jermain Defoe was blocked by the
defense.  Bale had given Tottenham the lead in the ninth minute as he
jumped and deflected Robles’s clearing attempt with his foot
back into the net.  League Champion  Wigan tied the game two minutes later as Boyce headed in a
corner kick. The Latics then took the lead four minutes into the
second half as Callum McManaman sent a left-footed shot from the
edge of the area past Hugo Lloris.  Tottenham and Arsenal have four games remaining and Chelsea
has five. Arsenal hosts league champion United tomorrow, when
Chelsea plays Swansea.  Sergio Aguero and  Yaya Toure  scored as Manchester City beat
West Ham to move eight points clear of Arsenal. Andy Carroll
scored in second-half stoppage time for West Ham.  Marc-Antoine Fortune, Romelu Lukaku and  Shane Long  scored
in West Brom’s win at Southampton. Fortune and Southampton’s
Gaston Ramirez were red-carded after a scuffle in the 69th
minute. Southampton’s Danny Fox was then sent off for a two-
footed challenge 12 minutes later.  Charlie Adam  scored early in the second half as Stoke beat
Norwich, while Steven Pienaar’s goal lifted Everton pasts
Fulham.  Jordan Henderson  and  Daniel Sturridge  scored two goals each
in Liverpool’s rout of Newcastle. Liverpool was without top
scorer  Luis Suarez , who today began a 10-match ban for biting
Chelsea’s Branislav Ivanovic in an April 21 game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 