-- House Joins Senate Voting to End Air-Controller Furloughs
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-27T15:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/house-joins-senate-voting-to-end-air-controller-furloughs.html
Congress passed legislation to end
days of flight delays stemming from air-traffic controller
furloughs, letting the Federal Aviation Administration work
around across-the-board spending cuts that kicked in last month.  The House cleared the measure 361-41 yesterday after the
Senate unanimously passed the bipartisan bill the previous
night. The bill lets the FAA move as much as $253 million within
its budget to end furloughs, or unpaid days off. President
 Barack Obama  will sign the bill, spokesman  Jay Carney  said.  “We can’t just keep putting Band-Aids on every cut,”
Democrat Obama said in his weekly address today. “It’s not a
responsible way to govern. There is only one way to truly fix
the sequester: by replacing it before it causes further
damage.”  Flight delays since rolling furloughs of 10 percent of U.S.
controllers began April 21 have become the focus of debate on
the mandatory spending cuts known as sequestration and led to
calls from airlines and airport operators for a solution.  Congressional Air Travel  Obama in his address suggested that members of Congress
realized the effects of the FAA cuts because they fly home each
weekend. He said lawmakers should use the “same sense of
urgency and bipartisan cooperation” to pass a deficit reduction
bill.  House Transportation  and Infrastructure Committee Chairman
Bill Shuster said “the administration and the FAA has refused
for months to provide us with a plan, to work with the  airline
industry  to figure out how this could be implemented without all
this pain to the traveling public and the economy.”  “I believe this has been mismanaged. I believe this will
force them to stop these needless furloughs,” Schuster, a
Pennsylvania Republican who voted for the measure, said
yesterday.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
said the bill also gives the FAA enough flexibility to avert the
planned June 15 closing of 149 small-airport control towers
operated by agency contractors. Lawmakers voted on the measure
before leaving for a week-long recess.  Other Workers  In addition to the 15,000 controllers, the measure also
will end unpaid time off for 11,000 FAA employees who perform
essential services, such as safety inspectors and technicians,
Kori Blalock Keller, a spokeswoman for the Professional Aviation
Safety Specialists union, said in an interview.  The union had been assured by FAA Administrator Michael Huerta that its members wouldn’t be subject to furloughs if the
bill passed, Keller said.  “We obviously appreciate the fix, but we are looking at
the long term,” she said. “We need a long-term fix to
sequestration. This is by no means the end.”  The delays since April 21 show the need for fully staffed
airport towers, the National Air Traffic Controllers Association
union said in a statement applauding the bipartisan vote.  Under sequestration, the FAA had to pare $637 million from
its budget for fiscal 2013, which ends Sept. 30.  Cuts’ Effect  House Democrats decried the move to single out the aviation
agency for budget relief while not changing across-the-board
cuts in programs for the poor, such as Head Start.  “We ought not to be mitigating the sequester’s effect on
just one segment when children, the sick, our military and many
other groups who will be impacted by this irresponsible policy
will be left unhelped,” said Representative  Steny Hoyer  of
 Maryland , the No. 2 House Democrat.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said the havoc created for
travelers by the furloughs was a crisis invented by Obama to
gain leverage in the broader debate to replace the automatic
cuts with a debt-reduction agreement.  “It’s unacceptable that the FAA chose not to plan for
sequestration or utilize the flexibility it already has,”
Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , said in a statement after the vote.
“Americans were rightly fed up, and it’s unfortunate that the
House and Senate were forced to step in and fix the problem when
the president chose not to act.”  Controller Payroll  A group representing large airlines heralded congressional
passage of the FAA legislation.  “This measure ensures that air-traffic controllers can
return to work, and importantly return efficiency to the
national air space,”  Nicholas Calio , chief executive officer of
Airlines for America, the Washington-based trade group
representing the largest U.S. carriers, said in a statement.  At the same time, the Airports Council International-North
America, an airport trade group in Washington, said its response
to the measure was “bittersweet.”  “We are very disappointed that the Airport Improvement
Program was used to pay for this fix, as these funds were paid
by passengers to maintain and enhance airport runways and
taxiways, not fund FAA operations,” said  David Edwards , chief
executive officer of the Greenville-Spartanburg Airport District
in  South Carolina  and chairman of the trade group.  Flight Delays  Delays at major U.S. airports continued yesterday.  Staffing shortages were blamed for late-arriving flights at
the  New York  area’s three major airports -- LaGuardia, Kennedy
International and  New Jersey ’s Newark Liberty International --as
of 6 p.m. local time, according to an FAA  website . Some missed
LaGuardia arrival times by an average of 1 3/4 hours.  Except for weather delays in  San Francisco , other major
U.S. airports were running normally, according to the website.  On-time performance averaged about 77 percent from April 21
through April 25 at America’s major airports, compared with
almost 79 percent for the two months ended April 20, industry
researcher FlightStats Inc. said yesterday in a statement.  “Although traffic in some airports may be experiencing
more delays, the system as a whole is performing on average
consistently,”  Portland , Oregon-based FlightStats said.  Huerta, the FAA chief, told House appropriators April 24
that he had no choice in going ahead with the furloughs of
controllers under government-wide budget cuts. He said there
would be “no effect on safety” for airline passengers.  Salaries account for 70 percent of the agency’s operating
budget, and 40 percent of those expenses go to air-traffic
controllers, he said.  Asked whether he could concentrate furloughs at less-
congested airports, Huerta said the FAA has to avoid picking
“winners and losers” among airlines by sparing larger hubs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  