-- Mississippi Man Charged in Obama Ricin-Letter Case
-- B y   M a r t y   R u s s e l l   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-04-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/second-mississippi-man-charged-in-obama-ricin-letter-case.html
A Tupelo,  Mississippi  owner of a
martial-arts studio was charged in connection with the mailing
of letters containing ricin, a deadly poison, to President
 Barack Obama  and a Republican U.S. senator.  The arrest early yesterday of J. Everett Dutschke, 41,
follows the government’s April 23 dismissal of charges against
Paul Kevin Curtis, 45, an Elvis impersonator from Corinth,
Mississippi, who was initially accused in a probe of the matter.  Dutschke was taken into custody without incident, according
to the FBI. He is charged with knowingly developing, producing
and possessing a biological agent for use as a weapon, said U.S.
Attorney Felicia Adams of the Northern District of Mississippi.
Dutschke faces possible  life imprisonment  if convicted.  Christi McCoy, an attorney for Curtis, said in an April 22
preliminary hearing in federal court in Oxford, Mississippi,
that her client may have been framed for the mailings by
Dutschke, with whom Curtis had a long-running e-mail feud.  Curtis was arrested earlier this month after envelopes
allegedly sent to Obama, a Democrat, and Mississippi Senator
 Roger Wicker  were intercepted April 16 and found to contain “a
suspicious granular substance” that tested positive for ricin.
The letters were signed “I am KC and I approve this message,”
according to the criminal complaint.  The case against Curtis fell apart after an FBI agent
testified at a preliminary hearing that searches failed to turn
up any trace of ricin at Curtis’s home, as well as in his
vehicle and the homes of his ex-wife and parents. An analysis of
his personal computer also found nothing related to ricin, agent
Brandon Grant said. Federal scrutiny quickly turned to Dutschke.  ‘Missing Pieces’  The letters to Obama and Wicker were postmarked April 8 and
both read in part: “No one wanted to listen to me before. There
are still ‘Missing Pieces’ Maybe I have your attention now Even
if that means someone must die.”  Dutschke is scheduled to appear before U.S. Magistrate
Judge S. Allan Alexander in Oxford federal court tomorrow,
according to Adams.  Ricin is made from castor beans and has been used
experimentally in medicine to kill cancer cells, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s
harmful and potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested, according
to the CDC.  At a press conference after Curtis’s release from custody,
McCoy said the idea that he was framed is “very diabolical,
very frightening.”  Body Parts  Curtis, who said he loves his country and would never
threaten the president, stated he will return to performing,
aiding his favorite charity --the Save A Life Foundation -- and
finding a publisher for his book, “Missing Pieces,” a novel he
said exposes a black-market in human body parts.  Curtis and Dutschke have known each other for many years
and Dutschke at one point had a business relationship with
Curtis’s brother, McCoy said at the hearing.  McCoy told Judge Alexander that the dispute between Curtis
and Dutschke was over “who is the biggest liar and is putting
false information on their website.”  She said Dutschke was arrested this year on child
molestation charges and may have thought Curtis was somehow
involved with “the girls coming forward” to authorities.  Child Molestation  Dutschke was indicted on three counts of child molestation
by the Lee County grand jury, according to state court records
in Tupelo. The incidents involving fondling of minor girls
allegedly occurred from 2007 to this year, according to the
indictment. He faces two to 15 years in prison on each count if
convicted.  After Curtis’s release from custody last week, the FBI
searched Dutschke’s home and business. Several phone calls to
Dutschke’s home weren’t answered and no one came to the front
door when a reporter visited on April 24.  Dutschke’s attorney, Lori Nail Basham of Fulton,
Mississippi, didn’t respond to messages left on her office
answering machine today and earlier this week.  Inquiries with Senator Wicker’s staff turned up previous
letters to his Washington office with the sign-off “this is
Kevin Curtis and I approve this message,” according to court
papers.  A third, similar letter with a suspicious substance was
sent on April 8 to a judge in Lee County, where Curtis lives,
the agents said in the affidavit.  All three letters, which had no return address, were on
yellow paper and bore  Memphis ,  Tennessee , postmarks, the agents
said. Letters sent from northern Mississippi, usually bear a
Memphis postmark, according to the affidavit.  Ricin Poisoning  Ricin poisoning symptoms depend on the purity, route of
exposure and the dose. Initial symptoms from inhalation occur as
early as four to six hours after the exposure, and include
difficulty breathing and a cough, according to the CDC.  The symptoms can progress rapidly to fluid within the lungs
and eventually respiratory failure. Deaths from the poison
usually happen within 36 to 72 hours. While no antidote exists,
doctors can counteract the effects of the poisoning by helping
victims breathe or giving them fluids.  The Curtis case is U.S. v. Curtis, 13-mj-00019, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Mississippi (Oxford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marty Russell in Oxford, Mississippi,
at  marty.russell56@gmail.com ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in  Washington 
at   chopkins19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  