-- Valeant in Talks With Actavis on Merger of Generic Drug Makers
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-04-27T01:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/valeant-in-talks-with-actavis-on-merger-of-generic-drug-makers.html
Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX)  and  Actavis (ACT)  Inc., two makers of generic drugs,
have been in talks on a merger, people familiar with the matter
said.  The discussions have been going on for some time, though it
is unclear if the companies will reach an agreement, said one of
the people, who declined to be identified because the
negotiations are private. The Wall Street Journal reported that
Valeant is seeking to acquire Actavis for more than $13 billion,
citing people familiar with the matter.  Laurie Little, a spokeswoman for Montreal-based Valeant,
declined to comment, saying the company doesn’t speak about
“market rumors or speculation.” Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for
Morristown, New Jersey-based Actavis, also declined to comment
citing company policy not to speak about “rumors or speculation
about business development activities.”  Valeant sells branded and generic drugs, including a
variety of skin care products, and earlier this month bid $24 a
share for Obagi Medical Products Inc., a maker of prescription
skin cream products. The company’s bid topped a competing offer
from Merz Pharma GmbH. Valeant yesterday said 85 percent of
Obagi’s shares had been tendered and the purchase was completed.  Valeant has announced or completed 17 deals since January
2010, including its $2.6 billion purchase of Medicis
Pharmaceutical Inc., a skin-care products company, in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cephalon Rejection  The Montreal-based drugmaker’s 2011 hostile takeover of
Cephalon Inc. was rejected by shareholders who later accepted a
$6.2 billion bid from Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., the
world’s largest maker of generic drugs.  Valeant had  sales  of $3.5 billion in 2012 and a market
value of $22.2 billion as of today’s close. The company’s shares
have  gained  31 percent in the past 12 months.  Actavis, the biggest U.S. generic drugmaker, was formed
last year when Parsippany, New Jersey-based Watson
Pharmaceuticals bought Actavis Group hf for about $5.5 billion.
The company changed its name in November to Acatavis because the
brand was more familiar worldwide, officials said at the time.  Actavis  generated  $5.9 billion in 2012 revenue and had a
market value of $12.9 billion as of today’s close, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s shares have increased
36 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  