-- Yen Advances Most Since June on BOJ Speculation; Sterling Climbs
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-04-27T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/yen-advances-most-since-june-on-boj-speculation-sterling-climbs.html
The yen gained the most since June
versus the dollar as the Bank of  Japan  failed to offer
additional stimulus efforts, fueling bets it will fall short in
its effort to stoke economic growth by weakening the currency.  The euro fell for a second week versus the greenback on
speculation the European Central Bank will cut its record-low
key interest rate next week as the region’s economy slumps. The
yen rose as BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said more easing steps
aren’t needed at present and investors sought safety as the U.S.
economy expanded less than forecast. Sterling climbed after the
British economy avoided falling back into recession.  “The BOJ didn’t raise their inflation forecast or do
anything new at this point, which caused dollar-yen to come
lower in favor of the yen,” Brian Kim, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview. “They
have to implement what they announced earlier this month.”  The Japanese currency appreciated 1.5 percent to 98.05 per
dollar this week in New York, the biggest jump since the five
days ended June 1. It lost for the previous three weeks, sliding
to 99.95 on April 11, almost reaching 100 for the first time in
four years. Against the euro, the yen gained 1.7 percent, the
most since February, to 127.73. The 17-nation currency slipped
0.2 percent to $1.3030.  Winners, Losers  The pound was the biggest winner among the dollar’s 16
most-traded counterparts this week, rallying 1.6 percent, while
the Swiss franc dropped the most, 1 percent. The South African
rand was the second-best performer, with a gain of 1.5 percent.  The dollar has appreciated 2.9 percent this year, the
second-most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s dollar was
the biggest winner, adding 5.6 percent The euro strengthened 1.5
percent, while the yen fell 10 percent in the largest loss.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the yen will
decline against the U.S. dollar,  figures  from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other large
speculators on a decline in the yen compared with those on an
increase -- so-called net shorts -- was 79,730 on April 23,
compared with net shorts of 93,411 a week earlier.  Net-short  bets  that the euro will fall against the dollar
increased to 34,275 as of April 23, from 29,764 a week earlier,
CFTC figures showed.  European Economy  The euro declined against most major counterparts as a
report that showed weakening services and manufacturing in the
region added to speculation the ECB will lower interest rates to
spur growth. The central bank meets on May 2. Its main
refinancing rate is 0.75 percent.  A euro-area composite index based on a  survey  of purchasing
managers was 46.5 in April, below the level of 50 that separates
contraction from expansion, London-based Markit Economics said.
A gauge of German manufacturing fell to 47.9, from 49, it said.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said policy makers are
ready to provide more stimulus if data keep suggesting a need.
Inflation rates have “declined rapidly” to 1.7 percent in March,
Constancio said to lawmakers in Brussels on April 24. The ECB
aims to keep inflation just below 2 percent.  “Added weakness in activity indicators and continued
easing in inflation indicators will raise the pressure on the
ECB to provide more stimulus,” said  Jonathan Loynes , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “What form that
will come in -- interest-rate cuts, long-term refinancing
operations or even bolder steps -- remains to be seen. The
hurdles to the ECB undertaking some form of quantitative easing
are a lot lower than some people would suggest.”  Sterling Gains  The pound rose the most in a single day since July against
the dollar after a government report showed the U.K. economy
grew more last quarter than analysts forecast, ensuring the
nation avoided another recession.  The currency advanced after the Office for National
Statistics said  gross domestic product  increased 0.3 percent in
the first quarter. The median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for growth of 0.1 percent.  Sterling ended the week at $1.5473 and touched $1.5499, the
highest since Feb. 19. It jumped 1.1 percent on April 25, the
most since July 26. The pound rose 1.8 percent to 84.19 pence
per euro and reached 83.98, the strongest since Jan. 24.  BOJ Stimulus  The yen gained yesterday after the BOJ maintained its
pledge to double its monetary base in two years. It predicted a
gauge of consumer prices will almost match its 2 percent target
by next fiscal year, reducing the need for more stimulus.  The central bank announced the stimulus program of
increased asset purchases, mainly of government bonds, on April
4 after its  previous meeting .  Japanese investors cut their holdings of overseas bonds for
a sixth straight week through April 19, Ministry of Finance data
showed on April 25, damping speculation they are sending more
funds abroad in search of higher yields.  “What makes people uncertain is that we still haven’t seen
any indication of Japanese flows into foreign assets,” said  Beat Siegenthaler , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at UBS
AG in Zurich.  The yen climbed yesterday as investors sought safety after
data showed U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent
annual rate in the first quarter. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast a 3 percent gain.  The Federal Reserve, which is buying $85 billion of bonds a
month to hold down borrowing costs and spur economic growth,
opens a two-day meeting on April 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  