-- Youku Sees Mobile, Original Content Aiding Profit Push, Koo Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-28T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-27/youku-sees-mobile-original-content-aiding-profit-push-koo-says.html
Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) ,  China ’s largest
online video company, says original programming and a push into
mobile content will help the company as it seeks to post its
first profit since a 2010 initial public offering.  Viewership on mobile applications for smartphones and
tablets like Apple Inc.’s iPad was 50 percent higher this month
than at the end of last year, Victor Koo, chairman and chief
executive of Youku Tudou, said in an interview in Beijing on
April 27. Youku bought rival Tudou Holdings Ltd. last year to
reduce costs for content and bandwidth.  Youku Tudou, which hasn’t been profitable since it listed
on the  New York  Stock Exchange, faces growing competition in
China’s online video market.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  has expanded its video
service with an acquisition as it seeks a greater share of
advertising revenue that’s projected to rise to 16.2 billion
 yuan  in 2014 from 1.36 billion yuan in 2009, according to
Shanghai-based iResearch.  “Online video advertisement is growing very fast, but not
fast enough to support exciting profits,” said Ma Yuan, an
analyst at Bocom International Holdings Co. in Beijing.  Youku Tudou’s net loss more than doubled to 424 million
yuan ($69 million) in 2012 from 172 million yuan a year earlier.
The Beijing-based company is forecast to lose 419 million yuan
this year, according to the average of eight  analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Youku Tudou held about 76 percent of the online video
market in 2012 based on monthly average unique visitors,
according to iResearch.  Losses Narrowing  While Koo said the  company  is on a “clear path to
profitability,” he declined to project when that will happen.  “The losses are narrowing on a sequential basis,” Koo
said. “We are still in a growth investment mode, especially
with mobile and original content. The good thing is our revenue
is also growing healthily.”  Mobile traffic is increasing “very, very strongly” with
150 million daily video views at the start of this month
compared with 100 million at the end of last year, Koo said. The
company gets more than 90 percent of revenue from advertising
although paid video services are growing at “high double-digit
or triple digit rates,” he said.  One bright spot is greater success in charging for original
content, Koo said. The company made almost as much charging for
views of its own popular series of videos called “Hip Hop Web
Movies” as it did from paid viewings of the movie “Life of
Pi,” Koo said. He didn’t disclose revenue figures for either.  Youku Tudou  shares  have gained 3.7 percent this year,
compared with an 8.1 percent decline in the Bloomberg China-U.S.
Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S.  Separate Brands  The  company  is dividing the business into three main units,
maintaining separate brands for the Youku and Tudou online video
operations with a third division managing search and premium
accounts.  Wei Ming was this month named president of Youku with Yang Weidong to lead Tudou as the company tries to boost efficiency
and create separate brands for the two services.  Baidu, owner of China’s most popular search engine,
acquired online video site iQiyi.com last year. Robin Li,
chairman and chief executive officer at Baidu, said he expects
the site to become profitable.  “We will continue to support iQiyi to grow, but right now
it is still burning money,” Li said on April 26.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net 
YOKU US <Equity>
BIDU US <Equity> 