-- ‘Matilda,’ ‘Frankenstein’ Win Oliviers; Law Gets Nothing
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-04-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/-frankenstein-anna-christie-win-u-k-theater-olivier-awards.html
“Matilda the Musical,” the story
of an overachieving girl who discovers she has supernatural
powers, swept up seven Laurence Olivier Awards, the U.K.’s
highest stage honors, including best new musical and director.
The production is due to transfer to Broadway next year.  Jude Law and Kristin Scott Thomas -- who were shortlisted
in the acting categories for “Anna Christie” and “Betrayal,”
respectively -- got nothing last night. The best-actor award was
won by Benedict Cumberbatch and Jonny Lee Miller, who alternated
in the part of “Frankenstein” at the National Theatre, while
Ruth Wilson took the best-actress trophy for “Anna Christie,”
which was also chosen as the best revival.  The evening’s other big loser was the hit comedy “One Man,
Two Guvnors,” starring  James Corden , which is opening on
Broadway. It won none of the five prizes it was up for.  The Olivier Awards originated in 1976. They are organized
by the Society of  London  Theatre, which represents the
producers, theater owners and managers of 52 major subsidized
and commercial theaters in central London.  “Matilda” -- a Royal Shakespeare Company production
adapted by Dennis Kelly with a score by Tim Minchin -- saw the
four girls alternating in the lead part share the Olivier for
best actress in a musical. Bertie Carvel was picked as best
actor in a musical, and Matthew Warchus won the best-director
trophy.  Minchin’s Joke  “Obviously it’s incredibly hard for us to get on stage
after those four little twerps,” joked Minchin, as he collected
the prize for best new musical minutes after the pre-adolescent
actresses had been on stage. “The little maggots make it very
hard for us to be attractive to listen to at all.”  “Collaborators,” staged at the National Theatre’s
Cottesloe, was voted best new play.  English National Opera won the award for outstanding
achievement in opera “for the breadth and diversity of its
artistic program.” Its “Castor and Pollux” (by Rameau,
directed by Barrie Kosky) garnered the prize for best new opera
production.  Royal Ballet Principal Edward Watson won the top dance
award for his performance in “The Metamorphosis” at the
Linbury Studio, beating Sylvie Guillem in “6000 Miles Away” at
the Sadler’s Wells Theatre. Akram Khan’s “Desh,” staged at
Sadler’s Wells, was voted best new dance production.  The awards were given out in a televised ceremony at the
Royal Opera House in London. The Oliviers are sponsored by
 Mastercard Inc. (MA)   Today’s Muse highlights: Scott Reyburn reports on a  Ferrari
auction ; Elin McCoy reviews the new  Bordeaux  vintage.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 