-- AB InBev Nears Agreement for Dominican Republic Brewer
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-04-15T22:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/ab-inbev-nears-agreement-for-dominican-republic-brewer.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  is nearing
an agreement to gain control of Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana,
the Dominican Republic brewer, said two people with knowledge of
the transaction.  The move would bring the maker of Presidente beer under AB
InBev’s Brazil-based AmBev unit, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the negotiations are private. An
announcement may come as early as today, they said.  AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer, is among beermakers
seeking to expand in  emerging markets  and a CND purchase would
be the latest in a series of beer deals during the past year.
Molson Coors Brewing Co. this month agreed to buy StarBev LP,
giving it access to countries such as the Czech Republic, while
Kirin Holdings Co.,  Japan ’s largest brewer, last year agreed to
buy Brazil’s Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes.  In the transaction under discussion, AmBev and CND would
merge their operations in the Dominican Republic, one of the
people with knowledge of the matter said. AmBev would get
control of the venture, this person said, while CND’s current
owner, Grupo Leon Jimenes, would retain a stake in the business.  A transaction could be worth as much as $2.5 billion, the
Wall Street Journal reported on April 11.  Vied With Heineken  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-biggest brewer, had been
vying with AB InBev for CND, a person familiar with the
discussions said. Amsterdam-based Heineken owns a 9.3 percent
stake in CND, according to Heineken’s  website .  Marianne Amssoms, an AB InBev spokeswoman, declined to
comment. Spokesmen for AmBev and CND didn’t respond to calls and
e-mails sent outside of normal business hours. A Heineken
spokesman declined to comment.  AB InBev gained the majority of revenue last year from
 North America  and  Latin America  and owns the biggest brewer in
Brazil, Cia. de Bebidas das Americas, otherwise known as AmBev.  The company has sought to boost sales by introducing
Budweiser beer into countries including Russia, China and
 Brazil , as well as a new variety of Bud Light beer, called
Platinum, in the U.S.  AB InBev, based in Leuven,  Belgium , was created when InBev
NV acquired U.S.-based Anheuser-Busch Cos. in 2008 for $52
billion. AB Inbev fell 58 cents to 54.12 euros in Brussels
trading on April 13. The  shares  have risen 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  