-- ABN Amro Shrinking to Shadow as Dutch Rue Pride of Nation Lost
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-04-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/abn-amro-shrinking-to-shadow-as-dutch-rue-pride-of-nation-lost.html
When the curtain rises at the Royal
Theater in The Hague, an actor playing former  ABN Amro  Holding
NV Chief Executive Officer Rijkman Groenink, an avid hunter,
drops a dead deer upon the stage.  The rest of the  drama , titled De Prooi, or The Prey,
recounts the events that led the hunter to become the hunted,
culminating in the 2007 sale and splintering of ABN Amro, then
the largest Dutch bank. More shows were added in Amsterdam and
Rotterdam after the production, based on a book by Jeroen Smit,
sold out in those cities before opening.  The play’s success points to unhealed wounds in the
national pride of the Dutch, for centuries among the leaders in
global trade and finance. The record 71.9 billion-euro ($94
billion) takeover of ABN Amro by three banks on the cusp of the
financial crisis led to the company’s breakup just as the credit
crunch forced the Dutch government to nationalize parts of the
institution and bail out firms such as  ING Groep NV. (INGA)  The tumult
left the financial industry smaller in size and influence.  “Power, that was the game that was played,” said Arnoud Boot, a professor of corporate finance and financial markets at
the University of Amsterdam. “That applied to governments too,
striving for bigger financial centers than their countries
needed. Now, the government doesn’t know what to do with its
banking sector, and it will probably take a decade of trial and
error to figure it out.”  Banking Bailouts  Reverberations from ABN Amro’s takeover in October 2007
spread beyond the Netherlands. The deal contributed to the
collapse of two of the acquirers, Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and Fortis, based in Brussels and the Dutch
city of Utrecht. In the process, it redefined the debate on too-
big-to-fail banks.  In the three-way purchase, Fortis, at the time the largest
Belgian financial-services company, bought ABN Amro’s Dutch
consumer-banking arm as well as its asset-management and private
banking units. RBS took the Asian and investment-banking
operations, while Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  acquired the
Brazilian and Italian divisions.  As the financial crisis swept across Europe in October 2008,
the Netherlands had to prop up its banks. The government
purchased Fortis’s Dutch banking and insurance units, including
its portion of Amsterdam-based ABN Amro, for 16.8 billion euros.
Additional assistance pushed the rescue to about 30 billion
euros, while separate bailouts for ING,  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  and  Aegon
NV (AGN)  drove the state’s costs higher.  Getting Smaller  Now the Netherlands owns a bank bearing the ABN Amro name
that’s less than half the size of its predecessor when measured
by assets, and has 24,225 employees, down from almost 108,000 in
2006. The bank’s footprint, which formerly extended to 56
countries, has shrunk to 23, and it gets 82 percent of operating
income from the Netherlands, compared with 21 percent from its
Dutch business unit in 2006.  The lender currently has a value of about 12 billion euros,
or about a sixth of the price it sold for five years ago,
according to estimates by Benoit Petrarque, an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets in Amsterdam.  The Dutch financial industry currently measures about 4.8
times the size of the economy. While that ranks among the
highest in the world, it’s down from 5.8 in 2007, according to
the country’s government planning agency CPB. It’s likely to get
smaller, as Amsterdam-based ING -- now the country’s  biggest 
financial company -- hives off its global insurance operations
to meet European Union conditions for its rescue.  On the Map  “Before the crisis, the Dutch mindset was on the
Netherlands as a financial center and getting Dutch banks on the
map,” said Harald Benink, a professor of banking and finance at
Tilburg University. “Now the discussion has turned as we’ve
seen how risks attached to large lenders can disrupt
economies.”  The Dutch are still poring over the events that shook the
nation’s banking industry. A parliamentary committee said April
11 that the government took on “large” risks with too little
transparency and poor execution in its bailouts of Fortis, ABN
Amro and ING in 2008 and 2009.  Lawmaker Jan de Wit, who headed the investigation into the
measures taken by the Dutch authorities, submitted his report in
 The Hague  after the committee conducted more than 130 interviews
under oath. Fortis’s difficulties were mostly related to its
part in the takeover of ABN Amro, a deal the Dutch central bank
and the ministry of finance shouldn’t have allowed, De Wit said.  ‘Reduced to Pieces’  “ABN Amro, the pride of the nation built over almost 200
years, was reduced to pieces within a couple of years time,
within the law,” Johan Doesburg, the director of The Prey,
writes in the program that’s distributed at the show. “That
fascinates, surprises and annoys me.”  The drama, performed by actors of the theater group Het
Nationale Toneel, opened March 10 and will be staged in cities
across the Netherlands until June 9. Reviews, from culture and
financial critics, praised Doesburg and writer Sophie Kassies
for bringing a business story to life on stage.  Gerrit Zalm, a former Dutch finance minister, has been
charged with preparing what’s left of ABN Amro for a sale as
soon as 2014. As CEO, he plans to strengthen the bank’s position
in the Netherlands, while selectively expanding the
international network to serve Dutch customers. The company
reopened offices in  Hong Kong , the U.S. and  Russia  last year,
and will start a representative office in  Shanghai  this month.  ABN Amro bought LGT Group’s German private-banking unit in
2011 and regained some Dutch investment-banking staff from Royal
Bank of Scotland in March.  Looking for Growth  Zalm is bidding to generate growth from ABN Amro activities
including trade and commodities finance, equities and
derivatives clearing and its private-banking unit, which ranks
third in the euro region by assets under management, according
to a July study from Scorpio Partnership, a London-based
research firm. Zalm, 59, didn’t respond to an e-mail asking for
comment sent to his press department. ABN Amro spokesman Jeroen van Maarschalkerweerd declined to comment.  ABN Amro paid its first dividend to the Dutch state in
September. The bank earned 665 million euros last year, a
fraction of the 4.7 billion-euro profit it made in 2006, and up
from a loss of 417 million euros in 2010. The company was hurt
that year by an 812 million-euro charge tied to the EU-ordered
sale of part of Dutch commercial client activities, including
Hollandsche Bank Unie NV, to Deutsche Bank AG.  Costs fell to 64 percent of income in 2011 from 75 percent
in 2009 after the bank reduced the workforce by 18 percent. A
further round of 2,350 cuts currently underway should bring the
ratio to less than 60 percent by 2014, the bank said in August.  ‘Ready’ by 2014  “Operationally, in terms of costs, they should be ready
for a listing by 2014,” said Cor Kluis, an Utrecht-based
analyst at Rabobank International. “They did a good job at
getting that under control.”  ABN Amro, formed in 1991 by the merger of the two biggest
Dutch banks, AMRO Bank and Algemene Bank Nederland NV, traces
its roots to a trading company set up by King Willem I in 1824.  Groenink, 62, who took over as CEO in 2000, pledged that
year to make ABN Amro one of the top five banks by shareholder
returns among a group of 20 peers, including New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and ING.  To get there, he set out to double corporate and investment
banking revenue over four years, an effort that failed as the
collapse of technology and Internet shares caused global stock
markets to  slump . ABN Amro later decided to reorganize and scale
back its corporate and investment bank, and concentrate on the
“mid-market” consumer and business segments.  Reaching Target  By 2006, ABN Amro’s holdings spread from LaSalle Bank in
 Chicago , North America’s 15th biggest lender by deposits, to
Banco Real, the third-largest privately-owned bank in  Brazil .
That year it bought  Italy ’s  Banca Antonveneta SpA (AABA)  for 7.5
billion euros as part of a strategy to build up its consumer and
business clients in four markets: the Netherlands, Italy, the
U.S. Midwest and Brazil.  Investors chafed against the bank’s changing focus and the
underperformance of the shares. The goal to become one of the
top five of a self-selected group of banks haunted Groenink for
the rest of his tenure. The target was achieved only when the
company became a takeover candidate in October 2007 and ABN Amro
ranked second, up from 16th at the end of 2006.  U.K. hedge fund TCI Fund Management sent a letter to ABN
Amro in February 2007, urging management to consider a break-up.
Dutch Central Bank President  Nout Wellink  called the demand a
“bridge too far.” Charlie McCreevy, then the EU’s financial-
services commissioner, took a different view, saying  hedge funds 
should be encouraged rather than attacked for putting pressure
on companies to improve their performance.  Hedge Fund Pressure  A month after the TCI letter, London-based Barclays Plc and
ABN Amro agreed on initial merger terms and a formal offer was
made on April 23. Two days later, the RBS-led group made a
higher cash-and-shares offer.  Groenink, who initially sought to fend off the plan to
dismantle his bank, conceded in July that he could no longer
recommend Barclays’s bid over the “financially superior”
alternative. In the end, the central bank said it didn’t have
grounds to block the group’s bid.  In The Prey, Groenink, played by Mark Rietman, is portrayed
as ambitious and isolated. The bank’s inability to present a
unified strategy for its disparate units in the Netherlands,
Italy, Brazil and the U.S. is blamed for a failure to boost
earnings and the share price, leaving ABN Amro vulnerable.  ‘Dead Against It’  Groenink told a first parliamentary probe led by De Wit in
February 2010 that ABN Amro “didn’t succeed in showing the
market we had a consistent strategy that we were executing.” Of
the takeover by RBS, Fortis and Santander, Groenink said he was
“dead against it. I was in favor of a merger with Barclays.”
He declined to comment for this article.  The former CEO, who said he received about 26 million euros
when his ABN Amro shares were purchased as part of the
acquisition, told students at the University of Amsterdam in
April 2010 that he felt “a kind of glee” that the acquirers
had “bled” for his share options.  The Dutch government intends to sell ABN Amro as early as
2014, preferably through an initial public offering, according
to Finance Minister Jan Kees  de Jager . Recouping the full amount
invested by the Netherlands in the bank will be difficult, De
Jager has said. In remarks made in February, Groenink agreed.  “I think it will be very hard for the current management,
in light of the nature and size of the bank and the earnings
capacity it has, to make so much profit and raise the value of
the company to a size that the full amount can be recouped,”
Groenink told an audience of 200 students on the Dutch
television program College Tour.  Market Recovery  Crucial for any IPO will be a recovery in banking shares,
said Rabobank’s Kluis. The credit crunch that followed the
collapse of New York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008
and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis has driven the  Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index  down 74 percent since
the end of 2006. The  European Central Bank ’s decision to provide
three-year loans in December and February has pumped more than 1
trillion euros into the banking system, easing concern about a
credit squeeze and  bolstering shares  in the first quarter.  While ABN Amro slims down in preparation for a sale, ING is
under pressure to meet conditions laid down by the European
Commission, the EU’s enforcement arm, for its rescue by the
Dutch state. ING has until the end of 2013 to reduce its  balance
sheet  by 45 percent from September 2008 levels.  Shedding Insurance  ING sold its  Internet bank  in the U.S. for about $9 billion
in February, as well as most of its Latin American insurance
operations in 2011. Now it’s preparing to dispose of insurance
units in  Asia , Europe and the U.S., which generated 38 billion
euros in income last year and had more than 26,000 employees.  The company received 10 billion euros in aid in 2008 and
transferred the risk on 21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage
assets to the Dutch state in 2009. It has returned 7 billion
euros to date. CEO Jan Hommen, 68, said the company may not be
able to complete repayment in 2012 given Europe’s debt crisis
and increasing regulatory capital requirements.  Not all Dutch banks have needed a bailout. Rabobank, a
cooperative owned by regional lenders, maintained its  top credit
rating  until November, when  Standard & Poor’s  applied a new
method of calculation and lowered it to AA from AAA.  Rabobank is the world’s highest-rated privately owned bank,
and in 2011 customer deposits reached 330 billion euros, marking
the company’s position as “a safe haven,” the lender said in a
March 1 statement. The firm, formed in 1898 to serve Dutch
farmers, had operations in 47 countries as of last month.  Mortgage Risks  Rabobank also has the country’s biggest book of mortgage
loans, with a market share of 32 percent, according to the
statement. It had more than 200 billion euros in Dutch mortgage
loans, equal to  45 percent  of total group lending.  Mortgage debt marks one of the Netherlands’ biggest
financial risks, according to the country’s central bank. Dutch
mortgage debt is among the highest in the world, amounting to
107.1 percent of gross domestic product in 2010,  data compiled 
by the European Mortgage Federation show. That compares with
52.4 percent in the 27-nation EU.  Dutch banks had a combined 640 billion euros of mortgage
loans on their books, with 80 percent at the country’s four
biggest lenders, making them vulnerable to any extreme decline
in house prices combined with an increase in delinquencies.  Is Smaller Better?  The mortgage debt contributes to a gap of about 500 billion
euros between bank loans and deposits as most savings go to the
nation’s mandatory pension funds. That makes Dutch banks more
reliant than others on securitization markets, capital market
funding and attracting savings from other countries, according
to the central bank.  Policy makers and central bankers are trying to figure out
how big the banking industry should be and what checks to put in
place to prevent a recurrence of the collapse that left
taxpayers with the bill. ING, Rabobank, ABN Amro and SNS Reaal
account for 80 percent of the financial industry’s assets,
central bank figures show.  The Netherlands shouldn’t necessarily strive for a smaller
banking industry as financial institutions make a significant
contribution to the Dutch economy and employment, the central
bank said in its annual report published March 29. Banks with
international operations also play a role in helping Dutch
companies expand outside the country, it said.  Competitive Disadvantage  Even so, the Netherlands is a small country with a large
financial industry that requires increased protections, the
central bank said. “That can result in a competitive
disadvantage for institutions on the European market, but that
will have to be accepted to a certain extent.”  After two parliamentary inquiries and legislative proposals
ranging from a bank levy to requiring blueprints for splitting
off and salvaging banks’ crucial operations in times of crisis,
consensus remains elusive. The central bank said a bank tax may
be unwise as long as lenders haven’t sufficiently strengthened
their capital buffers.  Lawmakers called last month for another commission of
experts to come up with a view on structural reforms,
potentially including separating lenders’ consumer and
investment-banking units along the lines of proposals by the
U.K.’s Independent Commission on Banking.  ABN Amro’s breakup may serve as a lesson to policy makers
weighing such measures, Zalm told the parliamentary committee in
December.  The purchasers “greatly underestimated how complicated it
is to divide a bank in three,” Zalm said. “There is talk on
splitting up banks again now, be it for different reasons. It is
a very expensive and complicated matter. At Harvard, I believe
they find the case too complicated to present to students, but
for the rest, ‘how not to take over a bank’ would be a great
title for this story.”  Recruiting Bankers  Zalm picked up a team of 70 investment bankers last month
from RBS’s Dutch unit to rebuild some of the financial advisory
activities lost in the sale. It shouldn’t be seen as a return to
risk taking, he told reporters on March 9.  “This is to enable us to advise our clients on a strategic
level in financing and potential mergers and acquisitions,”
Zalm said. “We didn’t have full capacity there and this was a
big opportunity to quickly add that, and with people who still
have green and yellow in their veins,” he said, referring to
the colors of the bank’s logo.  The Prey ends with Groenink’s last shareholders’ meeting,
as he reflects on what has been lost with the sale and split-up
of the Dutch bank. For the Netherlands, the story hasn’t ended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  