-- Taliban Ignite Spring Offensive With Coordinated Attacks
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-04-16T07:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/taliban-militants-launch-simultaneous-attacks-across-afghanistan.html
Afghan and NATO forces killed 36
guerrillas to end a wave of attacks in Kabul and three eastern
provinces launched by a Taliban faction based in Pakistan,
Afghan officials said today.  Helicopter gunships from the U.S.-led international
coalition force flew over the capital during the night and
joined Afghan police and troops in the battle against the
militants. The fighting ended with the killing of the last
attacker near the Afghan parliament early today, more than 17
hours after guerrillas began their rifle and rocket assaults on
government buildings and foreign embassies and bases.  While U.S. officials praised the lead role taken by Afghan
forces, the series of attacks also underscored the continued
ability of the Taliban to disrupt even the neighborhoods
adjacent to the palace of President  Hamid Karzai , said
commentators such as Waheed Mujda, a political analyst at the
independent Kabul Center for Strategic Studies.  Following last year’s offensives by U.S. forces and the
annual winter lull in Afghanistan’s war, “the Taliban are
sending a message to the U.S. and its allies that they are still
powerful,” said Mujda, a former Foreign Ministry official
during the Taliban regime in the 1990s.  Eight Afghan soldiers or police were killed and 40 wounded
in the battles, while three civilians died, Interior Minister
Besmillah Mohammadi told reporters in Kabul after the fighting
ended in the capital, the eastern city of Jalalabad and two
other provincial centers.  “One of the terrorists in Jalalabad was captured
yesterday, and he has confessed that the attacks were by the
Haqqani network,” a faction of the Taliban headquartered in
 Pakistan ’s border district of North Waziristan, Mohammadi said.  Embassies Targeted  Explosions and gunfire erupted sporadically through the
night in Kabul as Afghan forces attacked guerrillas who had
seized three construction sites of multi-story buildings
yesterday. The militants fired rifles and rocket-propelled
grenades at government office buildings, including the
parliament, plus the U.S., German and British embassies.  The battle near the embassies, and about a kilometer (0.6
mile) from Karzai’s palace, was one of the longest.  Agence
France-Presse  cited an aide to Karzai as saying he had been
moved to a safe shelter. Karzai’s spokesman, Aimal Faizi, did
not answer calls seeking confirmation.  The complex assault in Afghanistan “has just been a high-
profile showing by the Taliban,” said U.S. Army Lieutenant
Colonel Jimmie Cummings, a spokesman for the NATO-led
 International Security Assistance Force , or ISAF. “The good
news in all of this is how well the Afghan national security
forces have responded,” he said by e-mail.  ‘Little Lasting Effect’  While U.S. officials say expanded operations last year by
the enlarged American combat force have undercut the Taliban’s
strength, analysts said recent data on guerrilla attacks suggest
that their spring offensive, following the annual winter lull in
fighting, is undiminished this year.  “The data show that the U.S. military surge in 2011
succeeded in reducing the number of security incidents per
month, but had little lasting effect,” John McCreary, a retired
U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency analyst, wrote in an April 11
newsletter for Washington-based Kforce Government Solutions.
“The south and east remain the areas under greatest stress,
with the Taliban instigating more than half of the combat
actions.”  The top U.S. and ISAF commander in  Afghanistan , Marine
General John Allen, told the House Armed Service Committee March
20 that, “as a result of our recent winter operations, we have
seriously degraded the Taliban’s ability to mount a major spring
offensive.”  Afghan Government Forces  “We know that the Taliban remain a resilient and
determined enemy and that many of them will try to regain their
lost ground this spring through assassination, intimidation,
high profile attacks and the emplacement of IEDs,” or bombs,
Allen said.  “No one is underestimating the severity” of the attacks,
Allen said in a statement yesterday. “But the very fact that
they chose these types of targets speaks volumes about where we
are in this campaign,” Allen said.  Afghan forces “were on the scene immediately, well-led and
well-coordinated,” Allen said.  The attacks took place in Kabul and the nearby provincial
capitals of Jalalabad, to the east, and Pul-e-Alam and Gardez,
to the southeast. Those are areas where the Haqqani faction, led
by the family of an aged Afghan militant,  Jalaluddin Haqqani , is
the primary Taliban fighting force.  U.S. Lockdown  Afghan intelligence officers intercepted three Haqqani
faction militants carrying guns and two suicide bombs as they
entered Kabul to attack the home of one of Karzai’s two vice-
presidents, Mohammad Karim Khalili, said Lutfullah Mashal,
spokesman of the Afghanistan National Security Directorate.  In Pul-e-Alam, the center of Logar province, Taliban with
heavy weapons targeted the governor’s office and the Afghan
intelligence agency office, said Din Mohammad Darwish, the
provincial government spokesman.  The U.S. Embassy in Kabul went into a “lockdown, following
our standard operating procedures after hearing explosions and
gunfire,” Gavin Sundwall, an embassy spokesman, said in a
statement. All its personnel were safe, he said.  The U.S. ambassador in Kabul,  Ryan Crocker , said in an
interview with  CNN  that the attacks don’t buttress an argument
for the U.S. to accelerate the planned withdrawal of its main
combat forces, now set for 2014.  While the Afghan forces’ response was “a clear sign of
progress,” the attacks also showed “a very dangerous enemy
with capabilities,” Crocker said. An early withdrawal would
“invite the Taliban and Haqqani” network “back in and set the
stage for another 9-11,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  