-- Manchester Utd. Beats Villa 4-0 to Lead Man. City by Five Points
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-04-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/manchester-utd-beats-villa-4-0-to-lead-man-city-by-five-points.html
Manchester United  beat Aston Villa
4-0 yesterday to record a seventh straight home win in English
soccer’s Premier League and maintain a five-point advantage over
Manchester City through the weekend’s matches.  Wayne Rooney  got two goals, while  Danny Welbeck  and Nani
also scored at Old Trafford as the defending champion rebounded
from a defeat at Wigan in its previous match.  United manager  Alex Ferguson  said the club still has much
work to do in its final four games to retain the title.  “There could be twists and turns yet but the name of the
game is to enjoy ourselves and play with expression like we
did,” Ferguson told Sky Sports. “You can never be too
confident, the name of the game is to not drop too many
points.”  United, aiming for a record-extending 20th championship,
tops the standings with 82 points, City has 77, with Arsenal on
64. Tottenham and Newcastle have 59 points, with Spurs ahead on
goal difference, and Chelsea has 57.  Villa, not yet assured of avoiding relegation, had a chance
within the opening minute as the visitors broke forward quickly.
Striker Andreas Weimann collected a pass from Stephen Ireland
but was unable to get any power in his shot, which was easily
saved by David de Gea.  United was ahead on seven minutes from a penalty kick,
awarded for a challenge by Ciaran Clark on Ashley Young. Rooney
scored his 30th goal of the season as Shay Given dived the wrong
way.  ‘Dramatic Fall’  “I think it was a dramatic fall and maybe he overdid the
fall but it was a penalty and there’s no doubt about that,”
Ferguson said.  Rooney had a shot saved by Given soon after, then headed
wide, before  Paul Scholes  hit a 20-yard volley that just missed.
At the other end, Ireland curled a shot past the far post from
the edge of the area.  Given made another save to stop Welbeck scoring on 33
minutes, but 10 minutes later the striker did double United’s
advantage from close range.  Villa’s Clark had to be substituted after an hour following
a clash of heads with Patrice Evra. His replacement Emile Heskey
forced a save from De Gea soon after coming on.  Rooney got his second goal of the game after 73 minutes,
with a low shot into the net as Given was caught wrongfooted.
Rooney was substituted almost immediately, with  Dimitar Berbatov 
making his first appearance since February.  ‘Good Performance’  United continued to push forward and Given made several
more saves, while  Jonny Evans  headed just over the bar.  The fourth goal arrived in injury time, Nani scoring his
seventh league goal this season.  “We had to put on a good performance, the onus was on us
to do that at home and we did it,” United defender Rio Ferdinand told Sky Sports.  Villa remains on 35 points in 15th, four ahead of Queens
Park Rangers and Wigan. Bolton on 29 points, Blackburn on 28 and
Wolverhampton Wanderers on 23 are in the relegation positions.  Two days ago,  Manchester City  defeated Norwich 6-1 with
Carlos Tevez scoring a hat-trick, Swansea beat Blackburn 3-0,
West Bromwich Albion won 1-0 against QPR, while the game between
Sunderland and last-place Wolves was scoreless.  Arsenal hosts Wigan today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 