-- Angels Defeat New York Yankees 7-1, Mets Shut Out Phillies 5-0
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-15T05:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/angels-defeat-new-york-yankees-7-1-mets-shut-out-phillies-5-0.html
Chris Iannetta hit a two-run homer
in the second inning as the Los Angeles Angels defeated the New
York Yankees 7-1, while the  New York Mets  shut out the
Philadelphia Phillies 5-0 in Major League Baseball games.  David Ortiz  drove in five runs as the  Boston   Red Sox  (3-5)
beat the Tampa Bay Rays (5-5) 13-5. Ortiz,  Jarrod Saltalamacchia ,
Mike Aviles, Dustin Pedroia and Cody Ross all hit home runs for
the Red Sox at Boston’s Fenway Park.  At Yankee Stadium,  Albert Pujols  hit a run-scoring double
in the third inning followed by Howard Kendrick’s three-run
homer in the fourth. Vernon Wells capped the Angels’ scoring
with a solo home run in the fifth inning.  Robinson Cano’s single in the fifth gave the Yankees (4-4)
their only run.  C.J. Wilson (2-0) allowed one run on six hits while
striking out two in six innings for the Angels (3-5).  Phil Hughes  (0-2) surrendered six runs on eight hits and
struck out six in 3 1/3 innings.  “It’s tough,” Hughes told reporters. “I came to camp, I
felt good with my stuff. We broke camp and things just haven’t
gone the way I would have liked. But I just have to keep working
hard and get things right.”  Cold Start  Hughes went 4 2/3 innings in his first start against  Tampa
Bay  on April 8. The Rays won 3-0.  “With the spring that he had, you expected him to go out
and pitch well,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi said. “That’s why
we always talk about be careful how you evaluate spring training,
because guys get off to hot or cold starts for different
reasons.”  At Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, David Wright, who
missed three games with a broken finger, hit a solo home run in
the first inning and Daniel Murphy scored in the fourth as  Jason
Bay  grounded into a double play.  Lucas Duda  added two more runs
in the fourth on his home run and Ruben Tejada hit a run-scoring
single in the ninth.  “I felt good,” Wright told reporters. “I got a little
confidence after the first at-bat. I felt real good in the cage
earlier today. I wouldn’t have gone out there if I didn’t think
I can contribute.”  Wright, who hurt his finger diving back to a base, was told
he could return when he found the pain tolerable.  “When a guy like  David Wright  goes out and plays with a
broken finger, the other guys don’t hurt as bad,” Mets manager
Terry Collins said. “His presence in our lineup means a lot.”  Jonathon Niese (2-0) allowed five hits and struck out five
in 6 2/3 innings. Vance Worley (0-1) gave up four runs on eight
hits with five strikeouts in six innings.  In other American League games, it was Texas 6, Minnesota
2; Baltimore 6, Toronto 4; the Chicago White Sox 5, Detroit 1;
Cleveland 11, Kansas City 9 (10 innings); and Seattle 4, Oakland
0.  In the National League, it was St. Louis 5, the Chicago
Cubs 1; Washington 4, Cincinnati 1; Atlanta 2, Milwaukee 1;
Houston 5, Miami 4; Los Angeles Dodgers 6, San Diego Padres 1;
San Francisco 4, Pittsburgh 3; and Colorado 8, Arizona 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  