-- Aussie Bonds to Gain as Growth to Miss Forecasts, BT Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-04-15T22:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/aussie-bonds-to-gain-as-growth-to-miss-forecasts-bt-says.html
BT Investment Management Ltd. (BTT)  is
buying  Australia ’s  government bonds , betting that forecasts that
the nation’s economic expansion will top 3 percent this year are
too high.  Australia’s economy may grow about 2.5 percent in 2012 as
the government cuts spending, Vimal Gor, Sydney-based head of
income and fixed interest at the Australian asset manager, said
in an interview last week. That compares with a median forecast
for a 3.4 percent expansion in a Bloomberg News survey of seven
economists and a prediction of between 3 percent and 3.5 percent
growth from the central bank in February.  “Australia is clearly slowing,” said Gor, who manages the
equivalent of $13 billion. “We don’t know how there hasn’t been
any downgrading in expectations over the last three months,
given the data pulse has been materially weaker. There’s still
value in Australian bonds.”  Yields (GACGB10)  on benchmark 10-year notes, which rose as high as
4.35 percent on March 20, have since dropped amid concern that
weakening growth in  China  and Treasurer  Wayne Swan ’s plans for
record budget cuts will slow Australia’s economy.  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered borrowing costs in
November and December to cushion the country against the global
financial turmoil generated by  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Traders are forecasting the RBA will lower its benchmark
rate from 4.25 percent by 96 basis points, or 0.96 percentage
point, over the next 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse
Group AG  index  based on swaps. BT Investment expects at least 50
basis points of reductions, with as much as 100 basis points if
the global economy deteriorates, Gor said.  Falling Australian Dollar  BT Investment is betting that the Australian dollar and
euro will decline while the greenback will strengthen, Gor said.
The so-called Aussie may fall to 95 U.S. cents, while the euro
may reach $1.25, he said. The Australian currency traded at
$1.0353 as of 8:20 a.m. in Sydney, while the euro bought
$1.3057. Australian 10-year rates were at 3.83 percent at the
end of last week.  Spanish yields , which reached euro-era highs in November,
are surging as bank buying funded by European Central Bank loans
runs out of steam. ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure
suggested on April 11 that the bank could revive its bond-
purchase program to reduce  Spain ’s borrowing costs.  “It feels quite clearly that the next leg of the European
crisis is building now,” Gor said. “The focus has moved to
Spain as we always knew it would do.” BT expects that the ECB
will have to resume bond buying, he said.  BT Investment holds more Australian government bonds and
less corporate debt than the benchmark it tracks. It’s buying
infrastructure and utility bonds as they are likely to
outperform as the economy slows, according to Justin Davey, a
Sydney-based asset manager at the company.  Corporate bonds are “going to largely play second fiddle
to the larger macro issues,” Davey said.  Australian utility bonds have returned 1 percent this
month, compared with 0.5 percent on a broader gauge of corporate
debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
Government debt has handed investors a 1.2 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  