-- BMW Sales in Brazil Slump 30% Because of Tax Increase
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-04-15T22:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/bmw-sales-in-brazil-slump-30-because-of-tax-increase.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest luxury automaker, posted a 30 percent drop in
first-quarter sales in  Brazil  due to a tax rise for imported
cars, said Henning Dornbusch, the company’s country head.  In an effort to protect jobs and automakers with factories
in Brazil, the government levied a 30 percentage-point increase
in its industrial products tax on vehicles with less than 65
percent of their parts produced in the country. The tax increase
took effect in January and is on top of the 35 percent import
duty already charged in the South American nation.  “Car sales fell 30 percent due to the IPI raise,”
Dornbusch said in an interview on April 13 in Sao Paulo. “We’ve
partly compensated it by raising prices 15.9 percent in average,
with BMW and dealerships absorbing the rest.”  Brazil raised the tax following a surge in shipments from
 China  and elsewhere, which was fueled by a rally in the real and
has hurt carmakers based in the country. While BMW’s market
share in Brazil, which is dominated by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Fiat SpA (F) 
and  General Motors Co. (GM) , is small, it’s looking to the country
and other developing markets to help cement its lead as the
biggest maker of luxury cars.  “BMW sees Brazil as a country with a very, very big
potential,” Dornbusch said. “China is in the center of our
radar, but Brazil is just hovering around it.”  Business Plan  The company sold 1,888 units in Brazil in the first
quarter, down from 2,137 units a year earlier, to give it a
market share of 0.24 percent, according to the country’s
dealership association, known as  Fenabrave . Total market sales
in Brazil, the world’s fifth-biggest vehicle market, fell 0.6
percent to 772,755 in the period.  Because of the IPI increase, the Munich-based automaker has
put on hold plans to build a factory in Brazil. According to
Dornbusch, there is still interest in investing in Brazil,
though it will depend on a reassessment of the company’s
original business plan because of the tax increase.  “When we have all the changes mapped out, we’ll decide
whether to go on or not with the factory plan,” Dornbusch said.
“Our interest in Brazil is really big, but it all depends on
the business case. We’re not here to lose money.”  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has said the increased tax
will raise the cost of imported cars by as much as 28 percent,
and force automakers to build key components in Brazil.  Foreign Investment  The country is seeking to arrest gains in the real to
protect local manufacturers and fuel growth in  Latin America ’s
biggest economy. The real fell 6 percent in March, the biggest
decline among all currencies, as Mantega expanded financial
taxes to discourage foreign investment and the central bank
stepped up dollar purchases.  While other automakers have held back from building
factories in Brazil, some have accelerated plans, especially
after the government in March changed an auto trade-tariff
agreement to limit the number of cars that can be exported to
Brazil from  Mexico .  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,  Japan ’s second-largest carmaker, may
“ramp-up” its Brazilian plant expansion to compensate for the
changes in the agreement, Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn 
said in an interview on March 26 in  Tokyo . “This limitation of
exports from Mexico to Brazil makes our Brazilian plant even
more necessary.”  Mini Brand  Last year, according to Dornbusch, BMW sold 12,422 units of
its BMW-brand cars, 2,792 units of the Mini-brand and 5,442 BMW
motorcycles. The Brazilian car industry sold 3.42 million total
cars last year, according to Fenabrave.  Not yet the 20th biggest market for BMW, Brazil is
attractive to it alongside China, Russia and  India , due to its
plentiful resources, investment inflows and rapidly growing
middle class, Dornbusch said.  With BMW’s low sales volume in Brazil and the country’s
market characteristics, Dornbusch says it’s feasible to grow
ahead of the market in the country, while he doesn’t see that
happening this year because of the tax increase. The company’s
goal is to grow close to double Brazil’s gross domestic product
rate, he said.  A central bank survey with market economists, show they
expect the economy to grow 3.2 percent this year. Mantega said
last month Brazil’s GDP will accelerate this year and expand 4.5
percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in  Sao Paulo  
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  