-- Bordeaux’s Sunburned New Vintage Needs Price Drop to Star
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-04-16T18:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/bordeaux-s-sunburned-new-vintage-needs-price-drop-to-star.html
At 10 o’clock on a sunny Bordeaux
Monday morning, tall, slim Christian Moueix places his palms
prayerfully together as he intones the tale of 2011’s difficult
weather in a smooth baritone.  “The problem factors were very serious drought, a June
heat spike, some green merlot, and sunburned grapes,” he says.
Still, he managed to pull off some delicious wines anyway, like
subtle, complex Chateau Trotanoy.  Complicated, tricky 2011 is definitely not another
“vintage of the century.” The worst wines are lean, pruney,
bitter and tannic, like biting into a roasted espresso bean, the
result of trying to extract too much from shriveled grapes.  I spit into upturned barrel crachoirs (spittoons), red
plastic buckets, brown ceramic pots, and stainless steel sinks,
in chilly cellars and elegant chateaux. At the end of each day
my teeth are purple.  Yet after tasting more than 500 barrel samples during my
10-day visit to Bordeaux earlier this month, the best wines are
better than I expected. The 35 or so on my list of favorites are
elegant, balanced. While they are mercifully lower in alcohol
than the 2009s and 2010s, they also have less power and
concentration.  Pricey Vintages  I’m wondering whether anyone will pant for the 2011s
following these two pricey great vintages. In famous Chateau
Petrus’s spare all-white tasting room, director Olivier Berrouet
shares my sentiments.  “If anyone says he made a truly great wine this year he’s
a liar,” he says. “2011 is like 2001.”  That said, the suave 2011 Petrus is really good.  Chris Adams, chief executive officer of  New York ’s  Sherry-
Lehmann , echoes what every merchant told me in Bordeaux. “This
year, it’s all about price.” He was one of more than 6,000
merchants and journalists from 68 countries who turned up for
the annual en primeur circus to sample wines that won’t be
bottled for another two years.  Every vigneron puts his own spin on how he dealt with
2011’s topsy-turvy weather problems.  In Margaux, Thomas Duroux, CEO at  Chateau Palmer , maker of
one of the vintage’s stars, says meticulous grape selection was
key after drought, a heat wave, and a June hailstorm cut
Palmer’s yields to the lowest since 1961.  Like other chateaux which could afford to, Palmer rented a
100,000 euro ($131,000) optical sorting machine to ensure no
unripe or burned grapes made their way into fermentation vats.
The resulting Palmer is fresh, velvety and rich. Its second
wine, Alter Ego, is deliciously floral and charming.  Organic Red  Another red success is the savory, soft-textured  Chateau
Pontet-Canet , whose vineyards are certified organic and
biodynamic. Technical director Jean-Michel Comme believes its
approach helped tackle the challenging 2011 climate.  Others are beginning to take a similar route.  Frederic Engerer, president of first growth  Chateau Latour ,
sporting a lavender tie, says 23 hectares of its vineyards are
now organic or biodynamic.  “You need to watch every parcel like it’s milk on a
fire,” he says. “But the fruit is more expressive.”  Latour’s excellent 2011 is loaded with fine, suave tannins
and cassis aromas and flavors.  Engerer announced in a letter to negociants on April 13
that the 2011 will be the last vintage of the Latour’s grand vin
offered as futures during en primeur. Instead, the chateau will
release bottles only when wines are ready to drunk.  In first-growth  Chateau Margaux’s  chilly cellar, managing
director Paul Pontallier, wearing a pink tie, says the vineyards
whose grapes go into the grand vin will be organic in three to
four years.  Sleeping Beagle  “I’m not a tree hugger, but the risk is worth it,” says
owner Corinne Mentzelopoulos, fresh from a ski trip in Chamonix.
Her beagle Zorba, sleeping on the stone floor, has no comment.  In Pomerol, I’m wowed by the energy, succulent texture and
violet scents of the Vieux Chateau Certan and the bright, red
plum, oh-so-smooth Chateau Lafleur. Both stars of the vintage
have good percentages of cabernet franc in their blends, which
fared better than most merlot this year.  And some sweet whites are very good, especially complex
Chateau de Fargues, earthy  Chateau Coutet , pure, pear-toned
Chateau Suduiraut, and lemony Chateau Raymond-Lafon whose owner,
Jean-Pierre Meslier, compares his 2011 to  Marilyn Monroe . “It’s
sexy, it has curves, and it’s a blonde,” he says with a
chuckle.  So how low will prices fall?  Lower Prices  Simon Staples , global sales and marketing director for
London-based  Berry Bros & Rudd , says a dozen chateaux whose
wines sell for more than 100 euros told him prices would come
down 50 percent if they had to. If you ask me, that may not be
enough for some chateaux.  “If our 45 picks are cheap, we’ll have some fun,” say
Staples, predicting that the Chinese, who accounted for 30
percent of Berry Bros sales of 2009 futures, won’t buy
otherwise. (A few petits chateaux released their prices last
week, most about 10 percent cheaper than 2010.) Two good buys
will be Chateau Beaumont and dry white G de Guiraud.  Shaun Bishop, founder of Oakland, California-based  J.J.
Buckley Fine Wines  explains, “Customers need an incentive to
put out money for wines that won’t arrive for two years.”  Drink Now  After all, good, ready-to-drink, reasonably-priced Bordeaux
from 2001 and other vintages are already on retail shelves. Why
pay more to wait?  Chateau Lafite today released its 2011 to negociants at 350
euros a bottle, 450 euros to the wine trade. That’s about 35 to
40 percent off 2010’s release price. U.K.-based  Farr Vintners 
says it will sell it at 20 percent less than any available
vintage of the wine. Will Mouton follow suit?  A negociant who didn’t want to be named previously insisted
that first growths Chateau Mouton Rothschild will very soon will
release prices in the 250-euro range.  That was no doubt wishful thinking. As U.K. wine blogger
 Jamie Goode  suggests, high-end Bordeaux pricing is actually akin
to sexual display --an impressive reproductive strategy to
demonstrate the extent of your resources.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights: Scott Reyburn reports on a  Ferrari
auction ; Farah Nayeri on the  Olivier awards .  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 