-- Cartagena Prostitute Wouldn’t Leave Hotel Until Paid, King Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-04-15T20:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/cartagena-prostitute-wouldn-t-leave-hotel-until-paid-king-says.html
A Cartagena prostitute refused to
leave the hotel room occupied by the U.S. Secret Service until
she was paid, said U.S. Representative  Peter King , who heads the
House Homeland Security Committee.  Eleven U.S. Secret Service agents, working in advance of
President Barack Obama’s arrival for a summit this weekend in
Cartagena, Colombia, were returned to the U.S. and placed on
administrative leave April 12 because of allegations of
misconduct involving contact with prostitutes, according to a
statement yesterday from Secret Service spokesman Paul S.
Morrissey.  Visitors of guests at the Hotel Caribe, near the site of
the Summit of the Americas, were required to leave
identification at the front desk and had to be out by 7 a.m.,
according to King, who said he was briefed on the incident twice
yesterday.  When hotel officials noticed that one guest hadn’t left by
the curfew, they knocked on the room door and were refused
admittance, King said. The hotel called the local police, and
the woman in the room wouldn’t leave because she was owed money,
according to King. The agent paid the money and the police filed
a report because it involved a foreign national, according to
King, a New York Republican.  Supervisors Involved  Two or three of the 11 were uniformed officers and two were
Secret Service supervisors, and all had previously untarnished
records, said King.  “They were questioned all day yesterday at Secret Service
headquarters,” King said today in an interview. All 11 were
believed to have brought women to their Cartagena, Colombia,
hotel rooms, said King, whose staff “is going to begin an
investigation” to examine procedures in place at the time and
how they might be changed to prevent a recurrence.  The agents involved weren’t assigned to Obama’s protective
detail, according to Morrissey. After they were withdrawn from
the country, their duties were “backfilled” by replacements
brought in from  Florida  and  Puerto Rico , King said.  No Security Impact  “These actions have had no impact on the Secret Service’s
ability to execute a comprehensive security plan for the
President’s visit to Cartagena,” Morrissey said. “This matter
was turned over to our Office of Professional Responsibility,
which serves as the agency’s internal affairs component.”  The story of the agents’ alleged misbehavior became public
just as leaders of the Western Hemisphere were beginning talks
on trade, drug legalization in  South America  and creating
greater transparency among South American governments.  Obama was told about the allegations April 13 and the issue
“has been more of a distraction for the press” than for the
president at the summit, spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters at
a briefing yesterday.  Morrissey said, “We regret any distraction from the Summit
of the Americas this situation has caused.”  Congressional Interest  Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , the Republican
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
suggested there may be more than 11 officials involved, saying
on CBS’s “Face the Nation” today that there may be “20 or
more” and that “we’re asking for the exact amount of all the
people.”  “I don’t want to presume anything,” King said. “I
wouldn’t want this used to indict the entire Secret Service.”  In addition, five members of the U.S. military who were
staying at the same hotel violated a curfew set by the senior
U.S. defense official at the U.S. embassy in  Colombia , according
to Colonel Scott Malcom, the public affairs officer for the U.S.
Southern Command.  The five had been sent to Colombia to support the summit,
in part by providing security, Malcom said. They will remain in
Colombia during the summit because their skills and knowledge
are needed, Malcom said, adding that they will be restricted to
their hotel rooms when not carrying out official duties.  The military has yet to determine whether the five violated
any rules beyond the curfew, Malcom said. He didn’t provide
their ranks or military branch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net . Kate Andersen Brower in Cartagena,
Colombia at   kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  