-- Chelsea Routs Spurs in F.A. Cup After Goal-Line Controversy
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-04-16T10:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/chelsea-defeats-tottenham-5-1-to-reach-f-a-cup-final-1-.html
Chelsea routed London rival
Tottenham 5-1 to reach the final of English soccer’s F.A. Cup
for a fourth time in six years.  Didier Drogba ,  Juan Mata , Ramires,  Frank Lampard  and
 Florent Malouda  scored for the Blues at Wembley Stadium in the
U.K. capital yesterday to set up a meeting at the same venue
with Liverpool on May 5. Television replays showed that Mata’s
shot for the second goal didn’t cross the line.  Chelsea has played in the final on 10 previous occasions,
winning the title six times. Seven-time champion Liverpool beat
city rival Everton 2-1 two days ago to secure its spot.  “It’s two clubs with lots of tradition, particularly in
the F.A. Cup,” Chelsea interim manager Roberto Di Matteo, who
won the competition twice as a player with the Blues, said at a
news conference. “It makes for a great final.”  Chelsea’s victory came three days before it faces Barcelona
in the first leg of a Champions League semifinal. The Blues were
unhappy at the scheduling of the domestic cup match so close to
that game.  They had two early opportunities yesterday, though Lampard
headed wide and Drogba sliced a shot that was collected by
goalkeeper Carlo Cudicini.  Drogba was yellow-carded on 15 minutes for a foul on  Aaron Lennon  as Tottenham attempted to break.  Both teams pushed forward in search of a goal and Spurs
came close nine minutes before halftime when a header by  Rafael van der Vaart  was blocked by defender Terry on the line with
goalkeeper  Petr Cech  beaten.  Drogba Goal  Emmanuel Adebayor had another opportunity for the north
London team soon after, although the Togo striker failed to
connect with the ball, which hit a post.  The Blues scored at the other end seconds later when Drogba
took Lampard’s long pass, held off  William Gallas  and fired past
ex-Chelsea keeper Cudicini from 15 yards.  Cudicini dived to stop Mata from doubling Chelsea’s
advantage three minutes after halftime and the Spaniard was
awarded his controversial goal within a minute.  Terry,  David Luiz  and Tottenham’s Benoit Assou-Ekotto were
among players on the ground on the goal line as Mata’s shot
rebounded before bouncing clear. Referee  Martin Atkinson  allowed
the goal, although replays showed that the ball hadn’t crossed
the line.  “It was nowhere near a goal, it wasn’t even close,”
Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  told the British Broadcasting
Corp. “It was big turning point in the game for sure. They
picked us off in the end.”  Spurs Score  Spurs replied with a goal from Gareth Bale on 56 minutes
when Atkinson played an advantage instead of stopping the game
when Cech felled Adebayor in the penalty area. The ball fell for
Bale to stroke into an empty net.  Chelsea then had to make a defensive change following an
injury to Luiz, who was taken off the field on a stretcher and
replaced by  Gary Cahill .  Mata was again involved in Chelsea’s third goal as his pass
released Ramires, who slotted the ball past Cudicini on 77
minutes.  Tottenham’s chances of a comeback were then ended when
Lampard fired a free kick into the net four minutes later.
Malouda completed the scoring in injury time after Mata chipped
the ball into his path.  Spurs have now lost six straight F.A. Cup semifinals since
last winning the competition in 1991.  “I can understand the frustration,”  Di Matteo  said of
Mata’s goal. “But I don’t know how much it would have mattered
because today we scored five, not two.”  English soccer’s ruling body, the Football Association,
today repeated its support for technology to determine whether
the ball has crossed the goal-line.  World governing body FIFA will start final tests on two
systems later this month before a meeting of the  International
Football Association Board  on July 2 decides on the matter.  “The F.A. has led the calls at IFAB for the introduction
of goal-line technology for over a decade, and we reiterate our
desire to see it introduced as soon as possible. No other single
body has called as strongly for its introduction as the F.A.,”
the Football Association said in a statement. “The F.A. is not
responsible for the introduction of goal-line technology in
isolation and awaits the outcome of the next IFAB meeting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  