-- China Trainmaker CSR Discusses Europe, Americas Purchases
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-04-16T09:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/china-trainmaker-csr-says-in-europe-americas-acquisitions-talks.html
CSR Corp. (1766) ,  China ’s biggest
trainmaker, said it’s in talks on possible acquisitions in
 Europe , North America and Australia as it seeks to add new
technology and pare a reliance on domestic sales.  “We are actively pursuing deals that can bring us
complementary technologies,” Chairman Zhao Xiaogang said in an
April 13 interview in  Hong Kong , without naming specific
targets. “Companies in developed countries are facing some
difficulties and they may have a desire to sell.”  CSR, based in Beijing, is seeking deals as Zhao strives to
boost overseas sales to 20 percent of revenue by 2015 from 7.7
percent last year. China has also pledged to improve safety
standards on domestic railways after a fatal high-speed crash
last year.  The state-controlled trainmaker is in talks on possible
acquisitions in Spain, Italy,  Germany , the U.K. and France, Zhao
said. The company and its units also make carriages, wagons and
wind turbines.  Zhao declined to comment on whether the group had bid for
stakes in Finmeccanica SpA’s train-making unit AnsaldoBreda and
signaling-maker  Ansaldo STS SpA. (STS)  Italian newspaper Il Sole 24
Ore said on April 7 that the company had made an offer.  Hitachi
Ltd. (6501)  is a more probable buyer, the report said. Hitachi
spokesman Atsushi Konno declined to comment on April 13.
Finmeccanica has said it wants to sell AnsaldoBreda this year.  Dynex Purchase  CSR’s Hong Kong-listed unit Zhuzhou CSR Times Electric Co.
bought Lincoln, England-based component-maker Dynex Power Inc.
in 2008. The trainmaker also agreed to form a high-speed rail
venture in the U.S. with General Electric Co. in 2010.  CSR rose 2.2 percent to HK$5.62 at close in Hong Kong. The
company has fallen 19 percent since the July 23 high-speed train
near Wenzhou that killed 40 people. Zhuzhou CSR climbed 0.7
percent to HK$20.40.  The trainmaker expects export sales to grow more than 50
percent this year after more than doubling the tally last year,
Zhao said. The company’s 2011 orders included a high-speed train
deal from Georgia, a freight-wagon contract from the U.A.E and
locomotive sales in  Australia , Turkmenistan and Saudi Arabia.  Total revenue growth may cool to 10 percent this year from
24 percent last year, according to the company’s annual results
 statement , as China slows construction of new high-speed lines.  China’s spending on railway construction slumped 35 percent
last year. The nation will complete a “batch” of important
rail projects, the State Council said last month, without
elaboration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  