-- China Widening Yuan Band Shows Confidence in Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-16T03:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/china-widening-yuan-band-shows-confidence-in-strength-of-economy.html
China ’s doubling of the yuan
trading band signals official confidence in the strength of the
economy’s expansion and suggests policymaking is unimpeded by
the ouster of Bo Xilai from the Communist Party leadership.  The change that takes effect today “adds to my confidence
in a soft landing,” said Jim O’Neill, who is chairman of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management in London and coined the acronym
BRIC for  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China.  A more flexible yuan may help central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan control inflation and support an economy that the
World Bank sees growing 8.2 percent this year. The timing of the
move may be intended to mute criticism of Chinese currency
policies at  International Monetary Fund  and Group of 20 meetings
and indicates that the scandal engulfing former Chongqing chief
Bo, 62, will fail to stall the nation’s economic opening up.  “The government is confident that China will avoid a hard
landing, otherwise why would they introduce the possibility of
greater foreign-exchange volatility?” said Stephen Roach, a
professor at  Yale University  and former non-executive chairman
for Morgan Stanley in Asia.  The yuan can move as much as 1 percent against the dollar
from a so-called daily fixing rate, after the central bank on
April 14 announced the first widening of the band since 2007.  Third-Worst Performer   The Chinese currency is the third-worst performer in  Asia  
against the dollar this year after the Japanese yen and the 
Indonesian rupiah. Today, the yuan fell 0.18 percent to 6.3145
as of 12:04 p.m. in Shanghai after earlier declining as much
as 0.35 percent as the central bank set its fixing lower.   In “the midst of domestic political turmoil, reform-minded
officials seem to be sensing a window of opportunity to
undertake significant steps towards market-oriented reforms,”
said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution
in  Washington  and former head of the China division at the IMF.
He saw “a renewed momentum towards currency and financial
market reforms.”  Investors, commodity suppliers and foreign companies
targeting consumers in the world’s second-biggest economy are
focused on the risks from a cooling property market and weakness
in exports as European economies impose austerity measures.
While  growth  moderated to 8.1 percent in the first quarter, the
least in almost three years, companies are still raising their
bets on China, with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  planning more investment and  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s China unit expanding a plant in Chongqing, the
southwestern city formerly run by Bo.  Investor Concern  The central bank’s move indicates “that they are not as
concerned as share-market investors are about the prospect of a
hard landing,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has
more than $100 billion under management.  “In 2008, their response to the global financial crisis
was to link the yuan back to the dollar,” Oliver said. “Now
they are widening the band it shows they are a lot more
confident that the big manufacturers down the coast of China
won’t be adversely affected.”  An unexpected surge in new loans in March, reported last
week, showed that the ruling Communist Party is trying to avoid
a deeper growth slide as the nation prepares for a once-a-decade
power transfer to younger leaders. That changing of the guard
has been marred by the ousting of Bo, who backed a bigger role
for the state in the Chongqing economy.  Business Empire  The drama surrounding the Chongqing official became public
after his police chief spent a night in a U.S. consulate. Now,
state media say Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai, is a suspect in the death
of British businessman Neil Heywood in November. Gu’s sisters,
meanwhile, controlled a web of businesses from Beijing to  Hong
Kong  to the Caribbean worth at least $126 million, regulatory
and corporate filings show.  The handling of the Bo Xilai case, the incident involving
the police chief and the Heywood death has nothing to do with a
“political struggle,” China’s official Xinhua News Agency said
in an unsigned commentary. The decision to investigate Bo and
the Heywood death is a “resolute move” by the Communist Party
to pursue the rule of law, Xinhua said.  O’Neill said that changes such as the yuan move suggest
that “reformers” are driving policy, while Roach said he saw
signs that “a resumption of accelerated reforms is gathering
momentum,” also citing Premier Wen Jiabao’s comments this month
on the need to break a banking “monopoly” of a few big lenders
that make easy profits.  Capital Controls  The new rules for yuan trading follow increases in quotas
for foreigners buying stocks and bonds in China and in the
amount of yuan held offshore that can be invested locally. A
five-year plan running through 2015 calls for officials to keep
loosening controls on capital flows as the nation moves towards
a convertible currency.  President Barack Obama’s administration says Beijing still
keeps the  exchange rate  artificially weak, hurting American
manufacturers and contributing to a U.S. trade deficit with
China that rose 8 percent to $295 billion last year.  “While we welcome the progress to date, the process of
correcting the misalignment of China’s exchange rate remains
incomplete, and further progress is needed,” a Treasury
official said in an e-mailed comment on the widening of the
trading band. The Treasury delayed a report on the exchange-rate
policies of trading partners including China from April 15 until
after global meetings scheduled for the next several weeks.  Trade Flows  A narrowing of China’s trade surplus and a swing in
February to the nation’s biggest monthly deficit since at least
1989 are giving Chinese officials ammunition to counter such
arguments. The IMF is set to lower its forecasts for China’s
medium-term current-account surplus, according to two officials
who have seen the draft report.  The IMF in September estimated surpluses of more than 7
percent of gross domestic product for 2015 and 2016. The new
forecasts for the broadest measure of trade will be published
April 17 in the IMF’s World Economic Outlook, according to the
officials, who spoke on condition they wouldn’t be named because
the figures haven’t been made public. The IMF,  World Bank  and
Group of 20 finance chiefs gather in Washington April 20-22.  “They can go to Washington looking for kudos,” said
JPMorgan Asset Management Chief Market Strategist Rebecca Patterson in  New York , referring to Chinese officials. “Others
will push for more but have to acknowledge this is a step in the
right direction.”  Market Forces  Christine Lagarde , managing director of the IMF, said she
welcomed the widening of the yuan band which “underlines
China’s commitment to rebalance its economy toward domestic
consumption and allow market forces to play a greater role in
determining the level of the exchange rate.”  Markets reflect optimism China’s economy will avoid a
deeper slowdown. The yield on 10-year  government bonds  has risen
10 basis points this year to 3.53 percent. The Shanghai
Composite Index has gained 7 percent.  At UBS AG, Hong Kong-based economist  Wang Tao  said that the
widening of the band was a net positive for the economy because
greater currency flexibility increases “the independence of
monetary policy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  