-- China Must Combat Corruption, Wen Writes After Bo’s Purge
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-16T05:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/china-must-combat-corruption-premier-wen-writes-after-bo-purge.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
the government could lose its grip on power unless it imposes
stronger measures to fight corruption, according to an article
published after a member of the ruling Politburo was suspended.  Public supervision is needed to limit abuses of power, and
authorities must continue to work for a “clean government” in
2012, the last year of the current administration, Wen  wrote in 
Qiushi, or Seeking Truth. The article published today in the
party magazine was based on a March 26 speech Wen delivered to
the State Council.  The publication of Wen’s commentary comes after Bo Xilai
was suspended from his top Communist Party positions on
suspicion of committing “serious discipline violations,”
according to an April 10 report by the official Xinhua News
Agency. Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai, and an aide were put in custody on
suspicion of murdering British businessman Neil Heywood.  In his article, titled “Let Power be Exercised in the
Sunshine,” Wen wrote that government at all levels should be
open to supervision by the people. Stricter administrative
inspection and auditing should also be imposed.  Corruption thrives because of “excessive concentration of
power and the lack of effective oversight,” Wen said. He warned
that “the nature of the regime may change” and possibly come
to an end if the issue isn’t handle properly.  ‘Immediately Respond’  Officials who underperform, allow important cases of
corruption to occur or fail to handle them in a timely manner
will be held accountable, he wrote. They should “immediately
respond to and investigate problems reported by the people and
the media and publicize the results of investigations in a
timely manner,” he wrote.  In an April 14 commentary, “Law and Party Disciplines
Brook No Violation,” Xinhua said, “the spouses and children of
some officials have taken advantage of their power to seek
personal gains, disregarding the law, thus stirring public
outcry.” The decision to investigate Bo and the Heywood death
is a “resolute move,” the unsigned story said.  Wen also urged the government to enhance the management of
government officials whose wives and children have emigrated.
The government should also ban its leaders from taking part in
“luxury activities” that are paid by the government or those
that may affect their fairness.  Bo’s downfall comes as  China  prepares for a once-in-a-
decade leadership change. The 18th Communist Party Congress
later this year will pick a chairman to replace incumbent  Hu
Jintao  and name a new Politburo.  Premier Wen, 69, is a member of the Politburo Standing
Committee, the nine-member group that exercises supreme power in
China. At a press briefing at the National People’s Congress
last month he said that China has seen increased problems
including corruption and a loss of credibility in recent years.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  