-- Conoco Fattest U.S. Dividend Offers 4% Income Not Growth
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-04-16T20:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/conoco-fattest-u-s-dividend-offers-4-income-not-growth.html
ConocoPhillips (COP)  will court income-
focused investors with a dividend yield quadruple that of its
peers after spinning off its refining business this month to
become more of a pure oil and natural-gas producer.  The plan to pay at least 4 percent will help compensate
shareholders for production and earnings growth that trails
rivals. The Houston-based company forecasts output will shrink
4.3 percent in 2012, before growing a compound 3 percent to 5
percent in subsequent years, compared with  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) 
and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ’s 5 percent to 7 percent estimates.  Paying the highest dividend of a major U.S. oil producer
without cutting capital spending will challenge ConocoPhillips
compared with its new competitors that have lower dividend
burdens. Chief Executive Officer designate Ryan Lance gave an
update to investors in a webcast today on the company’s outlook.  “Traditionally, E&P selling points are: No. 1, growth. No.
2, growth. No. 3, growth,”  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst with
Raymond James & Associates Inc., said of companies that focus on
exploration and production. “Conoco’s will not be any of those
three.”  ConocoPhillips (COP-W) ’s annual  dividend  of $2.64 a share divided
by its closing April 13 stock price of $73.63 produced a yield
of 3.6 percent. The yield for the Russell 1000 crude producers’
 index  was 0.9 percent, with  Exco Resources Inc. (XCO)  at 2.7 percent,
followed by  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  at 2.4 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dividend Tradeoffs  Such a high dividend comes with tradeoffs for
ConocoPhillips, whose earnings per share as a combined company
excluding one-time costs and gains are forecast to rise less
than 1 percent this year, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Anadarko’s adjusted profit may rise 38
percent in 2012, while Marathon Oil’s may climb 21 percent,
estimates show.  The company may have to cut  capital spending , sell more
assets or use cash to meet obligations if  oil prices  decline
next year, said Molchanov, who has a market perform, or hold,
rating on the company’s shares and doesn’t own any. Molchanov
said he doesn’t expect the dividend to be cut.  Paul Sankey , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, has estimated
ConocoPhillips may need to sell $1 billion of assets annually to
help fund the quarterly shareholder payouts in future years.  Rising Cash Flow  ConocoPhillips may have a “slight deficit” this year with
estimated  cash flow  from operations of $16 billion, compared
with capital spending of about $15 billion and $3 billion spent
on dividends, Lance said today. The company expects to have
enough cash to fund its dividend program this year, he said.  The company plans to boost profit margins and production by
3 percent to 5 percent each, compounded annually, meaning cash
flow from operations may reach $22 billion a year by 2016,
according to today’s presentation.  “Within a relatively short period, cash flow from
operations should exceed our dividend and capex commitments,”
Lance said, with excess cash flow being available for future
growth and further distributions.  The company plans to return 20 percent to 25 percent of
operating cash flow to shareholders, he said. ConocoPhillips
also expects to make “opportunistic” share repurchases, he
said.  Best 2012 Performer  ConocoPhillips has climbed 1.3 percent this year, the best
performance on the six-member Standard & Poor’s 500 Integrated
Oil & Gas Index. The  index , which includes  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) , fell 2.3 percent during that time. ConocoPhillips
rose 0.3 percent to $73.83 today at the close in New York,
remaining below a June 2008 high of more than $95 a share.  ConocoPhillips stands out among oil and gas explorers for
its combination of dividend growth and potential for rising
production, CEO  Jim Mulva  said during a March 5 presentation to
analysts and investors. The company’s dividend is 66 cents a
share each quarter and Mulva said he expects annual increases.  “We’re giving growth in distributions that you don’t get
from the pure independent” companies, said Mulva, who plans to
retire after the spinoff occurs.  Unofficial trading on April 13 of ConocoPhillips “when-
issued”  shares  valued the company at $55.44 a share after it
spins off its refining, chemicals and pipelines business into a
new company called  Phillips 66. (PSX-W)  That suggested a potential
dividend yield of 4.8 percent and total market value of $70.6
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Changing Ranks  “I think they’re going to position themselves so that
they’re an attractive stock for individual investors as well as
institutions looking for a dividend yield,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis . “In this
current market environment, dividends go a long way.”  The spinoff will take the energy producer out of the ranks
of integrated  oil companies  such as Exxon and put it at the top
of a new peer group of independents, which focus exclusively on
exploration and production.  Anadarko, currently the largest U.S. independent oil and
gas producer based on its market value of about $37 billion, has
a quarterly dividend of 9 cents a share and a  yield  of 0.5
percent. Apache, the nation’s second-largest independent, has a
17-cent  dividend  per quarter and a yield of 0.7 percent.  Exxon and Chevron, the two largest U.S. oil companies that
integrate exploration and refining operations, also have
dividend yields in the 2 percent to 3 percent range.  Uniquely Positioned  ConocoPhillips will be uniquely positioned after the
spinoff, said Youngberg, who has a buy rating on its shares and
owns none. The producer appears to have the cash flow to pay the
dividend as well as invest in growth and buy back some shares
over time, he said.  “They’ll have some definite characteristics from an
investment standpoint of an integrated company, but without the
volatility that refining and the other businesses provide,”
Youngberg said.  ConocoPhillips is on track to have $5 billion of share
repurchases in the first half, Lance told investors today.
Another possible $5 billion in repurchases will depend on asset
sales, he said. Lance said the company sees about $8 billion to
$10 billion in divestitures, with some possible next year.  ConocoPhillips shouldn’t have a problem funding the
announced dividend in the second half of this year, based on
current oil prices, Molchanov said.  Raymond James  estimates that  Brent crude , a global
benchmark, may average $95 a barrel in 2013, Molchanov said,
which would be a drop from prices of about $120 in recent days.
Funding dividends without actions such as cutting capital
spending would be “considerably tighter” under lower prices,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  