-- Hedge Funds Cut Commodity Bets on Slowing China Growth
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-04-16T17:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/hedge-funds-cut-commodity-bets-on-slowing-china-growth.html
Speculators cut bullish wagers on
commodities by the most in 2012 on mounting concern that the
slowest Chinese growth in almost three years will curb gains in
demand for everything from copper to cotton.  Money managers lowered net-long positions across 18 U.S.
futures and options by 9.3 percent to 1.01 million  contracts  in
the week ended April 10, the biggest reduction since Dec. 20,
data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. Copper
holdings tumbled 84 percent, the most since November.  Hedge
funds  are now betting on lower cotton prices.  China’s economy , the biggest consumer of energy and metals,
expanded 8.1 percent last quarter, less than the 8.4 percent
anticipated by economists surveyed by Bloomberg, government data
showed April 13. The World Bank cut its growth estimate for the
Asian nation to a 13-year low a day earlier. Commodities will
“drift lower” this quarter as central banks refrain from
adding further stimulus, UBS AG said in a report last week.  “Many areas of the world that have been big sources of
demand for commodities are slowing,” said Bill Greiner, who
helps manage $13 billion of assets as chief investment officer
at Mariner Wealth Advisors in  Kansas City ,  Missouri . “If
anything, we expect growth worldwide to be a little softer than
people are looking for.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
dropped 1 percent last week, led by natural gas, sugar and
copper, and fell another 0.9 percent today as of 1:05 p.m. in
New York. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities retreated
1.5 percent last week for a second consecutive decline, to a
two-month low on April 11.  Copper Tumbles  Fourteen of the raw materials tracked by the S&P GSCI
retreated. Copper’s 4.4 percent tumble was the biggest this
year. Natural gas extended a slide to a 10-year low, trading
below $2 per million British thermal units. Cotton futures rose
1.3 percent, rebounding from a 5.3 percent drop the prior week.  The  World Bank  said the  China  will grow 8.2 percent this
year, down from a January projection of 8.4 percent and the
slowest pace since 1999. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  cut the
nation’s economic growth target to 7.5 percent last month, the
lowest since 2004. China accounts for 40 percent of copper
consumption and 11 percent of oil demand, according to  Barclays
Capital  and the International Energy Agency.  Labor Department  Confidence among U.S. consumers cooled in April, a sign
that the moderation in  job growth  may limit the biggest part of
the economy, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s
preliminary index of sentiment showed April 13. Filings for
 unemployment benefits  rose to a two-month high in the week ended
April 7, the Labor Department said April 12. North America
accounts for 11 percent of copper demand and uses 26 percent of
the world’s oil, Barclays and  International Energy Agency  data
show.  Slowing growth may prompt policy makers to increase
monetary easing. The People’s Bank of China reported on April 12
an unexpected surge in new yuan  loans  during March, showing the
Communist Party may be trying to avoid a deeper decline in
growth. On April 14, the Asian country widened the yuan’s
trading band for the first time since 2007.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C.
Dudley and Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  endorsed the central
bank’s view last week that borrowing costs are likely to stay
low through late 2014. Speaking in New York on April 11, Yellen
said she considers “a highly accommodative policy stance to be
appropriate in present circumstances.”  Even without additional monetary easing, low  interest rates 
and other existing policies will help support demand for
commodities in the second half of the year, said Jason Schenker,
president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based
consultant.  ‘Awash in Liquidity’  “The world is awash in liquidity,” said Schenker, who was
the third-most accurate forecaster for industrial metals in
Bloomberg Rankings the past eight quarters. “You’ve got a bunch
of hammers out there looking for some nails. People need to put
this money somewhere.”  Investors pulled $636.2 million from commodity funds in the
week ended April 11, the most since early January, according to
 Brad Durham , a managing director at Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. Gold and precious
metals outflows totaled $290.3 million, the biggest exit since
Dec. 28, he said.  Fed Minutes  Minutes from the Fed’s March policy meeting, which were
released on April 3, showed policy makers will probably hold off
increasing monetary accommodation unless the U.S. economic
expansion falters. Crude oil, copper, nickel and cotton may
decline “in the absence of further injections” of stimulus
measures, UBS analysts led by Hong Kong-based Peter Hickson said
in the report April 12.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s commodity research team, led by
 Jeffrey Currie  in  London , cut its three-month recommendation on
raw materials to “neutral” on March 28, saying that the
economy will “soften” this quarter.  Money managers reduced their bullish  bets  on copper by
15,687 contracts to 2,955 as of April 10, the CFTC data show.
That’s the lowest since funds were net-short, or betting on
declines, in January.  The value of Chinese homes sold dropped 18 percent in the
first three months of the year, the government reported April
13. Construction generates about 40 percent of demand for the
metal, according to the Copper Development Association.
Stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange rose to
the highest since at least 2003 on March 15 and have more than
doubled this year.  Farm Bets  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators lowered
wagers on a rally for agricultural commodities by 4.9 percent to
669,280. Holdings fell for a third week, the longest slump since
December. Speculators have a net-short position of 2,561
contracts in cotton, compared with net-long bets of 7,296
contracts a week earlier.  Sugar wagers dropped 9.4 percent to 107,232, the lowest in
four weeks. Sixteen of 22 analysts expect prices in  New York  to
decline next week and one was neutral, according to Bloomberg’s
weekly sentiment survey. The traders were bearish for a seventh
consecutive week, the longest stretch since at least 2007, when
the surveys began.  “There’s more concern now over the possibility of a global
recession,” said James Dailey, who manages $215 million of
assets at TEAM Financial Management LLC in Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania . “It’s quite difficult to navigate trading in
commodities right now because things are going to have to get
worse before policy makers step in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  