-- Merkel Seen Turning to Euro Bond-Backing SPD to Win in 2013
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-04-16T12:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/merkel-seen-turning-to-euro-bond-backing-spd-to-secure-2013-win.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  may
be preparing a rerun of her “grand coalition” with the  Social
Democrats  to secure re-election, an alliance that would pit
their backing for euro bonds against her demand that the region
embrace austerity to solve the debt crisis.  As Merkel begins a month of campaigning today for two state
votes that will set the tone for the 2013 federal election, her
Christian Democratic bloc faces an arithmetical hurdle: plunging
support for her Free Democratic allies has reduced them to a
rump. That may force her to turn to the biggest opposition
party, known as the SPD, to keep her job next year.  “The options at the moment are very obvious,”  Michael Fuchs , the deputy leader of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union 
in parliament and a member of its national steering committee,
said in an April 10 interview. “There could be a grand
coalition anytime. That’s the most foreseeable one.”  A grand coalition like Merkel’s first-term government of
2005-2009 would bring more pressure on her to do more to hold
the 17-nation euro area together. Social Democrats including
Merkel’s former  finance minister ,  Peer Steinbrueck , who may lead
his party in next year’s campaign, back joint euro-area bonds to
tighten the bloc’s integration. Merkel has rejected that path
until after the euro area achieves more unity.  FDP Collapse  While a grand coalition would spell tension over bailout
politics, polls show Merkel is unlikely be able to govern with
her current partner following the ballot due in September or
October 2013. After winning a record 14.6 percent in the 2009
election, FDP backing has crumbled as it flirted with an anti-
rescue stance, bickered over  energy policy  and failed to deliver
on its core election platform of tax cuts.  The Free Democrats held at 4 percent support in a  weekly
Emnid poll  yesterday, below the 5 percent threshold needed to
win seats in parliament. Merkel’s bloc fell one percentage point
to 35 percent, after winning 33.8 percent in 2009, while the
Social Democrats had 26 percent, up from 23 percent in the last
election.  Merkel will attend a rally in the northwestern city of
Muenster today, the first of 15 campaign appearances in 25 days.
While Schleswig-Holstein votes on May 6, most attention is
focused on the May 13 contest in North Rhine-Westphalia. With
almost a quarter of  Germany ’s 82 million people, the state is a
bellwether for the parties’ national fortunes.  SPD Policies  With the state campaigns heating up, Merkel is coming under
fire from the FDP for backing policies they say are more in line
with the SPD. Last month, she agreed to a 6.3 percent pay raise
for public-sector workers over FDP opposition. In November, she
endorsed a limited form of a minimum wage, both policies that
are more in line with SPD thinking.  FDP leader Philipp Roesler, in an  interview  with Germany’s
WAZ newspaper group published April 12, included the CDU in his
criticism of parties he said are adopting “Social Democratic
unity policies.”  The 57-year-old chancellor is making no commitments to
stick by Roesler.  “Every election is an election all unto itself,” she said
March 26 in Berlin. “You also can’t compare a federal election
four years ago with next year’s. Times change and situations
change.”  Saarland Example  At the state level, leaders of Merkel’s party are openly
attacking the FDP. The CDU premier of Saarland state, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, ended a coalition that included the FDP in
January and blamed the party for “dismantling itself,”
according to a Frankfurter Rundschau newspaper  interview .  “I’d have done the same thing myself,” Merkel told a
rally on March 23 in the Saar city of Dillingen, drawing cheers
from about 2,000 CDU supporters.  Kramp-Karrenbauer went on to win the election two days
later and is now in talks to set up a grand coalition with the
SPD, which placed second. The FDP was ejected from the regional
assembly after taking just 1.2 percent.  The rise of the Pirate Party, a group that campaigns for
Internet freedom, is eroding the standing of the  Green Party  and
may also spur the SPD to renew an alliance with Merkel. The
Pirates had 12 percent support in yesterday’s Emnid poll, their
highest rating to date.  The Greens fell one point to 12 percent in the poll, down
from as much as 24 percent in May last year. Germany’s six
leading pollsters  all show  an SPD-Greens coalition, like that
led by Social Democratic Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  from 1998
to 2005, falling short of a majority.  ‘Downward Spiral’  For now, Social Democratic leader  Sigmar Gabriel  says CDU
attacks on the FDP mark an effort to deflect attention from its
difficulties.  The Social Democrats see the chancellor’s policy of
“eternal rescues” during the debt crisis as bound to fail.
“After every decision to tackle the crisis made by heads of
government, it flames up somewhere else,”  the party says  on its
Website. “Euro bonds could stop the downward spiral.”  Merkel, Gabriel said in  an article  for the  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung  on Dec. 13, is instead intent on turning the
issue into a “domestic policy battleground” by characterizing
euro bonds as a symbol of a “transfer and debt union.”  Merkel rejects joint debt issuance for now, saying April 3
in  Prague  that euro bonds would remove an important gauge of
competitiveness in the single currency area. Even so, she
reiterated her stance that convergence in the euro bloc might,
at some point, make them possible.  Higher Taxes  Beyond bailout policies, the SPD differs with Merkel on a
demand for higher corporate, property, income and inheritance
taxes. Compromise on those issues may be preferable for her to
going down in defeat due to FDP vagaries. Konrad Adenauer,
Ludwig Erhard, Kurt Kiesinger and Helmut Schmidt all lost the
chancellorship in upheavals caused by their FDP allies.  Merkel may have learned the lesson as she turns the FDP
from kingmaker to also-ran.  “Merkel grabs everything and takes all the credit,”
Ulrich Deupmann, a partner at management adviser Brunswick Group
Inc. in Berlin, said by phone. Her current partner “isn’t going
to recover before the next election.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  