-- Euro Area Seeks Bigger IMF War Chest on Spanish Concerns
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-04-16T13:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/euro-area-to-seek-bigger-imf-war-chest-as-spain-concerns-mount.html
European officials travel to
 Washington  this week seeking a bigger global war chest to combat
the debt crisis as  Spain ’s government battles to quell renewed
market turmoil over its finances.  Three weeks after European leaders unveiled emergency euro-
area funding exceeding the symbolic $1 trillion mark, concerns
about Spain’s position have ratcheted the nation’s borrowing
costs to the  highest levels  this year. Crisis-fighting resources
will dominate talks at the International Monetary Fund’s spring
meeting in Washington from April 20-22.  While the U.S. insists that Europe can overcome the crisis
using its own financial firepower, euro-area officials say
they’ve done enough to trigger additional global assistance. The
urgency was underscored last week as Spanish and Italian yields
jumped, challenging assumptions among the region’s leaders that
the worst of the fallout was behind them.  “After three months that were calmer than expected, the
euro crisis is back,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist
at Berenberg Bank in London. “The speed of the recent surge in
yields has elements of a renewed market panic.”  Spain’s  10-year bond yield  climbed as much as 18 basis
points today to 6.16 percent, the highest level since Dec. 1,
before retreating to 6.06 percent at 2:45 p.m. in  Madrid . That
extended a rise of 19 basis points last week. Similar-maturity
 Italian yields  rose 4 basis points to yield 5.56 percent. The
17-nation currency fell 0.2 percent to $1.3048 at 2:49 p.m. in
 Frankfurt , after sliding below $1.30 for the first time since
January.  Direct Intervention  The surge in borrowing costs prompted one of Spain’s
deputy economy ministers, Jaime Garcia-Legaz, to call on the
 European Central Bank  to resume its direct intervention in the
markets.  “They should step up purchases of bonds,” Garcia-Legaz
said in an April 13 interview, wading into a debate that has
split the ECB. While Executive Board member Benoit Coeure
signaled April 11 the ECB may buy up Spanish bonds, his Dutch
colleague Klaas Knot said two days later that the ECB is “very
far” from reactivating the measure.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who is pushing
through an austerity agenda targeting spending on health and
education, won backing from his party’s regional leaders over
the weekend. People’s Party chiefs from regions including
Madrid, Valencia and Galicia agreed to streamline bureaucracy
and write deficit targets into budget laws.  ‘Tough’ Reality  “We need to manage a reality that is very tough,” Maria Dolores Cospedal, the deputy party head and president of
Castilla La Mancha, told reporters after a party meeting.
Rajoy’s government has struggled to convince investors after
last month saying it would not meet  budget deficit  targets set
by the European Commission and the previous government.  European governments are banking on a bigger safety net to
soothe markets as the crisis continues to simmer, with Spanish
borrowing nearing the level that prompted  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal  to seek bailouts. Sentiment will be gauged again on
April 19, when Spain auctions two- and 10-year debt.  The Europeans’ appeal for funds may find more success after
IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  last week scaled back
her request for $600 billion in new contributions. Lagarde said
April 12 that she is hoping to make “real progress” at this
week’s meetings. She has also said the IMF needs more cash to
quell economic risks separate from  Europe ’s woes, such as higher
 oil prices  and slowing U.S. growth.  Suspicions  Her retooled strategy reflects international and
particularly U.S. reluctance to deliver more cash amid suspicion
Europe isn’t doing enough to save itself. The IMF has less than
$400 billion available to lend.  Bowing to international pressure to do more while stopping
short of a bolder proposal, European governments agreed last
month that 500 billion euros ($654 billion) in fresh money would
be placed aside 300 billion euros already committed to create an
800 billion-euro defense against contagion.  By also offering to give the IMF 150 billion euros,
“European governments have done their part,” ECB Executive
Board Member Joerg Asmussen said April 13. “I would now expect
our non-European friends and partners to contribute their part
to IMF resources.”  Foreign governments have been slow to rally, although
 emerging markets  including Brazil and  Mexico  have indicated they
are willing to participate.  Substantial Resources  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said April 11 that “if
we’re asked if we’re 100 percent satisfied with Europe’s
efforts, I would say they need further efforts.” U.S. Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has already ruled out more support
for the IMF from its largest shareholder, saying last month the
lender already has “substantial financial resources.”  After spending or committing at least 386 billion euros to
bailing out Greece, Portugal and Ireland, Europe now has the
money to fully finance Spain through the end of 2014 if needed,
according to Schmieding at Berenberg Bank. Italy -- with a
sovereign debt of 1.9 trillion euros -- is not so easily saved
and would require the ECB to intervene if faced with an investor
revolt, he said.  Added to the mix are the looming French presidential
elections, with the first round due on April 22. EU officials
and investors will be looking to see how the Franco-German
partnership could be altered if Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande  beats President Nicolas Sarkozy in the second-round
vote on May 6.  Both candidates addressed supporters in Paris yesterday
after Hollande extended his advantage in a possible head-to-head
race by two points to 56 percent against 44 percent, according
to a TNS Sofres survey published April 13.  “ France  faces a highly intriguing election, which could
add to market woes,” Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in  London  at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  