-- Franc Traders Test SNB as Crisis Meets Negative Yields
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-04-16T14:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/franc-traders-challenging-snb-as-crisis-meets-negative-yields.html
For the first time in seven months,
traders are testing the  Swiss National Bank ’s determination to
limit the franc’s strength against the euro as Europe’s
resurgent debt crisis drives up demand for safer assets.  The franc breached the central bank’s cap of 1.20 to the
euro on April 5, and options show investors are predicting even
more appreciation. It  jumped  1.1 percent versus nine peers in a
basket of currencies in March, the biggest gain since July, and
is up 2 percent from a nine-month low on Jan. 11, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for Swiss assets is so strong that investors
accepted negative yields at an auction of six-month government
bills last week as Spain’s borrowing costs rose toward levels
that prompted bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . The
franc is climbing against its peers even after the Swiss central
bank repeated a commitment to prevent increases that threaten to
bring about deflation and hurt exports.  “As long as there is  risk aversion  tied to rising euro-
region stress, investors will want to buy francs,”  Peter Frank ,
a London-based currency strategist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, Spain’s second-largest lender, said in an
interview on April 10. “The Swiss franc is an extremely liquid
currency, it is tradable throughout all time zones and the
economy is very resilient.”  The franc will weaken to at least 1.23 per euro over the
next three months as the central bank steps up efforts to
counteract its strength, he said.  Estimates Raised  The franc has strengthened against all but one of its 16
most-traded peers in the past three months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. While gains versus the euro have been
limited to 0.5 percent, it surged 8.7 percent against the yen
and 3.7 percent versus the dollar.  Switzerland ’s currency was little changed at 1.2021 per
euro at 3:55 p.m.  London  time, leaving it 1.1 percent higher
this year. It was at 92 centimes per dollar, leaving its advance
since the end of December at 2 percent.  Strategists expect policy makers will keep their pledge.
Switzerland’s currency will end the year at 1.23 per euro,
according to a Bloomberg median survey of analysts. Still,
they’re paring estimates for depreciation compared with the Dec.
31 forecast for 1.26 per euro. The franc will fall to 97
centimes per dollar, a separate survey shows, stronger than a
prediction of 98 centimes at the end of last year.  ‘Very Overvalued’  The “very overvalued” franc may depreciate to 1.35 per
euro within a year, as data from Switzerland weakens and as
exports suffer, James Kwok, London-based head of currency
management at Amundi, the combined investment arm of Credit
Agricole SA and  Societe Generale  SA, which has about $860
billion under management, said in an e-mail on April 12.  A survey of  hedge funds  and companies by Societe Generale
indicated that confidence in the central bank’s ability to hold
the cap past June is fading. While responses from more than
6,600 research clients suggested a “very strong vote of support
for the SNB,” some investors doubted it would be able to
maintain the floor beyond three months, according to Sebastien Galy, a senior currency strategist in  New York .  “The feeling is that probably over the next few months
they’ll be able to do what they need to do, but the market is
becoming far more uncertain,” Galy said in a telephone
interview on April 10. “Unless the SNB intervenes to push away
euro-Swiss from current levels, these fears will remain.”  Societe Generale raised its year-end estimate for the franc
against the euro to 1.23 from 1.30 in December.  Negative Yields  The franc is a favorite in times of stress because the
nation is a financial center and exporter of precision products.
The country’s current-account surplus, the broadest measure of
trade, is equivalent to more than 10 percent of gross domestic
product, so it doesn’t need outside cash to fund spending. Since
1975, only the franc and the yen have increased in value,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-country currencies.  Investors are piling into Swiss assets even though its bond
yields are among the lowest in the world. The 10-year security
yields about 1.15 percentage points less on average than
comparable securities in the U.S., U.K. and  Germany .  Six-month Swiss bills sold at an average rate of minus
0.251 percent on April 10, the same day Bank of  Spain  Governor
Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said his country’s banks may need
additional capital if the economy worsens “more than
expected.” Switzerland’s sale of 2021 bonds on April 11
attracted bids equivalent to 3.92 times the amount offered, up
from 2.55 times at a sale a year ago.  ‘Safety Is Paramount’  The economy will expand 0.4 percent this year and 1.8
percent in 2013, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists,
compared with contraction of 0.4 percent followed by 1.05
percent growth in the euro region. Germany, which buys about 20
percent of Switzerland’s exports, may grow 0.7 percent this
year, even as euro members from Greece to  Italy  shrink.  “The underlying dynamics in Switzerland, in any way you
look at it, are still very strong in relation to  Europe ,” Peter Rosenstreich, chief foreign-exchange strategist at Swissquote
Bank SA in Geneva, which has about $8 billion in assets, said in
a telephone interview on April 11. “Safety is paramount in this
game right now. It’s not about yield seeking, it’s about safety
and the Swiss franc plays very well into that.”  The franc will stay “stuck” at about 1.2015 over the next
six months, he said.  Too Strong  Swiss officials say the currency is too strong. Even as the
SNB has limited gains versus the euro to about 0.4 percent since
introducing its cap, after about a 7 percent rise in the
previous six months, the franc is 36 percent overvalued, based
on an index by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development using relative costs of goods and services. Against
the dollar, the difference is 39 percent.  “Fact is that the franc’s purchasing-power parity versus
the euro is higher, it’s at 1.35, 1.40,” Economy Minister
Johann Schneider-Ammann said on March 26. “I’d generally like
if the  exchange rate  was around that level.”  The franc’s advance has lowered costs of imported goods.
 Consumer prices  dropped for a sixth month in March, declining 1
percent from a year ago, after falling 0.9 percent in February,
data showed on April 5.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of cancer
drugs, said on April 12 that first-quarter sales declined 1
percent. Revenue was hurt by pricing pressure as currency
strength cut 3 percentage points off sales growth, the Basel-
based company said.  SNB Leaderless  Former SNB President Philipp Hildebrand introduced the cap
after the franc rose to a record 1.00749 on Aug. 9.  The Zurich-based SNB has been leaderless since Hildebrand
was forced to quit on Jan. 9 over a purchase of dollars by his
wife in August, about a month before policy makers imposed the
ceiling. The Swiss currency plunged more than 8 percent versus
the greenback and the euro on the day the cap was introduced.  Interim SNB head Thomas Jordan said on April 10 at a press
briefing in Zurich that doubts about the central bank’s resolve
are misplaced.  “The SNB has successfully enforced the minimum exchange
rate and will continue to do so, without any restrictions,”
Jordan said.  That determination is being tested after Spain’s 10-year
yield reached 6 percent for the first time since December last
week. Spain’s $1.4 trillion economy is about twice the combined
size of the three euro-region nations that received aid from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  ‘Pressure the Franc’  “Spain will probably have to have an EU/IMF program,”
 Dale Thomas , head of currency management in London at Insight
Investment Management Ltd., which oversees about $267 billion in
assets, said in a telephone interview on April 11. “It’s very
hard to see flows do anything other than pressure the franc.”  Traders are betting the currency will gain versus the euro
over the next three months, a reversal from predictions for a
decline made between March 14 and April 3.  The premium for three-month options granting the right to
buy the franc against the euro relative to those allowing for
sales was at 1.92 percentage points April 11. On March 28, the
so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate was at 0.26 percentage
point in favor of options to sell the currency, the most bearish
reading since May 2006, based on closing levels.  “There is a clear risk to the euro, so people still prefer
the franc in case the worst happens,” Yves Longchamp, a Geneva-
based currency strategist at  Pictet & Cie , which manages the
equivalent of $270 billion, said in an interview on April 12.
“On the one hand you have a good economy performing well, and
on the other hand you have doubts about Europe, so the Swiss
franc will remain expensive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net 
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  