-- Geithner Urges U.S. Lawmakers to Leave Drama Out of Debt Limit
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-04-15T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/geithner-urges-u-s-lawmakers-to-leave-drama-out-of-debt-limit.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned Congress against repeating last year’s “very
damaging” debate over the debt limit and said the economy is
stronger than at any time in the past several years.  “It would be good for the country, if this time, they did
it with less drama and less politics and less damage to the
country than they did last summer,” Geithner said on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” program today, referring to lawmakers’
reluctance to raise the debt ceiling until an 11th-hour
agreement with the Obama administration in August.  Geithner has said the U.S. won’t hit its debt limit again
until late in the year.  “Americans generally should feel much more confident about
the basic strength of the economy than they would have felt any
time in the last four or five, six years,” Geithner said.
Still, “it’s a very tough economy.”  Geithner is defending President Barack Obama’s record as
presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  has
sharpened his criticism since  Rick Santorum  dropped out of the
Republican race April 10. Geithner also spoke in interviews
airing today on CBS’s “Face the Nation” and ABC’s “This
Week” programs.  “Obviously, we’ve got a lot of challenges ahead and some
risks and uncertainty ahead,” Geithner said on ABC. Those risks
include the European debt crisis and  oil prices , he said.  Drop in Confidence  Last year’s months-long debate over raising the debt limit
caused “a precipitous drop in  consumer confidence  and business
confidence,” Geithner told NBC. “Those drops in confidence
were like what you saw in a typical recession. It was very
damaging, completely unnecessary, and very avoidable.”  Geithner said global economic growth and “concerns about
 Iran ” have contributed to higher gasoline and oil prices in the
past six months. Future costs could depend in part on “whether
our broad efforts to bring Iran to the table and deter Iran from
pursuing its nuclear missions are successful.”  The average cost of a gallon of gasoline in the U.S. was
$3.90 on April 12, down from a 10-month high of $3.94 that was
reached April 5, according to AAA, the nation’s largest
automobile association.  Geithner, asked what the U.S. jobless rate will be on
election day, told CBS that “if the economy continues to
gradually strengthen like it’s been doing, then the  unemployment
rate  will be lower.”  Unemployment  Unemployment (USURTOT)  was 8.2 percent in March, when U.S. employers
added 120,000 jobs, less than the most pessimistic estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. The rate had fallen to 8.3
percent in February from 9.1 percent last August.  Jobless claims increased 13,000 in the week ended April 7
to 380,000, the highest level since late January, the Labor
Department reported last week. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for 355,000 claims.  Geithner also told CBS that the administration would
continue to advocate the so-called Buffett Rule, a proposed
minimum tax on people making at least $1 million annually.  “If we don’t push for things that make sense, then we’re
not governing,” he said.  The minimum tax is named for billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , who says he pays a lower  tax rate  than his secretary,
largely because of the preferential treatment given to  capital
gains  and dividends. Obama has cited Buffett and his secretary
in campaigning for the tax, saying the wealthy shouldn’t pay a
lower rate than middle-income individuals. The Buffett Rule is
scheduled for a procedural vote in the Senate tomorrow.  Women’s Jobs  Geithner told CBS that Romney’s assertion last week that
92.3 percent of jobs lost during the Obama administration had
been held by women was a “ridiculous and very misleading way of
looking at the recession.”  The statistic was rated “mostly false” by PolitiFact, a
nonpartisan website that checks political claims.  Male-dominated industries such as construction and
manufacturing lost more jobs early in the U.S. economic downturn
-- when  George W. Bush  was president -- while women were more
heavily represented in the job losses that came in the later
months, when state and local governments laid off public-sector
workers such as teachers.  Romney is counting job losses from the start of the Obama
administration, a time frame that only counts the later part of
the recession. Overall, more men than women have lost jobs
during the entirety of the nation’s economic struggles, the site
reported.  Geithner reiterated that he won’t remain Treasury secretary
if Obama wins re-election. One term “seems like the right
amount of time for me,” he told CBS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  