-- Gillard Budget Surplus Bid Hit by Falling Australian Tax Income
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-04-15T04:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/gillard-budget-surplus-bid-hit-by-falling-australian-tax-income.html
The Australian government’s bid to
deliver the nation’s first  budget surplus  since the global
financial crisis is being undermined by lower-than-expected tax
revenue, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “Tax collections were running a further A$2 billion ($2.1
billion) behind estimates at the end of February, indicating the
full-year shortfall is likely to be much larger,” Swan said in
an e-mailed statement today. “Lower revenue means we will have
to work much harder to find extra savings in the budget.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , whose government is slumping
in opinion polls and faces an election next year, has pledged to
end four years of deficits in the fiscal year that begins July
1. Her strategy has been threatened by global pressures
including China’s economic growth slowdown, Europe’s debt crisis
and elevated unemployment in the U.S.  “The ongoing global instability has had a big impact on
our economy and our budget bottom line,” Swan said. “Since the
global financial crisis struck, we’ve been forced to write down
government tax revenues by A$140 billion. There will be more
writedowns in next month’s budget.”  Australia ’s underlying cash balance for the year to Feb. 29
was a deficit of A$29.4 billion, compared with a forecast made
in November of a A$27.5 billion gap.  The shortfall “primarily relates to lower-than-anticipated
taxation receipts” and higher-than-expected personal benefit
payments, Finance Minister  Penny Wong  said in an April 13
 statement .  Economic Integrity  Gillard has staked her government’s economic integrity on
delivering a budget surplus. After assembling a minority
government after the closest election in seven decades in August
2010, her Labor party has since suffered election losses at
state level, leaving Gillard with allies governing just two of
the nation’s six states.  Australia’s first female leader has also been forced to
fend off a leadership challenge from predecessor  Kevin Rudd , and
has suffered near-record low results in polls.  Labor had 27 percent support in the Nielsen poll conducted
March 29-31, compared with 47 percent for the Liberal-National
opposition coalition led by Tony Abbott.  Governments across the region, including  Japan , Indonesia
and  India , are grappling with slower tax revenue and trying to
find ways to cut spending without exacerbating elevated
unemployment.  Avoiding Recession  Australia was the only major industrial economy to avoid a
recession during the global downturn of 2009. Still, job growth
stagnated last year and, until two  interest-rate  cuts in late
2011, the central bank maintained the highest benchmark
borrowing cost in the developed world to temper inflation as a
mining investment boom accelerated.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 4.25 percent this month after cutting
borrowing costs in November and December to buttress the housing
market, support jobs and boost confidence among consumers who
are saving more.  Australia unexpectedly posted back-to-back trade deficits
in February as coal and metal exports slumped. The central bank
is relying on A$456 billion of resource projects to meet Chinese
and Indian demand to drive economic growth and support
employment.  Parliament is on hiatus until May 8 when the government
will announce its budget.  “This will be a balanced budget -- balanced in that it
charts a responsible middle course and balanced in that it gets
us back in the black well before our peers,” Swan said today.
He’s previously said returning to surplus was “a vital economic
imperative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  