-- Goldman Likes Stocks as Morgan Stanley Sees Danger
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-04-16T20:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/goldman-likes-stocks-as-morgan-stanley-sees-danger.html
Treasury yields below zero on an
inflation-adjusted basis for only the second time since Dwight
D. Eisenhower’s presidency have split Wall Street’s biggest
firms, underscoring the relative-value dilemma equity investors
face following the biggest first-quarter rally in 14 years.  For  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s  Peter Oppenheimer , U.S.
stocks offer a once-in-a-generation buying opportunity after
yields on 10-year Treasuries fell to about minus 0.3 percent
when the rate of inflation is deducted. Morgan Stanley’s  Adam Parker  advises caution, saying Federal Reserve stimulus that has
led the fixed-income rally can’t last forever.  Last month’s jobs growth, which was lower than estimated by
any economist in a Bloomberg survey, underscored the economy’s
reliance on the Fed’s help since the financial crisis began in
2007. At the same time, record-low yields on Treasuries are
driving investors to riskier assets such as stocks, said Howard Ward at Gamco Investors Inc. in Rye, New York.  “Capital will chase returns,” Ward, who helps oversee $35
billion, said in an April 11 phone interview. “There’s a
tremendous shortage of investment income and there are fewer
places to go to generate that,” he said. “Stocks are to a
large extent the only game in town for earning a respectable
return.”  Ward favors technology companies such as Apple Inc.,
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and Microsoft Corp. given their earnings
potential, as well as consumer stocks with emerging-market
operations like Starbucks Corp. and Nike Inc.  Weekly Decline  Equities fell last week, driving the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index down 2 percent to 1,370.26 in its first back-to-back
decline since November, after the government reported that
American employers added 120,000 jobs in March, fewer than
estimated by the 79 economists in the Bloomberg survey.  The index has declined 3.4 percent from its four-year high
on April 2,  trimming gains  of as much as 29 percent in the past
six months, after the Fed said it won’t add more stimulus unless
the economy falters or inflation tops its 2 percent target. The
 S&P 500  slumped 0.1 percent to 1,369.57 today.  The central bank already bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in
two rounds of asset purchases and started a $400 billion program
known as Operation Twist to replace short-term debt in its
holdings with longer-term securities. Yields on 10-year Treasury
notes fell below 2 percent last week after reaching a five-month
high of 2.40 percent in March.  Consumer Prices Gain  Consumer prices excluding food and energy rose at a 2.3
percent annual rate last month, the government said April 13.
Yields on 10-year Treasuries ended the week at 1.98 percent.  Benchmark 10-year Treasuries have yielded less than zero on
an inflation-adjusted basis at the end of every month since
November as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis would derail the global
economic recovery pushed investors to the safety of government
debt. U.S. bonds returned 9.61 percent since Dec. 31, 2010,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The S&P 500
added 12 percent, including dividends.  With bonds so expensive, prospects for stock returns are
“as good as they have been in a generation,” Oppenheimer,
Goldman Sachs’s London-based chief global equity strategist,
wrote in a March 21 report. Share prices are too low given the
economic outlook, he said. Oppenheimer recommends shares of
global energy companies, Japanese industrial stocks, and U.S.
technology corporations, according to an April 10 note.  Fed Model  Equities are close to the cheapest level ever relative to
debt even after the S&P 500’s biggest first-quarter rally since
1998, according to the so-called Fed model, which compares the
earnings yield for stocks with Treasury rates.  Profit for S&P 500 companies have represented 7.16 percent
of the index’s price on average in 2012, or 5.13 percentage
points more than yields on 10-year Treasuries, according to Fed
model data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the average
difference of 0.03 percentage points and the record high of 6.99
points when the bull market started in March 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1962.  “This is a very attractive time for equities, especially
relative to bonds,”  Abby Joseph Cohen , the senior U.S.
investment strategist at Goldman Sachs, said in a telephone
interview on April 13. After three decades of declines, “it’s
hard to see how  interest rates  are going to go down much more
and stay there for a long period of time,” she said.  Increasing Dividends  Cohen said she likes stocks with increasing dividends in
groups such as technology.  David Kostin , the firm’s chief U.S.
equity strategist, recommends energy and technology companies.  Warren Buffett , the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
the third-richest person in the Bloomberg Billionaires Index,
said in February that low interest rates and inflation have made
bonds “among the most dangerous of assets.”  The last time real yields were negative was from 1979 to
1980 when Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker  fought runaway inflation by
raising borrowing costs. The same acceleration in consumer
prices that Volcker targeted also pushed 10-year Treasury yields
below the so-called core inflation rate at the end of 1970 and
during 1974 to 1975. American consumer prices excluding food and
energy rose 13.3 percent in May 1980, 310 basis points, or 3.1
percentage points, more than bonds.  During Eisenhower’s presidency, real yields were negative
in 1958, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has left the benchmark rate
 near zero  since 2008 to spur inflation and lure investors into
riskier assets as he tries to help restore the 8.7 million jobs
lost during the recession that ended in 2009.  Bad for Stocks  “If you’re looking at real yields being zero, what that
implies is the market doesn’t expect a whole lot of real
economic growth,” Wayne Lin, a  money manager  at Baltimore-based
Legg Mason Inc., said in a phone interview on April 12. His firm
oversaw $643 billion as of March 31. “It’s negative for
equities. Multiple expansion, earnings growth, all that is
driven by economic growth.”  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Parker said the economy has yet to prove
it can grow without the Fed’s help, posing a risk to equities.
The central bank’s attempt to eliminate the threat of deflation
with unprecedented stimulus won’t boost the stock market
forever, according to Parker, the New York-based U.S. equity
strategist at the firm.  Fed Bond Purchases  Managers at Pacific Investment Management Co., DoubleLine
Capital LP and Loomis Sayles & Co., which collectively oversee
about $1.5 trillion, expect a third round of Fed bond purchases
as signs of economic strength fade and Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis worsens. Gross domestic product will expand 2.3 percent
this year, down from 3 percent in 2010, according to economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “When rates are extremely low or extremely high, it’s
usually because policy has been enacted to combat crises,”
Parker said in a telephone interview on April 10. “Equities
work when real rates are in some healthy band like 3 to 5
percent. That’s when you should be bullish. If you have
extremely low or high real rates, it’s usually a systemic
problem that takes a long time to fix.”  Parker and Lin favor companies that pay  high dividends . The
S&P 500’s  dividend yield  has averaged 2.01 percent in 2012,
about the same as rates on 10-year Treasuries. Bonds usually
have the advantage, offering yields more than two times higher
on average since 1971, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While telephone and utilities stocks have historically
offered higher payouts, consumer companies from  Gannett Co. (GCI)  to
 Leggett & Platt Inc. (LEG)  are among the top 25 S&P 500 companies
ranked by yield, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  USA Today  Gannett, the owner of newspapers including USA Today,
raised its  quarterly payout  this year to 20 cents a share from 8
cents, lifting the McLean, Virginia-based company’s yield to
5.33 percent. The stock has risen 67 percent since Oct. 3
including dividends, compared with a gain of 0.03 percent for
Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg and Bank of America Corp.
show.  Leggett & Platt, the Carthage, Missouri-based maker of
bedding and chair components, is yielding double its average
since 1980, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock has
returned 23 percent since Oct. 3, including dividends.  Shares rallied on April 12 after Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley endorsed the
view that borrowing costs will stay low through 2014. It’s
“still too soon to conclude that we are out of the woods,”
Dudley said on April 12 at Syracuse University.  While the economy is still recovering, stocks are
attractive, according to  Byron Wien , the New York-based vice
chairman of the advisory services unit at Blackstone Group LP,
the world’s biggest private-equity firm.  “The low interest rate environment is the attempt by the
Fed to encourage faster growth and therefore lower
unemployment,” Wien said in a phone interview on April 10.
“The question is can the economy develop a natural momentum on
its own, and that question is still open.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  