-- Gorman’s Lonely Quest to Save Wall Street’s Honor
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-04-15T22:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/gorman-s-lonely-quest-to-save-wall-street-s-honor.html
There has been a noticeable dearth
of leadership on Wall Street after the financial crisis.  Where are the senior executives willing to explain to the
American people how and why the financial industry’s behavior
got our economy into so much trouble and why that behavior needs
to change if there is to be any hope of restoring the public’s
confidence in our  capital markets ? Without that restored faith,
you can pretty much forget about any economic recovery anytime
soon.  Instead of rising to the occasion, Wall Street’s purported
top rung --  Lloyd Blankfein , the chief executive officer of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ; and  Jamie Dimon , CEO of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  -- have been too busy either defending their own
indefensible actions leading up to the crisis (Blankfein) or
complaining about how new regulations are impeding profitability
(Dimon) to give any thought to fundamentally changing the way
Wall Street does business. So far, they have shown the opposite
of leadership: blatant self-interest.  Fortunately, as Aristotle taught us, nature abhors a
vacuum. And into the leadership breach has quietly stepped the
Australian-born  James Gorman , the 53-year-old former McKinsey &
Co. consultant and Merrill Lynch & Co. executive who has been
the CEO of Morgan Stanley since 2010 and both chairman and CEO
since the beginning of the year. In his unassuming way, Gorman
has come out swinging.  Compensation Clawbacks  He started a buzz at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos in
January, when Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker  asked him to
explain why Morgan Stanley had taken the lead by instituting
compensation clawbacks and deferrals and by capping cash payouts
at $125,000 a year. Gorman said he would tell the following to
employees who failed to grasp the logic of his decision.
“You’re naive. Read the newspaper, No. 1,” he said. “No. 2, if
you put your compensation in a one-year context to define your
overall level of happiness, you have a problem which is much
bigger than the job. And No. 3, if you’re really unhappy, just
leave. I mean, life’s too short.”  For good measure, he added, “The world has changed and the
banking industry has gone through a fundamental change, and we
have to readjust.”  Exactly. Unlike Blankfein and Dimon, Gorman understands
that true leadership means perceiving the world as it really is
-- and dealing with it -- not wishing it were something that it
no longer is.  Gorman expanded on this theme last week during an
appearance on the “Charlie Rose” show. He said it was
essential for  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to get back to helping its clients
solve their problems, rather than focusing on ways to make a big
financial score.  “The most important thing with any professional service
firm is to tap the DNA to find out what it is that is the magic
about the institution,” he said. “The magic of Morgan Stanley
is the quality of the people dealing with exceptionally
complicated problems, helping clients find solutions to tough
situations. So my challenge is to get us back to those roots, to
amplify those roots and to let the organization run with it.”
(OK, there’s more than a dollop of corporate pabulum in this
statement, but there’s also an element of truth.)  He said the days of proprietary trading are over at Morgan
Stanley. “That was sort of a stray off the reservation,” he
said, adding that while a number of firms made a bunch of money
trading for their own account, “Morgan Stanley had always made
money serving its clients.  That was our reason to be. That was
at the core, as I said, of the DNA.”  Proprietary Trading  While he didn’t mention Howard L. Hubler, a Morgan Stanley
trader who was blamed for a $9 billion loss on an ill-timed
proprietary trade in  2007 , Gorman conceded: “We got envious. A
lot of firms got envious. And it’s the problem with corporate
strategy. You’ve got to stick to what you’re good at. Just
because somebody else is good at it doesn’t mean you’re going to
be good at it. And we started trying to be what somebody else
was good at.”  He said it was time to accept  greater regulation  that will
either prevent firms from engaging in proprietary trading or
require them to hold so much capital in reserve as to make this
activity economically unattractive. He said he is a believer in
a steadier stream of consistent earnings.  “What investors want ultimately is certainty,” he said.
“They want to know the strategy you’re on. Why it is that
you’re going to succeed on it and they want to see consistent
returns. In the proprietary-trading businesses, they’re very
volatile. And investors discount it because they don’t know if
you can repeat it the next quarter.”  Gorman’s big strategic bet on  wealth management  -- Morgan
Stanley bought 51 percent of the Smith Barney brokerage from
Citigroup Inc. in January 2009 and is said to be negotiating to
buy the remainder -- and his push to refocus the firm on helping
clients solve problems hasn’t shown up in the financial
performance or the stock price, which has been a laggard in
recent years. Yet his willingness to concede mistakes, to accept
the new regulation and to return his firm to its once-famous
focus on clients is bound to pay off soon.  One thing has become abundantly clear on  Wall Street : Its
customers and its counterparties are sick and tired of being
gamed, and the firm -- or firms -- that first restores the trust
that has been lost will be the most successful in the future.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the author
of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on signs  Iraq  is  veering
away  from democracy and the  National Rifle Association ’s role in
 encouraging gun sales  and use;  Simon Johnson  on why long-term
 budget projections  get too much attention; Kellie McElhaney on
how Apple  should change  its behavior;  Albert R. Hunt  on Mitt
Romney’s potential  vice presidential choices ; Vali Nasr on
 positive developments  in  Pakistan ; and Iain Begg on redefining
 Europe ’s  social safety net .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 