-- Greens Leader Milne Vows to Sell Strategy for Australian Economy
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-04-15T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/greens-leader-milne-vows-to-sell-strategy-for-australian-economy.html
Australia’s Greens party, which
holds the balance of power in the nation’s upper house, will
focus on selling its vision for the economy to voters, new
leader  Christine Milne  said.  “I’m hoping that perhaps under my leadership, we can go
out with a stronger articulation, not only of our vision for the
country, but how our economic strategy would support it,” Milne,
who replaced leader  Bob Brown  on April 13, said in a Network Ten
television interview broadcast yesterday.  Australia’s minority Labor government has relied on Greens
party lawmakers to pass legislation including taxes on carbon
emissions and profits of iron-ore and coal producers. Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  was forced to renege on a pre-election
promise not to implement a price on carbon in exchange for
Greens support to form a government and back the legislation.  “I reassured the prime minister that our agreement
stands” during a phone call with Gillard, Milne said. “We’re
looking forward to having some discussions of how we work
together.”  The Greens, who have one elected member in the  House of
Representatives  and nine in the Senate, can appoint a new upper
house member under parliamentary rules to replace Brown, 67, who
said he’s retiring from political life. The former party leader
will resign from the Senate in June when a replacement from his
home state of Tasmania is named.  Adam Bandt , the Greens’ sole member in the lower house, was
elected Milne’s deputy.  Milne, 58, led a campaign to halt the construction of a
paper pulp mill near her home in rural Tasmania before being
elected to the state’s parliament in 1989, according to a
biography e-mailed by the Greens. She was elected to the federal
Senate in 2004 and has served as the Greens deputy since 2008.  “The Greens want to look at economic tools as a way of
facilitating outcomes for the community,” she said. “We look
at what sort of society would  Australia  want in the future. We
want an investment in education, research and development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  