-- Tiger’s Milk Aphrodisiac Fires London Peruvian Restaurant
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-04-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/tiger-s-milk-aphrodisiac-fires-london-peruvian-restaurant.html
An exciting change in the  London 
restaurant scene over the past three years has been the
emergence of small, simple venues where you can eat and drink
well without spending too much or enduring fussy service.  The restaurateur  Russell Norman  was a pioneer with Polpo
and its offshoots. (These include Polpetto, which closes this
month before moving to a new location.) New spots in Soho
include 10 Greek Street and Ducksoup, with daily menus of
affordable dishes pitched around the level of good home cooking.  One of the hottest new venues is Ceviche, serving Peruvian
food, and drinks such as pisco sour. Ceviche -- raw fish
marinated in juice -- is starting to appear on more London
menus, with Gaucho Grill, an early pioneer, now being followed
by gourmet restaurants such as Pollen Street Social.  This new Soho establishment has quickly attracted fans and
it’s a good idea to book. A better idea is to arrive early and
grab a seat at the bar. You’re served faster, you can chat with
the staffers and you can watch life on Frith Street. I always
sit there, rather than in the windowless dining room out back.  The menu is divided into ceviche, salads and sides, skewers
(anticuchos) and classic favorites (recuerdos). The signature
Don Ceviche features sea bass in aji amarillo chili tiger’s
milk, aji limo chili and red onions. Tiger’s milk (leche de
tigre) is the marinade in ceviche. It doesn’t contain any dairy
(or any striped animals with big teeth for that matter) and some
people consider it an  aphrodisiac . Grrrrrrrr.  Steak Skewers  Other ceviches include the sakura maru, with sliced salmon
and Nikkei tiger’s milk made with satsumas, mirin, soy sauce and
aji limo chili. On the side you might try the arrocito, white
long-grain rice and Peruvian corn. Then there are more skewers,
of which my favorite is the steak, featuring chunks of rump
marinated in aji panca chili anticucho sauce.  Some of the classics reflect the Chinese influence on
Peruvian food, with so-called Chifa dishes including chicken
tallarin saltado, which features wok-cooked chicken, pasta
noodles and vegetables in Chifa saltado sauce.  The food is designed for sharing and diners are recommended
to order three or four savory dishes per person. As most cost
between 6 pounds ($9.60) and 9 pounds, it’s easy to spend a lot,
particularly if you are as fond of pisco sours as I have become.  Cinnamon Sponge  Desserts include encanelado de pisco: cinnamon sponge
soaked in pisco spirit syrup served with artisan dulce de leche
ice cream, at 4.75 pounds.  The restaurant is the creation of a British Peruvian,
Martin Morales, who has invested his life savings. He’ll face
competition soon.  One of  Peru ’s foremost chefs, Virgilio Martinez, of Central
restaurant in  Lima , is scheduled to open his first London
restaurant in June. (He  previously worked in London  at Quadrato
Italian restaurant and at the Ritz.)  “Peru is probably going to be the next most important
revolution in culinary history,”  Ferran Adria  said in an
interview last year. The El Bulli chef is one of a growing
number of fans of the cuisine. Count me in.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 25 pounds for food if you go easy.  Sound level? About 75 decibels and up.  Inside tip? Sit at the bar.  Special feature? Puts a tiger in your tank.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***.  Ceviche, 17 Frith Street, London, W1D 4RG. Information:
+44-20-7292-2040;  http://cevicheuk.com/ .  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights: Scott Reyburn reports on a  Ferrari
auction ; Elin McCoy reviews the new  Bordeaux  vintage; Farah
Nayeri reports on the  Olivier  awards.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 