-- Ignore Long-Term Forecasts Assuming No Medicare Fix
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-04-15T23:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/ignore-long-term-forecasts-assuming-no-medicare-fix.html
How much should you worry about the
level of federal government debt in 2075? The  Congressional
Budget Office  forecasts deficits and debts out that far, and the
numbers are eye-popping. According to the CBO, total debt is on
a  trajectory  to reach 700 percent of gross domestic product.  The implication, of course, is that we are on an
unsustainable  path . Either we’ll face some sort of dramatic
fiscal disaster or the government’s debts will more gradually
become an unbearable burden. Either way, the budget and our
political inability to bring it under control will surely derail
growth. Or will it?  Forecasting is difficult, and looking out 65 years is
essentially impossible. Would it have been smart if lawmakers
made fiscal decisions in 1940 based on what they thought might
happen in 2005? A projection in 1940 might have anticipated the
huge fiscal costs of World War II, but probably would have
underestimated the strong growth of the postwar period that
reduced debt relative to GDP. It almost certainly would have
missed the dominant demographic change of that period -- the
jump in U.S. births from 20 to 24 per 1,000 in 1946, a rate that
remained high until the early 1960s.  Other changes with first-order effects on the national debt
include a big increase in the female  labor force , the creation
of Medicare and the rise in  life expectancy . Today’s 65-year-
olds can expect to live three years longer than those who turned
65 in 1970. Heck, the  Red Sox  even won the  World Series .  Zero Weight  We should put essentially zero weight on the precise
numbers in any 65-year forecast, and we certainly shouldn’t make
dramatic or disruptive changes today because some form of
straight-line projection implies that health care will eat the
economy.  There is an undeniable problem with health care, but this
is more about the way the entire medical industry operates, not
just what the government spends. For example, the main problem
with the original approach to  Medicare (USBOMDCA)  by Representative  Paul Ryan , the Wisconsin Republican who is chairman of the House
Budget Committee, was flagged by the  Congressional Budget Office 
last year. By shifting costs to individuals, the Ryan plan would
actually increase health spending as a percentage of GDP.  Ryan has since modified his plan by raising the cap on what
the government would pay for seniors’ health care.
Unfortunately, the CBO hasn’t assessed the effect this would
have on total spending. In my assessment, however, the CBO’s
point still holds -- shifting costs to individuals may
discourage frivolous purchases but moves the balance of pricing
power decisively toward providers and insurers.  Health care is a relatively concentrated  market . Depending
on the locality, either hospitals or insurance companies have
significant pricing power. The federal government already pays
the health-care costs of about 100 million Americans through
Medicare, Medicaid, the veterans’ health system and other
programs. Without question, the government could use its market
power more effectively and run these programs better.  In any case, the average person’s market power is far less
than the government’s, giving individuals little control over
what they pay. Pooling a large number of people makes it
possible to hold down underwriting risk; try insuring five
people compared with 5,000.  Of course, rising health-care costs are unsustainable, but
here’s a bold prediction: We’ll fix it. The International
Monetary Fund’s September 2011 fiscal monitor offers a big hint
on how to do this. At the back of the report, in the third and
fourth columns of Statistical Table 9, the IMF reports on how
increases in health-care spending will affect the budgets of
industrialized countries and  emerging markets . However you look
at it, the U.S. is an outlier.  Single Payer  Every country is different, but all the countries with a
grip on future health-care costs have some version of universal
health care in a single-payer system. This is often mixed with
coverage by private insurers, which aren’t necessarily chased
out of business. Doctors earn high wages and other health-care
providers still turn a nice profit in many of these systems.  Suggestions that the U.S. move to a single-payer system are
often met with howls of “death panels” and other dire
predictions. All the same, we’ll fix health care along these
lines because, otherwise, the private sector will become
completely uncompetitive. (I write more extensively in my new
book about Medicare.)  The people running American businesses talk a great deal
about how the U.S. tax system puts companies and their employees
at a disadvantage relative to other countries. They make some
good points and we should overhaul corporate taxes, preferably
as part of a broader set of tax reforms that strengthen the
revenue base. In 20 years, any adverse competitive effects of
the tax system will likely be swamped by the high costs and
other disadvantages of the health-care system.  Business leaders have to get a grip on this issue. Let’s
start by phasing out the  tax exemption  for employer-provided
health care (and use half the proceeds to reduce payroll taxes).
This should help push the U.S. away from fee-for-service and
toward a health system that will better serve the private sector
and entrepreneurs in a global economy.  (Simon Johnson, a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on signs  Iraq  is  veering
away  from democracy and the  National Rifle Association ’s role in
 encouraging gun sales  and use; William D. Cohan on  restoring
faith  in  Wall Street  as the key to an economic recovery; Kellie
McElhaney on how Apple  should change  its behavior;  Albert R.
Hunt  on Mitt Romney’s potential  vice presidential choices ; Vali
Nasr on  positive developments  in  Pakistan ; and Iain Begg on
redefining  Europe ’s  social safety net .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Simon Johnson  at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  