-- Infosys May Spend Up to $500 Million on European Deal
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-04-16T15:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/infosys-may-spend-up-to-500-million-on-european-deal.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , which sits on the
largest cash pile among  India ’s computer-services providers, is
prepared to spend as much as $500 million on a single
acquisition in a European market.  Infosys may make another attempt to acquire a company of
that size after it walked away from a plan to buy U.K.-based
Axon Group Plc for 407 million pounds ($645 million) in 2008,
Chandrashekar Kakal, the company’s global head of business IT
services, said in a telephone interview.  “We do have cash, but we are looking for a company which
adds to our capability and becomes complementary to our growth
rather than becoming a laggard,” he said.  Infosys’s war chest of about $4 billion is more than twice
the size that of  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  Indian software
companies, after a decade of growth fuelled by the outsourcing
of jobs from  the U.S. , are turning to acquisitions to expand
into  Europe , now the second-largest source of their  revenues .
Making purchases in Europe may help Bangalore-based Infosys
achieve a target of getting 40 percent of its sales from the
region, up from  about 22 percent .  The company’s shares fell 1.6 percent to 2,364.55 rupees as
of the market close in Mumbai. That brought the stock’s decline
this year to 15 percent, valuing Infosys at 1.36 trillion rupees
($26.3 billion).  In 2008, Infosys decided against further pursuing a plan to
buy Axon after its bid was trumped by New Delhi-based  HCL
Technologies Ltd. (HCLT)  In 2006, Infosys spent $115 million to
purchase Citigroup Inc.’s stake in Progeon Ltd., a back-office
service provider controlled by Infosys.  Bidding Competition  The company may also make a number of smaller purchases
worth about $30 million to $50 million each, Kakal said in the
interview on April 13, adding that such companies would be
easier to integrate. He declined to identify potential targets
or specify sectors where acquisitions may be made.  Infosys, which designs and builds software programs and
provides back-office support to clients including U.K. phone
company  BT Group Plc (BT/)  and oil company  BP Plc (BP/) , was founded by
seven engineers in 1981 with $250 they borrowed from their
wives.  Kakal, who joined the company in 1999, oversees Infosys’s
development, maintenance, testing and infrastructure management
services with about 60,000 employees, according to the company’s 
website .  European Push  While  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  forecasts that western and
central Europe will have the world’s slowest growth in
technology spending in 2012, Infosys says that Indian
outsourcing companies could benefit as businesses in Europe need
to cut costs.  Infosys Chief Financial Officer V. Balakrishnan said in a
Feb. 29 interview that opportunities for acquisitions are
increasing because more European companies have “broken” cost
structures. India’s second-biggest software exporter is looking
to buy companies that own intellectual property as well as niche
consulting firms and corporations that will boost business in
France and  Germany , he said at the time.  Companies and governments in France and Germany spent a
combined $178 billion on information-technology goods and
services last year, according to Forrester Research. Together,
that made them the world’s third-largest technology market.  Growth Needed  The Indian service provider has made inroads into the
German market after switching from a sales approach that used
almost exclusively English speakers to one that employs 20
percent local consultants, with offshore staff being limited to
about 60 percent,  Franz-Josef Schuermann , who heads Infosys’s
operations in the country, said in the joint interview with
Kakal. The company is currently benefitting from the growth of
online retailing in the region, he said.  Worldwide spending on information-technology services will
rise 1.3 percent to $856 billion in 2012, slowing from a 6.5
percent increase last year, according to an April 5 report by
Stamford, Connecticut-based research firm Gartner Inc.  Infosys also needs to boost growth after the company last
week forecast sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  Sales in the year that began April 1 may be between 384.3
billion rupees and 391.4 billion rupees, Infosys said in a
statement April 13. Analysts  expected  revenue of 396.3 billion
rupees for the period, the median of 64 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company also reported fourth-quarter sales that
were lower than analysts predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  