-- Iran Nuclear Talks Face Challenges Heading to May Meeting
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-04-16T09:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/iran-nuclear-talks-set-grounds-to-reconvene-next-month.html
Diplomats face a battle against
time and precedent as they look toward the next round of talks
with  Iran  on its nuclear program.  The negotiators broke a 15-month stalemate after 10 hours
of “constructive” talks in Istanbul on April 14 and agreed to
reconvene in Baghdad May 23. Squeezed by U.S. and European Union
sanctions, as well as Israeli and American talk of a military
strike to prevent it from acquiring atomic weapons, Iran dropped
upfront demands and the talks focused almost exclusively on its
nuclear program, according to two Western diplomats involved in
the negotiations.  The talks risk a repeat of previous failures, with tensions
contributing to a jump in Brent crude prices this year. In
Israel, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday criticized
the outcome as giving Iran more time to continue enriching
uranium, the process capable of producing fuel for a nuclear
bomb.  “The real challenge will come in the ensuing rounds of
talks, where these principles of engagement will have to
translate into concrete steps,”  Trita Parsi , president of the
National Iranian American Council and author of a new book, “A
Single Roll of the Dice: Obama’s Diplomacy with Iran,” said in
an interview. “This applies to the West as well, whose ability
to lift sanctions will be as instrumental for keeping diplomacy
alive as Iran’s willingness to curb its enrichment activities.”  View of Talks  The talks were called “constructive” by the two lead
negotiators,  Saeed Jalili , Iran’s nuclear envoy, and the EU’s
foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton . She leads the P5+1 group
of five permanent United Nations Security Council members --
Britain,  China ,  France , Russia and the U.S. -- plus  Germany .  The P5+1 group hailed Iran’s willingness to talk even
though the negotiations didn’t yield any new promises. The
process that led to next month’s talks in the Iraqi capital
mirrors those on December 2010 in Geneva, where the parties
agreed to reconvene the following month in Istanbul. The January
2011 gathering in Turkey broke down without agreement after Iran
set conditions to resume talks, including recognition of its
right to enrich uranium and the lifting of sanctions.  “My first impression is that Iran has gotten a freebie,”
Netanyahu said yesterday during a meeting with U.S. Senator
 Joseph Lieberman , according to a text message from the prime
minister’s office in Jerusalem. “It has five weeks in which it
can continue enrichment without any limitation, any
inhibition.”  No ‘Stalling’  Asked about Netanyahu’s remarks, U.S. President  Barack Obama  said the international community won’t let Iran try to use
the negotiations to stall for time.  “We’re not going to have these talks just drag out in a
stalling process,” Obama said at a news conference in
Cartagena,  Colombia , at the end of the Summit of the Americas.
“But so far at least we haven’t given away anything”  An EU oil embargo against Iran will go into effect July 1,
and coupled with U.S. sanctions against the country it may cause
output to decline by as much as 950,000 barrels per day in Iran,
the second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, according to an April 12 report by the
 International Energy Agency .  Oil Markets  Brent crude  for June settlement dropped $1.15 to $120.06 a
barrel in  London  at 10:02 a.m. The contract had traded as high
as $125.28 per barrel a month ago, up from $105.97 at the end of
2011.  “Anything that gives the overall impression, rightly or
wrongly, that the crisis is not as acute as it was a few weeks
ago will probably have a psychological impact on the oil
market,” said Bruno Tertrais, senior research fellow at the
Foundation for Strategic Research in Paris, in a phone
interview.  The oil sanctions will add to economic woes such as a halt
of international money transfers to Iranian lenders, including
the central bank, carried out by the leading worldwide financial
messaging service, known as Swift, effective March 17.  The government in Tehran is grappling with as much as a 63
percent drop of the rial on unofficial markets even after the
central bank announced a devaluation of 8.5 percent at the
official rate in January and authorities cracked down on black-
market transactions.  ‘Positive Atmosphere’  A delay in the EU ban on Iran oil imports would “make a
good deal of difference” by promoting a “positive atmosphere”
for further progress in the follow-up talks next month, Russian
Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov, the government’s top
official at the negotiations, said yesterday in a phone
interview.  A lifting of sanctions won’t be on the agenda until there
are concrete moves to assure the international community about
the intent of  Iran’s nuclear program , a senior U.S. official
said after talks April 14 on condition of anonymity because the
gathering was private.  “The Iranian negotiators have made clear that they won’t
give something for nothing -- they want, and probably need, at
least a symbolic reward with respect to sanctions in order to
deliver,” said Suzanne Maloney, Iran specialist at the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington . “In the current
environment, all sides have an incentive to invest in the
process, if only to avoid the appearance that diplomacy has come
to a dead end.”  Military Action  Obama said a month ago that although the window for
diplomacy is “shrinking,” there is “still time and space”
for diplomacy and sanctions before considering military action
to stop Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.  The meeting in Istanbul wasn’t about what may or may not
happen militarily, the senior U.S. administration official said,
while reiterating Obama’s warning and that all options remain on
the table.  Iran is enriching uranium to the 20 percent level at an
underground facility at Fordo, near Qom. While the amount of
highly enriched uranium and the Fordo facility were discussed,
among other issues, what steps would be taken on those matters
weren’t part of the Istanbul talks, according to two Western
diplomats who spoke anonymously.  Further stockpiling of 20 percent enriched uranium “poses
a growing threat” that some will be diverted for further
enrichment for weapons use, the  Institute for Science and
International Security , a research group in Washington, said in
an April 10 report. Civilian nuclear  power plants  require 5
percent low-enriched uranium. Iran says it is developing nuclear
technology solely to generate power and for medical purposes,
such as isotopes for cancer treatments.  ‘Sustained Process’  Ashton, Jalili and other diplomats who briefed reporters
after the talks stressed the same points: The parties cooperated
and made progress in moving to a “sustained process” of step-
by-step negotiations with reciprocity for actions to alleviate
international concerns about Iran’s nuclear program while
granting the country its right to atomic technology.  Jalili stressed that Iranian Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  has declared that the development of nuclear weapons is
forbidden under Islamic law.  “The fatwa of the supreme leader is a clear and
significant reminder for disarmament, it creates great
opportunity for international cooperation,” he told reporters
through a translator at the conclusion of the Istanbul talks.  Framework for Proposals  Iran’s state-run Press TV said the talks showed that Obama
has rejected calls by his “warmongering” presidential rivals
and realized that he “could not tie the fate of the region and
the world to the fantasies of some extremist Republicans.”  The two sides assigned Helga Schmid, the EU’s deputy
foreign policy chief, and Ali Bagheri, the deputy nuclear
negotiator for Iran, to draft a framework for proposals to be
taken up at the Baghdad gathering. The agenda for May 23 is
“very promising” and “a number of areas for further
discussion as a matter of priority” have been identified,
 Russia ’s Ryabkov said.  There is a “grave risk” that Iran is using the
negotiations to buy time while seeking to ward off pressure,
said Michael Singh, a former senior Iran adviser on the National
Security Council under former President  George W. Bush  who is
now a senior analyst at the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy.  “U.S. officials’ briefing after the talks were
conspicuously vague about the details of what is being asked of
Iran,” Singh said. “Allowing the talks to stretch indefinitely
into the future would be a mistake.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  