-- Is ’Flexicurity’ Post-Crisis Europe’s New Social Model?
-- B y   I a i n   B e g g
-- 2012-04-15T22:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/is-flexicurity-post-crisis-europe-s-new-social-model-.html
Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
has forced some countries to pare back welfare programs
harshly to meet austerity targets, raising a provocative
question: Is the Continent’s famed social model doomed?  That’s what European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
seemed to imply during a Wall Street Journal  interview  earlier
this year, when he said that ”the European social model has
already gone,” because it could no longer assure jobs for
youths.  Draghi’s comments have been overinterpreted, but he would
hardly be the first to have wondered about the sustainability
of Europe’s extensive welfare systems. The same Wall Street
Journal, in an editorial in the mid-1990s, pronounced them
dead already. Last fall,  Jin Liqun , the chairman of China
Investment Corp., a sovereign wealth fund,  blamed  Europe’s
troubles on ”the overburdened welfare system, built up since
the Second World War,” and its ”sloth-inducing, indolence-
inducing labor laws.”  That’s a sentiment many U.S. Republicans would seem to
agree with, judging from recent campaigning by the party’s
presidential candidates. But there are few signs that
Europeans are ready to abandon their cherished welfare
systems.  Europe’s social model defies easy definition. It’s
simpler to explain what it isn’t (American or Chinese, for
example), than what it is. The details vary considerably from
country to country, but what they have in common is this: the
public provision of substantial proportions of health care,
education, pensions and a range of social services, together
with intrusive rules that govern employment relationships.  Asset, Not Burden  Draghi didn’t say in his interview that these systems of
social protection and labor-market regulation are now
obsolete. They are certainly under pressure, not least because
austerity is forcing governments to reduce the generosity of
welfare provisions. But in those countries where the social-
welfare system works well, many still regard it as an asset
rather than a burden.  It’s important here to stress the diversity of experience
across the continent. Spain, notoriously, now has half its
youth unemployed -- yet it was the country that, in the decade
before the crisis, had by far the most impressive record of
 job creation .  Germany , which struggled to create jobs in the
15 years that followed reunification, has come through the
crisis with unemployment falling to levels not seen since the
1970s. In the  Nordic countries , commitments to so-called
active labor-market policies designed to keep people connected
to the workforce have imparted resilience in employment that
others envy.  What is happening in response to the financial and
sovereign-debt crises is an extensive recasting of the various
European welfare systems designed to make them more effective,
while retaining their core values and features. That’s a
process that has been going on for some time.  The Netherlands and the U.K. led the way in the 1980s,
with a range of initiatives designed to liberalize labor
markets and curb welfare benefits. German Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  sought from 2001 onward to revamp a labor market
that had become too rigid, with important changes in
institutional support for job seekers. And when the former
socialist countries of central and Eastern Europe had to
rebuild themselves after the collapse of communism, they put
in place welfare systems that shared many key characteristics
of those in their Western European peers, but avoided some of
the pitfalls.  Shrinking Workforces  Europeans are living longer and reproducing less, so even
before the crisis there was a wide-ranging debate about how to
accommodate these changes, as shrinking workforces are obliged
to pay for ballooning populations of retirees. Many countries
raised their retirement ages, and those, such as  Greece  and
 Italy , that face acute adjustment problems now have to
confront unsustainable pension systems.  To an American or Chinese, it may seem a paradox that
countries of Northern Europe that have high social expenditure
and correspondingly high tax burdens continue to score well on
indices of global competitiveness produced by bodies such as
the  World Economic Forum . The explanation is that much of the
social spending facilitates economic activity (think of
Swedish child care) and keeps people employable (Danish
training schemes), or healthy (France and Germany spend less
than two-thirds as many dollars per capita on health care as
the U.S., but achieve better overall health outcomes).  Clearly, governments that were slow to reform now have to
accelerate the pace.  Spain  has not only embarked on a fiscal
consolidation, but also begun to dismantle some of its tough
employment protection legislation. The list of social reforms
that Greece has to undertake grows by the week, but many of
its elements illustrate how dysfunctional the system had
become. Public-sector workers able to retire at the age of 50,
for example, or restrictive practices by pharmacists that push
up the cost of drugs would be seen as indefensible in most
other European countries that allegedly share the same social
model.  In Italy, Prime Minister  Mario Monti  has launched a wide-
ranging program of changes that will target  tax evasion  and
shake up the labor market, while also recalibrating social
safety nets. Even in  Sweden , the high incidence of disability
has prompted the current government to tighten rules that
enabled some claimants to obtain higher benefits than if they
had been classed as unemployed.  ’Flexicurity’ the Goal  It’s impossible to say now what the outcome will be when
the current turmoil finally ends. Before the onset of the
crisis, Europe’s leaders had been gravitating toward a welfare
model known as “ flexicurity ,” a system first adopted in
Denmark and the Netherlands. As the neologism implies, it
combines greater flexibility in the labor market with security
for workers at risk of unemployment. The core of the approach
is to focus on the individual, rather than to seek to preserve
specific jobs.  Some dismiss flexicurity as empty rhetoric, but in the
countries that have made the necessary changes, there is
confidence that reports of the demise of the European social
model have been more than a little exaggerated.  (Iain Begg is a professorial research fellow at the
European Institute of the  London School  of Economics &
Political Science. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on signs  Iraq  is  veering
away  from democracy and the National Rifle Association’s role
in  encouraging gun sales  and use; William D. Cohan on
 restoring faith  in  Wall Street  as the key to an economic
recovery;  Simon Johnson  on why long-term  budget projections 
get too much attention; Kellie McElhaney on how Apple  should
change  its behavior;  Albert R. Hunt  on Mitt Romney’s potential
 vice presidential choices ; and Vali Nasr on  positive
developments  in  Pakistan .  To read other op-ed articles in this series about Europe's 
social contract:  Josef Joffe  on how all of Europe should learn 
from Germany's reforms;  Ana Palacio  on the difficulty of 
shedding Franco's labor laws;  Fredrik Erixon  on the last days 
of Europe's welfare states.  To contact the writer of this article:
Iain Begg at  IAIN.Begg@lse.ac.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  