-- History Won’t Help Pick Romney’s Running Mate
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-04-15T15:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/history-won-t-help-pick-romney-s-running-mate.html
The media is rife with speculation
about  Marco Rubio , Paul Ryan,  Chris Christie , Susana Martinez,
Bob McDonnell or Rob Portman, as possible running mates for  Mitt Romney .  It’s the time of the political season when conjecture runs
wild, much of it ill-informed. Romney’s choice of a vice-
presidential candidate is likely to evolve, in ways
unforeseeable today, over the next four months.  In weighing the reliability of columns or stories that tell
you Romney is most comfortable with Ryan, the Wisconsin
congressman and budget policy wonk, or that Rubio, the young
Cuban-American freshman senator from Florida, is the linchpin to
the Latino vote, consider these examples from recent elections:  In April 2000, the leading Democratic contenders were
supposed to be Senators  John Kerry  of Massachusetts or John Edwards of  North Carolina . The nominee, Vice President  Al Gore 
did pick a Democratic senator: Joe Lieberman of  Connecticut .  There was a longer list of Republican contenders that year,
though Pennsylvania’s popular governor, Tom Ridge, shot to the
top after former Congressman and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney
was tapped to head a search committee. Right before the summer
convention, George W. Bush instead selected Cheney.  Unknown Palin  Four years ago, Senator Joe Biden of  Delaware  was
considered one of the leading contenders. But on the Republican
side, John McCain couldn’t have picked Sarah Palin out of a
lineup in April 2008. He barely knew who she was when he
selected her four months later.  Then there’s the supposed electoral weight some candidates
bring: Rubio in Florida or Portman in  Ohio . Yet over the past 40
years and 10 presidential elections, no running mate has made
the difference in carrying a state. (Vice President Walter Mondale, running with President Jimmy Carter in 1980, is a
debatable exception.)  Devotees of the Electoral College love to point to Lyndon Johnson of  Texas  winning the presidency for John F. Kennedy in
1960. Johnson almost surely carried his home state for Kennedy,
but JFK would have won in any case.  And there have been highly praised vice presidential
choices that couldn’t even make a difference even in their home
states:  Texas Democrat Lloyd Bentsen in 1988 and New York
Republican Jack Kemp in 1996. So much for that theory.  That isn’t to say that Romney’s selection is unimportant.
It will help shape what the campaign hopes is a reset -- or a
shaking of the etch-a-sketch -- of the nominee as he faces a
different electorate. It can send a message.  Both  George W. Bush , with Cheney, and  Barack Obama , by
picking Biden, reassured voters about their relative
inexperience.  Bill Clinton  and Gore symbolized a new generation
ready to take charge after the fall of communism. Ronald Reagan
made a bow to the center and governance by selecting George H.W.
Bush, though he did so only after the dubious “co-presidency”
dream ticket with Gerald Ford collapsed.  The chief consideration, people who’ve been through the
process agree, is do no harm. Running mates can help marginally;
they can hurt substantially. Some previous exposure to the
national limelight is helpful; it’s a tough vetting league for
rookies. That’s why the Romney team needs to ask hard questions
of the more appealing choices.  Rubio’s telegenic youth and his ethnicity provide an
attractive balance to Romney’s awkward, corporate persona. Yet
the 40-year-old Florida lawmaker is inexperienced, hasn’t
impressed  Washington  heavyweights with his substance or
readiness to be president, and still faces some controversies in
his home state.  Fiscal Conservative  Ryan, 42, is the poster child for the conservative economic
establishment. He’s a policy expert who they see as the heir-
apparent to the late  Jack Kemp . He’s also never run outside his
small congressional district and has never shown any of Kemp’s
passion for equal opportunities and civil rights. The House
Budget Committee chairman’s fiscal plan could be politically
perilous and substantively questionable: He won’t say how he
would pay for his $4.6 trillion tax cuts, which principally go
to the wealthy.  The economic-conservative wing has a big bullhorn in the
party. That might deter Romney from considering Mike Huckabee,
the ex-Arkansas governor and 2008 presidential aspirant with an
economic-populist streak that appeals to evangelicals.  Other candidates who might be acceptable to evangelicals
and economic conservatives could complicate Romney’s problems
with women voters; such is the case with former  Pennsylvania 
Senator  Rick Santorum , who has said he’d like contraception to
be outlawed, or Virginia Governor McDonnell, who signed
legislation requiring women to undergo an ultrasound before an
abortion.  Romney could turn to women such as Governors Martinez of
New Mexico or Nikki Haley of South Carolina. They both have the
same experience -- or lack thereof -- as then-Alaska Governor
Palin did four years ago; that memory is too fresh and painful
for most Republicans.  Governors with a little more seasoning such as Louisiana’s
Bobby Jindal or Brian Sandoval of Nevada have other problems.
Sandoval favors abortion rights, a disqualifier for many
Republicans; Jindal signed a measure encouraging the teaching of
creationism in the Louisiana schools, which wouldn’t play well
with independent suburbanites.  Most important will be the conditions of the race. This
summer, will Romney be 10 points behind the president or a few
points ahead? Will the economic recovery be stalled or taking
root? Will the Republican Party conservative base’s hatred of
Obama overcome weak enthusiasm for a Mormon nominee, who is
suspected of moderate political tendencies?  The most often-cited vice-presidential candidates are
above. The odds are four-to-one that on Wednesday, Aug. 29, a
person who isn’t on this list will be anointed at the Republican
convention in Tampa. With the last two Republican running mates
that would have been a winning bet.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on signs Iraq is  veering
away  from democracy and the National Rifle Association’s role in
 encouraging gun sales  and use; William D. Cohan on  restoring
faith  in  Wall Street  as the key to an economic recovery; Simon
Johnson on why long-term  budget projections  get too much
attention; Kellie McElhaney on how Apple  should change  its
behavior; Vali Nasr on  positive developments  in Pakistan; and
Iain Begg on redefining  Europe ’s  social safety net .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 