-- Titanium $329,000 Phone Seeks Watch-Loving Deep Pockets: Retail
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-04-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/titanium-329-000-phone-seeks-watch-loving-deep-pockets-retail.html
Thomas Pruvot’s frequent requests
for the time while his mobile phone was switched off on a long-
haul flight to  Hong Kong  in 2005 led the then 25-year-old
Frenchman on a quest for the ultimate accessory.  Together with a childhood friend, Pruvot envisioned a
luxury phone that would fuse modern technology with centuries-
old Swiss timekeeping. The resulting startup,  Celsius  X VI II,
developed a limited-edition titanium and sapphire crystal
handset featuring a complicated mechanical watch that retails
for 250,000 euros ($329,000).  As consumers increasingly rely on phones to tell the time
and wear watches for status,  Tag Heuer  and Ulysse Nardin SA have
also introduced high-tech handsets. Celsius aims to eventually
sidestep perennial criticism about phones’ battery life by
building a model that’s completely mechanically powered.  “The mobile phone is becoming the ultimate accessory,”
said Edouard Meylan, another Celsius co-founder. “We see our
product as the pocket watch for the 21st century.”  The market for luxury mobile phones is expected to grow 37
percent between 2010 and 2015 to $719 million, according to
Euromonitor International. The biggest markets are  China ,  Japan 
and regions such as the  Middle East  and  Russia , where luxury
tends to be more overt, according to Fflur Roberts, head of
luxury goods research at  Euromonitor .  Displaying Wealth  “It’s the smallest luxury market, but it’s also the
fastest-growing,” Roberts said. “It’s an extension of a luxury
watch or jewelry and it’s a way of displaying wealth or
success.”  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s Vertu has the biggest share of the luxury phone
market, according to Euromonitor. The U.K. company set up in
1998 has sold more than 300,000 phones in the past decade,
President Perry Oosting said last year. It has more than 80
retail outlets and sells at counters in high-end watch stores.  Vertu introduced its first touchscreen version, the 4,400-
euro Constellation, in October. Top-end models, such as those in
the Signature line, cost as much as 12,500 euros. Some
celebrities are migrating from the Vertu to iPhones with gold or
diamond cases, said Carolina Milanese, a research vice president
at Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner Inc.  Other watchmakers have also stepped in. Ulysse Nardin has a
range of limited-edition smartphones called the Chairman
including the brand’s mechanical rotor that uses the wearer’s
motions to automatically wind the watch and a crown that can be
hand-wound. Both fuel the phone’s power reserve.  The Chairman  The Chairman retails for as much as $170,000 for the full
pave diamond and black model with 18-karat white gold and more
than 20 carats of diamonds. It’s the most expensive phone
produced by partner Scientific Cellular Innovations.  The Meridiist handset from TAG Heuer, owned by  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , allows users to switch between time
zones and has a chronograph for measuring intervals. Retailing
for as much as 30,000 euros, it also includes more than 430
hand-assembled components. TAG Heuer, which has developed three
collections, plans to introduce at least one range each year.  The first model from Paris-based Celsius, called LeDix
Origine, embeds a watch with clear panels to show its
complicated mechanism on an outer flap that opens to reveal a
phone using Sagem technology. The mechanical watch doesn’t have
to be turned off during flights, of course. Fifteen of the 18
handsets made for the initial LeDix model have been sold.  The tourbillon timepiece, invented in the 18th century to
boost a watch’s precision, contains a rotating cage that
compensates for the effects of gravity on a watch’s timekeeping.
About 70 percent of the value of the handset is Swiss made, with
the remainder coming from  France .  Deep Pockets  Buyers will need deep pockets in more ways than one. At 250
grams (8.8 ounces) and 28 millimeters thick, the phone is 80
percent heavier and three times thicker than Apple Inc.’s  iPhone 
4s, which weighs 140 grams and is 9.3 millimeters thick. A
BlackBerry Bold 9930 comes in at 130 grams and 10.5 millimeters.  “The fashion has moved on and the clam gives you a thicker
design and you don’t have easy access to your screen, which is
what everything now gravitates around,” Milanese said. “Luxury
phones tend not to be smartphones. You don’t buy them for the
technology -- you buy them for the design.”  Unlike luxury phones clad in gold and diamonds, Celsius
emphasizes mechanical intricacy. The tourbillon handsets include
700 mechanical parts each, about half of them in the watch
alone. One mechanism designed to eject the battery consists of
50 different parts, while opening the handset to make a call
also winds up the mainspring used to power the watch.  Sofinnova, IDinvest  Celsius, established in 2006 and built with funding from
investors including France’s Sofinnova Partners and IDinvest
Partners, said it took six months to make each handset, which
are sold through outlets including Harrods in the U.K.  “As we don’t come from a watch background, we could do
what we wanted and we had no history to respect,” Pruvot, an
industrial design specialist, said.  While Celsius is limiting output of the three tourbillon
models in the LeDix collection to 40 pieces, the company aims to
introduce around the end of this year a 150-piece collection
with a 75,000-euro price tag. Another model to be introduced in
2013 will retail for between 35,000 euros and 40,000 euros and
will be partly mechanically powered.  “Going after the luxury market, although the price point
can be in the thousands of dollars, you sell very few units,”
Milanesi said. “It’s really a niche market.”  Celsius says it plans to stay focused on mechanical
ingenuity rather than number of functions. It also wants
consumers to become as attached to their handsets as they are to
their watches.  “We want to be the Rolls Royce -- you keep it, most of the
time, for your entire life,” Meylan said. “Maybe you don’t
have all the functions, but you have the best and most useful
ones and it’s extremely reliable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  