-- New Zealand March House Sales Soar 25% From Year Earlier
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-04-15T21:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/new-zealand-march-house-sales-soar-25-from-year-earlier.html
New Zealand  house sales  in March
recorded the best monthly result since November 2007, adding to
signs of a real-estate-market recovery that may boost  consumer
confidence  and spending later this year.  Sales rose 25.3 percent from a year earlier, the  Real
Estate Institute of New Zealand  said in a report today. Sales
reached 7,330 in March from 6,168 in February, according to the
figures, which don’t adjust for seasonal variations.  Rising residential property sales suggest domestic demand
is improving and the economic recovery will pick up pace later
this year after central bank Governor Alan Bollard last month
signaled he may leave the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a
record-low 2.5 percent for much of 2012.  “Low mortgage interest rates are kick-starting the
market,”  Mark Smith , senior economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd.
in Wellington, said in an e-mailed note. “We have not yet seen
a housing-induced lift in credit growth or  consumer spending .
Cash rate hikes are some way off.”  First-quarter sales rose 11 percent from the previous three
months ended Dec. 31, Smith said, citing the ANZ’s seasonally
adjusted figures. Buyers are competing for a low number of
available properties, pushing prices higher, he said.  House prices  rose 1.9 percent from February, according to
the REINZ price index. From a year earlier, the gauge gained 4.2
percent, the report showed. The time needed to sell a house
declined to 35 days from 46 days in February.  Canterbury Sales  “The real-estate market has had a strong March,” REINZ
Chief Executive Officer Helen O’Sullivan said in the report.
“Prices are certainly not rising sharply, but the trend is
certainly starting to move upwards.”  Sales in the Canterbury region doubled from a year earlier,
when the area was recovering from a devastating earthquake on
Feb. 22, 2011, that killed 185 people, REINZ said.  In Auckland, home to a quarter of  New Zealand ’s 4.4 million
people, sales rose 17 percent from March last year.  “The Auckland region has also recorded a new record median
price, reflecting the rising demand for housing in the city and
the continuing shortages of available stock,” O’Sullivan said.
“Outside of the Auckland and Canterbury regions, most of the
country is seeing an upward trend in sales volumes, although
price gains outside of these centers are relatively modest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  