-- No Double-Dip Deja Vu Seen for U.S. Economy
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-04-16T13:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/no-double-dip-deja-vu-seen-for-u-s-economy.html
Deja vu it ain’t.  The U.S. looks unlikely to suffer the same sort of swoon
this year as the one in 2011: Household, bank and company
balance sheets are stronger, and the shocks hitting the economy
so far are weaker, with retail sales rising more than forecast
as gasoline prices show signs of  slipping  from an early-year
increase.  Consumer-loan delinquencies fell across the board in the
fourth quarter, the first time that’s happened in eight years,
according to the American Bankers Association in Washington.
Banks have  reduced leverage , with financial-institution debt as
share of the economy at its lowest level in a decade. And
corporations are flush with cash: The ratio of liquid assets to
short-term liabilities is the highest since 1954, based on  data 
compiled by the  Federal Reserve .  “It feels eerily similar to last year, but fundamentally
it’s quite different,” said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S.
economist for Deutsche Bank Securities in  New York . He sees the
economy growing 3 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, compared with 1.6 percent in 2011.  That’s good news for the stock market and for companies
such as  Discover Financial Services. (DFS)  Net income for the three
months ended Feb. 29 rose 36 percent to a record $631 million,
or $1.18 a share, the Riverwoods, Illinois-based credit-card
issuer said March 22.  ‘Grow Their Spending’  “Consumers are continuing to gradually grow their
spending,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David Nelms
said in an interview. “They’ve finished a lot of the
deleveraging that they’re going to do on credit cards and auto
loans.”  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest asset manager, remains
bullish on the U.S. stock market in spite of lower-than-forecast
March payroll growth, according to  Bob Doll , chief equity
strategist of the New York-headquartered company. Job creation
fell to 120,000 from 240,000 in February.  “We do not believe that fundamental macro conditions have
changed enough, or at all, to warrant a downgrade of our view
toward equities,” he said in an April 9 note to clients.  Doll has said he sees a “double-digit” gain for the Dow
Jones Industrial Average in 2012. It was  12,849.59 (INDU)  at 4:00 p.m.
on April 13 in New York, up  5.2 percent  since the start of the
year, though  3.1 percent  off the 2012 high set on April 2.  ‘Better Momentum’  “We have much better momentum this year than we did last
year,” said  Chris Varvares , senior managing director of
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC. “We’re a year further along in
terms of improvement in lending terms and household balance
sheets.”  The St. Louis-based company last week raised its forecast
for first-quarter growth to 3.1 percent from 2.6 percent,
following news of a smaller-than-expected trade deficit in
February. Gross domestic product increased by an annualized 0.4
percent in the first three months of 2011.  “The recovery may be finally establishing a somewhat
firmer footing,” Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
William C. Dudley told business leaders in Syracuse, New York,
on April 12. Even so, “it is still too soon to conclude that we
are out of the woods, as underlined by the March labor-market
release,” he added.  The deceleration in payroll growth last month invited
comparisons to last year, when an abrupt slowdown in job
creation during April led to speculation in financial markets
about an economic double-dip.  Looks Different  This year looks different, said Jonas Prising, president of
the Americas at Milwaukee-based ManpowerGroup, the world’s
largest provider of temporary workers.  “The recovery seems more broad-based in the U.S.,” he
said. “I see it across industries and I see it across
geographies.” Risk also is lower, he added. “The external
environment and the factors that affected it last year are a lot
less severe this year.”  Gasoline prices have risen about 20 percent since Dec. 31,
compared with about 30 percent in the first four months of 2011,
and they already may have peaked, according to  Trilby Lundberg ,
publisher at Camarillo, California-based Lundberg Survey Inc.,
which polls filling stations weekly. The average price for
regular unleaded gasoline was  $3.91 (3AGSREG)  a gallon on April 15, down
from $3.94 on April 5, according to AAA, the nation’s largest
motoring group.  Beating Estimates  Even with this year’s increase, retail sales in the U.S.
rose more than forecast in March, showing consumers are
weathering the jump. The 0.8 percent gain in sales was almost
three times as large as  projected  and followed a 1 percent
advance in February, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington .  CKE Restaurants Inc. (CKE)  hasn’t seen “a significant impact”
yet on its business from higher gas prices, Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Puzder  said on an April 11 teleconference call
with stock-market analysts. The Carpinteria, California-based
operator of the Hardee’s and Carl’s Jr. restaurant chains
recorded net income of $88,000 in the 12 weeks ended Jan. 30
versus a loss of $5.05 million a year earlier.  Signs that gasoline prices have topped out may be good news
for President Barack Obama, whom Republicans have tried to tie
to a climb in energy costs.  “The lower they go, the less they will be an issue,” said
Bruce Oppenheimer, a professor at Vanderbilt University in
Nashville, Tennessee, who has studied energy and politics.  Less Threatening  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis also seems less threatening
now than it did late last year, even though the region’s economy
may be heading into recession and the problem hasn’t been
resolved, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist for Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania.  He credits a shift in strategy by the  European Central Bank 
for allaying some of the concerns. By flooding banks with more
than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) and returning  interest
rates  to a record low 1 percent in December, the ECB helped calm
fears of a disorderly break-up for the 17-nation currency union.  While Spanish bond yields rose last week in a sign that the
region’s financial troubles are intensifying, they still were
below levels hit last year. The yield on government 10-year debt
was  5.98 percent  at 4:36 p.m. in London April 13, up from 5.76
percent at the start of the week, but below 2011’s high of 6.7
percent.  Financial ‘Firewall’  “The markets are starting to get worried,” Bruce Kasman,
chief economist for  JPMorgan Chase  (JPM) & Co. in New York, said in a
video e-mailed to clients on April 13. European policy makers
ultimately may have to show that the financial “firewall”
they’ve put in place to contain the crisis will work with Spain,
he added.  Financial markets also were rocked at the end of last week
by fears of a hard landing for  China ’s economy. Growth slowed to
8.1 percent in the first quarter, the least in almost three
years, from 8.9 percent in the previous three months, according
to data from the National Bureau of Statistics in Beijing. The
news helped drive the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down 1.3
percent on April 13 to  1,370.26 (SPX)  at 4 p.m. in New York.  Japanese growth, in contrast, is picking up as the nation
recovers from last year’s earthquake and tsunami that left
almost 20,000 people dead or missing, disrupted global supply
chains and curbed U.S. growth. The world’s third largest economy
will expand 2 percent this year, said  David Hensley , director of
global economics at JPMorgan Chase in New York. GDP contracted
0.75 percent in 2011.  Withstand Shocks  The U.S. is better able to withstand shocks from abroad
because of the progress consumers, companies and banks have made
in buttressing their balance sheets, said Susan Lund, a
principal at the McKinsey Global Institute in Washington.  “We have more resilience in the economy,” she said.
“Households are in somewhat better shape to take a rise in gas
prices because they aren’t so stretched with debt payments.”  Their financial obligations -- everything from mortgages
and rents to property taxes and car-lease payments -- fell to a
28-year low in the fourth quarter, when measured against
disposable income, according to Fed data. That ratio stood at
15.9 percent at the end of 2011, down from a record 18.9 percent
in the third quarter of 2007, just before the start of the 18-
month recession that ended in June 2009.  Private-sector debt as a share of the economy fell to 201
percent at the end of last year from 207 percent in the first
quarter of 2011 and a high of 236 percent in 2008, according to
calculations by the institute, which is the research unit of
consultants McKinsey & Co.  Mortgage Defaults  Financial companies have done the most deleveraging, while
about two-thirds of the reduction in household debt was caused
by defaults on mortgages and other consumer loans, Lund said.  JPMorgan Chase and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the two most
profitable U.S. banks last year, reported first-quarter earnings
that topped analysts’ estimates on a surge in mortgage fees.
JPMorgan’s earnings per share climbed to $1.31 from $1.28 a year
earlier, while Wells Fargo posted net income of 75 cents a
share, up from 67 cents.  “We’re in better shape than we were last year,” said
 Allen Sinai , chief executive officer of Decision Economics Inc.
in New York. “Household financial conditions are healthier and
the banks are lending more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  