-- North Korea’s Kim Says His Regime Can’t Be Blackmailed
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-16T09:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/north-korea-s-kim-says-his-regime-can-t-be-blackmailed.html
North Korea won’t be bullied by its
nuclear-armed enemies, third-generation dictator Kim Jong Un
said in his first public address at a military parade as  South
Korea  warned that his regime may conduct an atomic test.  Dressed in a dark Mao suit and standing on a podium high
above  Kim Il Sung  Square in Pyongyang yesterday, the new leader
said, “the days of enemies threatening and blackmailing us with
nuclear weapons are forever over.” Goose-stepping soldiers,
mobile rocket launchers and tanks rumbled through the streets
below in a celebration broadcast on state television.  North Korea’s humiliation from a long-range rocket that
disintegrated within minutes of liftoff two days earlier
increases the chance of Kim ordering an atomic test to regain
face, South Korean Deputy Defense Minister Lim Kwan Bin said on
April 13. The launch also ended a U.S. food-aid deal.  “Kim is very aware of how powerful the military is and
knows his only strategy is to keep selling the ‘military-first’
policy,” said Koh Yu Hwan, a professor of North Korean studies
at Seoul’s  Dongguk University . “Stability is what the young Kim
needs most and he needs the full support of the military.”  The parade was broadcast on North Korean state television
and held to commemorate the centenary of the birth of Kim’s late
grandfather, state founder Kim Il Sung. The younger Kim is
thought to be less than 30 years old and assumed power after his
father, Kim Jong Il, died of a heart attack on Dec. 17.  Ballistic Missile  It also featured what appeared to be a new, larger
ballistic missile, said Baek Seung Joo, who studies Pyongyang’s
military at the Korea Institute for Defense Analyses in Seoul.
South Korea’s  Defense Ministry  was unable to comment on the
design or whether it was a real missile.  North Korea , which technically remains at war with the
South since their 1950-53 conflict ended without a peace treaty,
has 1.2 million people in its armed forces and has twice
detonated an atomic device, in 2006 and 2009.  “In order to realize our goal of building a socialist,
strong and prosperous nation, we must first, second and third
strengthen the people’s army on all fronts,” said Kim, who
shuffled his feet as he read from notes. “We have grown into a
powerful military, equipped with our own means of defense and
attack in any modern war.”  He didn’t mention the rocket launch or his regime’s atomic
weapons program during the speech, which lasted 20 minutes.
While North Korea said the launch was intended to put a
satellite into orbit, the U.S. said it violated United Nations
Sanctions 1718 and 1874, which ban any usage of ballistic
missile and nuclear technologies.  Washington scrapped the February plan to provide 240,000
tons of food aid after the rocket was fired.  Resembles Grandfather  Kim Jong Un, who was schooled in  Switzerland , styles his
hair and mannerisms like his grandfather. He appeared more
charismatic in his speech yesterday than his father, who
publicly spoke only one sentence throughout his political
career, according to Kim Hyung Suk, the spokesman for South
Korea’s Unification Ministry.  “Glory for the heroic soldiers of the Korea People’s
Army,” the late leader said at a military event in 1992,
according to the ministry spokesman. Founder Kim Il Sung used
public speaking as a key political tool and often engaged
crowds, he added.  “The young Kim is taking after his charismatic
grandfather, the family patriarch, in trying to engage the
people more openly,” said Kim Young Yoon, senior research
fellow at the Korea Institute of National Unification in  Seoul .  Starving People  North Korea can’t compete against world superpowers in an
arms race and must give up its conventional and nuclear weapons
development programs to focus on improving its economy, South
Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said in a radio speech today.  Last week’s launch may have cost $850 million, enough to
buy 2.5 million tons of corn for the North’s 24 million people,
Lee said. As many as 1 million people starved to death during
the 1990s, according to estimates from  Marcus Noland  and Stephan
Haggard of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington D.C.  U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Asia Kurt Campbell
told reporters today in Seoul that he discussed “potential next
steps” regarding North Korea with South Korean Foreign Minister
Kim Sung Hwan and chief nuclear envoy Lim Sung Nam. Campbell
declined to elaborate on actions the UN may take, saying only
that he will “let that process play out.”  While the UN Security Council “deplored” the North’s
rocket launch, they did not threaten further sanctions, U.S.
Ambassador Susan Rice said hours after the rocket firing.  ‘Splendor of Socialism’  The North’s parliamentary body decided to allocate 15.8
percent of the total state budgetary expenditure for national
defense this year, the official Korean Central News Agency said
on April 14, citing Finance Minister Choe Kwang Jin.  Kim Jong Il ’s third son inherited an economy one-40th the
size of South Korea’s. His father also left behind the goal of
making the North a “strong and prosperous nation” by 2012.  Kim Jong Un, who formally assumed the regime’s top
political and military posts last week, acknowledged past
economic difficulties.“The Workers’ Party firmly determines
that the people, who suffered much hardship, should enjoy the
wealth and splendor of socialism and never again tighten their
belts,” he said.  Soldiers massed in formation filled the square, while
citizens watched from the periphery, waving red and pink
pompoms. Celebrations continued into the night, with fireworks
and a laser show lighting the skies over the capital.  New homes were built for 300 farming families and a new
hydroelectric power plant opened last week in the northwestern
province of Jagang, according to KCNA reports on preparations
for the Kim Il Sung anniversary.  The words “Our eternal leader Comrade Kim Il Sung” were
also carved 37 meters high into a rock face near Gaeseong, where
North Korea operates a joint economic zone with South Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  