-- Obama Says Accusations Against Agents Need Thorough Probe
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-04-15T23:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/obama-says-he-wants-thorough-probe-of-secret-service-misconduct.html
President  Barack Obama  said he
expects the investigation into alleged inappropriate behavior by
Secret Service agents in Colombia to be thorough and he’ll be
“angry” if the accusations prove true.  “When we travel to another country, I expect us to observe
the highest standards,” Obama said at a news conference with
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  as the Summit of the
Americas concluded in Cartagena. “Obviously, what’s been
reported doesn’t match up with those standards.”  Eleven U.S. Secret Service agents, working in advance of
Obama’s arrival at the summit, were returned to the U.S. and
placed on administrative leave April 12 because of allegations
including contact with prostitutes, according to a statement
yesterday from Secret Service spokesman Paul S. Morrissey.  The matter has been turned over to the Secret Service
Office of Professional Responsibility.  The incident was sparked when a Cartagena prostitute
refused to leave the hotel room occupied by the U.S. Secret
Service until she was paid, according to U.S. Representative
 Peter King , who heads the House Homeland Security Committee,
which has oversight responsibility for the agency.  Visitors of guests at the Hotel Caribe, near the site of
the Summit of the Americas, were required to leave
identification at the front desk and had to be out by 7 a.m.,
according to King, who said he was briefed on the incident twice
yesterday.  Local Police  When hotel officials noticed that one guest hadn’t left by
the curfew, they knocked on the room door and were refused
admittance, King said. The hotel called the local police, and
the woman in the room wouldn’t leave because she was owed money,
according to King. The agent paid the money and the police filed
a report because it involved a foreign national, according to
King, a New York Republican.  Two or three of the 11 were uniformed officers and two were
Secret Service supervisors, and all had previously untarnished
records, said King.  “They were questioned all day yesterday at Secret Service
headquarters,” King said today in an interview. All 11 were
believed to have brought women to their Cartagena,  Colombia ,
hotel rooms, said King, whose staff “is going to begin an
investigation” to examine procedures in place at the time and
how they might be changed to prevent a recurrence.  Replacement Agents  The agents involved weren’t assigned to Obama’s protective
detail, according to Morrissey. After they were withdrawn from
the country, their duties were “backfilled” by replacements
brought in from  Florida  and  Puerto Rico , King said.  “These actions have had no impact on the Secret Service’s
ability to execute a comprehensive security plan for the
President’s visit to Cartagena,” Morrissey said. “This matter
was turned over to our Office of Professional Responsibility,
which serves as the agency’s internal affairs component.”  The story of the agents’ alleged misbehavior became public
just as leaders of the Western Hemisphere were beginning talks
on trade, drug legalization in  South America  and creating
greater transparency among South American governments.  Obama was told about the allegations April 13 and the issue
“has been more of a distraction for the press” than for the
president at the summit, spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters at
a briefing yesterday.  Distraction  Morrissey said, “We regret any distraction from the Summit
of the Americas this situation has caused.”  In addition, five members of the U.S. military who were
staying at the same hotel violated a curfew set by the senior
U.S. defense official at the U.S. embassy in Colombia, according
to Colonel Scott Malcom, the public affairs officer for the U.S.
Southern Command.  The five had been sent to Colombia to support the summit,
in part by providing security, Malcom said. They will remain in
Colombia during the summit because their skills and knowledge
are needed, Malcom said, adding that they will be restricted to
their hotel rooms when not carrying out official duties.  The military has yet to determine whether the five violated
any rules beyond the curfew, Malcom said. He didn’t provide
their ranks or military branch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Cartagena, Colombia at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Cartagena, Colombia at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  