-- Obama Certifies Colombia Labor Plan, Clearing Trade Pact
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-04-15T23:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/obama-certifies-colombia-labor-plan-clearing-trade-pact-2-.html
President  Barack Obama  certified
Colombia’s labor protection efforts, allowing both sides to put
the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement into effect May 15.  “We’re moving ahead with our landmark trade agreement,”
Obama said at a news conference with Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  as they wrapped up the Summit of Americas  in the
resort city of Cartagena.  Obama called the trade deal a “win” for both nations. In
the U.S., it will create “thousands” of jobs, he said, and
Colombia will get more access to the U.S. market, its largest.  There are strong protections in the accord for labor and
the environment, “commitments that we are going to fulfill,”
Obama said.  The president also said the agreement will help
achieve his goal of doubling U.S. exports by 2014.  The agreement would end Colombian duties immediately on
more than 80 percent of U.S. exports, open services markets and
strengthen intellectual property rights, the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce said in an e-mailed statement.  “This landmark agreement opens the door to new business
opportunities, economic growth and  job creation  in the U.S. and
Colombia,” said Thomas J. Donohue, the chamber’s president and
chief executive officer, who took part in a first-ever CEOs’
Summit of the Americas.  Expanded Exports  The trade deal, approved by the  U.S. Congress  in October,
will add as much as $1.1 billion to U.S. exports when it takes
full effect, according to estimates from the U.S. International
Trade Commission.  The U.S. exported $14.3 billion in goods to Colombia last
year and imported $23.1 billion, according to the U.S. Commerce
Department. Caterpillar Inc. and  General Electric Co. (GE)  are among
the biggest supporters of the trade deal.  Obama’s certification of Colombian worker protections puts
him at odds with the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation,
which Democrat Obama is counting on for support in his re-
election campaign against presumptive Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney .  “We regret that the administration has placed commercial
interests above the interests of workers and their trade
unions,” AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  said in an e-mailed
statement.  Labor Criticism  The Obama administration “signaled with today’s decision
that a little improvement is good enough,” Trumka said. “If a
little improvement were good enough, women might still be
fighting for the right to vote and our workplaces would be
filled with children.”  The U.S. labor federation had sought to have the trade deal
delayed until Colombia took what the AFL-CIO called “sustained,
meaningful and measurable action to change the culture of
violence.”  U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said that under the
labor certification, Colombia has established a new labor
ministry, is giving workers the right to organize, and promises
to prosecute past cases of violence against union organizations
and provide protections for them.  The U.S. will offer Colombia “technical assistance” as it
implements the labor protection rules, Labor Secretary Hilda Solis said on the conference call.  Work in Progress  “This is a work in progress” but “we are moving on the
right track,” Solis said. “Taken together, these actions
represent fundamental change and historic progress for the lives
and livelihoods of workers in Colombia,” the Obama
administration said in a separate e-mailed statement.  Colombia’s Congress passed bills to implement a free-trade
accord on April 10, days before the Summit of the Americas
began.  The free-trade agreement, first reached under President
 George W. Bush  more than five years ago, stalled in Congress
amid opposition from House Democrats and unions. Obama worked to
broaden support by securing stronger labor commitments from
Colombia.  Colombia agreed to completion a “labor action plan,” a
side agreement signed in April 2011 between the U.S. and
Colombia, before the accord could be implemented.  Obama’s approval hinged on Colombia taking further steps to
protect workers’ rights and making progress on reducing the
killing of union workers by terrorists.  Unionist Deaths  A Washington-based human-rights group called Obama’s
decision a mistake. About 30 unionists were killed in Colombia
last year, the Washington Office on  Latin America  said in an e-
mailed statement, citing the National Labor School, which tracks
such statistics. Four have been killed this year, and other
trade union movements have reported additional murders, the
group said.  About 3,000 unionists have been killed since 1986,
according to the National Labor School, a human rights group.  “President Obama lost a historic opportunity to improve
labor rights in  Colombia , at a time when many Colombian labor
rights activists are getting harassed and killed,” said Gimena
Sanchez, the group’s Colombia associate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Cartagena, Colombia at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Cartagena, Colombia at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  