-- Obama Criticizes Coverage of Summit of the Americas
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-04-15T20:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/obama-criticizes-coverage-of-summit-of-the-americas-correct-.html
(Corrects ranking of  Colombia ’s economy in final
paragraph.)  President  Barack Obama  said the
media often ignores progress made at international summits in
favor of more “flashy” news, as the Summit of the Americas was
overshadowed by allegations of misconduct by his Secret Service
agents.  “Oftentimes in the press the attention for summits like
this ends up focusing on, where are the controversies?” the
president said during a meeting with executives of U.S. and
South American companies on the sidelines of the summit in
Cartagena, Colombia. “Sometimes those controversies date back
to before I was born.”  The president didn’t mention the Secret Service agents who
were sent home from Cartagena after allegations of behavior that
the  Associated Press  reported included drinking and prostitutes.
Instead he referred to disputes dating back to the Cold War.  While the summit’s official focus is on trade and improving
infrastructure in  South America , discussions were also expected
to include the debate in South America over the legalization of
drugs and increasing communist Cuba’s participation in regional
affairs.  The summit has been overshadowed by allegations, made
public yesterday, of behavior by U.S. Secret Service agents
including at least one having involvement with prostitutes, the
Washington Post reported, citing Jon Adler, president of the
Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association. A dozen agents
were involved, the Associated Press reported, citing an
unidentified U.S. official.  Allegations of Misconduct  “There have been allegations of misconduct made against
Secret Service personnel in Cartagena, Colombia, prior to the
president’s trip,” Special Agent Edwin Donovan said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “The Secret Service takes all
allegations of misconduct seriously. This entire matter has been
turned over to our Office of Professional Responsibility, which
serves as the agency’s internal affairs component.”  The White House had no comment and referred all questions
to the Secret Service. Donovan didn’t disclose the nature of the
misconduct or the number of agents involved and has no further
updates today.  Obama said, alongside summit host Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  and Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , that South
American governments must work to increase the size of middle
class in their countries and increase transparency.  “The days when we could think of each of our economies in
isolation, those days are long gone,” the U.S. president said.
“How can we make sure that globalization and that integration
is benefiting a broad base of people?”  Colombia Trade Agreement  Obama said the U.S.-Colombia free trade agreement is an
example of a “win-win” agreement that “benefits both sides.”  The agreement which is still being negotiated between the
U.S. and Colombia would add as much as $1.1 billion in exports
to the $14.3 billion in sales posted in 2011, the administration
said, creating thousands of jobs.  Total U.S. exports in the Americas amount to about $700
billion a year out of $1.5 trillion worldwide, according to
Commerce Department figures.  Obama said more cooperation is needed among the Americas on
energy and education, such as exchanges on science and
engineering and computer sciences.  “We’ve got to up our game,” he said. “We’ve never felt
more excited about prospects of working as equal partners with
our brothers and sisters in  Latin America  and the Caribbean.”  The more than 330 business executives that were scheduled
to attend included Rollin Ford, executive vice president and
chief administrative officer at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ; Luis
Montoya, president of Latin America Beverages for  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ;
Rocky Becker, vice president of the Americas for  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , and Luis Carlos Villegas, president of ANDI, Colombia’s
largest business association.  Colombia is South America’s fourth largest economy after
 Brazil , Venezuela and  Argentina , according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Cartagena, Colombia at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Cartegena, Colombia at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  