-- Obama Certifies Colombia Labor Plan, Clearing Trade Pact
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-04-15T18:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/obama-certifies-colombia-labor-plan-clearing-trade-pact-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  has approved
Colombia’s fulfillment of terms protecting its workers, allowing
both sides to proceed with putting the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade
Agreement into effect, U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said.  The agreement provides “an opportunity to help stand up
for the rights of workers” worldwide, Kirk told reporters in a
conference call at the Summit of the Americas in Cartagena,
Colombia. The trade accord will take effect May 15, he said.  Obama took steps to certify Colombia’s labor-protection
efforts, Kirk said. The president was set to hold bilateral
talks with Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  later today as
the summit of more than 30 nations was drawing to a close.  The two leaders planned to discuss it at a news conference
scheduled at 4:35 p.m. Washington time.  The trade deal, approved in the U.S. in October, will add
as much as $1.1 billion to U.S. exports when it takes full
effect, according to estimates from the U.S. International Trade
Commission.  The U.S. exported $14.3 billion in goods to Colombia last
year and imported $23.1 billion, according to the U.S. Commerce
Department. Caterpillar Inc. and  General Electric Co. (GE)  are among
the biggest supporters of the trade deal.  Labor Ministry  Kirk said that under the labor certification, Colombia will
establish a new labor ministry, give workers the right to
organize, prosecute past cases of violence against union
organizations and provide protections for them, Kirk said.  The U.S. will offer Colombia “technical assistance” as it
implements the labor protection rules, Labor Secretary Hilda Solis said on a conference call.  “This is a work in progress” but “we are moving on the
right track,” Solis said.  Colombia’s Congress passed bills to implement a free-trade
accord on April 10, days before the Summit of the Americas
began.  The free-trade agreement, first reached under President
 George W. Bush  more than five years ago, stalled in Congress
amid opposition from House Democrats. Obama worked to broaden
support by securing stronger labor commitments from Colombia.  Action Plan  Colombia agreed to completion a “labor action plan,” a
side agreement signed in April 2011 between the U.S. and
Colombia, before the accord could be implemented.  Obama’s approval hinged on Colombia taking further steps to
protect workers’ rights and making progress on reducing the
killing of union workers by terrorists.  Under terms of the plan, Colombia agreed to take steps to
prevent exploitation of workers, prosecuting those suspected of
violating workers’ rights and ensure the safety of trade
unionists, long a target of violence by illegal armed groups.  In February, the U.S. said  Colombia  was working to meet its
commitments. A month ago, Obama and Santos conferred by
telephone on the subject. The U.S. president “underscored the
importance of continued progress” on meeting terms of the labor
plan, the White House said in a statement.  Obama’s announcement today means the U.S. concerns are
satisfied.  The AFL-CIO labor federation remained opposed to the
Colombia FTA and said its “entry into force” should be delayed
until Colombia takes what it called “sustained, meaningful and
measurable action to change the culture of violence” that the
Washington-based AFL-CIO said undermines labor and human rights
in Colombia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Cartagena at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Cartagena at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  