-- OCBC’s New CEO Aims to Boost China, Indonesia Revenue
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-04-16T10:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/ocbc-s-new-ceo-aims-to-boost-china-indonesia-revenue.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) ’s
Samuel Tsien, who became chief executive officer of Southeast
Asia’s second-largest lender yesterday, aims to boost the
company’s revenue from  China  and  Indonesia .  “We can create a better presence there, we can do more
business there, and we can achieve a high level of performance
in those markets,” Tsien, who took over as CEO from David Conner, said in an interview. He declined to comment on what
proportion of revenue he’s targeting from the countries or a
timeframe.  The Singapore-based bank’s push to diversify revenue comes
amid takeovers and investments in Asia by bigger domestic rival
 DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , including the bid for  PT Bank Danamon
Indonesia. (BDMN)  Oversea-Chinese, which gets 85 percent of its pretax
profit from  Singapore  and  Malaysia , may also have to turn to
acquisitions to compete across  Asia , according to Desmond Ch’ng,
a Kuala Lumpur-based analyst at Maybank Investment Bank Bhd.  “Operations are still small outside of Singapore and
Malaysia,” he said. “Short of mergers and acquisitions, OCBC
will have to expand its branches in China and Indonesia to
compete with the local players who already have a wide network
and a captive depositor base.”  China,  Taiwan  and  Hong Kong  accounted  for 7 percent of the
bank’s pretax profit last year, while Southeast Asia, excluding
Singapore and Malaysia, made up for 4 percent, according to
company data.  ‘Increasing Contribution’  “There will be an increasing contribution on a
proportionate basis” from the newer markets, said Tsien, 57,
who has served as the bank’s global corporate banking chief
since 2007 and takes the reins from Conner, who held the CEO
post for a decade. Tsien has no plan to reduce the lender’s
presence in its bigger markets, he said.  The stock rose 0.3 percent to S$8.86 at the close in
Singapore, the highest in almost two weeks. DBS, the biggest of
Singapore’s three banks, gained 0.1 percent to S$13.49 while
smaller rival  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  lost 1.1 percent to
S$18.30.  China and Indonesia are the two fastest-growing economies
among the 10 biggest in Asia, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. China’s gross domestic product expanded 8.1 percent
in the last quarter, even as the pace slowed to the least in
almost three years, the statistics bureau said on April 13. The
Indonesian economy grew 6.46 percent last year, the fastest
since before the 1997 Asian financial crisis.  First China Branch  Oversea-Chinese opened its first branch in China in 1925,
and now operates 16 branches through its OCBC Bank China Ltd.
subsidiary, according to the bank.  Shanghai-born Tsien spent 30 years with  Bank of America
Corp.  and associated companies before moving to Oversea-Chinese
in 2007. He held the position of president and chief executive
officer of China Construction Bank (Asia) Corp., formerly known
as Bank of America (Asia), for more than a decade before joining
the Singapore lender.  In Indonesia, the bank owns an 85 percent stake in  PT Bank
OCBC NISP (NISP)  valued at about 7.2 trillion rupiah ($790 million),
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The subsidiary serves
the country’s small- and medium-sized businesses and individuals.  DBS, Southeast Asia’s largest lender, offered to buy
Jakarta-based Danamon for about $7.2 billion on April 2 in the
biggest takeover by a lender in the region. It said last week it
will invest 2.3 billion yuan ($365 million) in its Chinese unit,
the first time since it invested 4 billion yuan when the
subsidiary was set up five years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gunsalus at 
 jgunsalus@bloomberg.net  