-- OneSteel Says It Won’t Abandon Steel as It Focuses on Ore
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-04-15T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/onesteel-says-it-won-t-abandon-steel-as-it-focuses-on-ore.html
OneSteel Ltd. (OST) , an Australian
company changing its name to reflect its focus on iron ore, said
there are no plans to abandon its loss-making steel business.  “The people in the steel space have got a clear set of
objectives and that’s turning the business around, making sure
they generate cash,” Chief Executive Geoff Plummer said in an
interview on the Australian Broadcasting Corp. today. “It can
be a good contributor to our portfolio and create value for our
shareholders.”  Crude-steel production in  China , which accounts for 45
percent of global steel output, may advance 7 percent to 731
million tons in 2012 compared with an 8.9 percent gain last
year,  Australia ’s Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said
last month.  Shares in OneSteel, which will change its name to Arrium
Ltd. from July 2, gained the most in more than two years in
February when it said it was switching focus to  iron ore , the
main ingredient in steel making.  “We’re still, I guess, exposed to the China story in a
positive way and I’m still pretty confident in terms of the
mining consumables business and commodities generally,” Palmer
said, adding he’s “confident” OneSteel’s steel business will
return to profitability this fiscal half.  OneSteel, Australia’s second-largest steelmaker, is aiming
to almost double production from its  iron-ore  unit that accounts
for about 40 percent of sales together with its mining
consumables business.  Mining will account for more than half its assets when
iron-ore production reaches 11 million metric tons a year at
full capacity after June 2013. It plans to produce 6 million
tons of iron ore this fiscal year.  OneSteel swung to a  net loss  of A$74 million ($77 million)
in the six months ended Dec. 31, from profit of A$116 million a
year earlier. Its steel unit narrowed its loss with earnings
before interest and tax of A$75 million in the period amid weak
domestic demand, high raw-material prices and the stronger
Australian dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  