-- Hong Kong Takeovers Loom Large With Banks Lending Yuan
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-04-16T09:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/hong-kong-takeovers-loom-large-with-banks-lending-yuan-real-m-a.html
As  Hong Kong  establishes itself as
a hub for offshore trade and investment in China’s currency, the
city’s family-owned banks can be acquired at some of the lowest
valuations since the global financial crisis.  Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111)  is trading at the lowest price to book
multiple since the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
collapse, while  Dah Sing Banking Group Ltd. (2356)  is valued at a 37
percent discount to its net assets, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. With competition pushing Chong Hing, Dah
Sing and  Wing Hang Bank Ltd. (302)  down an average of 28 percent in
the past year, the prices of Hong Kong banks are “attractive”
for a takeover, according to  Mike Smith , chief executive officer
of Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Suitors could be lured to Hong Kong’s financial firms as
China’s promotion of its currency overseas increases
opportunities to finance trade and investment in yuan, Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc said. Banks in the city, which is home to
the world’s fastest growing population of wealthy individuals,
hold  566 billion yuan  ($90 billion) in deposits and handled 92
percent of the trade settled in  China ’s currency last year. With
smaller banks lacking the scale to stay competitive, family
owners may be motivated to sell, according to Kim Eng Securities
Hong Kong Ltd.  “It’s a good time to buy Hong Kong family-run banks now as
the valuation of these lenders has come down a lot,” said Ivan Li, an analyst for Kim Eng in Hong Kong. “Foreign banks like
ANZ are interested in Hong Kong banks because they are
interested in China. If Chinese banks wanted to boost their
share in the offshore yuan market, acquiring a Hong Kong bank
would be a sensible way.”  Dominated by Rivals  Chong Hing is “open to all possibilities as long as they
are beneficial to our shareholders, but we don’t confirm any
proposals for the time being,” according to an e-mailed reply
to questions. Dah Sing and Wing Hang declined to comment on the
possibility of a sale.  Chong Hing rose 2.7 percent, the most in four months, to
end at HK$13.88 per share today. Wing Hang ended up 0.8 percent
at HK$79.25 a share, its  highest since August , while Dah Sing
added 1.3 percent to close at HK$7.82 a share. The city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  declined 0.4 percent.  The banks, which trace their roots as far back  as 1937 , are
competing in a market dominated by three larger rivals.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd. and
 Standard Chartered  Plc hold a combined market share of about
half of domestic loans in Hong Kong, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. Eleven other banks tracked by the rating
company hold another 23 percent between them, an April 12 report
showed.  ‘Stepping Stone’  Near-zero interest rates , matching those set by the U.S.
Federal Reserve because the  Hong Kong dollar  is pegged to the
 U.S. dollar , are already hurting profits, and “the highly
competitive environment in Hong Kong has resulted in weak
pricing power,” Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analysts wrote in a
April 3 report.  That may not deter buyers who are interested in the banks
because of Hong Kong’s role as a gateway into and out of China,
said Lewis Wan, who oversees $250 million in assets as chief
investment officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd.  “Hong Kong banks have a unique role to foreign banks and
Chinese lenders,” Wan said. “The buyers see Hong Kong as a
stepping stone into China or a gateway to the global market.”  Still, the competition has weighed on share prices. Chong
Hing, founded in 1948 and partly owned by the  Liu family , has
lost  33 percent  in the past year, leaving it valued at about
$760 million at the end of last week. At  0.86 times  book value,
the shares are trading at their lowest multiple since May 2009,
when global equity markets were just beginning to recover from
the bankruptcy of New York-based Lehman Brothers and the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  Dah Sing, down 38 percent in the past year, ended last week
with a market value of $1.2 billion. Backed by the Wong family,
the 65-year-old bank trades at  0.63 times  book value, in line
with what it fetched at the  start of May 2009 , the data show.  Wing Hang, the largest and  most profitable  of the three
banks, has fared better, falling  11 percent  in the last year and
ending last week with a market value of $3 billion.  At  1.39 times book value , shares of the 75-year-old bank
are also  trading  near their level at the start of May 2009. Wing
Hang, founded by Fung Yiu-king in 1937, is currently run by his
son Patrick Fung.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  owns  20 percent 
of Wing Hang, Bloomberg data show.  The three largest Hong Kong-based lenders by market value,
family-owned  Bank of East Asia Ltd. , HSBC-backed  Hang Seng Bank
Ltd. (11)  and BOC Hong Kong fetch an average 1.87 times book value,
the data show.  ‘Much More Valuable’  For potential buyers, Hong Kong’s banks offer access to
yuan deposits that can be lent to companies investing in or
trading with China, said Nicholas Yeo, head of China and Hong
Kong equities at Aberdeen Asset Management, which oversees $295
billion globally.  “That is much more valuable than a historical Hong Kong
dollar deposit base,” ANZ’s Smith said to reporters in the city
on March 23, when he also described the share prices of Hong
Kong’s banks as “attractive.”  China, which has allowed Hong Kong residents to hold yuan
in bank accounts since 2004, began to open the currency to other
uses outside of its borders in 2009, with a program to allow
trade with Chinese companies to be paid for in yuan.  Last year, that trade reached  2.1 trillion yuan , or about 8
percent of China’s total trade, with Hong Kong’s banks handling
92 percent, according to data from the Monetary Authority.  Trading Band  China announced on April 14 that it would widen the yuan’s
trading band for the first time since 2007, signaling a drive
toward a convertible currency. The increase to 1 percent from
0.5 percent will  take effect today , according to the People’s
Bank of China’s website.  Rules for foreign direct investment with yuan raised
offshore, formalized in October, spurred companies to sell yuan-
denominated bonds in Hong Kong and remit funds for operations in
China. Including 12-month certificates of deposit, issuance of
Dim Sum bonds rose more than four-fold to 151 billion yuan in
2011 from the year before, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Meanwhile, deposits at Hong Kong’s banks stood at 566
billion yuan in February, up from 408 billion a year before, the
data show.  “Banks really need a domestic presence to penetrate into
the retail deposit sources,” said Citigroup Inc. analyst Gary Lam, who is based in Hong Kong. “For banks which don’t have
substantial presence here, acquisition will be a faster way to
substantially boost their market share in Hong Kong.”  ‘The Real Opportunity’  Hong Kong’s banks currently hold more yuan in deposits than
they can lend, on which they earn 2 or 3 percent in the
 interbank market  or 0.63 percent from a clearing bank, said Lam.
It means they’ll profit as China increases their ability to lend
to Chinese companies.  “The use of Hong Kong financial infrastructure to address
the need for China financing is, to me, the real opportunity,”
he said.  Yuan loans in Hong Kong, called Dim Sum loans, may triple
this year to 60 billion yuan as the currency becomes more
globally accepted in trade and finance, Bank of Communications
predicted in January. Yuan denominated trade settlement,
meanwhile, may reach 3.7 trillion yuan, or 15 percent of China’s
global trade volume by the end of this year,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
analysts projected in December.  “The internationalization of yuan is the direction,” said
Aberdeen’s Yeo. “Hong Kong banks would be able to ride on this
so that’s their attractiveness. Hong Kong banks have gathered a
lot of yuan deposits already.”  Wealthy Individuals  Hong Kong was also home to the world’s fastest growing
population of individuals with more than $1 million in
investible assets in 2010, according to a report last year by
Bank of America Corp. and Capgemeni SA. Tapping these clients
adds to the allure potential acquirers, said Kim Eng’s Li.  “Chinese banks can reach out to rich Chinese in Hong Kong
and make them private banking customers,” Li said. “Some of
their mainland Chinese clients might also seek overseas
investment opportunities that are absent in domestic banks but
available in Hong Kong lenders.”  Buyers would have to persuade the controlling families that
they’re better off selling despite the promise their banks hold
for an acquirer, said Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. He projects that deals are unlikely.  “We’re part of the China story,” Antos said. “That is
what makes our small banks in Hong Kong really tempting targets.
For the same reason, the Hong Kong families that hold these
banks really have little incentive to sell out.”  Wing Lung Bank  China  Merchants Bank  Co.’s deal completed in 2009 for Wing
Lung Bank Ltd. valued the family-run firm at 2.9 times book
value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ANZ (ANZ) ’s Smith, who lost
out to Merchants Bank in the bidding, called the valuation
“crazy”, suggesting that closer to 2 times book would be a
fair valuation.  Even as he last month signaled an interest in buying a Hong
Kong bank, Smith said that there is “quite a big difference”
between sellers’ expectations about the value of their banks and
what ANZ might be willing to pay.  Kevin Foley , a Sydney-based
spokesman for ANZ, declined to comment further.  While multiples of about 3 times book value for
acquisitions are unlikely to be reached again, that may not stop
the families from selling, Wan of Pride Investments said.  “Net interest margins are being squeezed, trimming profit
growth and hence the bargaining power of the family owners of
these lenders,” he said.  ‘No Room’  The three smaller banks are being hit harder by competition
in Hong Kong.  Standard Chartered’s (STAN)  net interest margin in Hong
Kong rose to 1.8 percent last year, while Hang Seng’s held
steady at 1.78 percent. The same profitability measure at Dah
Sing, Wing Hang and Chong Hing fell by 0.16 percentage points to
1.42 percent on average, according to stock exchange filings.  “The sum of money that the family can get from the sale
would be much more than what they can get from running the
bank,” said Li. “There’s no room for small family-run lenders.
They will be acquired by the bigger banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 