-- Tories Pressure Osborne for Reversal of Charity Tax-Cap Plans
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-04-15T12:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/tories-pressure-osborne-for-reversal-of-charity-tax-cap-plans.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  came under growing pressure from fellow Tories to revise
plans to cap U.K. tax relief for high earners that charities and
universities say will discourage donations.  The top fundraiser in Osborne’s and Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party ,  Stanley Fink , added his voice to
criticism of the proposal, saying it would “put people off”
giving large sums, the Sunday Times newspaper reported today.
More than 40 leading philanthropists called the plan “confusing
and dispiriting” in a letter to the Sunday Telegraph. Tory
parliamentarians have also criticized the move.  Under proposals announced in last month’s budget, tax
relief, including on charitable giving, will be capped at either
50,000 pounds ($80,000) a year or a quarter of an individual’s
income, whichever is higher. The government says it’s part of a
drive to cut  tax avoidance  and says a small number of wealthy
people have used the system to avoid tax.  “It’s a mistake; it’s not the way to deal with the sort of
problems you do get with charities,”  David Davis , a former
candidate for the Tory leadership, said on the “Andrew Marr
Show” on BBC television today. He called it a “tax without
friends.”  Another Conservative lawmaker, Zac Goldsmith, wrote in the
Mail on Sunday newspaper that he was “ashamed” that Osborne
had “spun a narrative in which philanthropists are now the
enemy.”  ‘Completely Unaffected’  Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said the government was
looking at charities’ concerns, though he denied there would be
a widespread impact.  “The vast majority of charitable donations are completely
unaffected by this change,” he told Sky News television today.
“This is only about people on very large incomes making very
large charitable donations, and in some cases they have made
them to charities that are abroad, that may not be what you or I
would consider as a charity. So clearly this has to be tightened
up.”  Cameron “said this week that we’d look very significantly
at such concerns, and indeed the Treasury has said all along
that they would listen to and they would work with charities and
philanthropists to look at any impact on charities that rely on
big donations,” Hague said. “They have started on that work,
they have had some of the meetings on that already.”  The  University of Oxford , the oldest in the English-
speaking world, said last week it was concerned about the
measure’s “potential impact in higher education, where the
government’s own policy emphasizes the role of private and
philanthropic investment rather than the public purse.”  Oxford has raised more than 1.25 billion pounds in its most
recent fundraising drive.  ‘Negative Impact’  Universities UK , the colleges’ umbrella organization, has
written to Osborne and Business Secretary  Vince Cable , who
oversees higher education, about the plan.  The Charities Aid Foundation, which seeks to maximize
charities’ fundraising, last week published a survey showing
that 88 percent of 120 executives at institutions surveyed
expect the proposals to have a “negative impact on the value of
donations from major donors.” The government to reverse the
plan, according to 78 percent of those surveyed.  Tory lawmakers opposed to the move predicted Osborne and
Cameron would have to change course to deal with the widespread
opposition.  “One way or another there will have to be a retreat,”
Goldsmith wrote.  The government will “find another way of doing it,” Davis
said. “They’ll change the way they assess the charities, not
the tax.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  