-- Toyota Turns to BMW to Power European Rebound Against VW: Cars
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-04-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/toyota-turns-to-bmw-to-power-european-rebound-against-vw-cars.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which was
overtaken by  Volkswagen AG (VOW3)  in sales last year, is striking back
on the German automaker’s home turf.  Toyota is rolling out Europe’s first hybrid subcompact and
the image-boosting GT86 sports coupe this year in a bid to claw
back market share in the region after sales plunged 41 percent
since 2007. The Toyota City, Japan-based company will further
bolster its European business by outfitting its vehicles with
diesel engines from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  from 2014.  “It’s unacceptable for Toyota to be at this volume level
in Europe,” Didier Leroy, Toyota’s European chief, said in an
interview. By cutting management layers to streamline decision-
making over the past two years, “we made ourselves much leaner,
much more agile. We strongly went for the fighting spirit in
everything we do.”  That shakeup is likely to pay off this year, with Toyota
predicting its first profit in  Europe  in five years. Market
share in the European Union is set to rise to 6.6 percent from
5.7 percent last year, while the VW brand slips to 18.2 percent
from 18.5 percent, according to data from IHS Automotive. By
making gains in Europe, Toyota aims to halt VW’s march to become
the world’s biggest automaker, overtaking  General Motors Co. (GM)   Toyota lost the top spot last year when disruptions caused
by the earthquake in  Japan  and the lingering effects of global
recalls in 2009 and 2010 caused the maker of the Camry sedan to
drop to third as VW leapfrogged Toyota to become number two.  Hybrid Yaris  “The real issue for Toyota is winning back customers,”
said  Jonathon Poskitt , head of European sales forecasting at LMC
Automotive in Oxford,  England . “Toyota really needs to refocus
on the requirements of what are sophisticated European customers
that already have a great choice in new vehicles.”  The hybrid version of the Yaris, which competes with VW’s
Polo, is part of the campaign. Production on the gas-electric
subcompact started at Toyota’s factory in Valenciennes in
northern  France  earlier this week after an investment of 25
million euros ($33 million). The hybrid variant of Toyota’s
European best-seller gets the equivalent of 76 miles per gallon.  On the other end of the scale is the GT86, which
accelerates to 100 kilometers (62 miles) per hour in as little
as 8.2 seconds and sports a low-slung grill and dual exhaust
pipes. The aggressive design is meant to challenge VW’s Scirocco
and  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s RCZ and pep up Toyota’s image.  Impressing the Neighbors  The brand’s current models “haven’t seemed to capture the
customer’s imagination,” said Ian Fletcher, an analyst at IHS
Automotive in  London . The GT86 “might be a car that brings
people back into the showroom.”  That’s just what Fredrik Bjorklund, who heads a Stockholm-
based chain of Toyota stores, is yearning for, when the car goes
on sale later this year. It hits German showrooms in September.  “We’re hoping it will be a fantastic image creator for
us,” Bjorklund said. “Toyota has received criticism for its
non-thrilling design, and we must get people to think it’s fun
with Toyota so that when your neighbor sees it he gets
interested.”  Still, with hybrids lacking widespread acceptance in Europe
and Toyota targeting a modest 15,000 GT86 deliveries in the
region, the Japanese carmaker will need to do more to reach its
goal of selling over one million cars in Europe,  Russia ,  Turkey 
and  Israel , 20 percent more than its 2012 target of 835,000.  Facing tough competition and lacking in-demand technology,
Toyota’s performance in Europe has declined faster than
elsewhere. In 2007, when Toyota’s sales reached a record of 9.37
million vehicles, deliveries in Europe accounted for 13 percent
of the total. Last year, Europe accounted for 10 percent of
Toyota’s 7.95 million auto sales globally.  BMW Engines  “Toyota’s strengths are in hybrid cars, and this has led
to strong sales in the  United States  and markets that are
sensitive to increases in gasoline prices,”  Satoru Takada , a
Tokyo-based analyst at Toward the Infinite World Inc. “Europe
is already dominated by the German carmakers, because diesel
cars are popular. Eastern Europe is one area where Toyota may be
successful, but every company is targeting those markets, so
competition there will be tough for Toyota too.”  A lift in Europe could come when BMW starts delivering
 diesel engines  to Toyota in two years. Diesel, which is taxed
less than gasoline in many European countries, fueled nearly
half of the new cars sold in  Germany  last year. BMW agreed to
supply Toyota with diesel engines in Europe as part of a
cooperation pact on research into next-generation batteries.  ‘A Bit Boring’  Toyota’s thrust in Europe comes as the Wolfsburg, Germany-
based manufacturer makes a push in the U.S., where the Japanese
company outsold VW five-to-one in 2011. Volkswagen last year
opened a $1 billion factory in  Tennessee  to build as many as
150,000 Passat sedans a year.  Toyota’s improved finances in Europe are in stark contrast
to some rivals.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  predicted a loss of as much as
$600 million in Europe in 2012. GM lost $747 million in Europe
last year and is considering further cost cuts.  Even with the improvements, gaining and holding onto
customers in VW’s home region will remain a challenge. At the
Toyota dealership in  Stockholm , Johan Lindgren, a 31-year old
biochemist who owns a RAV4 sports-utility vehicle, is keeping
his eyes open to replace his 2001 Yaris Verso.  “My Toyotas have been very reliable and practical,” he
said. “The design has improved lately but is still a bit
boring. For the next one, I’ll consider Toyota and other
brands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  