-- Pakistan Spring Emerging From Winter of Discontent
-- B y   V a l i   N a s r
-- 2012-04-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/pakistan-spring-emerging-from-winter-of-discontent.html
The snarling between the U.S. and
 Pakistan  won’t let up. The battle began, of course, when U.S.
forces sneaked into Pakistan to kill  Osama bin Laden  last May.  Last week, the U.S. upped the ante, announcing a $10
million reward for information leading to the arrest of
notorious terrorist Hafiz Muhammad Saeed, who is thought to be
close to Pakistani intelligence. Things are so bad, Pakistani
author Ahmed Rashid pronounced in his recently published book,
“The  United States  and Pakistan are just short of going to war.”  America’s greater fear is that Pakistan will get in the way
of war. Pakistan’s Parliament last week unanimously voted to
forbid the U.S. from conducting drone strikes inside Pakistani
territory. If the measure is implemented, it will deny the U.S.
its most effective weapon against al-Qaeda and other militant
groups.  Yet, as worrisome as the trend in bilateral relations is,
other developments within Pakistan signal that the country may
be changing for the better, in terms of the military’s role,
democratic tendencies and relations with  India . By focusing on
the security dimension of its relationship with Pakistan, the
U.S. risks missing these currents and thus the opportunity to
engage with the country in fruitful new ways.  Unexpected Turn  One new twist that should be particularly gratifying to the
U.S. is the Pakistani public’s unexpected turn against the
military. Popular anger at the U.S. for swooping into the
country to kill bin Laden was matched by outrage that the
military was caught snoozing by U.S. commandos. Pakistanis
asked: Why do we need such an expensive military if it can’t
even protect the country’s borders and doesn’t know that the
world’s most wanted man is hiding in a garrison town?  If that weren’t enough, three weeks later, extremists
attacked the naval base in Karachi, which houses nuclear
warheads. They destroyed a helicopter and two advanced P-3C
Orion patrol aircraft. Pakistani special forces lost 10 men and
had to fight for 16 hours to end the siege.  More embarrassments followed. Impassioned appeals to the
 Supreme Court  to find President Asif Ali Zardari a traitor
backfired on the army and intelligence chiefs when the
credibility of their witness,  who had claimed that Zardari was
colluding  with the U.S. against the military, dissolved amid the
man’s ever-changing story and his cameo in a mud-wrestling
video. Next, the Supreme Court opened hearings in a case
alleging that the military bought votes in the 1990 election.
The televised spectacle of generals hauled to court to answer
judges has mesmerized Pakistanis.  The humbling of the military is good news for democracy in
Pakistan. National elections may take place as early as October
and must occur by February. With the military restrained, there
is hope that voting will be free and fair, and that the outcome
may further strengthen civilian rule.  There are signs that democracy already is budding in what
may prove to be a Pakistani Spring. Amid widespread
disenchantment with corruption and government mismanagement, the
young and the middle class are restless. Many have flocked to
anti-establishment politician  Imran Khan , a former cricket hero,
and his Movement for Justice. Khan isn’t friendly to the U.S.;
he promises to stand up to America. But in other ways his
campaign has enhanced the political debate. He regularly
addresses the need to earnestly battle corruption and to reform
the woefully inadequate tax system.  Questioning the Rolls  Also, at Imran’s request, the Supreme Court in February
reviewed the electoral rolls and questioned the validity of 35
million names, about 44 percent of the 80 million registered.
Given that 32 million new young voters will be added to the
rolls, Pakistan may have its cleanest -- and most unpredictable
-- election since the 1970s.  At the same time, Pakistan’s relations with India have
mellowed. With Pakistan’s economy in poor shape -- growth was
2.4 percent in 2011 and there is little foreign investment or
aid -- its business community has convinced the military that
expansion can come only through increased trade with India.
Pakistan’s government has agreed to remove restrictions on the
import of most goods from India by year’s end. Liberated from
military pressure and eager to add momentum to the cross-border
commerce, Zardari went to  New Delhi  on April 8, the first
Pakistani head of state to visit in seven years. There is now
talk of even more trade and greater cooperation on other fronts.  A humbled military, a resurgent democracy and better ties
with India are all things the U.S. wants to see in Pakistan.
Together they present hope, however slight, for a more stable,
constructive Pakistan. In responding to the Pakistani
Parliament’s new security demands, the Obama administration
should consider these developments rather than answering on
purely military grounds. The U.S. should be careful not to
derail these positive trends, for instance by provoking popular
resentments about sovereignty breaches, and risk restoring
credibility to the military. In the long run, these developments
may matter more than drone attacks anyway.  (Vali Nasr is a Bloomberg View columnist, a professor of
international politics at the Fletcher School of Law and
Diplomacy at  Tufts University  and a senior fellow in foreign
policy at the  Brookings Institution . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on signs  Iraq  is  veering
away  from democracy and the  National Rifle Association ’s role in
 encouraging gun sales  and use; William D. Cohan on  restoring
faith  in  Wall Street  as the key to an economic recovery;  Simon
Johnson  on why long-term  budget projections  get too much
attention; Kellie McElhaney on how Apple  should change  its
behavior;  Albert R. Hunt  on Mitt Romney’s potential  vice
presidential choices ; and Iain Begg on redefining  Europe ’s
 social safety net .  To contact the writer of this article:
Vali Nasr at  vali.nasr@tufts.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at  lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 