-- Pettersson Wins Fifth PGA Tour Title as McIlroy Reclaims No. 1
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-04-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/pettersson-wins-rbc-heritage-for-fifth-title-on-golf-s-pga-tour.html
Carl Pettersson collected his fifth
career U.S. PGA Tour title to tie Jesper Parnevik for the most
wins by a Swedish golfer, while  Rory McIlroy  regained the
sport’s No. 1 world ranking without playing.  Pettersson cruised to a five-shot victory yesterday at the
RBC Heritage, firing a 2-under-par 69 in the final round at
Harbour Town Golf Links in Hilton Head,  South Carolina . He
finished the tournament at 14-under-par 270 ahead of Zach Johnson at 9-under par and Colt Knost at 8 under.  “It’s getting harder and harder to win out here,”
Pettersson said at a news conference. “It seems like there’s a
lot more younger guys playing really good, hitting it a mile,
and all of a sudden I’ll be 35 this year, I’m one of the old
guys, trying to get around the golf course. Five wins is great.
I’m hoping to add to that.”  Luke Donald  will be replaced by McIlroy atop the  Official
World Golf Ranking  after finishing in a tie for 37th place in
Hilton Head. Donald, who had to tie for eighth place or higher
to remain No. 1, finished 2-over-par after placing second at the
tournament in 2009 and 2011. Donald missed a chance to move atop
the ranking 12 months ago when he lost to Brandt Snedeker in a
playoff at the Heritage.  “Not my best week, getting used to leaving this place
ranked #2,” Donald wrote yesterday on his Twitter account.  McIlroy didn’t play at the Heritage and his next tournament
will probably be the Wells Fargo Championship in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , scheduled for May 3-6.  McIlroy ended Donald’s 40-week run atop the rankings with
his victory at the Honda Classic on March 4 before Donald
reclaimed the top spot with his playoff win two weeks later at
the Transitions Championship.  Tying Parnevik   Pettersson, 34, matched the five PGA Tour wins by Parnevik
from 1998 to 2001, yet noted yesterday that he only lived in his
native Sweden until he was 10 years old, then spent five years
in  England  and has been in the U.S. since.  “I honestly feel more American than Swedish,” said
Pettersson, who also won PGA Tour events in 2005, 2006, 2008 and
2010. “I became an American citizen this year, I’ve got dual
citizenship.  Sweden  is a golf-crazed country. I know I’m from
Sweden, but I’ve lived here so long I’m very American.”  Pettersson missed a chance to log his fifth win two weeks
ago when he finished one stroke behind  Hunter Mahan  in second
place at the Houston Open. Pettersson began the season in a tie
for second place at the Sony Open in  Hawaii .  The tour now moves to San Antonio for the Texas Open, which
is scheduled from April 19-22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  