-- Philippines to Gauge Impact of Past Rate Cuts, Tetangco Says
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-04-16T10:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/philippines-will-assess-rate-cut-impact-on-policy-tetangco-says.html
The Philippine central bank will
gauge the impact of this year’s two interest-rate cuts when it
assesses monetary policy at this week’s meeting, Governor Amando Tetangco said.  The bank’s policy “remains appropriate, but we need to see
how past policy actions are filtering to the economy,” Tetangco
said in an e-mail reply to questions before the April 19 meeting.
“We will also review our forecasts and make further sensitivity
analyses to account for possible second-round effects” from
developments such as demands for increases in transport fares
and wages, he said.  Philippine bonds fell the most in three weeks and the peso
declined as Tetangco’s comments reinforced the view that Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas will refrain from cutting borrowing costs
further. All 17 economists in a Bloomberg survey predict the
central bank will keep its overnight  borrowing rate  at 4 percent
this week, even after  inflation  in the Southeast Asian nation
unexpectedly slowed to a 30-month low of 2.6 percent in March.  Monetary authorities will consider exports and inflation
along with the “dynamics in credit growth, asset prices and
expectations on oil price movements” during the meeting,
Tetangco said. Remittances sent home by Filipinos overseas rose
5.8 percent in February from a year earlier, faster than the 5.4
percent pace in January, the central bank said today.  Reserve Requirement  Bangko Sentral cut its benchmark rate by a quarter of a
percentage point at each of its past two policy meetings, taking
the benchmark rate to 4 percent, which matched a record low. It
cut banks’ reserve requirement this month to 18 percent of
deposits from 21 percent to ensure the impact of changes in
rules covering the funds would be neutral.  The yield on the 12.375 percent peso bond due February 2015
rose 11.3 basis points to 3.93 percent, increasing the most
since March 21, according to noon fixing prices from Philippine
Dealing & Exchange Corp.  “Pausing is the right move as regulators assess
developments in the U.S. and  oil prices ,” said Ricky Cebrero,
head of treasury at  Philippine National Bank (PNB)  in  Manila .
“Authorities will ensure that economic growth momentum, which
is still fragile, is supported while closely guarding
inflationary pressures that may be present.”  Jeepney Fares  The government increased the minimum fare in jeepneys, a
common form of Philippine public transport, by 6 percent to 8.50
pesos ($0.20) last month. The Trade Union Congress of the
 Philippines  sought a 90-peso increase in minimum wage, Labor
Secretary Rosalinda Baldoz said on March 16.  Crude oil extended declines, falling as much as 0.9 percent
in  New York  after a 0.5 percent drop last week.  Philippine inflation, targeted to average between 3 percent
and 5 percent this year and next, remains manageable, Tetangco
reiterated on April 4.  “The policy rate is optimal for BSP now; we don’t think
any further cuts nor hikes at this stage are warranted,” said
 Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based senior currency analyst at
 Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  “Inflation can be kept at bay if the
exchange rate policy is slanted towards keeping the peso less
volatile and generally appreciating with Asian currencies.”  The peso closed 0.3 percent lower today at 42.778 per
dollar after completing four weeks of gains on April 13,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  