-- Yankees Beat Angels as Ivan Nova Wins 14th Straight Decision
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-16T04:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/phillies-find-scoring-touch-to-beat-mets-8-2-avoid-home-sweep.html
The  New York  Yankees defeated the
Los Angeles Angels 11-5 as pitcher Ivan Nova won his 14th
consecutive decision dating back to last season and  Derek Jeter 
slugged a three-run home run.  Raul Ibanez added a home run and drove in three runs as the
Yankees won two of three games in the series at New York’s
Yankee Stadium. The Yankees’ run total was a season-high and
they’ve won five of six games since starting 0-3.  Nova allowed four runs over six innings, with eight
strikeouts, and hasn’t lost in the regular season since June 3
of last season against the Angels. He won his final 12 decisions
last season and has a 2-0 record this year, matching the second-
longest streak by a Yankees’ pitcher since 1920.  Roger Clemens 
won 16 decisions in a row in 2001.  While Jeter hit his second home run of the Major League
Baseball season to help the Yankees open an 8-1 lead after four
innings,  Albert Pujols  remains without a homer through his first
nine games with the Angels, his longest drought to start a
season. Pujols, who joined the Angels with a 10-year, $240
million contract during the offseason, went 1-for-5 with a run-
scoring single yesterday.  The  Philadelphia Phillies  avoided a three-game sweep at
home by beating the New York Mets 8-2 behind four runs batted in
by Ty Wigginton. It was highest-scoring game this season for the
five-time National League Eastern Division champions, who had
averaged 2.5 runs in their first eight games.  The Phillies, who scored two runs in the seventh inning and
five in the eighth, improved to 4-5 while the Mets dropped to 6-
3 after beginning the season with four straight wins.  Cole Hamels  (1-1) got the win for the Phillies after
allowing two runs on six hits and striking out 10 in seven
innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  