-- Flyers Get Within One Win of Eliminating Favored Penguins in NHL
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-16T06:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/predators-beat-red-wings-to-take-2-1-lead-in-nhl-playoff-series.html
The  Philadelphia Flyers  are one win
away from eliminating the  Pittsburgh Penguins  after an 8-4
victory against the team that entered the National Hockey League
playoffs as the  Stanley Cup  favorite.  Also yesterday, the Nashville Predators held off the
 Detroit  Red Wings 3-2 to lead their series by two games to one,
the  Florida Panthers  beat the New Jersey Devils 4-2 to even
their matchup at one game each, and the Los Angeles Kings
defeated the Vancouver Canucks 1-0 for a 3-0 series lead.  Danny Briere, Maxime Talbot and Matt Read each scored two
goals as the Flyers opened a 3-0 lead in the best-of-seven
playoff series. The Penguins had been tabbed as the oddsmakers’
favorites to win the Stanley Cup when Sidney Crosby, the NHL’s
Most Valuable Player in 2007, returned last month after missing
59 games during the past two seasons because of concussions.  “If there’s a team that can come back from 3-0 this year,
I think it’s them,” said Flyers center  Claude Giroux . “We need
to understand that and make sure we’re focused.”  The  New York Rangers  are at the  Ottawa Senators  tonight,
when the defending champion  Boston Bruins  visit the  Washington
Capitals  and the San Jose Sharks host the St. Louis Blues. All
three of those series are tied at 1-1 in games.  Philadelphia can advance with a victory in Game 4 at home
on April 18. Pittsburgh is seeking to join the 1942  Toronto
Maple Leafs , 1975 New York Islanders and the 2010 Flyers as NHL
teams to win a playoff series after trailing 3-0.  “It’s a big mountain,” said Penguins center Jordan Staal,
who scored two goals. “Our team has had adversity before and
this is going to be a big challenge for us.”  Brawls, Penalties  Pittsburgh’s Kris Letang and Arron Asham, along with Kimmo Timonen of the Flyers, were ejected in a brawl-marred first
period at Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia during which 72
minutes of penalties were handed out. Crosby and Giroux were
among those sanctioned for fighting.  A total of 158 minutes of penalties were handed out -- 89
to the Penguins and 69 to the Flyers.  “It’s intense and you can say we got frustrated, but we
didn’t,” Crosby told reporters.  In yesterday’s final game, Dustin Brown scored the lone
goal with 13:30 remaining as the Kings moved within a victory of
eliminating a Canucks team that won the Presidents’ Trophy after
leading the NHL with 111 regular-season points.  Vancouver  is the top seed in the Western Conference and was
the third choice of Las Vegas oddsmakers to win the Stanley Cup
entering the postseason, with 5-1 odds.  The Kings, the eighth seed in the West, last won a playoff
series in 2001 and host Game 4 on April 18.  Predators Breakthrough    Also yesterday, the Predators recorded their first
postseason win at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit behind goals from
Shea Weber, Kevin Klein and Sergei Kostitsyn.  All three games in the series have finished 3-2. The teams
return to the same venue for Game 4 tomorrow before heading back
to Nashville for Game 5 three days later.  The Panthers opened a 3-0 lead at home as Stephen Weiss
scored a pair of power-play goals. The Devils then rallied with
two goals in the third period before Florida added an empty-net
goal with one second remaining. It was the Panthers’ first
postseason victory since April 17, 1997.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 