-- Raymond C. Forbes, NYSE Member Who Fostered Faith, Dies at 85
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-04-15T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/raymond-c-forbes-nyse-member-who-fostered-faith-dies-at-85.html
Raymond C. Forbes, a white, Roman
Catholic broker who helped establish the first black-owned
member firm of the New York Stock Exchange and a long-running
Bible study group on Wall Street, has died. He was 85.  He died of a heart attack on March 30 at Lutheran Medical
Center in  Brooklyn , said his son, Christopher, a vice president
at  Raymond C. Forbes & Co.   Forbes opened the brokerage at 30 Broad St. in 1975 after
serving as a floor trader for firms including Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc. and Shearson, Hammill & Co. With his
floor-broker credentials, he had helped Travers J. Bell Jr. and
Willie L. Daniels open Daniels & Bell Inc., the first black-
controlled NYSE member firm, in 1971. Forbes served as the
 firm ’s vice president and floor broker.  He also made history as a season ticketholder of the  New
York Mets  for their entire 50-year existence, starting with the
team’s inaugural 1962 campaign at the Polo Grounds, in upper
 Manhattan , according to his family.  “He was a crazy fan,” his son said. Team records show
Forbes as a continuous season subscriber since 1964, the team’s
first year at Shea Stadium in Queens, which would make him one
of the 15 or 20 longest-subscribing ticketholders, according to
Robert Hines, a Mets spokesman. Christopher Forbes said his
father’s subscription does trace back two years earlier but
under the name of a colleague.  Promoter of Faith  Off the trading floor, Forbes was known in part for his
efforts to foster religious faith on Wall Street.  A Presbyterian by birth, he converted to Catholicism when
he married his wife, Patricia, in 1957. He went to church every
day at St. Joseph’s Chapel in Battery Park City, near where he
lived, his son said.  In 1977, with a few friends, he established a
multidenominational  Wall Street  Bible study group that met
weekday mornings at the exchange.  “You have to understand -- back then, there was no such
thing as Bible study in the middle of business,” said Tony
DiMaio, a floor clerk from 1981 to 1989 who began leading the
meetings in 1992. “It was an anomaly.”  Far from private or secretive, the gatherings occurred on
the NYSE’s seventh floor, home to the fabled members-only Stock
Exchange Luncheon Club.  “Everybody was welcome -- everybody,” DiMaio said in an
interview. “I used to tell people, we got the best real estate
available on Wall Street.” When security was tightened
following the 9/11 terror attacks in 2001, the meetings were
moved to nearby Trinity Church so that non-NYSE members could
continue to participate.  ‘He Had Standards’  Forbes attended meetings until 2005 or 2006, DiMaio
recalled.  Christopher Forbes said his father saw God and business as
intertwined.  “He had standards,” the younger Forbes said. “He would
never do something he didn’t believe in or that wasn’t honest.
Some people on Wall Street have ethics that are questionable,
but he would never do something underhanded for the sake of
making money.”  Raymond Clement Forbes was born on Jan. 27, 1927, in
Brooklyn. As a student at the Peddie School in Hightstown,  New
Jersey , he was a member of a  1944 basketball team  inducted into
the school’s hall of fame.  Forbes studied for one year at  Cornell University . Upon the
death of his father, he returned home to begin work, landing a
job at Merrill Lynch. During the  Korean War , he spent two years
in the National Guard.  Bridging Race  As a floor trader at Shearson Hammill, Forbes was elected
in 1966 to a three-year term on the board of the  American Stock
Exchange . Later that year, he joined Daniel K. Ludwig, one of
America’s wealthiest men, and William K. Whiteford, former
chairman of Gulf Oil Corp., to open a new brokerage, Sellin,
Forbes & Smith Inc. He also became a member of the NYSE.  Forbes and Milton Aeder were the two white partners brought
in by Bell and Daniels -- along with $1.1 million in initial
financing -- to form the barrier-breaking black-owned firm in
June 1971. Forbes and Aeder, an accountant, “gave the firm
credibility in the businesses they sought, mainly institutional
accounts,” Bell’s son, Gregory, wrote in his 2001 book, “In
the Black: A History of African Americans on Wall Street.”  In addition to his wife and son Christopher, he is survived
by sons Raymond and Patrick and daughters Marie-Regina Sotos and
Patricia Sarn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  