-- Retail Sales Probably Climbed in March: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-15T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/retail-sales-probably-climbed-in-march-u-s-economy-preview.html
Retail sales in the U.S. probably
rose in March and housing demand stabilized, bolstering the
world’s largest economy, analysts said before reports this week.  The 0.3 percent rise in  retail purchases  would follow a 1.1
percent increase in February that was the biggest in five
months, according to the median forecast of 71 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Commerce Department figures
tomorrow. Builders broke ground on more houses in March, sales
of previously owned homes climbed and industrial production
picked up, other data may show.  Better-than-estimated sales last month at chains like  Gap
Inc. (GPS)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  signal Americans have enough income to
sustain spending and withstand higher gasoline prices. To help
foster bigger gains in employment, Federal Reserve officials are
sticking to a goal of keeping borrowing costs low through 2014.  “Retail sales seem to be holding up well,” said  Carl Riccadonna , a senior U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc. in New York. “It’s sending an important signal that
gasoline prices are not yet biting into spending. We’re seeing
ongoing income growth.”  The smaller gain in retail sales in March from the previous
month is probably due mostly to a slowdown in auto purchases.
Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.3 million annual rate in
March, following a 15 million pace the prior month, according to
Ward’s Automotive Group. Still, the March figures capped the
strongest quarter in four years.  “The industry and consumers have been very resilient in
the face of higher pump prices,”  Don Johnson , vice president of
U.S. sales at  General Motors Co. (GM) , said on a call with analysts
this month. “The steadily improving economy is playing a role
and so is pent-up demand and an improved credit market.”  Auto Dealers  The Commerce Department’s report may show that purchases
excluding auto dealers climbed 0.6 percent after a 0.9 percent
gain in February.  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 3.9 percent
last month, beating the average estimate for a 3.3 percent gain,
as many chains offered discounts and shoppers stocked up early
on spring gear.  Sales at Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, climbed 8
percent. Target, the second-largest U.S. discount chain, and
Macy’s Inc., the owner of Bloomingdale’s and namesake stores,
each posted 7.3 percent increased. All three companies beat the
average analyst projection.  Retail Shares  Investors have driven up retailer shares as spending
increases. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing  Index (S15RETL) ,
which includes Macy’s and Gap, has gained 17 percent this year
through April 13, compared with a 9 percent advance for the
broader  S&P 500 .  The Commerce Department’s retail sales data, which aren’t
adjusted for prices, may also reflect higher  gasoline  at the
pump. Regular fuel in March averaged $3.84 a gallon, or 28 cents
more than in February, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
auto group.  The economy expanded “at a modest to moderate pace” from
mid-February through late March as manufacturing, hiring and
retail sales showed signs of strength in the face of higher fuel
prices, the Fed said in its Beige Book report on April 11. The
central bank has pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate 
near zero until late 2014 to stimulate expansion.  Housing Starts  Housing, the industry at the heart of the last financial
crisis, is stabilizing. Home starts increased to a 705,000
annual rate in March following a 698,000 pace the prior month,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. The report is due from
the Commerce Department on April 17.  Two days later, the National Association of Realtors may
report  existing-home sales  rose 0.7 percent to a 4.62 million
pace last month, economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted.  Industrial production rebounded last month, Fed data may
show on April 17. Output at factories, mines and utilities
increased 0.3 percent after being little changed in February,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Also this week, reports on the so-called Empire gauge of
manufacturing for the region served by the Federal Reserve Bank
of  New York  and the Fed Bank of Philadelphia index may show
factories sustained growth in April, albeit at a slower pace,
economists said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  