-- Rosberg Gets First F-1 Win to Put Mercedes Back Atop Podium
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-16T00:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/rosberg-claims-first-formula-one-victory-at-chinese-grand-prix.html
     April 16 (Bloomberg) --Nico Rosberg claimed his first
career win in 111 Formula One races at the Chinese Grand Prix to
put Mercedes atop the podium for the first time since 1955.  Rosberg finished 20.6 seconds ahead of McLaren’s Jenson Button after starting the 56-lap race at Shanghai International
Circuit from pole position yesterday.  Lewis Hamilton  of McLaren
was third ahead of Red Bull’s  Mark Webber  and  Sebastian Vettel .  “I will never forget this race,” Rosberg, a 26-year-old
German, said in a team statement. “The last 20 laps felt as
long as if I was racing in the Le Mans 24 Hours. Crossing the
line was so intense.”  Different drivers from different constructors have won the
first three races of the 2012 season. Hamilton took the world
championship lead by finishing third for the third straight race
and has a two-point advantage over Button atop the standings.  Rosberg gave Mercedes its first victory since re-entering
the sport as a constructor in 2010. It last won a Formula One
race 57 years ago at the Italian Grand Prix when Juan Manuel Fangio won at Monza.  “This is a truly special and historic day,” said Mercedes
team principal  Ross Brawn . “I am so delighted for Nico, he has
deserved to take his first victory several times, and has now
done so by driving a perfectly judged race from pole position. I
am excited to see how he develops now.”  Daimler AG (DAI)  has owned the Mercedes team since November 2009
when it bought then champion Brawn Grand Prix with  Abu Dhabi ’s
 Aabar Investments PJSC (AABAR) . Mercedes had been a partner in the
McLaren team for 14 years.  Pit-Stop Blunder  Record seven-time world champion  Michael Schumacher , who
had qualified on the front row of the grid for the first time
since returning to the sport in 2010, was the only driver who
failed to finish the race. He was forced to retire after the
right front wheel of his Mercedes was not properly attached at
his first pit stop. The team was later fined 5,000 euros
($6,500) by race stewards for an unsafe release.  “It’s just a tragedy we had the problem with Michael
because he would have been in great shape too,” Brawn added.
“We have started a new adventure.”  Lotus driver Romain Grosjean was sixth ahead of the
Williams pair of  Bruno Senna  and Pastor Maldonado. Ferrari’s
 Fernando Alonso , who won in Malaysia three weeks ago, rounded
out the points-scoring positions with Sauber’s Kamui Kobayashi.  Rosberg, who finished 12th and 13th in the first two races
of the season, beat Schumacher into the first corner and
employed a two pit-stop strategy to the three of Button, who was
stalled by a problem fitting a rear wheel on his final stop that
dropped him down to sixth place.  Button’s Lament  “It was a pity because I had four cars in front of me,”
Button said of the delay. “I would have had a nice clear track
to hunt down Nico. It would have been a big gap, but I would
have given it a go.”  With Rosberg clear out in front, he was able to focus on
managing his tires to the finish and took the checkered flag to
follow his father as a Formula One race winner. Keke Rosberg won
five Grands Prix from 1982 to 1985.  Button passed Vettel for second place on lap 50 and
Hamilton overtook the Red Bull driver four laps later. Webber
then took fourth place from his teammate late on on the final
lap to leave defending world champion Vettel with one podium
finish from the first three races.  The world championship now moves to Bahrain for the fourth
of 20 races on April 22. Formula One’s governing body said last
week that the race will go ahead as scheduled amid civil unrest
in the Gulf nation.  Rosberg, who made his Mercedes debut in Bahrain two years
ago, said the team will push to improve its pace following its
breakthrough in  Shanghai .  “We will enjoy this success, but our feet are still on the
ground,” Rosberg said. “We are still not where we want to be,
we are still working hard to understand the car and the tires in
all conditions. We will see how that works out in Bahrain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  