-- Sarkozy Campaign Speech Targets ECB’s Role in Boosting Growth
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-15T15:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/sarkozy-campaign-speech-targets-ecb-s-role-in-boosting-growth.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
speaking to the biggest rally of his re-election bid, said the
 European Central Bank  should do more to promote economic growth,
reviving an issue he raised in his 2007 campaign.  “On the question of the ECB’s role in boosting growth, we
French are going to open the debate,” Sarkozy told a crowd
today in central Paris that his aides estimated at more than
100,000. “If  Europe  is not going to sink in the international
economy, it must renew with growth.”  Sarkozy trails Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande  in
the polls a week before the 10-candidate first-round voting. The
runoff is set for May 6. Hollande, who has called for pro-growth
European policies, leads in a head-to-head match 56 percent to
44 percent, according to a TNS Sofres survey published April 13.
No margin of error was provided.  The Frankfurt-based ECB has been a political target for
Sarkozy for more than five years. As finance minister and
presidential candidate and then after his election, he
criticized central bankers for driving interest rates too high.
Since the start of the euro crisis, he has pushed for them to
take a more activist role, clashing with German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel .  Their dispute culminated in a November 2011 agreement at a
Brussels summit to respect the independence of the central bank.
Sarkozy hadn’t mentioned the ECB in his campaign speeches until
today.  “The fact that Sarkozy now blows in the same direction as
Hollande will probably raise some eyebrows in  Germany ,
especially from his ally Angela Merkel,” said Thomas Costerg,
an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London .  Expanded Role  The ECB has expanded its role since  Greece  first sought a
bailout in April 2010, first by buying the debt of affected
countries on secondary markets and then last December providing
commercial banks with low-interest three-year loans.  “Europe must cut its debts, it has no choice,” Sarkozy
said. “But between deflation and growth, it has no choice
either. If it chooses deflation, it will disappear.”  Sarkozy also said the euro zone’s debt crisis has “shown
the limits” of the debt and deficit rules set down in the
Maastricht treaty. Sarkozy said there “must be no taboos” as
EU leaders discuss the ECB’s role and the Maastricht rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  