-- French Campaign Enters Final Week With Hollande Extending Lead
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-15T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/sarkozy-poll-deficit-deepens-as-candidates-hold-biggest-rallies.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
and Socialist Francois Hollande held their biggest campaign
rallies a week before the first round of voting as polls showed
the challenger widening his lead.  They addressed supporters in Paris yesterday with Hollande
extending his advantage in a head-to-head race by two points to
56 percent against 44 percent, according to a TNS Sofres survey
on April 13. The challenger took the lead in the 10-person first
round set for April 22. A CSA poll on April 12 put the gap at
57-43, up from eight points two weeks ago.  A bounce for Sarkozy after police killed a self-declared
jihadist who murdered seven people last month has ebbed. The
campaign focus has returned to the sputtering economy and rising
unemployment.  Hollande’s message yesterday was for voters to turn out and
punish Sarkozy for his “bankrupt leadership.” “You must vote
for  France , for the republic,” he said, blaming Sarkozy for
mounting debt and slowing growth. Sarkozy said electing a
Socialist government risked economic catastrophe.  Both campaigns claimed that more than 100,000 attended the
rallies -- Sarkozy’s at place de la Concorde in central Paris
and Hollande’s at Vincennes park at the city’s eastern edge.  France is in a “race against time” and “has no right to
err” in fighting Europe’s financial crisis, Sarkozy told the
flag-waving throngs that stretched down the  Champs Elysees .  Learning Lessons  “If we do not want to risk losing our agriculture, our
factories, our jobs, our way of life, our culture, then we must
learn the lessons of these terrible crises the world has just
experienced,” Sarkozy said.  With ubiquitous banners declaring “Now Is The Time,”
Hollande criticized Sarkozy for failed and divisive policies.
“He wants to arouse all the old fears -- of foreigners, of
others, of the crisis, of the left -- because he’s afraid to
lose,” the lawmaker and former Socialist Party chief said.  With Hollande advocating a renegotiation of  Europe ’s
fiscal-discipline treaty, Sarkozy called on the  European Central
Bank  to do more to support growth, reviving an issue he raised
in his 2007 campaign.  The TNS Sofres poll questioned 1000 people on April 11-12,
while CSA questioned 1,123 on April 10-11. Neither published a
margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  