-- Schumacher Ferrari, Classics May Fetch $11.3 Million
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-04-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/schumacher-ferrari-classics-may-fetch-11-3-million.html
A Formula One racer driven by
 Michael Schumacher  will be among three Ferraris that may sell
for $11.3 million as  prices  rise for the world’s most desirable
sports cars.  They are the top lots as Ferrari enthusiasts choose from 21
classic models -- and one racing hydroplane -- being offered in
Monaco by  RM Auctions  on May 11-12. The event is timed to
coincide with the biannual Grand Prix de Monaco Historique.  Ferrari SpA (FERI)  remains the pre-eminent brand for both
established collectors of classic autos and wealthy individuals
looking to diversify their investments. New buyers appreciate
the security of a big carmaker that still exists, said dealers.  “Ferrari trumps all other names in terms of prestige and
liquidity,” Geneva-based auto adviser Simon Kidston said in an
interview. “Collectors like to see the way this marque is
traded regularly. If you have a good car that’s priced
correctly, you can find a buyer within hours. Overall, the trend
is upwards.”  The lots span 60 years. The most highly estimated Ferrari
is a 375 MM Spider dating from 1953 that was successfully raced
in  Argentina  in the mid-1950s and more recently in the Mille
Miglia Storica. It has an estimate of 3.3 million euros ($4.3
million) to 4.1 million euros.  Californian Racer  A 1957 Ferrari 625 TRC Scaglietti Spider that was purchased
new by the California-based racer John van Neumann is estimated
at 3 million euros to 3.7 million euros.  The Timossi-Ferrari “Arno XI” hydroplane, which set a 
world speed record in its class of 241.7 kilometers an hour (150 
miles per hour) in 1953, is valued at 1 million euros to 1.5 
million euros.  Schumacher’s F1-2000, which may fetch 850,000 euros, was
raced in the Austrian Grand Prix in 2000, when it retired on the
first lap following a collision.  Prices for classic Ferraris increased 4.82 percent in the
first quarter of 2012, according to data compiled by the London-
based Historic Automobile Group International ( HAGI ).  The unusually large entry of Ferraris in RM’s second
biannual  Monaco  auction is partly a consequence of the Canadian-
based company no longer holding sales at the Italian maker’s
headquarters at Maranello -- and owners’ willingness to offer
cars in a rising market, said dealers.  A Ferrari GTO, one of 36 produced by the Italian company in
1962 to 1963, was bought this year in a private transaction in
the U.K. for about $32 million, the second highest price ever
paid for a classic car.  Koons Egg  A Jeff Koons egg sculpture is to be auctioned by Christie’s
International, valued at as much as 3.5 million pounds ($5.6
million).  The 6-foot-high (1.8 meter) chromium stainless steel
“Baroque Egg with Bow (Blue/Turquoise),” made in an edition of
five unique color combinations from 1994 to 2008, is being
offered by an unidentified collector in an auction of
contemporary art in  London  on June 27.  Prices for Koons declined after the record 12.9 million
pounds paid for “Balloon Flower -- Magenta” at  Christie’s (CHRS)  in
June 2008. The sculpture, like “Baroque Egg,” was part of the
artist’s acclaimed “Celebration” series, inspired by formative
childhood memories.  With billionaire collectors once again keen to own trophies 
by big-name contemporary artists, owners are now willing to 
offer desirable works by Koons, said dealers. Another “Baroque 
Egg,” this time in orange and magenta, sold for $6.2 million at 
Christie's in  New York  in November last year.  Unknown Rossetti  A hitherto-unknown oil painting by the Pre-Raphaelite
artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti is estimated to raise between 1
million pounds and 1.5 million pounds when it appears at auction
next month.  Rossetti’s 1869 half-length portrait of his muse and
mistress Jane Morris, wife of fellow artist and poet William
Morris, was discovered by a Christie’s specialist in a house in
 Scotland  about 10 years ago.  “This is the first seven-figure painting by the artist to 
have come up for auction since 1987,”  Peter Brown , Christie's 
director of Victorian pictures, said in an interview. “It's an 
unknown work. Rossetti didn't exhibit much in public and 
preferred to work with private patrons.”   The painting was acquired by the great-grandfather of the
sellers around 1880, said the auction house, and is now being
sold, under glass in its original frame, in London on May 31.  The work, titled “The Salutation of Beatrice,” doesn’t
appear in the complete catalog of Rossetti’s works and is
mentioned in a letter from the artist to Jane Morris in 1869.  Love Inspiration  Rossetti was named after the Italian medieval poet Dante, 
whose platonic love for Beatrice Portinari inspired the 
allegorical context for Christie's painting.   Jane Morris was romantically involved with the painter from 
the late 1860s until about 1875.   The auction house is looking for this museum-quality piece 
by Rossetti to revitalize the market for Victorian paintings in 
the Pre-Raphaelite style, which have become less fashionable 
with billionaire collectors than contemporary works.  The highest auction price paid for a Rossetti is the 2.6 
million pounds given by the Australian cleaning and security 
services magnate John Schaeffer for the 1869 pastel of Jane 
Morris, “Pandora,” in June 2000. It was resold for 1.4 million 
pounds in 2004.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights: Farah Nayeri on the  Olivier
awards ;  Elin McCoy  reviews the new  Bordeaux  vintage.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 