-- Secret Service Agents With Obama Probed for Misconduct
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-04-15T00:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/secret-service-agents-with-obama-probed-for-misconduct.html
Eleven U.S. Secret Service agents
were placed on administrative leave today because of allegations
of misconduct that involve contact with prostitutes near the
site of the Summit of the Americas in  Colombia .  The agents, who were sent to Cartagena, Colombia, in
advance of the arrival of President  Barack Obama , were relieved
from their duties and returned to the U.S. when the charges were
made on April 12, according to a statement today from Secret
Service spokesman Paul S. Morrissey.  They were special agents and uniformed officers who were
not assigned to Obama’s protective detail, Morrissey said.  At least one agent is being accused of getting into a
dispute over payment to a prostitute in Cartagena, according to
Jon Adler, president of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers
Association, which provides legal representation for Secret
Service agents.  The story of the agents’ alleged misbehavior became public
just as leaders of the Western Hemisphere were beginning talks
on trade, drug legalization in  South America , and creating
greater transparency among South American governments.  Obama was told about the allegations yesterday and the
issue “has been more of a distraction for the press” than for
the president at the Summit of the Americas, spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters at a briefing today.  President Secure  “These actions have had no impact on the Secret Service’s
ability to execute a comprehensive security plan for the
President’s visit to Cartagena,” Morrissey said. “This matter
was turned over to our Office of Professional Responsibility,
which serves as the agency’s internal affairs component.”  The personnel involved were interviewed at Secret Service
headquarters in  Washington , D.C. today and placed on
administrative leave, a “standard procedure,” Morrissey said
in the statement.  Morrissey said, “We regret any distraction from the Summit
of the Americas this situation has caused.”  The agents had stayed at Cartagena’s Hotel Caribe, where
several members of the White House staff and the news media also
stayed, the  Associated Press  reported.  In addition, five members of the U.S. military who were
staying at the same hotel violated a curfew set by the senior
U.S. defense official at the U.S. embassy in Colombia, according
to Colonel Scott Malcom, the public affairs officer for the U.S.
Southern Command.  The five had been sent to Colombia to support the summit,
in part by providing security, Malcom said. They will remain in
Colombia during the summit because their skills and knowledge
are needed, Malcom said, adding that they will be restricted to
their hotel rooms when not carrying out official duties.  The military has yet to determine whether the five violated
any rules beyond the curfew, Malcom said. He didn’t provide
their ranks or military branch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Cartagena, Colombia at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  