-- Senators, Capitals, Blues, Blackhawks Win in Quarterfinals
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-15T05:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/senators-capitals-blues-blackhawks-win-in-quarterfinals-1-.html
Chris Neil fired a 10-foot backhand
shot 77 seconds into overtime to give the  Ottawa Senators  a 3-2
victory over the Eastern Conference-leading New York Rangers in
the first round of the National Hockey League’s Stanley Cup
Playoffs.  Washington defeated Boston 2-1 in double overtime, St.
Louis topped San Jose 3-0, and Chicago beat Phoenix in overtime.
The Senators, the Capitals, the Blues and the Blackhawks tied
their series at 1-1.  Anton Stralman gave the Rangers a 1-0 lead in the first
period before Erik Karlsson got a power-play goal to tie the
game at 1-1 in the second period last night at Madison Square
Garden in New York.  Brian Boyle put the Rangers ahead 2-1 in the third period
and Nick Foligno forced the overtime with less than five minutes
left to play.  “I thought we could have made some plays to try and keep
some puck possession, but that’s what happens when you get into
a little bit of that,” Rangers coach John Tortorella told
reporters. “We were four minutes away from winning the hockey
game and I still don’t think we played that poorly tonight, but
I do think we need to continue to attack.”  Rangers goalie  Henrik Lundqvist  had 29 saves.  “I knew going into this series it wasn’t going to be easy,
so we just have to forget about this one and get ready for the
next one,” Lundqvist told reporters.  The Rangers travel to Ottawa for the third game in the
series tomorrow.  In tonight’s first-round games, the Nashville Predators
travel to the  Detroit Red Wings , the Philadelphia Flyers host
the Pittsburgh Penguins, the  New Jersey Devils  visit the  Florida
Panthers  and the  Vancouver Canucks  are at the Los Angeles Kings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  