-- Swedish Banks Get No Capital Respite as Recession Looms
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-04-16T09:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/swedish-banks-get-no-capital-respite-as-recession-looms.html
Sweden ’s banks are unlikely to get
any respite on a government plan to impose stricter capital
rules at home than in the rest of the world even as the nation
teeters on the brink of a  recession .  “The risk of not having high capital coverage of the banks
is that the risk increases for a financial crisis,” Financial
Markets Minister Peter Norman said in an interview in Stockholm.
Should the economic outlook deteriorate, then “it’s primarily
fiscal and monetary policy that should be prioritized, not to
keep dabbling with the capital coverage rules,” he said.  Sweden in November told its four biggest banks to target
stricter  capital rules  than those set by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  and to meet the deadline six years earlier
than the group’s 2019 target. Since then, the government has
more than halved its economic forecast for 2012 and some
forecasters, including Danske Bank A/S, see a recession this
year. The administration of Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt 
last week said it plans no major fiscal boost to aid recovery.  Swedish output may contract as much as 0.5 percent this
year after shrinking 1.1 percent in the fourth quarter, Danske
Bank said April 4.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic lender, in
a March 27 forecast said Sweden’s economy will contract 0.3
percent this year amid an export slump.  Unemployment (SWUERATE) , which has
risen as companies cut jobs to stay competitive, hovered close
to 8 percent in February.  Risk to Taxpayers  Reinfeldt’s government today said output growth will slow
to 0.4 percent this year, sending the budget into a deficit. His
administration defended its plan to tighten capital rules
arguing Sweden’s bank industry, now about four times the size of
the economy, poses too big a risk to taxpayers without further
curbs.  The krona slipped 0.1 percent against the euro to 8.8890 as
of 10:25 a.m. in  Stockholm . Versus the dollar, the krona lost
0.6 percent to 6.8312.  “We could end up in a situation where we end up with a
significant slowdown of the economy,” Norman said.  A stable and well-functioning financial system “is of key
importance to the economy,” the government said in its budget
report today. “While a range of measures have been taken to
promote greater stability, the size of the Swedish banking
sector relative to gross domestic product is a risk factor.”  ‘Difficult Question’  The timing of the tougher bank rules is “a difficult
question, but what we’re seeing now is after all a growing
economy both in Sweden and internationally,” Norman said.  Sweden’s largest banks, Nordea,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,
 SEB AB (SEBA)  and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , need to target 10 percent core Tier 1
buffers of their risk-weighted assets from January and 12
percent from 2015. That compares with the Basel Committee’s core
capital target of at least 7 percent. The European Banking
Authority has set a temporary 9 percent target for some lenders.  While parts of Sweden’s bank industry have lashed out at
the government, arguing more rigorous standards than elsewhere
will distort competition, investors welcome its resolve to
commit to stricter rules even as the economic outlook
deteriorates.  “The Swedish economy is in a relatively decent condition
so there’s no sense in changing the planned capital rules,”
Fridtjof Berents, an Oslo-based analyst at Arctic Securities
ASA, said in a phone interview. “The banks in Sweden are in a
situation where having higher equity levels gives investors in
the funding market confidence.”  ‘Excessive Burden’  Stockholm-based Nordea had a core Tier 1 capital buffer --a
measure of financial strength -- of 11.2 percent of its risk-
weighted assets at the end of last year. Nordea Chief Executive
Officer  Christian Clausen  said last month Sweden may need to
harmonize its capital standards down should the European Union
reach a decision on requirements. The 12 percent ratio will be
an “excessive burden on the economy,” Clausen said March 27.  While Norman said he “can’t exclude” that the government
could reconsider the timing of stricter bank rules should the
economy prove much weaker than its main forecast, criticism from
the banks won’t provoke a watering down of the standards.  “There will always be tension between regulators and
bankers,” he said. “Bankers want absolute minimum rules for
everything and to be able to raise the bar to where they think
it should be. We must always side with the taxpayers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 