-- Syrian Forces Clash With Rebels Ahead of UN Monitoring Mission
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-04-15T13:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/syrian-forces-clash-with-rebels-ahead-of-un-monitoring-mission.html
Syrian forces loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad shelled residential districts in the central
city of Homs before United Nations military observers arrive in
the country to monitor a cease-fire.  Five people died in Homs today, including three killed
during shelling, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in
an e-mailed statement. Government forces and rebels clashed in
the Aleppo area, where a police station was attacked with bombs,
the U.K. based rights group said. Syrian forces killed 13 people
today,  Al Jazeera  reported.  The UN’s 15-member  Security Council  voted unanimously
yesterday to dispatch a first wave of monitors and urged Syria
to “implement visibly its commitments” to a six-point cease-
fire plan from UN special envoy  Kofi Annan . A bigger mission
will follow, if conditions allow it.  The truce was already being tested as the UN’s most
powerful body passed its first binding measures to stem a 13-
month-old conflict that has killed more than 9,000 according to
UN estimates. Inspired by revolts that toppled leaders in Egypt
and  Libya , the Syrian uprising is evolving into a civil war with
sectarian undertones.  Syrian authorities will prevent continued “criminal
attacks,” state television reported, citing an unidentified
military official. Attacks against civilians have escalated
since the UN approved the deployment of observers, it said.
 Syria ’s government told the UN it would abide by the cease-fire,
though it reserved the right to respond to any attacks.  Opposition  Before the April 12 cease-fire, the death toll in Syria
often exceeded 100 a day, according to the UN. A prolonged lull
would allow deployment of unarmed monitors in the country.
Failure of the cease-fire may prompt calls for outside military
intervention.  “We are under no illusions,” U.S. Ambassador to the UN,
 Susan Rice , told the council yesterday after passage of the
resolution. “Two days of diminished violence, after a year of
murderous rampage, hardly proves that the regime is serious
about honoring its commitments.”  Assad, 46, is fighting for the survival of his Alawite
family’s four-decade hold on power. While more than 70 percent
of Syria’s population is Sunni, Assad and the ruling elite are
in a minority, belonging to an offshoot of the Shiite branch of
Islam which stands to lose privileges should he fall.  Homs, a flashpoint of the uprising seeking to topple
Assad’s rule, has been the target of a military campaign by the
regime, which says it’s fighting terrorists in the city.  Russia has a stake in the survival of a Soviet-era ally,
selling the Assad regime weapons during the uprising. Still, the
government in Moscow has leaned on the Syrian government to
accept the cease-fire terms and let monitors into the country.  “For many months now the situation in Syria has been the
subject of the fixed attention and alarm of the international
community, and it’s understandable,” Russian Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin  told the council after the vote. “There have been too
many casualties” and there are “too many destructive
consequences if the crisis continues to ratchet up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  