-- U.K. Home Sellers Seek Record Prices on Supply Shortage: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-16T10:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/u-k-home-sellers-sought-record-prices-in-april-rightmove-says.html
Asking prices for U.K. homes rose
to a record in April as a shortage of property boosted values
in  London , Rightmove Plc said.  Average  asking prices  in England and  Wales  gained 2.9
percent in April to 243,737 pounds ($386,000), the operator of
Britain’s biggest property website said in a report published
today. Prices in the capital increased 2.1 percent to a record
464,944 pounds.  “This is not a universal signal of a housing-market
recovery,”  Miles Shipside , commercial director of Rightmove,
said in a statement. “Fresh property stock is a bit scarcer
this April compared to last, and this is a key factor in
providing a price floor for spring prices to springboard from.”  Demand for homes in the capital and the south of England
has exceeded supply, helping push up property values. While
 Britain’s economy  has shown signs of recovery in the first
quarter, mortgage approvals declined more than forecast in
February and a survey by GfK NOP Ltd showed  consumer confidence 
fell in March as the government’s fiscal squeeze hurt incomes.  U.K. economic growth will be 0.4 percent this year, half
the official forecast from the government’s fiscal watchdog, and
will continue to stall until companies boost investment, Ernst &
Young LLP’s ITEM Club said in a report today.  London property prices have risen 14.9 percent since the
last peak in prices in May 2008, while prices in the rest of the
country fell 4.3 percent in the period, Rightmove said. The
increase in value across the country is still less than  retail-
price inflation  over the period. The report also showed 5
percent fewer London properties were put on the market in April
than in March.  Risk From Europe  In a separate report today, the  Bank of Korea  lowered its
economic growth forecast for this year as rising bond yields in
Spain highlight the threat to Asian exports from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and austerity measures. Gross domestic product will
expand 3.5 percent, less than the 3.7 percent estimate in
December, the central bank said in a statement.  India  may cut benchmark  interest rates  for the first time
in three years as  Asia ’s second-largest economy slows, a
Bloomberg News survey indicates before the central bank’s policy
board meets tomorrow. India reported today that inflation slowed
to 6.89 percent in March from 6.95 percent in February,
according to the wholesale  price index  that serves as a
benchmark gauge.  European officials travel to  Washington  this week seeking a
bigger global war chest to combat the debt crisis as  Spain ’s
government battles to quell renewed market turmoil over its
finances.  Spanish Yields  Spain’s 10-year bond yield climbed 19 basis points
last week to 5.98 percent, while similar-maturity Italian yields
increased seven basis points to 5.52 percent. The euro declined
0.4 percent to $1.3023 at 10:53 a.m. in London after falling
below $1.30 for the first time in two months. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index dropped 0.8 percent.  The euro region’s trade surplus narrowed in February as
increased demand for imported goods outpaced exports. The
surplus shrank to a seasonally adjusted 3.7 billion euros ($4.8
billion) from a revised 5.3 billion euros in January, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  The U.S. may report today that retail sales grew at a
slower pace. A 0.3 percent rise in retail purchases in the
world’s biggest economy in March would follow a 1.1 percent
increase in February that was the biggest in five months,
according to the median forecast of 71 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of Commerce Department figures.  Kensington and Chelsea  Rightmove’s report today showed the London districts of
Southwark, Sutton, Westminster, Croydon and Ealing recorded the
largest monthly increases in asking prices within the capital.
The average price in Kensington and Chelsea, the most expensive
borough, increased to 2.1 million pounds after breaking the 2
million-pound barrier for the first time last month.  Nationally, all 10 regions of  England  and Wales tracked by
the company showed asking prices gained on the month, led by the
southwest with a 5.8 percent increase. From a year earlier,
asking prices rose 3.4 percent nationally and gained 7.9 percent
in the capital, Rightmove said.  U.K. house prices rose the most in almost three years in
March, boosted by demand from first-time buyers before a tax
holiday on some property purchases expired last month, Lloyds
Banking Group Plc’s Halifax unit said April 4. Prices jumped 2.2
percent from February to an average 163,803 pounds, up 0.8
percent from a year earlier. Rightmove’s report for March showed
a 1.6 percent increase in asking prices.  A shortage of homes for sale is also helping drive up
rental costs. A separate report today showed that rents in
London rose 9.6 percent in 2011, according to Hometrack Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  