-- U.S. Can Help Iraq Help Itself to Stay on Democratic Path
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/u-s-can-help-iraq-help-itself-to-stay-on-democratic-path.html
Iraq  is on a path leading away from
the reasonably democratic model the U.S. hoped to leave behind.
President Nouri al-Maliki is on a power trip. More broadly, his
government is pushing laws that would constrain freedoms
fundamental to a democracy.  Maliki, a Shiite, has gone after leading Sunni politicians,
most notably issuing an arrest warrant, on what seem to be
trumped-up murder charges, for Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi,
now a fugitive. In response, Hashimi’s Sunni-dominated party, a
part of the governing coalition, refuses to participate in the
Cabinet.  More quietly, Maliki’s government is pursuing worrisome
measures that are potentially of greater long-term importance,
as it crafts rules that will govern the new Iraq into the
distant future.  These laws, regulating such things as mass communications
and political parties, are necessary. Unfortunately, as detailed
in a  report  by the Canada-based  Centre for Law and Democracy ,
the versions drafted by Maliki’s government for parliamentary
approval would unreasonably hinder freedom of expression,
assembly and association.  The  Internet Bill  provides for  life imprisonment  and heavy
fines for offenses such as publishing information about the
manufacture of “any tools or materials used in the planning or
execution of terrorist acts.” It sounds reasonable, but the
measure could cover articles about the making of ink, paper,
computers, guns, knives, or just about anything. An individual
can be heavily fined or jailed for life for using a computer or
information network to harm the reputation of Iraq. Similar laws
elsewhere --  Turkey ’s infamous Article 301, for example, which
made it a crime to “insult Turkishness” and a successor law that
bars insulting the Turkish nation -- have inevitably led to
dubious prosecutions and infringements on human rights.  The Parties Bill forbids media outlets from “taking sides
against political parties.” Such prohibitions on television and
radio broadcasters are common in democracies, since broadcasting
frequencies are a limited public resource, but for print,
online, cable and other media in the free world, political
endorsements are standard.  The Assembly Bill requires organizers of an assembly or
demonstration to obtain authorization at least five days before
the event and to provide for their own security. Under the
democratic gold standard, the right of assembly applies broadly
for private meetings and meetings on public thoroughfares;
organizers must inform -- not seek permission from --
authorities in advance only when it’s necessary to make
arrangements for public order and security, and those are the
state’s responsibility.  At the same time, the Iraqi bills contain many hopeful
notes -- provisions supporting the rule of law and statements of
general support for various basic freedoms. What’s the best way
to support the positive over the negative strains as Iraq
determines its course?  With no troops left in Iraq and deep concerns that Maliki
might turn to  Iran , the Obama administration has limited
leverage over Iraq. But the U.S. still has Maliki’s ear and can
help to steer him, and his government, in a better direction. On
Hashimi and the sectarian issues that preceded that crisis, for
example, the U.S. could nudge the Iraqi leader to accept
compromises through a national reconciliation process that is
fitfully underway.  The U.S. can also do more to support non-state actors that
can help guide Iraq toward a democratic model. Last year, for
example, domestic and international civil-society groups
successfully lobbied the Parliament to improve a bill enshrining
the rights of journalists. Because of the work of groups such as
 Irex ,  Article 19  and the Centre for Law and Democracy, the final
law goes so far as to give Iraqi journalists the right to
protect the confidentiality of their sources, a privilege they
don’t enjoy in the U.S.  Backing such nongovernmental organizations is partly a
matter of funding. Security requirements make working in Iraq
particularly expensive. Such groups often rely on governments
for financing, with foundations and wealthy individuals making
up the balance. U.S. State Department support for civil society
work in Iraq, which goes mostly to NGOs, declined to $51 million
in 2012, from $84 million in 2010.  Outside governments and multilateral organizations, such as
United Nations agencies, can also play the role of matchmaker,
opening the door for NGO leaders to meet with influential
Iraqis. Host-country ministers have a harder time ignoring a
human-rights report they have received in person than one that
has been posted on a website.  Finally, governments need to protect their NGOs when host
nations turn nasty, especially in countries like Iraq where the
rule of law is weak. The U.S. demonstrated how to do this when
 Egypt  issued arrest warrants for Americans working at NGOs
there: It suspended military aid until the staff members were
allowed to leave the country. As NGOs step up activity in the
 Middle East , more such conflicts will emerge.  Whether invading Iraq was wise at the time or not, the U.S.
has a deep interest in having its considerable investment there
pay off in a reasonably democratic and therefore stable country.
Urging Maliki to back off Sunni leaders and increasing support
for civil-society groups working in Iraq are good ways to help
ensure that outcome.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on the  National Rifle
Association ’s role in  encouraging gun sales  and use; William D.
Cohan on  restoring faith  in  Wall Street  as the key to an
economic recovery;  Simon Johnson  on why long-term  budget
projections  get too much attention; Kellie McElhaney on how
Apple  should change  its behavior;  Albert R. Hunt  on Mitt
Romney’s potential  vice presidential choicest ; Vali Nasr on
 positive developments  in  Pakistan ; and Iain Begg on redefining
 Europe ’s  social safety net .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 