-- Muslim Brotherhood Candidate Among 10 Barred in Egypt
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 2012-04-15T11:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/muslim-brotherhood-candidate-among-10-barred-in-egypt.html
Egypt’s election commission
disqualified 10 presidential hopefuls, including  Hosni Mubarak ’s
vice president and the Muslim Brotherhood’s main nominee,
creating new uncertainty about the May 23 contest.  The panel barred the Brotherhood’s Khairat el-Shater,
Salafi nominee Hazem Abu Ismail and  Omar Suleiman , Mubarak’s
longtime intelligence chief who was named vice president in the
ousted regime’s final days, the state-run Middle East News
Agency reported yesterday. Their removal from the race leaves a
field made up mostly of secularists and moderate Islamists. All
three have said they will appeal the decision.  Political tensions are mounting as Egypt’s economy
struggles after last year’s uprising against Mubarak. Net
international reserves have decreased more than 50 percent in 15
months. Analysts such as Said Hirsh of Capital Economics Ltd.
say devaluation of the Egyptian pound is likely, either in an
orderly or disorderly fashion, unless  Egypt  finds a quick
financial lifeline.  Mahmoud Ghozlan, a spokesman for the Brotherhood, called
the commission’s decision a “dangerous” escalation in the
country’s already fitful political transition. Taking el-Shater
off the ballot was a clear attempt by Egypt’s ruling military
council to skew the election in its favor, particular if only
Suleiman is reinstated, he said.  Former Regime  “If 3 million or 4 million turned out” to remove Mubarak
from power last year, “30 million or 40 million will be ready
to prevent the former regime from taking power again,” Ghozlan
said by telephone today.  The commission said on its  website  that 10 candidates were
excluded from the May 23 election for failing to meet one or
more election regulations. It provided no names or details. The
ruling came at the start of a race that many Egyptians see as a
faceoff between the Islamists that dominate parliament and the
country’s military rulers.  Polls showed that el-Shater, Suleiman and Abu Ismail were
among the front-runners in a field that also includes  Amre Moussa , a former foreign minister and Arab League chief.  The candidates have 48 hours to appeal the ruling. The
commission will release a final list of candidates on April 26.  Backup Candidate  A spokesman for the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice party, Ahmed el-Sbea, told Al-Arabiya television that if
el-Shater isn’t reinstated, the party, which controls almost 50
percent of the parliament’s lower house, will support its backup
candidate, Freedom and Justice chief Mohamed Mursi. He was among
13 candidates approved by the commission.  Thousands of Islamists rallied in Cairo on April 13 to
protest Suleiman’s candidacy, which they said was an attempt to
restore the Mubarak regime.  The military, which took power after Mubarak’s ouster in
February last year, says it’s not backing a candidate.  Suleiman was excluded for failing to submit the required
number of supporters’ signatures in one region. El-Shater and
Ayman Nour, who ran against Mubarak in 2005 and was subsequently
jailed, were disqualified because of questions about their right
to run after convictions in Egyptian courts, Middle East  News
Agency  said.  Abu Ismail was ruled out because the commission determined
that his mother held U.S. citizenship, the news service said.
The Salafi cleric disputes the claim.  Earlier in the campaign, parliament approved a bill that
would bar officials who held top spots in the former regime up
to 10 years before Mubarak’s ouster from become president, vice
president or prime minister for a decade from the day the former
leader was removed.  The bill, which awaits a decision by the military council
before it can come into effect, was drafted in response to
Suleiman’s decision to reenter the face after previously
dropping out.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  