-- Yuan Band Move Boosts Stocks to Baochuan: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-04-15T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-15/yuan-band-move-boosts-stocks-to-baochuan-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks will probably climb
this week as the widening of the yuan’s trading band is seen as
a move toward further liberalization of the world’s second-
largest economy, according to Baochuan Capital Management LLC.  The People’s Bank of  China  expanded the range the managed
yuan is allowed to trade within against the dollar for the first
time since 2007 on April 14, 11 days after it raised the amount
of onshore-traded stocks and bonds that can be bought by foreign
investors. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-
traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. dropped 0.5 percent to 103.19
on April 13, little changed in the week, while the  Shanghai 
Composite Index jumped 2.3 percent last week to 2,359.16.  “The market response will be that this is China opening up
long-term,”  Kevin Carter , co-founder and chief executive
officer at Baochuan Capital, where he helps oversee about $282
million, said by phone from Walnut Creek,  California  on April
14. “While it’s more of a gesture than a real move with impact,
it’s a small piece of a bigger long-term goal to open up China’s
markets and currency. This could certainly be another positive
thing for Chinese stocks.”  Chinese officials pledged to keep easing controls on the
currency in a five-year plan through 2015, as the government
aims to bolster domestic consumption and fend off criticism from
nations including the U.S. that a weaker yuan gives China an
unfair trading advantage.  The yuan’s trading band was widened to 1 percent from 0.5
percent and takes effect today. Regulators also raised the
quotas for foreigners to buy stocks and bonds to $80 billion
from $30 billion on April 3.  Airlines Lead Drop  The yuan was little changed at 6.30 per dollar last week in
Shanghai. Air carriers led declines in U.S.-traded Chinese
shares, on concern faltering economic growth is sapping company
profits.  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA)  had its worst slump this year,
while  China Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH)  sank for a second week in  New
York , after both carriers said that first-quarter profit
probably fell more than 50 percent on the slowing economy and
higher fuel prices.  The  economy  expanded 8.1 percent from a year earlier in the
first quarter, Chinese government data released on April 13
showed, the slowest pace of growth in 11 quarters and below the
8.4 percent median forecast of 41 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Stocks on the China-US gauge  trade for  17.6 times
earnings estimates, down from a valuation of as much as 22.6
times in March.  Bank Reserve Ratios  China cut reserve-requirement ratios for county-level banks
by 100 basis points, or one percentage point, the state-backed
Xinhua News Agency reported on April 13, citing unidentified
people familiar with the matter. The amount major banks must set
aside as reserves has been reduced twice by the same total
amount since November, while ratios for  Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. (601288) ’s branches were decreased last month.  “Slower growth will likely force the People’s Bank of
China to initiate further stimulus,” Michael A. Gayed, chief
investment strategist in New York at Pension Partners LLC, which
advises on over $150 million in assets, including Chinese shares
through exchange-traded funds, said by e-mail on April 13.  The yuan move, “does not mean stocks have to go up, but
simply that they could go either up more or down less than U.S.
markets as a result,” Gayed said in a separate e-mail on April
14. It will be viewed as a “net positive in the short term as
markets cheer more market-oriented currency measures.”  China ETF Steady  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., was little changed at $37.42
on April 13, trimming its weekly advance to 1.1 percent. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slid 1.2 percent to 1,370.26 and was
down 2 percent last week.  First-quarter profit for Guangzhou-based China Southern,
 Asia ’s biggest air carrier by passenger numbers, probably
dropped more than 50 percent from the 1.24 billion yuan ($197
million) earned in the first three months of last year, the
company said in a statement on April 13, citing Chinese
accounting standards. The decline was caused by a “slowdown in
the domestic economic growth and the substantial increase of jet
fuel prices,” China Southern said.  American depositary receipts of China Southern sank 4.2
percent to $22.53 on April 13 in New York, extending their
second  weekly decline  to 2 percent. Each ADR represents 50
common shares in the company. The ADRs traded 2.3 percent  below 
the company’s  Hong Kong  stock, which was unchanged at HK$3.58,
or 46 U.S. cents. The discount was the first in three trading
sessions.  Jet Fuel Jump  Jet fuel prices have jumped 8.1 percent this year in
Singapore trading, reaching a 10-month high on March 9. Crude
oil traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  has added 4
percent this year.  China Eastern , the nation’s second-largest carrier by
passenger numbers, also expects that net income decreased more
than 50 percent in the first quarter, according to a statement
to the Hong Kong stock exchange on April 13.  ADRs of the Shanghai-based airline slid 1.8 percent to
$15.56 in New York, and were down 6.9 percent last week, the
biggest weekly slump since the five days to Dec. 9. The ADRs
traded at a 1 percent discount to China Eastern’s Hong Kong
stock, reversing premiums over the previous two days.  Data last week also showed that China’s imports in March
rose seven times less than in February. The government pared
this year’s economic-growth target to 7.5 percent last month,
the lowest level since 2004.  New Loans  Chinese lenders added 1.01 trillion yuan ($160.1 billion)
of  new loans  in March, the most since January 2011 and more than
all 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated, the central
bank said April 12.  In terms of Chinese economic growth, “anything below 8.5
percent is worrying,” Richard Lin, chief investment officer at
Kuala Lumpur-based Great Eastern Life Assurance ( Malaysia ) Bhd.,
which manages 53 billion ringgit ($17 billion) of assets, said
on April 13. “That’s why the March loan number shot up. It’s
actually a form of monetary policy easing.”  U.S.-traded stock of  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-
largest manufacturer of solar wafers, dropped for a ninth
straight week, losing 5.6 percent to $3.19, the lowest level
since Nov. 25.  The company, based in Xinyu in China’s Jiangxi province,
delayed the release date of its fourth-quarter results to April
30 from April 12, as “management needs additional time to
finalize certain items,” according to an April 10 statement.  LDK Firings  LDK is making personnel changes involving several teams in
its wafer department, the National Business Daily said in a
report dated April 10 on its website, citing LDK’s public
relations division. The adjustments will mainly include
dismissing or assigning excess personnel to other departments,
the Shanghai-based newspaper reported, citing e-mails on April 9
from LDK spokesman Li Longji.  Three analysts  reiterated  their sell ratings on the stock
last week and one kept a hold recommendation, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  Should the People’s Bank, which since July has kept
benchmark  interest rates  at the highest level since 2008, enact
more monetary easing, it will be a boost for Chinese stocks,
said  Mark Williams , a London-based analyst at Capital Economics
Ltd., who previously advised the U.K. Treasury on China.  “We expect four more cuts to banks’ reserve ratios this
year and have penciled in two interest-rate cuts if the euro-
zone crisis takes a sharp down for the worse,” Williams said by
phone. “Given current valuations and given the strong signals
that the government is easing policy, Chinese stock prices are
likely to rise significantly.”  The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.4 percent to 2,359.16 on
April 13, the highest level since March 22. The gauge has
increased 7.3 percent this year and trades for 9.5 times member
companies’ projected earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien in New York at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  