-- Armajaro Sees Brazilian Sugar Sales Capping Price Gains
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-02T12:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/armajaro-sees-brazilian-sugar-sales-capping-price-gains.html
Sugar millers in top producer  Brazil 
have yet to sell on the futures market the bulk of the crop that
will be reaped from April, helping to cap any potential long-
term price gains, according to Armajaro Trading Group Ltd.  Producers there may have sold a “disappointing” 30
percent to 35 percent of the 2013-14 crop via futures exchanges
on average, leaving much of an anticipated record harvest still
to be sold, Desmond Monteith, a director of the sugar department
at the London-based supplier of sugar, cocoa and coffee, said in
an interview yesterday before the start of Kingsman SA’s sugar
conference in Dubai today. Brazil’s millers usually would have
sold about 50 percent by this time of the year, he said.  Raw sugar fell 16 percent last year and 27 percent in 2011,
the biggest two-year loss since 1999. The commodity, which was
the third worst performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of
24 raw materials last year, is down 3.2 percent this year. A
third year of declines would be the longest slump since 1992.
While producers held back from selling because of lower prices,
consuming countries including  Egypt ,  Iran ,  Russia  and  China  took
advantage to make earlier purchases, according to Monteith.  “Producers, particularly in Thailand and Brazil, are
thought to be under-priced in comparison to end-users, who have
taken advantage of the latest price decline,” Monteith said.
“End-users have done more buying than producers have sold.
There had been talk that there was likely to be a wall of
selling from producers around 19 cents to 19.50 cents a pound.”  Thai Crop  Brazil’s center south, the country’s main growing region,
will produce a record 580 million to 585 million metric tons of
sugar cane in 2013-14, according to Armajaro’s estimates. That
compares with 531.9 million tons in the current season, data
from industry group Unica showed. Thailand’s crop is forecast at
92 million tons in 2012-13 and is set to expand in the next
season, which starts there in November, Armajaro said.  Sugar could still have a “short-term” rally should
investors decide to close out bets on lower prices, giving
producers an opportunity to sell at a better price, Monteith
said. Large and small speculators excluding  index funds   boosted 
bets on falling prices by 28 percent this year, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data showed. Net-short positions were
75,108 contracts as of Jan. 29, the Washington-based commission
said in its commitment of traders report published yesterday.
That is down from a record net-short of 90,249 contracts a week
earlier and up from 58,621 lots at the end of last year.  Short-Covering  “There is a school out there that believes that if the
market was to start rallying through the 19 cents to 19.50 cents
a pound resistance area, you could trigger quite a sizable
speculative short-covering move and that might even mean that
the speculators go long,” Monteith said. “From the trade point
of view, this would be seen as an opportunity to sell the market
at a better level. The question is from what level and how far
can the speculators lift the market when there’s undoubtedly
going to be quite sizable pricing from producers, in particular
out of  Thailand  and Brazil?” he said, referring to hedging.  Global sugar supplies will be at least 8 million tons
higher than demand in the current season and another surplus is
already forecast for 2013-14, according to Armajaro. The surplus
this season could be “significantly” reduced if producing
ethanol becomes more profitable in Brazil at the expense of the
sweetener and lower prices start spurring demand, he said.  “Our view, from a fundamental and statistical basis, is
that we have a substantial surplus and that surplus has to be
gotten rid of,” Monteith said. “At the moment, the only cure
to that is either lower prices stimulating consumption and/or a
switch away from sugar production in Brazil to ethanol.”  Ethanol Production  The outlook for the 12 months starting Oct. 1 will depend
on what happens to ethanol production in Brazil and to the crop
in  India , the second-biggest producer and largest consumer,
according to Armajaro. Indian sugar output will likely fall to
22 million tons in 2013-14 from 24 million tons now, Monteith
said. The South Asian nation may not need to import for its own
consumption because of carryover stockpiles, Monteith said.  “Outside a major unforeseen weather event, Brazil and
India are the main drivers that could potentially change the
fundamental scenario,” he said.  Raw sugar for March delivery rose 0.6 percent to 18.89
cents a pound yesterday on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  