-- Australia Ministers Resign After Gillard Announces Elections
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-02-02T08:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/attorney-general-roxon-minister-evans-to-quit-australia-cabinet.html
Australian Attorney General  Nicola Roxon  and minister  Chris Evans  have resigned from cabinet, three
days after Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  set a federal vote as
the Labor government trails the opposition in opinion polls.  The country’s first federal female attorney general is
stepping down from that post and as minister for emergency
management, Gillard said today at a press conference in
Canberra. Evans will quit as minister for tertiary education,
skills, science and research, and as senate leader, Gillard
said.  While Roxon and Evans, who are both in Gillard’s  Labor
party , said they are leaving for family reasons, the timing
gives the impression they’re abandoning the government, Bruce
Hawker, a former Labor strategist, said in an interview on Sky
News television. The party has trailed the opposition Liberal-
National coalition in opinion polls for more than 20 months.  Parliament will be dissolved on Aug. 12 for a monthlong
campaign before the federal elections on Sept. 14, Gillard said
on Jan. 30, breaking with convention that usually sees leaders
give only a few weeks notice. The opposition coalition, led by
 Tony Abbott  of the  Liberal Party , would get 51 percent of the
vote if the election were held today, while Labor would receive
49 percent, according to a Newspoll survey published in the
Australian newspaper on Jan. 15. The poll redistributes
preferences expressed for minor parties to the Labor and
coalition, based on the results of the previous election.  Labor Outlook  Evans said he is confident Labor will prevail. “The prime
minister is the outstanding politician of our generation,” he
said. Evans will be replaced in his cabinet position by
immigration minister  Chris Bowen .  Roxon said she will continue to work for Labor and also
expressed her belief that the party will win the election. “I
admire the work the prime minister has done on behalf of
Australian families and am extremely grateful for her
understanding of the needs of mine,” she said. Roxon will be
replaced in both her roles by  Mark Dreyfus , parliament secretary
for  climate change .  Dreyfus and Bowen will be sworn in on Feb. 4, Gillard said.
Other changes in the cabinet include the appointment of Brendan
O’Connor as minister for immigration and citizenship, replacing
Bowen.  Roxon highlighted her role in defending the government’s
policy to require cigarettes be sold in uniform packages, with
the brand name relegated to the bottom quarter of the package on
a drab brown background.  Australia  was the first country to
introduce such a restriction.  “Their departure leaves big shoes to fill but it paves the
way for fresh talent, new ideas and new energy during the days
of governing in 2013,” Gillard said.  Dreyfus, a former Melbourne barrister, will step down as
cabinet secretary as he takes the attorney general’s post. Jason
Clare, who is also home affairs and justice minister, will
replace Dreyfus as cabinet secretary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  