-- Baidu Founder Li and Politburo’s Yu Join Top China Advisory Body
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-03T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/baidu-chief-li-politburo-s-yu-join-china-s-top-advisory-body.html
Baidu Inc. Chairman Robin Li, China’s
third-richest man, and Yu Zhengsheng, No. 4 in the Communist
Party hierarchy, were named to the country’s top political
advisory body as a new generation of leaders prepares for power.  Yu is the only member of the Politburo’s seven-man standing
committee to be appointed as one of the 2,237 members of the
National Committee of the  Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference , indicating he will replace  Jia Qinglin 
as chairman of the body next month. Delegates are usually
appointed for a five-year term.  The new list of members was published by the official
Xinhua News Agency on Feb. 2 as the nation prepares to hold its
annual session of parliament next month that will complete a
once-a-decade leadership transfer. Xi Jinping, who took over
from  Hu Jintao  as general secretary of the Communist Party in
November, is set to consolidate his power by taking over as
president while  Li Keqiang , No. 2 in the party hierarchy, will
replace  Wen Jiabao  as premier.  “The CPPCC has been quite disappointing,” said Willy Wo- Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese
University of Hong Kong  who specializes in Chinese politics.
“There were hopes that it would evolve into a kind of upper
house legislature like the House of Lords in the U.K. but
basically it’s still a talking shop and a means for the Party to
dole out rewards.”  Networking Opportunities  Membership is a badge of honor and status, offering good
networking opportunities for those who join, while also sending
a “subtle message” that people must behave and not embarrass
the party, Lam said.  The CPPCC advises the National People’s Congress, the
country’s legislature, and has committees that include economic
affairs, population, and ethnic and religious affairs. It is
made up of delegates from political parties, quasi-government
organizations such as the All- China  Federation of Industry and
Commerce, business people and independent members with no
political affiliation.  The first annual session of the new national committee of
the CPPCC will start on March 3 and the NPC will begin two days
later.  Robin Li, 44, whose Chinese name is Li Yanhong, is also co-
founder and chief executive of Baidu, the nation’s biggest
search engine. He has a current estimated net worth of $8
billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Li’s
appointment was confirmed by Baidu spokesman Kaiser Kuo in an e-
mail on Feb. 2.  Jackie Chan  Mo Yan, 57, winner of the 2012  Nobel Prize  in Literature
also becomes a member of the CPPCC national committee along with
 Yao Ming , 32, former basketball player with the Houston Rockets.
Hong Kong movie star  Jackie Chan ’s Chinese name Cheng Long also
appears on the list. Phoenix New Media reported his appointment
on Jan. 31.  People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan and Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming  become new members of the national
committee, a further indication that they will leave their
current posts. Their appointments are a traditional “career”
move for retired ministers, Lam said.  Ling Jihua, formerly the top aide of Hu Jintao, was also
appointed to the CPPCC’s national committee. He was replaced as
head of the office that oversees security for the country’s top
leaders and took over the United Front Work Department, which
handles relations with non-party organizations, according to a
Xinhua report on Sept. 1.  Names Omitted  Yu, former Communist Party secretary of Shanghai, the
country’s financial center, is certain to take over from Jia
Qinglin as chairman of the CPPCC, Lam said. He is unlikely to
“rock the boat,” said Lam. “He is not a particularly
proactive politician but he’s a middle-of-the-roader who is
acceptable to most factions.”  Li Shufu , the founder of China’s first private carmaker
Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co.,  Yang Yuanqing ,  Lenovo Group
Ltd. (992) ’s chairman and chief executive officer, and Li Xiaolin,
chairman and chief executive officer of  China Power
International Development Ltd. (2380)  and the daughter of former
Premier  Li Peng , are among those reappointed to the committee.  Billionaire Liu Yonghao, chairman of New Hope Liuhe Co.,
China’s biggest poultry supplier, was among the names omitted
from the list. Hu Deping, the son of late Communist Party chief
Hu Yaobang, was also dropped, a move Lam said was expected due
to his age and as the party tries to bring in younger members.  “Due to his special status as the son of such a liberal
icon, his departure will be sorely missed and it’s very doubtful
there will be another person who could fill his shoes,” Lam
said. In November, Hu Deping called on leaders to pursue
political and economic changes, writing in the Economic Observer
newspaper that China’s problems threatened the nation’s healthy
development, violated people’s rights and undermined the party’s
ability to govern.  --Tian Ying, Nerys Avery. With assistance from Michael Wei in
 Shanghai  and Michael Forsythe in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery,
Arijit Ghosh  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net  or
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  