-- Brazil Area’s Sugar Harvest to Start Early on Record Crop
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-02T15:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/brazil-area-s-sugar-harvest-to-start-early-on-record-crop.html
Sugar-cane harvesting in  Brazil ’s
center south, the main growing region of the world’s largest
producer, will start earlier this year because of a record crop,
according to Sucden do Brasil, a unit of Sucrees et Denrees SA.  Harvesting will start about three weeks earlier than last
year as millers try to crush a record 580 million to 585 million
metric tons in the 2013-14 season, which starts in April, Jeremy Austin, general manager at the Sao Paulo-based subsidiary, said
in an interview at the Kingsman SA sugar  conference  in Dubai
today. That compares with 531.9 million tons this season,
according to data from industry group Unica.  “On average, the crop will start three weeks earlier than
last year because everybody needs to try to get the cane in and
start crushing to make sure they don’t run into rain at the end
of the crop,” Austin said, referring to millers’ inability to
crush when it rains. “Some mills will start in March, those who
traditionally start early like those in Parana and Mato Grosso
do Sul. In Sao Paulo state, it will be from the start of
April.”  Brazil’s center south probably won’t be able to crush the
whole crop, which may rise to as much as 610 million tons, as
some mills will close this year due to financial difficulties,
he said. Between three and 10 mills probably won’t open in the
2013-14 season, according to Austin.  Ethanol Share  The area’s sugar production will be 34 million to 36
million tons in 2013-14, depending on how much cane gets
allocated to making ethanol, he said. Output may be as low as 32
million tons, depending on factors such as whether the
government reduces taxes on the biofuel, if more ethanol goes to
the U.S. to fulfill that country’s biofuels mandate, and sugar
prices fall while ethanol prices rise.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, increased gasoline prices at refineries by 6.6 percent
last month. That may boost consumption of hydrous ethanol, the
kind used in flex-fuel cars. The government also will raise the
amount of anhydrous ethanol blended into gasoline to 25 percent
in May from 20 percent now. The Brazilian government’s control
over gasoline prices in a bid to limit inflation resulted in a
decline in demand for the biofuel.  “There is conversation and discussion again between the
sugar sector and the government, which is looking a little more
positive, because to date there has been little discussion and
the results have only been negative,” Austin said.  Sucden sees the global sugar surplus at 5 million to 8
million tons in the 12 months starting in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  