-- Canadian Dollar Rallies for First Time in 3 Weeks on GDP Gain
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-02-02T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/canadian-dollar-rallies-for-first-time-in-3-weeks-on-gdp-gain.html
The Canadian dollar gained for the
first time in three weeks against its U.S. counterpart as crude
oil rose and a report showed the world’s 11-largest economy grew
faster than forecast in November.  The loonie, as  Canada ’s dollar is nicknamed, was worth more
than the greenback as oil, the nation’s largest export, reached
a four-month high this week. The nation’s economy expanded 0.3
percent to an annualized C$1.56 trillion ($1.56 trillion),
faster than the 0.2 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. The unemployment rate may have increased and jobs growth
may have slowed in January, according to a separate survey
before a Statistics Canada report Feb. 8.  “For the loonie, it was a decent week and we did see it
find support from better-than-expected growth data for
November,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at
Western Union Business Solutions, said in a telephone interview.
“We’ll have a better idea when we see the jobs data next week
and if unemployment can hold near a four-year low that would
keep the  Bank of Canada  on a path to eventually raise  interest
rates .”  The loonie gained 0.9 percent to 99.65 cents per U.S.
dollar this week in Toronto. On Jan. 28 it matched the weakest
level since July 27. On Canadian dollar buys $1.0035. The
currency weakened 0.5 percent during January, the first decline
since October.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar versus the loonie reached 6.1 percent yesterday, the
least since Jan. 24. It averaged 7.4 percent during the past
year. Implied volatility signals the expected pace of currency
swings and is quoted by traders to set option prices.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators decreased their
bets that the Canadian dollar will gain against the  U.S. dollar ,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers on an
advance in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a drop --
so-called net longs -- was 35,057 on Jan. 29, compared with
57,952 a week earlier.  Futures on crude oil rose 1.8 percent this week to $97.61 a
barrel in  New York , after touching the highest since Sept. 18.
Western Canada Select, the benchmark for oil-sands bitumen,
traded at a discount of $31.50 to U.S. West Texas Intermediate
price Jan. 31, down from $32 Jan. 30. The  discount  reached
$42.50 on Dec. 14.  “The concern is that Canadian oil trades at a sharp
discount, but as oil rises, that discount level will rise as
well,” Alan Knuckman, chief market strategist at Optionshop,
said in a phone interview from  Chicago .  Bonds Fall  The country’s benchmark 10-year bonds fell, pushing the
yield to 2.04 percent, the highest level since May. The 2.275
percent security maturing in June 2022 fell 81 cents to
C$106.02.  Canadian government and provincial bonds are
underperforming global peers by the widest margin in six months
as the nation’s 25-year commodity-fueled expansion shows signs
of faltering as global-growth optimism increases.  Indexes of debt issued by Canada’s federal and provincial
governments lost one percent in January, the biggest monthly
decline since November 2010 and the most relative to sovereign
peers since August, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Canada’s  unemployment rate  may have increased to 7.2
percent in January from 7.1 percent the month before, according
to the median in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists before
the Statistics Canada report Feb. 8. Jobs growth slowed to 5,000
from 31,200 the month before, a separate survey showed.  Growth Barriers  The Canadian economy may be stymied during the next year by
a drop in  oil prices  due to decreased global growth and the
beginnings of a housing market correction as  household debt  has
increased, according to a  Capital Economics  Ltd.  “We see the loonie going down and this is a view
conditional on our outlook on the Canadian economy for this
year,” said David Madani, an economist for Capital Economics,
in a telephone interview from Toronto. “There are three trends
that lead us to this view, the global backdrop is weak,
commodity prices are going to drop back and households are over-
leveraged. There is such a thing as too much debt.”  The Canadian dollar was little changed yesterday after a
government report showed job gains for the past three months in
America, Canada’s largest trading partner. U.S. employment grew
by 157,000 in January, after a revised increase of 196,000 for
December and 247,000 for November.  “The only upside was the revision higher for previous
months and that’s considered a positive for the Canadian
dollar,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank
of  Nova Scotia , by phone from Toronto. “We’re still close to
that range we’ve seen for a long time, with the Canadian dollar
and U.S. dollar hovering around parity.”  The loonie will strengthen to 98 cents per U.S. dollar by
the end of the March and 97 cents by the end of the year,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
48 analysts and strategists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  