-- Dock Workers Agree to New Contract Eliminating Strike Concerns
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-02-02T17:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/dock-workers-agree-to-new-contract-eliminating-strike-concerns.html
The  International Longshoremen’s
Association  agreed to a new labor contract, ending 11 months of
negotiations and eliminating the risk of the first Eastern port
shutdown since 1977.  The union and the  U.S. Maritime Alliance , which represents
container-carrier companies, struck a tentative agreement. A
dispute over the payouts drove the union to the brink of a
strike in December before federal mediators secured an extension
of talks and a tentative agreement on the fees.  “I am extremely pleased to announce that the parties have
reached a tentative agreement for a comprehensive successor
Master Agreement,”  George Cohen , director of the Federal
Mediation and Conciliation Service, which was working with the
two parties, said in a statement.  Details of the agreement weren’t disclosed.  The resolution removes supply chain concerns retailers and
manufacturers faced had the ILA followed through on its pledge
to cease handling container cargo. A walkout would have affected
ports from  Maine  to Texas that are responsible for 45 percent of
U.S. commerce, according to the  National Retail Federation .  “The last thing that the parties want is to be blamed for
the reversal of fortunes for the economy,”  Gary Chaison , a
professor of industrial relations at  Clark University  in
Worcester,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone interview. “Just
when everything starts to look good, you don’t want to be the
one who spoils it. There’s tremendous pressure on the parties.
The consequences on the economy if it was a prolonged dispute
would be disastrous.”  Tentative Agreements  The ILA and the Maritime Alliance began negotiations in
late  March  and reached tentative agreements in July on issues
involving new technology and union jurisdiction over work on
chassis used for cargo.  Talks between the two sides broke down in August and again
in  December  over an attempt by the management group to cap
container royalty payments that the ILA called  “untouchable.” 
The payouts, which are used to supplement wages, totaled  $211
million  last year, or an average of $10 per man hour, according
to the Maritime Alliance.  Federal mediators, who had overseen negotiations since
September, brokered a tentative agreement on the fees on Dec.
28, one day before the deadline that the union said would prompt
it to strike. Cohen declined to give more details on the payment
agreement at the time.  Intervention Urged  The deadlock in negotiations in December spurred the
National Retail Federation and Florida Governor  Rick Scott  to
urge President  Barack Obama  to intervene. With the risk of a
strike now abated, Obama can avoid invoking the Taft-Hartley
Act, a 1947 law viewed as anti-labor by unions that empowers the
president to intervene in strikes that create national
emergencies.  With more than half of the nation’s containerized shipments
passing through East Coast and Gulf Coast ports, a strike would
have affected imports and exports accounting for $454 billion of
U.S. trade in 2011, according to data compiled by Jock
O’Connell, international trade adviser for Los Angeles-based
Beacon Economics LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  