-- Doctor Spared Prison for Tax Violations Tied to HSBC Account
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/doctor-avoids-prison-for-tax-violations-tied-to-hsbc-account-1-.html
A Wisconsin neurosurgeon convicted of
tax charges related to an  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  account that held
$8.76 million was spared prison and ordered to serve three
years’ probation, according to the  Internal Revenue Service .  Arvind Ahuja was sentenced yesterday in federal court in
 Milwaukee , where he was convicted Aug. 23 of filing a false  tax
return  and failing to file a Report of Foreign Bank and
Financial Accounts, or FBAR, said IRS spokeswoman Charity
Mackey. Prosecutors had asked U.S. District Judge Charles Clevert Jr. to impose a prison term of 41 to 51 months.  At a weeklong trial, prosecutors said Ahuja transferred
millions of dollars from the U.S. to undeclared accounts in
India at HSBC, Europe’s largest bank. Ahuja earned $2.76 million
in interest income on an HSBC India account that he didn’t
report on his tax returns, prosecutors said in a Jan. 22 court
filing. The account was valued at $8.76 million in 2009, the
U.S. said.  In a crackdown on offshore  tax evasion  since 2008, the U.S.
Justice Department has charged dozens of U.S. taxpayers as well
as more than two dozen offshore bankers, lawyers and advisers.
Ahuja was the first to go to trial. While he was convicted of
two counts, he was acquitted of five others.  Ahuja’s attorney, Dan Webb of Winston & Strawn LLP in
Chicago, didn’t immediately respond to phone call and e-mail
messages seeking comment on the case. Ahuja’s lawyers filed
several documents with the court under seal in the past month.  The case is U.S. v. Ahuja, 11-cr-135, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  