-- England Beats Scotland, Ireland Tops Wales in 6 Nations Rugby
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-02T19:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/england-beats-scotland-ireland-tops-wales-in-6-nations-rugby.html
England  beat Scotland 38-18 on the
opening day of rugby’s Six Nations tournament, as Ireland held
on to defeat defending champion Wales 30-22.  Chris Ashton , Billy Twelvetrees, Geoff Parling and  Danny
Care  touched down for England, which outscored Scotland four
tries to two at Twickenham Stadium in London. Owen Farrell
kicked 18 points as England won the Calcutta Cup contested
between the two teams for the fourth straight year.  “I’m really pleased with the start,” England coach  Stuart Lancaster  told the British Broadcasting Corp. “I think we’ve
got a lot of confidence, and we’ll try to build on that.”  After Farrell opened the scoring with a third-minute
penalty, Scotland’s Sean Maitland went over in the corner to
give Scotland a 5-3 lead.  Farrell booted a pair of penalties to put England back in
front and Ashton went between two defenders to touch down in the
31st minute, with the try confirmed by video review, to increase
the lead to 16-8. Farrell then kicked his fourth penalty, which
was matched by Greig Laidlaw just before halftime.  Twelvetrees, making his England national team debut, scored
a try just after halftime, which Farrell converted to make it
26-11. Parling went over in the 55th minute, and Russell Hogg’s
try pulled Scotland within 31-18 with nine minutes left.  Care then went over in the final minute, with Farrell
converting for the third time, to close the scoring.  Ireland jumped out to a big lead at Millennium Stadium in
Cardiff then held off a second-half rally to send Wales to an
eighth consecutive loss and fifth straight at home.  Zebo’s Try  Tries from Simon Zebo, Cian Healy and  Brian O’Driscoll 
helped Ireland take a 30-3 lead in the 43rd minute. Alex
Cuthbert, Leigh Halfpenny and Craig Mitchell then touched down
as the home side rallied before falling short.  Jonathan Sexton  kicked three penalties and three
conversions to finish with 15 points for the Irish, while
Halfpenny added a penalty and two conversions to his try.  The first round of matches concludes tomorrow as France,
the slight favorite over England with U.K. bookmakers to win the
title, plays Italy in Rome.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 