-- Ethics Panel Reviewing Menendez Allegations, Isakson Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-02-02T18:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/ethics-panel-reviewing-menendez-allegations-isakson-says.html
The top Republican on the U.S. Senate
Ethics Committee said the panel is reviewing allegations that
New Jersey Senator Bob Menendez, a Democrat, received improper
gifts from a  Florida  doctor whose office was raided by the FBI
this week.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation searched the West Palm
Beach, Florida, office of Salomon Melgen, an eye doctor and
longtime Menendez friend and donor, on Jan. 29. according to the
Miami Herald.  Menendez, the new chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee, wrote a $58,500 check Jan. 4 to reimburse Melgen for
two 2010 trips the lawmaker took to the Dominican Republic on
Melgen’s private jet, Menendez spokeswoman Tricia Enright said
in an interview yesterday. Enright said the reimbursement came
after a review of Menendez’s travel records and that the trips
hadn’t been paid for earlier because of an oversight.  “We are aware of the news reports regarding the FBI raid
on Dr. Melgen’s office,” Georgia Senator Johnny Isakson, the
top Republican on the six-member Ethics Committee, said in a
statement. “The Ethics Committee will follow its established
procedures in this matter.”  The ethics panel opens a preliminary inquiry any time it
receives “a complaint, allegation or information from virtually
any source suggesting that a senator or staffer may have
violated rules within the committee’s jurisdiction,” according
to the panel’s website.  Business Leaders  Menendez, who addressed New Jersey political and business
leaders at a state Chamber of Commerce event in  Washington  on
Jan. 31, refused to comment on the allegations when asked by
reporters.  In a statement released Jan. 30, Menendez’s office said
that all of his travel with Melgen had now “been paid for and
reported appropriately.”  The 59-year-old Hoboken resident served 13 years in the
House of Representatives before then-Governor Jon Corzine
appointed him in January 2006 to fill the Senate seat Corzine
vacated to become governor. Menendez then won a full term in
November 2006, and was elected last year with 59 percent of the
vote, defeating Republican Joseph Kyrillos.  Asked about the matter, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid,
a Nevada Democrat, told reporters Jan. 31 that Menendez was “a
friend” and an “outstanding senator,” and referred questions
to Menendez’s office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  