-- Ex-Presidential Yacht Owners Sue in Loan Fight Over Boat
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-02-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-02/ex-presidential-yacht-s-owners-sue-in-control-fight-over-vessel.html
The owners of the former presidential
yacht Sequoia sued a lender it accuses of wrongfully attempting
to seize the 88-year-old vessel in a dispute over a loan.  Lawyers for the Sequoia Presidential Yacht Group LLC filed
a lawsuit in  Delaware  Chancery Court yesterday asking a judge to
bar  FE Partners LLC , whose investors include an Indian business
family, from laying claim to the 104-foot vessel as part of a
disagreement over a $5 million loan. The yacht’s owners filed a
similar case in New York state court last month. A judge
dismissed that complaint Jan. 24 on procedural grounds.  “Defendant’s actions are motivated by nothing more than
overwhelming avarice and the malicious desire to wrest the
Sequoia” from its rightful owners, lawyers for Gary
Silversmith, president of the partnership that bought the vessel
in 2000, said in court filings.  FE Partners, based in  Washington , is controlled by the Goa,
India-based  Timblo  Family, which has mining and shipping
interests, Silversmith’s attorneys said in the complaint.  “The complaint filed by the owner of the Sequoia in
Delaware is grossly inaccurate and without merit, and we intend
to vigorously defend ourselves in court,” Richard Graf, a
Washington-based lawyer for FE Partners, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Built in 1925, the Sequoia served as the official
presidential yacht for 50 years before former President  Jimmy Carter , a Democrat, sold the vessel in 1977 as part of an effort
to cut governmental expenses. The wooden-hulled yacht was
designated as a National Historic Landmark in 1987.  Russian Offer  Silversmith, an attorney, sought the $5 million loan from
FE Partners last year to help cover the Sequoia’s maintenance
costs. Under the terms of the loan, FE Partners had the option
to buy the vessel, according to court filings.  Silversmith said in the filings that while a Russian
company had offered $20 million for the Sequoia, he had “no
intention of entertaining or following up on this offer.”  The Sequoia’s owner contends FE Partners only funded about
half the loan and then “manufactured” defaults in an attempt
to wrongfully seize the yacht, according to the filings.  Michael Cantor, a director of FE Partners, said in a Jan.
23 affidavit in the  New York  case that the partners uncovered a
series of problems in connection with the Sequoia’s operations
and Silversmith’s dealings that led the group to file default
notices on the loan.  Defaults Alleged  Cantor said he learned the Sequoia’s crew was owed more
than $28,000 in back wages and Silversmith owed more than
$100,000 on another loan, according to the affidavit.  Because Silversmith had defaulted on the loan, Cantor said
the agreement allowed FE Partners to buy the Sequoia for $7.8
million, according to the affidavit.  Anju Timblo, a director of FE Partners, said in a statement
this week that the family’s interest in American history
prompted them to loan Silversmith the money for the Sequoia,
once known as the “floating White House.”  “When my family learned that the Sequoia might be sold to
a Russian firm and moved to  St. Petersburg , we were delighted to
invest funds to preserve the Sequoia and keep it where it
belongs -- in the  United States ,” Timblo said.  The case is the Sequoia Presidential Yacht Group LLC v. FE
Partners LLC, CA 8270, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  